 and alfalfa. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Carol, thank you so much for coming out to Austin. Great to meet you in person. Thank you so much for having me. I'm thrilled to be here. This is a topic that we talk a lot about on the podcast, but usually from a pretty narrow lens, which is in the form of replacement. We talk about hormones both in men and women, sex hormones, and we talk about how they wax and wane as an individual ages. We obviously then talk about the medical use of them, but I don't think we've spent any time understanding the more basic fundamentals of these hormones, the role they play in our evolution. And anecdotally, I'll just share with you the observation that any parent probably has if they have male and female children. My first child was a girl, and my wife and I very, very stupidly and arrogantly thought we were the perfect parents because she was so well-behaved. What do all of these other parents with their boys running around misbehaving, what are they doing wrong? How could we teach them how to be as good as we are? We didn't actually say that, but there was undoubtedly an annoying smugness to us. If you believe in a God, that God smacked us into our place with two boys that followed who were, for all intents and purposes, treated the same way, socialized the same way, and there is a level of aggression in them, a fury in them that I've never seen, probably unless I were to go back and hear stories of what my mom said I was like. How old are your boys now? Eight and almost eleven. I wouldn't say they're a different sex, I would say they're a different species. Yeah, I was just going to say that. Yeah. So all of that is to say, I don't feel we did anything different, and yet they couldn't be more different. And I appreciate that that's not going to be the case for every parent. But I also don't know how much, what I hope to learn is how much testosterone has to do with that, because I'm under the impression that at this age, the testosterone levels wouldn't be that much different. And I understand and will probably talk about the differences in testosterone levels during the embryologic phase, because obviously that led to the differences. But anyway, with that as backdrop, how did you get interested in this topic? Great. Okay, so I want to make sure to come back to everything that you just said. So how did I get interested? I'm going to start at the beginning, which is that I grew up with three older brothers. And I'm assuming that this had something to do with my interest in testosterone. They were different than I was, I am, in some consistent ways. I don't think I thought much about that. And I think that probably made me really want to understand what motivates male behavior in general and why it's different from female behavior. That wasn't sort of an idea that I had when I was in college that I was going to go study this. But I did become intensely interested in the evolutionary origins of human behavior in general and what makes us different from other animals. And that happened, I think because of traveling. I traveled to a lot of different places in the world, mostly by myself during and after college. And there were such extreme differences culturally. Egypt with your family's Egyptian, that was one of the places I went that really freaked me out. Because that really shook me. Because the cultural differences were so profound in terms of the incredibly important role that sex plays in social life and the segregation and different rules that apply to males and females. I was alone traveling by myself as a young woman, totally ignorant of what I was getting into in Egypt. I was harassed endlessly. Some of that was my fault for not understanding the culture well enough and what I was getting into. So this combination of being immersed in not only different societies that treated sex and sex roles very differently, but also different ecologies. I spent some time in Africa and Kenya and Tanzania and got really interested in all of the animal behavior and why we are different from other animals, etc. So I had a whole other career before graduate school and I ended up leaving that career and applying to Harvard to try to do a graduate degree where I could do more to understand the evolutionary basis of human behavior. I ended up getting rejected and I just persisted and then was offered this job out in Uganda studying chimps for what was supposed to be a year. And that is what really triggered my interest in sex differences and testosterone. Because we, I think to a certain extent, are indoctrinated to believe that most human sex differences are cultural. Or if you think that they're not, it's better you don't say that out loud to too many people or in the wrong place. So when I spent time with the chimps, I was really blown away by the ways that the sex differences in the chimps paralleled human sex differences. Of course, not exactly the same, but the very basic things that you just described, even just in terms of energy and aggression, are present in the chimps in terms of being higher in the males and lower in the females. And I'm getting goosebumps because the reasons for that are so profound and far reaching and start with sperm and egg. And that's what sex really is about, is the, not just the ability to produce sperm or eggs, but kind of the way that the organism is designed and the reproductive phenotype, including body and behavior. And then that in humans plays out in these really complex ways in terms of social systems. So I really, I got interested in testosterone because this is one thing I could grab onto that links very clearly humans, chimpanzees, and every other mammal in terms of males having much higher levels than females. And it's not just mammals, there are other forms of steroid hormones that other species have. But this is pervasive and just a very powerful way to understand approximately that means what's happening sort of here and now in the organism, why the sexes are different. And then there are these deep evolutionary pressures that have to do with reproductive strategies for organisms that produce sperm versus organisms that produce eggs. And so then I ended up reapplying to Harvard and getting into the grad program there. And I did my dissertation on testosterone and sex differences in cognition and the way we think and process information. And I had men watch sexy videos and also videos of dental surgery and collected their saliva and measured their testosterone in the lab. And then I just stayed on at Harvard, mostly just teaching. So I want to go back to something you sort of said a second ago, which is the distinction between mammals and non mammals. And I never really thought of it until you said this. But if I were to look at a male great white shark and a female great white shark, first of all, do they have testosterone in them as the androgen or sex hormone? Vertebrates, most vertebrates will have testosterone or something very, very close to testosterone. Yep. Now, if you again go back to the example of great white sharks, typically the females are larger, I would reckon they're just as aggressive as the males. Is that reflected in comparable levels of testosterone in those species? So sharks, I don't know about specifically, but first of all, males are not always bigger than females. Males will do whatever they need to do generally to compete for mates. And in many species, it's not to be larger. Also, there are differences in the ability to defend a territory or defend mates in air and water and land. And that's really an interesting way to understand some male competitive strategies. So, but generally, when in the species, if the female is just as aggressive, often it's maternal aggression and not necessarily mate competition. And if it's maternal aggression tends to be mediated more by estrogen and testosterone, even in hyenas, which are very difficult to tell apart, the females are very difficult to tell apart from the males. They have this clitoris that looks exactly like a penis and experts often can't even tell the difference. They're highly aggressive. And that seems not to be mediated by adult, in the adult, at least with by comparable levels of testosterone. There seems to be potentially something going on in early development. But often, I don't know of good evidence that testosterone acts similarly in females to mediate, say, mate aggression. That's we'll say mating aggression. So just make sure I understand in hyenas, if you took an adult male and an adult female hyena, would they have similar levels of testosterone and estrogen? No. The females would be higher. The males would be higher. Despite the fact that phenotypically, they look the same and they're both equally aggressive. I believe they're either just as aggressive, if not more so, I believe that they're dominant to the males. And there's something going on with potentially adrenal and maternal andrenal androgens when the fetus is developing that becomes the aggressive female, but I don't think it's completely worked out. I haven't looked at the literature on that in ages. So the extent of my recollection from medical school on this topic was that, and again, we can come back and talk about the edge cases, but 99.9% of cases are either XX or XY. In terms of humans. So we can talk about turners and client filters and things like that later. But in the 99.9% of cases of XX and XY, what are the steps and how do they involve sex hormones that create the phenotypic differences in the embryo? Yes. So phenotypic, we'll just stick to the body and then we can also talk about the behavior. Yes, yes, exactly. That's what I just want to start with. Let's get through the first nine months and then let's help understand how those two options of chromosomes lead to two different body types. And I just want to say right at the outset that we have a sex determination system that relies on chromosomes, but not every animal does. So chromosomes do not equal sex and birds have used chromosomes, but they have a different system where the female is the one that has heterozygotic chromosomes. So there's temperature dependent, sex determination, so people should not confuse the sex hormones themselves with the definition of sex. However, the chromosomes of the sex hormones. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Did I say sex hormones? Yes. Sex chromosomes. Sorry. Yes. Thank you. So in mammals, the chromosomes determine sex, but do not define sex. Again, across sexually, almost all sexually reproducing organisms, it's the gamete type that the organism is basically designed around. The reproductive system is designed around that defines sex. So and also we can have other organisms have, can be hemathodetic, have produced both gamete types at the same time, or they can be sequential hermaphrodites. So I just want to get that out first. So in humans, the mom, the mother's egg is always that the sex chromosome is always going to be an X that it donates in its egg, and it's going to combine with a sperm. 50% of the sperm are going to have a Y sex chromosome, and 50% of this sperm are going to have an X chromosome, going to have an X in general. So those two combine and the developing embryo is going to be either XX and XY. So let's just start with the XY. So you were an XY, I had a son who was an XY, which is weird for women, because they will have something inside of them that has testicles that's producing, that produce testosterone, which I think is interesting. And so an XY fetus around five or six weeks, I should just say that XX and XY are both almost completely, they're almost identical until that time. And the Y chromosome has a gene on it called the sex determining region of the Y chromosome that produces a protein called the SRY protein. And this is a very important protein because it triggers the differentiation of the undifferentiated gonad. So what's really cool and interesting is that before that time, we all have a gonad that can become either one, it can become testes or it can become ovaries. And that's sort of an amazing design, that's evolution's way of not wasting energy, not having to have two systems, two different systems that one develops and the other gets discarded, at least in terms of the gonads. So they come first. And so in terms of sexual differentiation, that means that for XY individuals, the gonads are going to develop along the testicle route. And without the SRY gene, they will by default, when I say by default, that doesn't mean that nothing else has to happen. Other genes have to be expressed. And that's an active process. It's not a passive process. But without the SRY gene, those undifferentiated gonads will differentiate in the female direction to form ovaries. So I remember my overly simplistic, and this is almost 30 years ago, but I could have sworn I used to think about this in the embryology class as by default, we are female. And this gene had to turn on to basically take the XY's and make them male phenotypically. But that's obviously oversimplified. Yes. So in some ways, that is true. I would not put it that way. But it's by default, the individual will develop, say female. Because if you have an XY that is missing that region, you will be phenotypically female, but chromosomally male. So you will be chromosomally male, sure. You will not develop, but you won't develop functional ovaries. Correct. You won't be able to reproduce. Because you won't be able to reproduce. But you would look, for all intents and purposes, you would look female, correct? So your external genitalia would appear to be female. And we will get into those cases. Again, these are kind of these edge cases. But yeah, if you think about what the genitalia look like in an early developing fetus, it looks female. It doesn't have to change that much. It gets bigger. But if you take what looks like even adult female genitalia, basically you modify the clitoris and the labia to get what looks like typical male genitalia. So that has to do a lot of growing and changing. And it's like that in the embryo, sorry, in the fetus. So if we're going down the male root, you get the expression of SRY. And what that does is it causes certain cells in this undifferentiated gonad to develop into first latic cells and then later sertoli cells. So that's happening. And then later ovarian differentiation takes place. So two things happen. The latic cells start producing testosterone first. And I'm going to go back and just talk about the Wolfian ducts and the Malarian ducts. Oh my God, I have not heard that term since medical school. I would have blast from the past. Okay. So this is Ducts, not duct like quack quack. So these are duct systems. And so here's another kind of cool thing. So we should start out with this two primordial or primitive gonads that can become either. And they're high. I remember they're in the almost in the chest. And so obviously the males have to descend into what becomes the scrotum and the females just stay there. And that seems very sensible. You know, we still don't completely understand why males take all this valuable stuff and keep it outside of their body. That's a whole other maybe temperature regulation. Yeah, I wrote about this in my book and I researched it pretty thoroughly and came up with no answer because elephants have their testicle elephants and whales and but I think elephants might there's a one other vole or something that has their testes inside, but all other mammals it's outside. And yes, it's there certainly is temperature regulation. But then why don't we have the system? However it is that the elephants can get away with it. So it's genetic constraint. Take you down a stupid detour for your next book. We were at my younger son's baseball party at the end of the season. And so now picture, you know, at the time a bunch of 27 year old boys running around the pool playing baseball, playing football, goofing off and me and the dads were sitting there hanging out. And we were observing their behavior. And I came up with this observation, which is there's estimated to be about 110 billion humans that have lived right over the past 250,000 years, inclusive of of course, the eight or so billion that are alive today. And just watching this small group of 20, you could already see the number of times one boy would walk up to the other and sort of flick him in the nuts. Okay. And I was like, all right, to the dads. How many times, how many times in the history of 250,000 years has one male gone up to another male to flick him in the nuts? What's that number? So it goes so the chimps did this. Well, let's finish the punch line is whatever that number is, it's enormous. Now, what's the number of females that have gone up to another female and gone and tried to flick them in the clitoris like zero? There is sometimes a little breast play, I guess, but it's like teenagers, but nothing like boys. Like what it's you're talking about a ratio of zero to 87 billion 432 million. All right, give me your hypothesis about why this happens. I mean, my only hypothesis is males are idiots. Like it's such an evolutionary stupid thing to do. Like that's a very precious part of real estate. That's the point. So why would they do that? So maybe it's threatened. It's like basically I'm going to make sure you can't reproduce. Like I'm going to be dominant. I'm going to reduce your probability of reproduction. So these are kids who are good friends usually. Yes. But only a good friend over. Yeah, well, only a good friend will get away with it. Like if a stranger did it, then you're going to come. Okay, so that's the point, I think. So male intimacy involves insults. The harsher the insult somehow, the more intimate unless it's rejected like you just described with the flick. So chimps. And this was amazing to see because I didn't know about it. When they're in a high stress or conflict situation or there has been a conflict, they will the subordinate will cup the balls of the dominant one. And they also sort of play sex from behind kind of but it's this intimate trusting weird situation where I think it really is saying I'm down for you. I'm not going to hurt you. I'm holding your testicles and you can trust me. I think, you know, I don't know, but that's interesting. It just blows my mind because again, the dads we sat around and we laughed hysterically at this because most of us have daughters and we're like, our girls have never once behaved in this way. Yeah. Anyway, so carry on. I apologize. So there's all these things we don't understand. Yes. And one of them is why would you leave this precious real estate outside your body if you could potentially thermoregulate inside the body? I mean, maybe there's an answer now and I haven't found it and someone will, you know, right in. We'll hear about it in the comment section. So I'm just going to go through the docs a little more quickly. That's there's two different systems. So the Wolfian docs become what I'll just say is the male internal plumbing and the malaria and malaria and ducks become what is the female internal plumbing. So what's what's important is that the late excels produce testosterone, which stabilizes the development of the Wolfian ducts. The testicles have to produce two hormones. Late excels produce testosterone to stabilize the Wolfian ducts to connect the sperm producing organ to the delivery system ultimately, which is the penis and they have to cause the degeneration of the malaria and ducks. So that's anti malaria and hormone and testosterone. So healthy testes and this is important when we talk about the disorders or differences of sexual development, healthy testes will have those effects. And you can also think about what happens if they can't produce anti malaria and hormone or what happens if there's no receptor for testosterone or no receptor for malaria and hormone. And by the way, is there at any point is any of this testosterone being converted to DHEA in any meaningful amount? Not that I know of DHT for sure. That's extremely important. And that comes next. So I would like to talk. Sorry, I meant DHT. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I want to make sure maybe I can just talk about it a little bit now. So so that conversion is via the enzyme five alpha reductase. That's present in high concentrations in the genital tissue. So what's interesting about this is that you have a mechanism to achieve high concentrations of a more potent androgen without that having to circulate through the general circulation, which you do not want in a developing fetus, you want to be able to control the development of the penis, say, which is one of the things that DHT does. It takes the genital tubercle can become the clitoris or the penis essentially in the presence of testosterone and functional five alpha reductase. It becomes a penis, the labia grow and then fused to become the scrotum. And that and also the prostate, the DHT is necessary for full prostate development and can later sustain the function of the prostate. So what's it is interesting because it is this solution to into providing very strong androgenic signals in the tissues that need it without wasting energy on strong androgenic signals and the rest of the body. I've never thought about this until now. Is that why DHT has such a high affinity for the androgen receptor, you think? Yes. So that you could permit it to only have a local effect during embryologic development? Because otherwise, I don't know that it would matter as much in me at this old age that DHT is that much more potent than testosterone, right? So I don't think it would matter as much because I'm okay to be exposed to circulating androgens in a way that the fetus presumably you wouldn't want. I think that DHT is something like two to five times more potent. So and I just thought it was even more than that. It could be more. But what this means is that it binds the receptor more tightly and it stays on for longer, which means that it produces more of whatever the protein is that it's up regulating because it's a steroid. Testosterone is a steroid. Astrogen is a steroid. And steroids, this is the way that they typically act is by either inhibiting but generally up regulating androgenic genes. So yeah, I think that's super interesting. And of course, there's a disorder five alpha reductase deficiency where individuals are basically just typical males, but they happen not to be able to produce DHT, which seems not to have we can talk about this later, but it seems not to have any DHT is not what masculinizes the brain, but it does masculinize external genitalia. So without that, you're going to have what look like female genitalia in a male who's otherwise typical male because the testosterone works and the androgen receptors are present. And fortunately, these are really, really rare conditions because that's, I mean, these are, yeah, I sort of, it's funny in medical school, you come away thinking these things occur all the time because of how much time you spend studying these very, very rare disorders. But again, fortunately, they're not common. But they do help. I I teach a lot about these cases because, yes, they really help to understand the typical pathway, but also how powerful even tiny little mutations in little genes, how powerful those mutations can be. And I think it increases compassion when we understand what the pathway is that leads to these differences or disorders, you know, because going back to that specific case, you have an individual that is born that I assume at birth looks female. It depends where they're born, if they're born, and this will become relevant if we talk about this later in terms of sports, if they're born in places without a sort of modern medical care, often they are sexed as female. But I think it becomes apparent pretty quickly in childhood that they're actually male.  that's a whole complicated. Right, because they look male everywhere else, right? Yeah, we should probably talk about that later, but the body will look male once puberty hits, but there is a lack of facial hair and other body hair, and that surprisingly... But do they have ovaries? No, no, no, they're fully male. No testes, no ovaries? No, they have testes. But they haven't descended? They may or may not have generally so that the ones that really do appear to be female and can even be, yeah, people may believe that they're female until puberty when they start developing male musculature. Yeah. Because then they're producing totally normal testosterone levels. Yes. Just not DHT. That's right. So, yeah, the testosterone at this point is the determining factor. Determining what? So, mass, body hair, things like that? Well it can't. If you don't make DHT, some body hair won't be produced. You won't have full male typical levels. You certainly won't have any facial hair. You won't have male generally. I don't think you have male pattern baldness. So, the lack of facial hair really makes a huge difference. Yeah, that's so interesting. Because it gives a sort of more feminine appearance to the facial skin. So DHT is important. And the reason, part of why five-alpha ductase deficiency is relevant now is because there are people who are sexed as female and are legally female who are coming from, say, a rural town in South Africa because they've been running as a female on female sports teams or boxing, for instance. This is obviously the case. We're all familiar with it. So, it brings up complicated social issues about what to do. And that means that we really do need to understand the science there. And the important thing, from my point of view, is that DHT has been clearly, I think, clearly shown not to be necessary for male typical patterns of musculature and other physical features that would give men an advantage over women, which is difficult because sometimes these people have been in a female social world depending on where they were born. Although that's also an easy experiment to do. You could imagine giving a male a five-alpha reductase inhibitor from birth. Oh, from birth. Yeah. Like, it's a thought experiment. Like, if you took a normal, chromosomally, phenotypically normal male, and from the time they were, call it five years old, you just gave them five-alpha reductase inhibitor. All you're doing is turning their DHT down to zero and doing nothing else. You're basically asking the question, will they develop normal musculature? Yes. So, Bessie and Chalender Bessie and at all have done that experiment. And there's no difference between blocking DHT and no, they didn't humans. How did they get an IRB for that? Yeah. Well, you know, I think you know his work. They've gotten an IRB for a lot of incredible studies that are totally super rigorous and gold standard. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. So, all right. You and I are probably the only ones at this point this excited about this discussion because we're now so far down the weeds of embryology, but sort of bringing it back to the surface. The takeaway here is that XXXY start out for about five weeks indistinguishable at about that five-week mark. A gene on the Y chromosome specifically begins to trigger the differentiation pattern. Triggers the transcription of hormones that then transcribe. Transcription of genes. Transcription of genes that turn on hormones that are going to further activate and drive sex differentiation. So, yes. Thank you for that last piece. That's very important. So, the production of testosterone in the testes, this is really important and just fundamental to understanding sex differences. It's not that we have so many different genes. So, at the same time, I should say we're learning more about the role of the 70 to 100 genes on the Y chromosome, many of which are crucial for typical development of male reproduction and reproductive function. But also, it appears that there's some role even prior to the production and action of testosterone on the body and brain. There may be early expression of genes on the Y chromosome that act in the brain to shape later patterns of behavior. So there's a lot of work going on there to understand that. Excuse me. So there are genetic differences and I also want to say that the genetic differences don't just stop at the differences with those genes on the Y. All the other genes are the same except for the sex chromosomes. But having 1X versus 2X's makes a huge difference. It's extremely important. So typically, so people think that females completely silence one of their X chromosomes in each cell, which is something that basically does happen so that we don't have a double dose of X chromosome genes compared to males. So that's something called the bar body. But if that were true, then it must be more complicated or else you wouldn't have Turner's syndrome. It is. So, yes. So what happens is, and that's right, and we can talk about Turner's syndrome, but something like 20% and here someone might correct me, but I think around 20% of the genes on the silenced X escape inactivation. And that turns out to be important that there are some genes in females that need, where the female needs the double dose of those genes. And if she doesn't have the double dose as in Turner's syndrome, that's a... Which we can define for folks as single X chromosome, which presumably they got from mom and then they didn't get a chromosome from dad. Or do we know that? They can get it from mom or dad and that's another rabbit hole. We could go down. There are imprinted genes depending on the parental origin, meaning certain genes are preferentially expressed or suppressed in the mom's X versus the dad's for interesting evolutionary reasons because the mom and dad have competing interests in what happens to the kid. And phenotypically a woman with Turner's syndrome does appear phenotypically female, but I believe she's not able to reproduce? That's correct as far as I understand. I think that there's some evidence that there's technology now where they could reproduce. But she's sterile and maybe natural conditions. I think in some rare cases that can happen, but generally the ovaries don't. But her stature is distinctive. She's going to be shorter. And there's a sort of... There's a sort of wider neck and a few other characteristics. But generally they're typically... Yeah, you would... And so something about these 20% were thereabouts of genes on the supposedly silenced X chromosome are clearly making the difference because that would be the biggest difference you would notice. I don't know if that's the total complete difference. I don't know enough about Turner, but they turn out to yes, be important. And I don't even know if it's well understood. I think there is actually some research on exactly which genes are typically escaping. And is it always the same genes? Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. But so I just wanted to make the point that in terms of the test... So at this point we have a high level of testosterone in the fetus that is approaching concentrations that... And male puberty. So this is not happening in the female. This is a huge difference. And the reason it matters is because testosterone as a steroid is then going around and acting as a transcription factor when it binds with its receptor to alter gene transcription on thousands of genes. So that is happening in males and not in females. And about what stage of development? How many months or weeks? We're talking... So I think around eight weeks it begins peaking around 15 to 20 weeks. And then of course after birth... It goes back down. Well, it goes down at birth, but then it goes up for peaking at three months after birth. And that's called mini puberty. So this... I don't even remember this. Okay, so because it's new, you probably didn't learn about it in medical school. Now it's getting a lot of attention. But the point is somewhere in the early second trimester, that level of testosterone in a male fetus is comparable to what it... It's lower. It's not exactly as high, but it's very high. But if a male in puberty is at 1200 nanograms per deciliter, this could be 600 nanograms per deciliter. Maybe 400. Okay. If I remember correctly. But still screaming high. But it's very high. And the point is that this is affecting the development of the brain. So I'm really interested in behavior. And from an evolutionary point of view, what is going on in this early environment is extremely important. The body is realizing, the male body is realizing that it's going to be a sperm producing animal. So the brain is... And we have very firm evidence. We can't do these experiments in humans. So people don't like it when all the evidence comes from non-human animals, but most of it does. And that's just because we can't manipulate genes and hormones and developing fetuses and see what happens. We have some, quote, natural experiments. But all the evidence shows that testosterone is a potent regulator of neural development and differentiation from females, which is why boys and girls aren't the same. That is why. It is 100% the reason. And it is 100% in my view. You can totally prove me wrong. This explains the birthday party phenomenon. Yes. If there could be new evidence that comes out in humans, but all the evidence we have points to testosterone. Socialization matters, right? If you punish your kid for not playing, being masculine enough for being too masculine, which happens because now toxic masculinity and rough and tumble play is supposed to be toxic. It's not. It's healthy. It's necessary. I didn't know that. I didn't even... I missed that memo, fortunately. Sorry. I get worked up about this because there's lots of evidence showing that, first of all, it is testosterone. So even in... I'll just go back to the chimps. The males play more roughly than the females. In many mammals where there is a sex difference in play, the males are playing more roughly. There's a reason. Just to make sure people are following this logic, because there's one part of the swing we didn't finish. It's because I keep interrupting you. So it's my fault. But I'm going to do my best to synthesize this. Bring us back. So testosterone, you have this real peak difference in testosterone during a critical window of development when the brain is developing. So you have a female brain that is developing in the absence of testosterone. I just got a pause. I wouldn't necessarily call it... Yeah, I guess a female brain. Because you've got the genes, you've also got XY in every cell. Yeah, when I say female, I'm just meaning... More female tip. You've got to be feminized. It's more feminine. The XX brain is developing in the absence of testosterone. The XY brain is developing in the presence of high amounts of testosterone. Testosterone then falls. By the time these two babies are born, they both have really low testosterone. Then it sounds like you're saying, unbeknownst to me until a few minutes ago, you have this little mini puberty that comes three months later. How high does testosterone get there and what are the... Okay. I want to go back to the critical period. This is also extremely important and has been shown in non-human animals. So there are the critical period in development. You've got the period where testosterone is being produced in the fetus. Within that, there are certain developmental periods where different parts of the brain and body are receptive to testosterone's actions. This is... There are different... We know from non-human primates that there are different critical periods for, say, development of the genitalia, other parts of the reproductive system, and potentially for sexual and aggressive behavior separately. So that's interesting because when we want to understand certain aspects of male behavior or differences in male behavior, it's helpful to know that possibly aggressive and sexual behavior may have different thresholds for male typical versus female typical and that there may be different critical periods so that we don't really know in humans. Also in males, once you hit your male typical level of testosterone, we're just talking about male versus female typical patterns of behavior. In males, it's not really in adulthood at any stage. There isn't really a dose-response relationship. It's more you're at a level that's like 10 to 20 times more than females. Female have some testosterone exposure in utero and some females have more than would be typical. We should talk about that. There is a dose-response relationship because our levels are so low and we're extremely sensitive to differences. Males have so much more. Those differences don't seem to make a difference in... Once you cross this threshold. Yes, thank you. I think the main thing I'm hearing you say, Carol, is that when you observe five-year-old boys and five-year-old girls behaving completely differently, the most obvious explanation for the why is a behavioral difference. The behavioral difference is driven by potentially the way their brains developed during that critical window of being bathed in testosterone, as opposed to the differences in testosterone in a five-year-old boy versus a five-year-old girl, which are de minimis. Okay, thank you so much. Is that correct? Yes. And thank you for saying it so clearly because there are some really important points here. People... And I think what you just said and what we're going to talk about in terms of childhood shows that you cannot judge anyone by their current testosterone levels. You can't predict that much. You can't attribute all variation in behavior and individual differences in behavior necessarily to current testosterone levels. And even within that, if you do have current levels, often, yeah, you can't predict much in terms of, say, sexual behavior or aggressive behavior. You certainly can't with kids because they don't have any differences. They hardly have any testosterone at all. What they do have is on average. I should have said this before, but all of this is on average. There is tremendous variation. The only thing that differentiates the sexes cleanly and essentially is the gamut of the production. Define that again because I want to make sure the listener understands when you're referring to gamut, what you're talking about and the production of them. Sperm and eggs. So what road... What does evolution... What has evolution designed you for? If you're XY and you're going to be making sperm and there's going to be a suite of characteristics generally that are going to be different from the suite of characteristics that you're going to be different from the suite of characteristics that a female who has ovaries and eggs will need to maximize reproduction. So all evolution cares about is what portion of your genes are making into future generations. So the design here is about reproductive strategies that coordinate how your body grows, what your body is like, what physical features you develop, coordinates the hormones, coordinate that with certain patterns of behavior on average. All of the bodies and the behavior can vary across XX and XY's, but what we're talking about is these broad patterns mostly to do with sex and aggression that tend to differ between males and females. So it's really all... And this is across sexually reproducing organisms for the most part. So all the other stuff can vary. It's not that all XY people are going to have a higher sex drive and be more aggressive. That's just not the case. It's bodies vary, behavior varies. I know you weren't consulted during the design phase, but do you have a sense of why the female gametes are all produced up front? Oh, God. And you basically get your lot at birth and then that's it. It's a rate of attrition versus why the male gamete is just produced on demand. I mean, again, I'm being a bit facetious. Of course, we don't know this, but do you have an insight into why that's the case? I have. I'm sure there's a better answer, but here's what I think. And I hope people will write in with the better answers. Making eggs is expensive, calorically, in terms of time and calories, they're expensive. And organisms... So what we are designed to do is convert energy into offspring. That's basically what evolution put us here to do. And you want to do that as efficiently as possible. So eggs are energetically expensive. Sperm is less energetically expensive. And I don't know what happens in terms of how the eggs that go atretic. So we start out with, what is it? 10 million? I know you just had... I know. I just talked about this with Paula. The numbers are sort of staggering how much attrition there is between birth and... So and then you end up at birth, you have 1 million and if something like that, okay, I don't think I have the numbers. It would be a million to 100,000 to... Right. But most of them just die. So maybe there's some selection process there. There's an overproduction and then because for females, there's so much that goes into the production of each egg and time and energy and each egg that you produce is going to limit your ability. If it takes a long time, that means you can only have like eight or 10 or however many kids over a lifetime. So they're very valuable. So we were talking about testes and sperm being... Testes sort of being not so well protected, but the eggs are extraordinarily well protected if they're made early and then just stored, I think. And they resume meiosis, of course, when they are ovulated. So maybe there's this store and then there's a selection process that goes on throughout life. That's interesting. That's a very interesting idea, right? Which is maybe you make... I mean, let's just pretend we got these numbers right, but directionally. Let's say you make a million, you have the first 18 years of life or whatever it is or 16 years of life to select the best of those. And so it's not a stochastic process that takes you from the million to the 10,000 or whatever the number is. It's truly a winnowing down of the best of the best of the best. It could be. Again, this is a teleologic BS discussion, but... It is a super interesting question and I should know more about it, but it does, I think, illustrate the reason why we have different strategies. It's because the time and energy that we have in the world, the time and energy that females have to put into reproduction, if say, imagine we're living as hunter-gatherers, there's no birth control. We're not going through life, getting our periods over and over and going to whole foods and having a job. We're having kid after kid after kid. We're nursing, we're producing the milk with our own bodies. We have to grow the baby in a relatively energy-restricted environment. The burden for female mammals, the energetic and time burden for female mammals is enormous to produce each offspring. If you don't have the right egg or the right sperm, you should care about where you're getting the sperm, then you've lost a huge chunk of your potential reproductive output. Men don't lose a big chunk of that. That just doesn't happen to them. This is the sex difference in parental investment that shapes. That's why eggs and sperm matter in terms of our bodies and our behaviors because we have to do very different things and live in different ways to maximize our reproduction. I don't want to come back to what you said about mini-puberty and the differences in hormones. I do think it's the differences in the increase in testosterone that males have that explain why they're more likely to have rough and tumble play, more energy. By the way, how high a peak is this mini-puberty and how long does it last? It starts within a month after birth, but then peaks around three months and I think then goes down until something like six months. It appears that it has important effects on brain development and on lengthening the penis. It seems to be an important— But does the female do it as well? In other words, does the female experience a rise in estrogen? Yes. There's a lower postnatal peak, but the mini-puberty in boys appears to also be associated with activity levels in the boys and even growth trajectories. So that's interesting. There's a very narrow window of time, right? Three to six months. Oh, sorry. Yes. Yes. So in terms of the activity levels, it could be that that postnatal time, that the play in boys has something to do with differences in activity levels, differences in novelty seeking, different temperament, less fear also. But if you think about it from an evolutionary point of view, in male mammals that have to compete for status and operate in a dominance hierarchy, there's a lot of male mammals have dominance hierarchies which tend to function to reduce aggression overall. Because instead of duking it out every time there's a fertile female or a delicious piece of fruit in a tree, you just signal, I'm not going to take your fruit, I'm subordinate to you. So you can get along kind of as a group. Yes, there's infighting just like humans have, but humans have dominance hierarchies also. And if you don't learn how to compete physically with other males as a kid, this has been shown in non-human animals and there's some evidence for this in humans, that you have more trouble. Sorry, it just occurred to me that this is obviously happening with social media. People are using their iPhones to compete instead of getting out in the yard and play fighting or fighting with other boys. That's actually healthy because it ends up reducing aggression. It helps especially young boys and young men learn their place in the hierarchy, what they're capable of physically, how to be threatening and when to be threatening, when to signal that they're submitting, you know, all of that happens and it's fun. So they're driven to do it because it's adaptive for them evolutionarily. So I just wanted to throw that in. And females tend to have more nurturing play. I had three older brothers, I was climbing trees, I was wrestling with them, but the girls almost never play by choice just with each other. Like they don't have a play date where they just tackling each other. They're tackling each other. My son is 16 now. He's still doing it and he's six feet and his friends are like one of them is like six, two and it makes me very, very nervous because they can really hurt each other now. But yeah, they're still doing it. But yeah, it's it's it's so it's such a beautiful thing to watch if you if you just stop judging it for a moment and just ask yourself the why question. What is driving this behavior? Right? So again, for whatever reasons that are tragic, this has become a political discussion, but it's really not. It's simply a discussion of biology and it's endlessly fascinating, right? Like why is it that when I walk into the pantry and I see a candy bar versus a cheese stick or something, I want to eat the candy bar. Well, that's evolution. Like I can't I can make a choice not to do it, but it would be silly for me not to appreciate how much my brain looks at the candy bar and sees the sweetness, the energy density, the fat, the sugar and it's like, yeah, that's what I want. Yeah, this is like, you know, whatever, pick pick the bland, healthier option. And similarly, when we watch kids play, I find it very interesting. I wasn't obviously aware of half of what you're saying. But this idea that if you let boys kind of duke it out the way we all did, that ultimately it settles them down again, because it's probably too soon to tell what the results are of the natural experiment where kids play less. I mean, there's certainly no shortage of discussion about what happens when kids are all the anxiety and things that come from endless social media. But this is kind of a deeper and more interesting question, which is what does it teach us about aggression or lack thereof? And I'm curious, have people been studying that as closely as they've been studying the effects of social media on anxiety? Yeah, I know that there are I'm not sure what the current literature is on how social media is affecting play other than it's not happening as much, which I think is obviously bad. You're out there, you're being physical, you're learning about your body, you're developing relationships with other boys in particular that are trusting, but it can involve physical aggression. And you mentioned something about there about wanting to have, what did you say, the chocolate bar? What was it? Yeah, yeah, just like your knee jerk reaction is to always eat something that's sweeter, more calorie dense. Yes. Okay, so that's a miss. We have a mismatch. We're designed to be motivated to seek out these foods and we have to expend energy to get high calorie foods, say like we would have maybe gotten honey, and that would have been super rewarding and we only would have had a little bit and then we would have  randaround, and spent those calories, and now we have, you know, you can just get your chocolate bar. So that's a mismatch situation that's maladaptive. And what's interesting is that we've figured out what to do to some degree with the male, any women watching this who are super competitive and aggressive, that's a thing too. It's not that women are not this way, they certainly are. And I see more and more examples on my iPhone from like basketball games and stuff recently. But they tend to be less physically competitive than men. On average. On average. So we have sports that ritualize this motivation or this desire, especially on the part of men. And we have a lot more men who are interested in watching sports because they're kind of getting that need met vicariously. They're like jumping out of their chairs. Often their testosterone is responding also to even vicarious participation in sports. Now given that we evolved to, for the males to get this aggression out physically, what do we say about boys that play a ton of video games and get their aggression out there? So you could argue, well, you know, if they're playing with their other friends, they're I don't know enough about video games. I'm going to embarrass myself. But I'm sure there are super aggressive video games where you're killing each other and doing something in a virtual world that you would do if you were wrestling. Is there a positive to that? Is there, aside from the fact that they're not getting exercise, of course, and not being physically active, do we know if that serves as even a reasonable proxy? As far as I know, there isn't any getting your aggression out, getting that need met. If it is a need, you know, some people don't have that. And in fact, most men are not terribly physically aggressive. There's a competitive, yeah, this is a good question. I think you could sort of compare it to pornography and ask, are men getting out their sexual need? So, if a parent is listening to this, is there anything that they should be concerned about? In other words, we know that all siblings are a little bit different. So even my two boys are different. So they're clearly both a step function more aggressive and physical than their sister was at a comparable age. But they're quite different themselves. The younger one is still a step ahead in aggression of the middle one. That meaning the younger boy is more aggressive than the older boy. Can you say what you mean when you say aggressive? So there's three years between them. And obviously the older one is larger. The younger one will instigate physically more. OK. Right. So if he's unhappy, he will attack the larger, older boy. And he doesn't have that same. He doesn't respond maybe even aggressively. Well, you know, he just hits. Like he'll hit anything and anyone that stands in his way. Whereas the middle one is, you know, he's not quite that bad. I feel horrible saying all this stuff. My wife's going to kill me. She's like, you make them sound like monsters. They're not monsters, but it's like they're just their boys. And this is what boys do. But like with other kids, they're more in control, but with each other, they're at their worst. And which, of course, I think is normal for male siblings. But my point being is just even between them, there's quite a difference in aggression. And maybe it's birth order, right? Maybe when you're the younger one, you have to you have to stand your ground. I used to hit my older, my older brother. So I was kind of a big hitter myself. So is there anything that I guess my point is should a parent just say, look, I'm just going to let these kids do what they're going to do and understand that there are differences. Some boys are going to be aggressive. Some are going to be less aggressive. Some are going to play rough. Some are not going to play that rough. Like, are we is the best thing you can do as a parent from, from any available evidence, just let them do their thing. So this is an interesting question. I hadn't thought about it in this way. So I would say the rough play. Generally, if they're having fun, if they're smiling and laughing, let them go for it. And don't they need to learn to work their stuff out. And I think the more play, the better. And we are designed to play boys and girls in different ways. And it helps us learn how to be social and have social relationships and respond physically. And all of that is so important. And if we're not doing that, then I think we're going to have more trouble as adults. But when it gets where it's not so much fun and people are getting hurt, yeah, then I think the parent, you know, so I don't know. Maybe you let them work that out. I don't know. Let me give you a specific example. Are boys more likely to bully than girls? I don't think so. So here's there. There's this difference where boys will say to your face, you fat F, you know, they'll insult you to your face and bully to your face. Girls are very aggressive also. But what's interesting is that they tend not to do it in a direct confrontational way where they're exposing themselves as the perpetrator. Yeah. So they can hide from physical harm and they, which is a more adaptive, but they can denigrate the reputation, say of other girls, which they do because they're their competition in terms of meeting competition for say, high status. Males, so they can denigrate the appearance or behavior, especially sexual behavior. And it's cruel. It's extremely cruel the way that this sort of feminine aggression and they don't have the, do we see that kind of behavior amongst other mammals? Oh, that's a great question. Well, we certainly see more face to face aggression among male mammals. We do. Sorry. What we do see in female hierarchies sometimes is that there's harassment, say, in some monkeys, there's harassment of a subordinate female by the dominant. So much so that cortisol goes up in the one who is being harassed and the, and it interferes with her capacity to reproduce. So that is not a physical necessarily confrontation. It's just harassment. But the sex difference in human aggression with females doing more of this passive aggression, I think part of that is that females have not evolved the same skills to resolve conflicts so that the hierarchy can sort of be reinstated. Males can get onto the basketball, you know, have a pickup game on the basketball court, it can get rough, they can insult each other. But by the end, they've sort of worked it out. Maybe there's a change in the status hierarchy, but they've worked it out. It's over. It doesn't go on for weeks. You don't have to talk about it endlessly. Females do not have the same ability to resolve those kinds of complex social. What for us would be very complex social conflicts? That is such an obvious statement the way you make it. For from having, I mean, I don't think of it that way, but I completely noticed that even thinking back to high school. Yeah. Like we would, as boys, get into huge fights and it would be over by the end of the day. But there's something. That feels fair about that and to sort of backstab and not give somebody the opportunity to and not to be able to work it out and to gossip about behind people's backs. So I don't think men deserve, yes, more, you know, out of there's murder and rape and men are overrepresented in those and horrible crimes. But we shouldn't glorify feminine ways of interacting necessarily and try to get men to be more feminine because there's a lot of issues also with typical feminine. So let's talk a little bit about the pathology, though. You just alluded to it, right? There aren't too many female murderers and rapists and the disproportionate representation of men in violent crime is, you know, you don't need statistics to understand that. Definitely do have the statistics like 95 percent of murders everywhere are male and obviously sexual assault is 98 percent or something. So what do what role does testosterone play in that? So here again, I think just like with play, people aren't going to like this, but I want to make sure I so I want to make sure I say it clearly. I do think that the difference, this broad pattern is similar to what we see in non-human animals, where the males are much more likely to kill each other than the females, there's many more violent or aggressive, physically aggressive interactions. So we have the same like if you look at both of us, we have different bodies. You are bigger and stronger. I started lifting weights because of you a year ago, so I'm getting there, but I'll never get to where you are. Also, I'm older, but so physically men are developed for competition, for essentially male male competition for mates. This plays out in this destructive way in in society. And so I believe that the ultimate reason for the difference is testosterone. However, the crime, say the murder rates in Canada, men are committing fewer murders in Canada than they are in the US. We can't attribute that to testosterone levels. So that's not because of differences in testosterone level. It is because socialization and culture, religion, the laws, you know, all have a huge impact on what the values are in any particular society, what is tolerated, what is encouraged. Some societies basically allow men to beat and rape their wives. Right. So it's so you have higher rates of those male behaviors where it's not tolerated and the culture is totally different. You have lower rates of those behaviors. But everywhere you will have the sex difference with all of these behaviors higher in men. So I'm glad you asked this because I think the main reason people don't like biological explanations for sex differences is because they misinterpret a tendency or a predisposition for a behavior or a biological explanation as suggesting that it's impossible to change behavior. It's not, you know, that there's no variation across the sexes in behavior. There is. And just because there might be a biological explanation or even a genetic explanation, the important thing to remember is that we develop within an environment. You know, it's gene environment interactions. We develop within a society and how we develop and even how our hormones say respond to different kinds of interactions is impacted by the social system and by the ecology and everything else. So it's complicated. But yeah, I think that the the ultimate reason is because of the genetic difference, which is the why chromosome and the hormones that it hormonal differences that it leads to. And we haven't talked about female behavior, but of course, nurturing. If you're going to be growing and producing and holding and feeding and caring for a baby and you're the one who absolutely has to do it. And that's the female. Of course, we get help from men. And sometimes men even take over as the primary caregivers, which is extremely unusual in animals, in mammals. But so men are capable of all of that nurturing if the society values it, because some societies don't value that. And then they're still capable, but they're not apt to do that. But so for females, it just doesn't pay reproductively. In general, to be super aggressive. We need our bodies to be healthy and we have to live a long life. So the longer our lives, the longer our reproductive output. Men can live, you know, die young and because they can see many more times productive success. Yes, if they take risks and physical risks, and that just doesn't have the same payoff for females, there are some primates, for instance, where the females are, you know, relatively aggressive, but it's almost never to the same extent. As males, it's so interesting when you think about. How is humans, right? Like we we hold ourselves to a higher standard than we would hold animals, right? And and and look, but I'll give you a very concrete example. OK, so if we go back in time, five hundred years, first of all, neither of us would be alive. So let's forget that part of the discussion. But let's just say five hundred years ago, if you had a male that was 25 years old, he would readily reproduce with a 14 year old female. Yeah, that would be completely normal and evolutionary, evolutionarily wise. But we've made a decision, at least in our society, that that's unacceptable. And I think most people think that that's a good decision. Yeah. So that's an example of we have made a societal norm that says it's unacceptable for a 14 year old girl to be reproducing certainly at the hands of an older man. So if she gets pregnant from a 14 year old boyfriend, that's a different discussion and we can help them both out in this country. Anyway, yeah, my point of the story is we've made a decision that this is no longer acceptable, just as we've made a decision that a husband can't rape his wife. We have just decided that that's not, you know, maybe that was cool. Two hundred years ago, it's not cool today. Yeah. So to play the other side of some of these arguments, right? Is there someone watching us who's saying, Peter, Carol, you guys are talking about all this aggression stuff, but we're humans living in the 21st century. Like we have to change, we have to evolve as a species. Is there a case to be made that men should be less aggressive? Because all of these evolutionary reasons that you described aren't as necessary. Women and men are going to live through their evolutionary, pardon me, their reproductive lives. We don't have this urgency. We don't need this competition. Again, I'm not saying I agree with that or anything, but I'm just saying like there's a steel man for the other side of this, just as in those extreme examples of we don't have sex with 14 year olds and we don't rape our wives. So what would it take for you to not eat that chocolate? Well, it's interesting, right? Food is a really tough one, isn't it? It can be done. It just takes a ton of willpower. Does the truth think it can be so the food is a great way to think about it? There's food and sex. And aggression is for ultimately in a way for sex. Well, I mean, for both. Yes, but people will. Yes. So for men, more than women, aggression is certainly more about. But like to play off that, I don't need to be an alpha male to get as much food as I need today. Like, but you are an alpha male and you have a lot of food and you have like you. But I don't need to be competitive. We don't need to be an alpha male to get food. No, that's right. That's my point. Today, I don't. So you're saying we should get rid of the drive. OK, I'm not saying I'm just exploring. No, I'm glad you are exploring because I think so there's physical competition, which we certainly do not need. But think about what we get from the male. So there is a sex difference in certain drives. Men tend to be more sort of. Driven to achieve specific and more narrow goals and like hyper focused on certain goals and to achieve via, you know, to be the top of the heap in one thing like chess. I wrote some article on sex differences in chess and learned a lot about, you know, because I was like, what, why are men consistently better at chess than women? And they are. No, no, I'm only laughing. If you only knew of the of the rabbit hole, we could go down on that front. But I'm OK. So I'm really interested in that. And what and I had what I suspected was not appears not to be the case in terms of it's not doesn't seem to be explained by differences in cognition. At least that's not necessarily the driving force. What is that? I think the driving force is that men, boys and men are much more willing to spend countless hours studying the moves and practicing and seeing their coach and, you know, trying to beat their competition. And for women, like there are other things to do that matter in their lives more. They're just certainly there are some women who do who do that kind of focus, but there are way more men. And I'm saying this because there is that competitive drive chess. I don't know what we're like getting out of that. But you've ever played. Have you? No, I have. You have. OK. I'm not super seriously, but my son was really into it for a while. My brother, I know a lot of people who are obsessed with it. But when I say what we're getting, I mean, so socially. So competitive men, super and people, I'm not again, I want to. I'm not saying that women are not competitive or haven't made incredible, you know, social advances in all kinds of domains. But what I am saying is that if we want to interfere with the male desire to compete, we are also interfering with whatever products we get or advances we get from that intense drive in being in academia as I was for 25 years. There's a lot that is produced because people want to be first. They want to nail finding this gene or be the first to make a certain discovery. There's it's tremendously productive, often that insane drive that men have. And I think women have less of it because we have kids, we are designed to have the kids. We don't we don't have the same. I must do something else, you know, have to produce this other thing with the same drive. Again, there's tons of variation here. There's tons of crossover. This is just a pattern. I think men have more of that potentially because they're not designed to have kids to produce them with their own bodies. So let me play back to you what I think I'm hearing and with a little bit of trouble. I hope you're not going to be in trouble with just a little bit of inference looped into it. Right. So what I think you're saying is, look, for most of 250,000 years, male aggression was absolutely essential for males to reproduce and find and forge for food and protect more so. Certainly. Yeah. Yeah. OK. The past 100 years or so has largely done away with that, right? Meaning a couple of things have become true, right? We basically have domesticated crops and agriculture and livestock and we're no longer in a food scarce environment. Certainly for the last 50 or 60 years, lifespans have extended enough that there isn't a race to reproduce. You can actually live through your reproductive years. So it's not like you have to get this done before you die at the hands of a saber toothed tiger. Tiger. Third, infant mortality and maternal mortality rates have plummeted. So the success of your offspring, skyrockets and basically all of the other reasons that we used to need to be hyper aggressive with each other to compete for mates, again, food and all those other things have largely dwindled, but that's a fire that's been burning for millennia. So we have to channel into something else. And so in many cases, in the most polished corridors of society, we've channeled that into professional excellence or things that would have been a sport. There's sports are here. Totally unnecessary and superfluous hundreds of years ago that don't even like again, nobody thought of discovering genes or trying to be the leading scorer in the pick your favorite sport. And so it's been a easier or maybe more logical transition of aggression from evolutionary needs into gratuitous needs, making more money, being more successful, being more famous, being being more respected in some way. And the maternal need of caring for the offspring hasn't again, as it's coming out of my mouth, I'm sure I'm just butchering this, but it hasn't evolved as much in the sense away from its original goal, which was making sure the offspring were perfectly protected. So there's an asymmetry in this evolution of evolution. That's what I'm hearing. Do you agree with that? Yeah, I think I agree with the general thrust. I mean, what's interesting is thinking about how, say, nurturing, we still need to know. We basically still you can. We still need to nurture there. You know, you can I my my baby was not always, you know, with me when I was working. So there are solutions to that. But I think that nurturing drive is still super strong and valuable. And that that is probably best for the kid if we indulge, indulge that. And now paternal attention can be given much more to kids. Yes. Well, I think it there's it's interesting because even in hunter gatherers, there's very different traditions across hunter gatherers societies in terms of expectations for paternal involvement. And when there's high involvement, there's lower testosterone in those males that applies to humans and in the father or in the father. So for fathers to be very attentive, yes, the testosterone generally is suppressed. And that's true in birds where the males are contributing. If you raise it, they neglect their kids. So there is a hormonal support there for parenting. So that's something that, you know, men can do to increase their reproductive success. So I just want to say that I think that's something that has. So we don't want the lesson here to be novel. If you're if you're a man out there listening with low T ignore your kids. With low T. If your if your T is low, you should ignore your kids to raise your T. Is that the implication? Right, right. It doesn't drop by that that much. And what matters is that you're in an environment where you see your little kids. Like if you're a guy and you're mated and you have a partner and you're around your baby and you're interacting with your baby, your T is going to drop a little bit. And that's a good thing. And this is one of the reasons that supplementing with exogenous testosterone. There are so many different ways that testosterone male testosterone responds and to and influences social dynamics. And this is one of them. That's really important. You're a better dad, potentially. If your testosterone does drop, you're potentially a better husband and, you know, more attentive to your wife and your kids. There this is seems I don't know that there's the experiment. No, that there's causality here. I mean, this is a pretty bold statement. We do. I would say, yeah, we do know. So what by what magnitude are we talking about here? Yeah, that's a good question. And I don't I should have had the data and I don't have the answer. But it's shown across lots of different populations in humans and nonhuman animals that fatherhood, first of all, mating, being in a pair bond. This is like it's like what birds do when they finally they're very aggressive. When they're setting up their territory, their testosterone is high in the males. When they find the female and establish a territory with her, the testosterone tends to drop because it's not adaptive to have high testosterone all the time. And that's why animals have mating seasons, etc. Sorry, because it's expensive. It would make us go out and look for other mates when we don't need to. You're aggressing and fighting for status and singing or flexing your muscles or ignoring your kids or being an asshole to your wife. I mean, all of these. You're also not. Reinforcing adaptive behaviors with a bit of a testosterone spike, like if you're around an attractive woman and you're trying to seduce her, there's very possibly going to be a testosterone increase, which stimulates a dopamine surge and reinforces a behavior if you're successful. How much can that happen? I'm just saying when you shut all that off, it's like when women go on birth control and and they don't respond to men necessarily in the same way that they would have because they have just screwed up that entire hormonal birth control. That system, there's a system in women and in men where those sex hormones are giving you signals about what's happening in the environment and what your role is in your potential. Wait, there's a lot for me to unpack. No, no, no, but I want to talk about this because I didn't. Everything you're saying is totally new to me. So I want to make sure I'm here. But I don't want to get away from the fatherhood because that's this is very well established this drop. And it happens not just in humans, but in other males where paternal investment increases survival of the offspring, which it does. Okay, so let's talk about that first, but then I want to go back to the birth control and stuff like that. So if if a male. Has a check. So, you know, man and wife have baby. Man decides after, you know, a few years, I'm going to stay home more and spend more time with my child and, you know, forgo whatever else I was doing. Right. So I used to be working 80 hours a week. I'm now going to work 30 hours a week. Oh no, he'll keep working 80. No, men work harder when they and make more money tend to do that. But in this experiment, this guy decides to stay home half the time now. Okay. His testosterone will drop. No. Because the kid's too old. Because the kid's five. No, then he's going to get, then he'll start his, he's going to start looking for other females. Like there's serial monogamy where the man is more likely to stay around during the early years. And that's when maybe a critical.  alipariculopyrid, I'm not sure for this effect. It's really when the offspring is dependent and young and the mother is very, the mother needs to be supplemented. You know, again, in a hunter-gatherer situation, the woman is not just going to have one kid, she's going to have several, and she's going to be nursing or weaning and or, you know, about to get pregnant. And so she's in a situation where she can really benefit from investment from a male, and he benefits reproductively. He benefits reproductively because that's a critical window in which is protection, is producing his survival advantage. And protection. Yeah, so I just want to pause here and I want to get back to everything else you said. There are different strategies that different men can use to maximize their output, say, in a natural fertility society. One is pair up forever with one woman, mate guard her, be good to her. I'm going to like getting teary eyed for some reason, invest in her. Oh my God, I have no idea what this is about. It's just I have estrogen and estrogen increases crying, which it actually does testosterone inhibits it, although I also put on my testosterone gel this morning. Anyway, so that's one strategy. And he had to compete and have certain status to get that woman, right? You want a high quality female. You want to keep her. You can do very well reproductively for your lifetime output and you're not out on the mating market constantly being vigilant, constantly trying to take down other males, constantly fighting for status. You can have sex with a lot of women, which is what you want. You're designed to want sex with more partners than females are designed to want sex with. But who knows how many of them are going to get pregnant and who knows how many of those babies are going to survive. But that is one strategy where if you're a high status man, you can be very successful. You can have way more than eight kids, right? But that's a high risk strategy. A lot of men are going to fail and they won't have the sure thing of the one female where they can invest in her. That seems to be not a lower testosterone man strategy, but it does seem that we know that when the kid is young, if the guy is physically involved with a small dependent offspring, that there will be suppression in testosterone and that is a good thing. It doesn't mean that your muscles will be smaller necessarily as far as I know. I'm not sure how big the drop is, but it does facilitate potentially more contentment with that life. If you have higher testosterone, what has been shown in non-human models is that the attention to the mate in the offspring is reduced. There's more attention to status seeking, aggression, getting sex from other partners, etc. So I think it's worth trying to understand what the exogenous testosterone, which shuts down that system, does in men. I think there are potentially some very important behavioral and social effects that people don't think about because they're so psyched to get jacked and have more social status and have the dopamine hit. It feels good. I don't know. I think it's worth looking into. There's so much to unpack there. These evolutionary discussions are so interesting because I have to imagine that most guys who have chosen the path on your right, which is I'm going to have as many partners as possible, are not doing that because of reproductive fitness. They are often choosing not to have kids. How do we reconcile that? From an evolutionary perspective, I get it. The desire to have as many partners as possible increases your probability of success. Or even just serial monogamy, where you're in a relationship and then you move on or you divorce your wife and get a younger partner and then divorce your wife again and get a younger partner. Is that rooted in evolution of reproduction or is that rooted in the evolution of status in a way that is distinct from reproduction? I don't think status is distinct from reproduction. Do you mean psychologically? What is the driver? It's not reproduction. It's sex. It is sex. Which is interesting. This is the first time we're basically talking about sex independent of reproduction. Yeah. Ultimately, I think it is, of course, we have love and we have relationships and all of that. That is for reproduction. That whole love thing is just to get the kids' genes into your genes into the next generation via the kid. The love of the wife is to ensure that, you know, maximize the chances of that happening. Are we, is there any other species that does what we do as humans, which is, so you and your husband have a 16-year-old and... That's it. Okay. So in two years or three years when he's off in college, I know, I know it's terrible, right? So you guys will have done your job as parents. But... No, we're going to keep doing it until we die. Okay, but my point is the love you will have for each other, the support you will have for each other, is really not in the service of making sure your genes survive anymore. So are there other examples of animals that continue in that behavior, which is when they're past their reproductive age, when their offspring are gone, they stay together? Well, there aren't really too many other animals that get past their reproductive age. So elephants and all these other long-lived mammals can reproduce? So menopause, you mean? Who has menopause? Yeah. So, some whales, maybe captive chimp or maybe there's some wild chimps who have had menopause. It's just very rare. But this is kind of another human socialization? But grandmothers make a massive contribution to their daughters and their daughters' kids in terms of knowledge and support. So I'm not... So someone who is no longer capable of reproducing, that's valuable. You don't want to be reproducing in your 80s because it's a total waste of energy and you're likely to die potentially from trying. You can invest in your genes that are in your daughter and her kids. So that makes a big difference. But I think... I'm still not sure what question you're asking exactly. I think you were saying... No, it's just... Why don't we have more... Why do we stay together in a bond? Is there an evolutionary reason for why humans specifically stay monogamous even after it's not necessary for the survival of their offspring? Yeah, I think because it increases the survival of their offspring. So that trust and commitment is... Even if you don't have kids, you still have... You behave as though you do because you would have. There's no way you wouldn't have kids. So any couple that's having sex would have been having kids when there's no birth control. And they're still acting that way. The same genes are being transcribed as though they had kids. So even though we only have the one kid, it's as though he's 16, he might have had a kid already. The two of us together with our bond and our experience and our relationship with our kid, we're going to help increase the survival of our grandkids. So our genes are really going to potentially do much better if we stay together. But we are liberated from that and people get divorced and find other partners. You mentioned... So again, going back to testosterone and estrogen. I want to talk a little bit about estrogen now. So obviously estrogen is a very important hormone for men and women. It's appreciated more, I think, in women than men. But to cite one study that I've talked about many times in the past, it's about a 13-year-old study that took a large group of men, chemically castrated them all, and then made them replete with different doses of testosterone with and without an astrazol. So this study basically gave men... I think there were five groups of testosterone and with and without an astrazol. So for folks listening, an astrazol would inhibit the conversion of testosterone to estradiol. So it just inhibits aromatase. That's right, some aromatase inhibitors. So you have from low to high five levels of T with and without estrogen. So it's a pretty elegant study. It was in the New England Journal of Medicine, I don't remember who published it. We'll link to it in the show notes. Now, the question was, what did these 10 groups... How did they differ with respect to body composition, mood, affect, sexual desire, all these sorts of things? I don't remember bone density we studied. It might not have been long enough study. It's been so long since I've looked at it. But here was the big takeaway. The TLDR was by far the best producing outcome was the highest T with high estrogen. Producing outcome for... Everything for body composition, mood, you name it. So the learning to me, it wasn't surprising that higher testosterone was better than lower testosterone for all the metrics that were measured. The surprising insight at the time, again, we now I think understand this much more, but for me at the time, the surprising insight was more estrogen was better than less for men, not just with respect to how they felt, but even body composition. And this was a wake up call because I think there were a lot of doctors out there who were prescribing aromatase inhibitors to keep estrogen as low as possible in men. In men who were... Who were taking testosterone. Who were taking it. Yeah. Within physiologic norms. Okay. So again, putting aside body builders who were taking a thousand milligrams of testosterone, where you do have to block some of the aromatization. But if you have a guy who's taking 100 or 150 milligrams of testosterone a week, which would put him to a physiologic upper limit of normal, really it seems to me you ought to let estrogen go as high as necessary or as high as it goes naturally shy of producing a symptom. Yeah. And so let's just spend a minute now talking about the role of estrogen and its role in the brain. I mean, what do we know about this? And do we know about, for example, why at a minimum in some of these studies and even anecdotally if a male's estrogen level is too low, it has a negative impact on his mood. Do you know what the specific outcomes were? Was it like libido or energy? Libido was definitely one. I don't recall. Gosh, I wish I'd looked at the paper recently because I could have spoken to... So let's just say libido. Yeah. Okay. So this is interesting. And I don't know the paper. What I will say, first of all, is that as far as estrogen in males, in rodents, for example, just talking about masculinization in very early development, masculinization in rodents clearly occurs via conversion of testosterone once that gets into the brain via aromatase. So if you block aromatase, you get essentially female rodent brain. So... Does that mean that you need aromatase to get testosterone in the brain? Or does it mean that you need the testosterone to become estrogen to go into the brain? No, the testosterone gets into the brain. Estrogen is actually prevented. Peripheral testosterone is prevented by a protein called alpha-fetoprotein in rodents, and it's so maternal estrogen is bound so that females are not masculinized. So he enters the brain and is aromatized there. The testosterone from the male testicles is high. That gets into the brain. That gets aromatized. Once it gets passed because it doesn't have the alpha-fetoprotein, that's a pretty elegant solution. That's right. It is an elegant solution. So it is clear that it's estrogen acting via estrogen receptors that are masculinizing sexual and aggressive behavior, which is just very clear in rodents because you have lordosis in females and mounting in males and you have higher rates of male aggression, etc. So that's via... This doesn't happen in humans. This does not happen in humans. I know that there's misunderstanding about that. A lot of people just think, of course, that applies also to humans, but it can't apply to humans because our alpha-fetoprotein does not effectively bind estrogen. We also have men who can't produce aromatase and don't have estrogen, and they are typically masculine in their behavior. They have other issues like with bone. We also have congenital... Sorry, we also have complete androgen insensitivity syndrome where you have XY individuals who have testicles but have a defective androgen receptor and essentially develop as full. They have testicles in XY, sex chromosomes, and high testosterone, but they develop as females because their testosterone is converted into estrogen. So they have no testosterone whatsoever, yet they do have estrogen. They're exposed to maternal estrogens. They're very feminine. Wow. What an interesting phenotype. They must have sky-high estrogen given that all of their testosterone, male levels of testosterone are being converted to estradiol. So they go through female, essentially female puberty and discover... Many of them will discover that they have testes in XY, sex chromosomes when they don't get their period. So they're very feminine. But the point here is that... So we know for sure that... And this seems... This is the case in... And by the way, cognitive... Not human primates. Do they develop with a male pattern of aggression or a female pattern of nurturing? Totally feminine. Totally feminine. So this is interesting because this is a point mutation in the androgen receptor gene. One small mutation. Everything else is just typical male. You just get the one mutation in the androgen receptor that is disabling it and you take what would have been a typical male and you have someone with testes and XY, sex chromosomes. So you still have... You don't have the double X. You have all the genes on the Y. But you have a totally typical for all intensive purposes girl and then a woman. So outside of the sterility, I assume, of this individual, does she go on to be a completely normal woman? Totally. More feminine, I would say, than other women who have testosterone. So really not a pathologic condition outside of the sterility? No. I mean, no. No. Wow. I've even heard of this. Okay. So there's like incontrovertible evidence that estrogen is not the masculinizing hormone acting via the estrogen receptor in early development in humans. Okay. But then you're raising all these questions about the role of estrogen in adulthood. And I think...so this one study is interesting and I think we...I think it is important, but I couldn't say like with authority exactly how. It's important for bone. You know, it's important for the body. But in terms of behavior, I believe it's important for sexual behavior, but we do have these guys who don't make estrogen, who seem to be normal. And I should also... Meaning they don't have the aromatase capacity. Sorry. Yes. And I should mention also that in these women who have complete androgen insensitivity syndrome, they seem to be sexually normal. They have...there's no differences in sex drive and orgasmic capacity, even though they have zero testosterone. So that's interesting. And there's limited data, I should say, but because it's a rare condition, but what we do have suggests that they have estrogen and that the estrogen somehow compensates. And they have the same libido? From everything...from the studies that I have seen, yes. I don't know if, you know, maybe the peak isn't as high in puberty or something like that. This is there, but I don't see that in the literature. And they have...primarily they must have a little more difficulty putting on muscle mass. Well, I have tried... Do they shave their legs? They don't have to. They have no acne. They don't have to shave. I worked with a student very closely who had this condition. And... Yeah. Yeah. It's a difficult condition when you're a normal teenager and you learn, you know, that's a difficult situation. A lot of these are very challenging. And to me, the most interesting outcome of the study was not to my recollection that the men with higher testosterone felt better. It was that they actually put on more muscle mass as well. You mean with the estrogen? Yeah. Yes. No, that is my understanding. And I don't know enough about exactly why that is and how it works. I'm not surprised. I think estrogen is very important in men, in adults. It may be important in early development in some ways that we don't yet understand. So what do you think all of this teaches us about the role of testosterone replacement therapy in both men and women, right? So let's go back to something you said some time ago. So if we didn't muck around with nature, men would experience a pretty steady decline in testosterone from puberty on down. It never really has... In Western populations. Because we don't... Hunter-gatherers tend not to have that. Oh, okay. We'll say more about that. Yeah. So let's start out with lower testosterone because, again, high testosterone is expensive to maintain. Most animals keep it low and only raise it when females are fertile and they need to compete. So that's why there's... So that's the rut. We're animals basically. That's the rut. Like the red deer. Yeah. Yeah. Grow... their testicles grow. They grow weapons on their head. They become horny. They become aggressive when the females are fertile. If the females aren't fertile, all that stuff goes away. Testosterone drops. Okay. So these animals are also designed to keep testosterone low, which is why if there's a situation, a competitive situation, say, testosterone might go up. But generally, it's going to be kept low when it can be. But we are overnourished in Western populations. We don't have to worry. We have enough calories to run our immune system and to do everything else we need to do. We have the luxury of being able to elevate testosterone over what it would be naturally. Sorry to interrupt. In the case of the deer, all of the females go through S-trace at the same time. So it's easier for the bucks to say, for these nine months, I don't need testosterone because all of the does are infertile. And then they go, now they're going through S-trace, we're going to go through the rut and it's a party. But with humans, I understand there's some literature that says the more women that are together, the more their cycle sinks. But that's got to be weak. And by the way, women are ovulating every month. I'm so glad you brought this up. This is why you have, you guys are the hormonal ones. Let's say that. So everyone says women are hormonal. You're the hormonal one, right? You have this high testosterone all the time. We just don't notice that you're hormonal because it starts in utero and you're permanently hormonal basically. So let's just get that out there. But you are hormonal because there's always going to be fertile females around. So that's just an interesting point. But given you have to maintain high testosterone levels throughout your entire life, we only maintain our high estrogen through a fixed time or reproductive career, which is when we're most attractive. If you look at hunter-gatherers, they have a high pathogen load. They have fewer calories coming in. They have high energy expenditure. They have other stressful, energetically stressful situations to deal with that we don't necessarily. So they keep their testosterone levels lower. The peak is significantly lower. I think it's at least a third lower. And then there's no real drop-off. And they stay active and relatively healthy throughout the rest of their lives. And the testosterone, they don't have that 1% loss say per year. And there's no problem with fertility, even though their levels are much, much lower than ours, which makes me skeptical about some of the explanations for the trend that we see of a drop in testosterone levels in men and a drop in fertility. Because it's definitely, if you look at these natural fertility populations, you see that we are starting out really high. And we should be able to, men should not, I wouldn't, I don't really see why there would be a reduction in fertility per se that isn't caused by other health issues, for instance. In other words, you're saying it's hard for us to blame fertility in the Western world on declining testosterone. Just the testosterone. Because I think the testosterone must be declining because of all these other things that are affecting fertility. Yeah, it can be the inflammation that arises from the metabolic dysfunction, the... Yes, the phallus. Yeah, exactly. What other... Yes. Exactly. Okay, so let's go back to kind of Western society. So we see this roughly 1% per year drop in testosterone. And so a guy in his 50s now has, I mean, hell, a guy in his 30s today has a lower testosterone than a guy in his 50s did 40 years ago. So a guy in his 50s today has pretty low testosterone. And we certainly know that medically, it's a completely safe thing to replace. And we know that there are great outcomes with respect to bone health, with respect to frailty and subjective, many subjective findings, right? And we know that it's not increasing the risk of prostate cancer and heart disease and all the things we used to worry about outside of the edge case of hypertension, which can be managed. But all of that said, is there a case to be made that we should not be replacing testosterone in men? Because it turns us backwards in terms of this aggression. And it's more likely to make that 55 year old guy want to find himself the 40, you know, the 20 year old girlfriend. I don't know that that's been shown. But so you're saying, look, is there a downside? You're saying testosterone is great. Why shouldn't we give it to people? No, no, I'm asking the opposite question. I'm saying, given everything we've just learned about testosterone, is there a reason, is there a negative consequence to taking a 55 year old guy and restoring his testosterone to what it was when he was 18? Why do you think he say, make the argument for why that should happen? Why you should restore it back to when he's 18? Yes. Do you think that should happen? I think it totally depends on the symptoms would be my take, right? So if a guy is having difficulty putting on muscle mass, if he's complaining of something, again, there are some guys who say, I'd like to have sex once a week, and my wife would like to have sex once a week, and that's what we do, and that's fine. Conversely, there are other guys who say, my wife wants to have sex every day, and I want to have sex once a month. This is now, this is a problem. But if my testosterone is what it was when I was 18, I'd like to have sex every day. My wife would like to have sex every day. Now we're happy. Right. So again, there isn't a formula here, but that's one example of how you're trying to match the symptoms and what the patient is saying to what you can do. Right? There are some guys who have no difficulty putting on muscle mass despite having a testosterone of the 20th percentile. It might be that they had, you know, their genetics are such that that was the case, or they put on a lot of muscle mass when they were younger and it's just easier to maintain it. There's certainly evidence that insulin resistance can be ameliorated by correcting hypogonadism. So anyway, there are reasons to consider doing it. What I'm trying to get at is, are there negative consequences of doing it from a behavioral standpoint? And I'm not talking aboutroid rage and things like that, which has largely been sort of debunked outside of, again, these edge cases where people are taking sort of super physiologic doses. But in terms of being a productive, non-asholic member of society and not being overly aggressive or being engaging in harmful behavior, risky behavior, what's the pro and con case for that in your mind? Yeah. So I imagine that the doses that you're giving, I mean, it's I think been shown pretty clearly that if men are within the typical range, even at the low end, you don't see a lot, you don't see changes in sexual or aggressive behavior within the normal range. You see muscle mass, you see differences in physical parameters, but not. Yeah. The most complicating thing that if I could, if I could wave a magic wand, wave one magic wand in medicine right now, what would I have? I would have a PSA equivalent for breast cancer. Come back to why that would be a game changing solution down the line. The second thing, which would not be nearly as important, would be I would love to have an assay to measure androgen receptor density. Oh, thank you for bringing that up. What we can't, and what we tell all our patients this, and they look at us like, just measure it, and I'm like, no, no, you don't understand. We don't have a test for it. And they're like, how do you not have a test for this? Can you do the CAG repeat? I mean, I guess you could. That would be that. Yeah. I mean, is there a commercial test for that? I mean, you can do that in the lab, but. Yeah. I don't know if there's a commercial test. Yeah. You should get it if there is. You should develop a clear approved assay for this. Yeah. Because everybody know what the CAG repeat is. No, they don't. But I think the point I really want to make is we don't know. Why is it that one guy can have a testosterone of 400 and feel totally fine, and another guy can have a testosterone of 400 and feel totally depleted? And if you took both of those guys up to 1,000, the first guy would be like, I don't feel any better, and the second guy would be like, you've changed my life. Can I ask you a question about that? Because you know a lot more about this than I do. If you have the guy who feels bad on 400, do you eliminate all the other things that could possibly have? Like how can you eliminate?  all the other things that could be causing him that are going on in his world or in his body. But if you change that one variable, is that overriding the potentially negative effects of inflammation or depressing situation in his social life or whatever it is? You know, typically, T won't fix a lot of those things, right? So, you know, the most obvious thing you try to sleep, you try to sleep, the most obvious things you try to fix are sleep, nutrition, and exercise, right? So, if a guy's, regardless of what his testosterone level is, if it's 400, which is very low, especially if his free testosterone is equivalently low, and he's got sort of these vague symptoms, it's like, well, look, if you're not sleeping well, eating well, and exercising well, like, let's fix those first. Or obesity, do you have to? Yeah, sure, absolutely, right? But you can't always fix those things to the nth degree without wanting to at least experiment, especially when it comes to body composition stuff or energy levels. So, by making the one variable change at a time, you can sort of say, look, let's do the experiment, right? If your T is now 900, and we haven't made a change during that period of time other than that T, and you're telling me, I don't really feel that much different, my hypothesis is you have a pretty low density of androgen receptors, and they're largely saturated at 400. Oh, interesting. And therefore, this isn't really the fix, there's something else we need to be looking at. Yeah, I just, I'm glad you brought up the androgen receptors, because I think people don't appreciate the fact that one person's 400 is not another person's 400, because, and I know you talk about this a lot about carrier proteins, but also there's the genetic differences in the receptor itself, which is the CAG repeat, which predict the binding and the efficiency of its ability to transcribe the androgen responsive proteins, and just the overall concentration. Where are your androgen receptors, and how highly concentrated are there? Of course, there's different, it's going to be different in different parts of your brain and body, so all of that really makes much more complex the interpretation of a single measurement. So that being said, yeah, I don't know. I don't know, I'm coming from a place of thinking about how this all works naturally to promote especially behaviors that are adaptive. I'm on progesterone, testosterone, and estrogen, I'm 59, I'm definitely, and I had my ovaries out a couple years ago, and I have to say, I just want to say when that happened, I was 57. So I was already in menopause pretty much, and everything changed after that, like it made a huge difference. My hair started falling out, my sex drive plummeted. Sorry, just to be clear, you were on hormone replacement therapy prior to? No, I was not. No. Okay. And I had my, I just want to throw that out there because even I'm supposed to be an expert in hormones, and I had my ovaries out at 57, and it had a huge impact. Even though you were already in menopause? Yeah, I mean, I guess I wasn't, we found out I wasn't actually, I had some fresh corpus luteum in my ovaries, so they said I wasn't actually in menopause, but yeah, it's just amazing, even when they're pumping out low levels of hormones, I think they're still doing something. They're still pretty impactful. So yeah, I'm on. So why did you decide to only go on hormone replacement therapy at the age of 57 when presumably you believed you were in menopause prior and didn't go on HRT? That's a good question. I guess because I felt fine, and it wasn't until. It was gradual. It was gradual. Yeah. And, but that's a great question. I think especially that I, because of you, I started lifting weights a year ago, it total, totally. You look like you've been at it for years. Oh, thank you. No, I was just a runner and, you know, Peloton and biker and all that, and it's made a huge difference. I just want to say to get into lifting. Now I'm addicted to that. And now I have a back injury, which I'll have to help me with later. So I think the testosterone must be helping there in terms of my like really getting into the workouts and how much I can lift potentially. I can't remember what you asked me now, but oh, I guess I'm saying I myself am on these hormones. And it sounds like you feel better as a result of it. Yeah, I think so. I think I feel better, but I definitely feel better when I'm working out in the drive tour, but maybe I would have done that anyway. But I have no issue with people doing what they need to feel better. I just think people don't consider that, especially testosterone and I think also estrogen, these are hormones that give us signals not about, I mean, all about what's going on in our own bodies. Like are we making eggs? Are we making sperm? Are we healthy? Are we sick? You know, all of that is communicated. Like if you're sick, your, those systems are suppressed and your hormone levels are going to be lower, which is adaptive and it will help you. And you know, and that won't happen if you're taking it all exogenously. And there's a lot of social signaling. So all of that goes away. But yeah, I think that's for each individual to decide. I do think there should be some regulation around testosterone because from what I understand, it really is addictive and also can permanently cause someone to, you know, cause someone to become infertile. That's something obviously that I don't know that people, young people in particular really understand. So I think it's different when people are, you know, after the age of 40 or 50 is a different situation from someone who's young and healthy and is doing it and is getting addicted. I think at younger ages, I think we should be much more careful. Yeah, that's an interesting point is because as, as you know, but maybe some of the listeners don't, testosterone is a regulated scheduled drug hormone, whereas estrogen is not. So estrogen can be prescribed without any sort of DHEA scheduling. Testosterone is a schedule. I believe it's a schedule for, and that's a real big difference. Well, it's not DHEA scheduling. Did I say DHEA instead of DHEA? You did. You did. It's what? What is it? The DHEA. What is wrong with you today? Oh my God. Well, that's an easy one. Let's come up with an acronym for Drug Enforcement Agency. It is DHEA, the Drug Health Enforcement Agency. Right. It works. So, but that's an interesting point that you raise, right? Which is it's one reason to consider scheduling it is the potential for abuse is much more significant in younger men, which might, who might not realize and sadly, a number of them don't realize. Hey, if I take this stuff for three years in my twenties, it could significantly and potentially permanently affect my fertility. Yeah, and it's hard to come off, right? I mean, from what I understand, it's very hard to tolerate the transition and the withdrawal where you now you can't get an erection, your libido tanks, right? Again, I just don't have experience with it because it's just simply not our patient population. Yeah. I can't speak to that at all. And my guess is everything you're describing would be more the result of abuse. Yeah. And I don't like sort of using a judgy term like that, but I reserve that term for kind of non-medical use that is hyperphysiologic. So, sorry, so educate me on this. So, if you have a, or if there is a 25-year-old who's just supplementing to get to the high end of normal range, he's still going to shut down his... He's going to shut his HPA down. And then he will have... But here's the thing. I have a really hard time believing that a 25-year-old should ever be on exogenous testosterone. Okay. Okay. Right. So, to be clear... Because they are, right? It's really increasing at these younger ages. I assume so. I have to plead ignorance here. I really have no sense of how widely... No, I think social media. Yeah. But to be clear, when I was 28, 29, 30, so when I was in my residency, my testosterone level was 220 nanograms per deciliter. So, I was like... So, you were not sleeping totally stressed out. I was 2x the level of a woman instead of 10x, or 5x or whatever. Right? Yeah. So, but did that mean that I should have been on TRT when I was 30? Definitely not. No, it meant that I needed to get the hell out of residency and actually start sleeping at night. And that's what you did, right? Yeah. And then, whatever, like, four years later, five years later, I had normal testosterone. So, wow. So, again, if a 25-year-old is walking around with a testosterone of 3 to 400, I would be much more inquisitive about fixing a whole bunch of things and much slower to move towards replacement. And, by the way, even if I was going to replace it, I would not be using testosterone. I'd be using HCG. Right. Right. I'd be preserving gonadal function as opposed to completely suppressing it. I see. Whereas, if a guy is 60, if he's fine with testicular shrinkage, which would be the fundamental difference in using exogenous T when you suppress his HPA axis, then, you know, I think it's less of an issue. So, but again, I don't want to speak from any authority on treating young people. I simply don't have that experience. And I don't have even a sense of how widely used it is. But I guess it is a good additional hurdle to have it be DEA, mandated, regulated, scheduled. So, what are you up to right now? So, I am trying to finish a book proposal. I'm spending a little more time with my son, which is nice that I'm home when he gets home from school. And I have a part-time job at a DC think tank, which I'm really enjoying. And I do some writing and yeah, that's a bit, I mean, I have other things that I do, but those are the relevant things. So, I don't want to go too far down the rabbit hole of what many people, if they Google you, are going to learn about the horrific experiences you had. But how long ago was all of that? That was about three years ago? So, that was happened, it started in 2021, yeah. So, four years ago. So, how has this experience been for you? You're four years on the other side of, I think, what any reasonable person would look at and say is just a complete and total injustice. Thank you. A lot of incredibly cowardly people that I'm sure at one point you felt were friends and colleagues that completely sat by silently as a minority mob went after you. How were you recovering from that experience? It's been really difficult because I was just reading my acknowledgments in my book on testosterone and I wrote, I have a great job, I have the privilege of interacting with these amazing young people and it was teaching and advising undergraduates is hard. It's hard. I teach about some really controversial and detailed and intricate topics and I love that. I love putting in the effort and feeling the reward every day and I love to have the relationships and changing people's lives and having them change mine. And it's a bit, you know, that's work that is challenging and so deeply rewarding and it helps to provide a sense of meaning in life and a sense of accomplishment and all these things. So, not having that is hard and it's hard coping with the reason I don't have that and all the people and the institution I trusted and gave so much to and feel, yeah, I feel that I was treated pretty horrifically. So, it's hard. It's a transition. I know that it's a transition. I've had transitions before but this is a big one. I thought I'd be in that job forever. But what it has done for me is made me much more committed to doing something like what you do which is why I'm a part of why I'm a huge fan of yours and I'll probably start to cry again. And I think it's very rare that people get so into the scientific weeds with I don't detect any bias on your part. I detect your very open and honest struggle to understand the evidence and to talk about the evidence and where it points. And that's what I've always tried to do and I think it is so important, not just for science but for people to be able to communicate with each other and share facts. Maybe we disagree about the implications of the facts but it's so important to take ideology and bias out of our understanding of reality. Reality is there whether we like it or not. It's always to our benefit to understand it and to try to figure out then to use like democratic processes to figure out what to do with reality or how to improve human health or whatever the issue is. So I guess that experience has just made me much more committed to doing that and to advocate for that which isn't always easy. And you know some of the things I said today are controversial but you know I'd love for it to hear what if people disagree why and then that's how we learn is by having our views and interpretation of evidence challenged. So given how in many ways successful you were as a professor how much your undergraduate students loved you, it's certainly one vehicle through which you can communicate this passion. Do you see yourself going back to that situation? Do you see yourself winding up back at a different university one day or do you feel like you know the scars are sufficient that you don't feel like being in that arena again? So yeah we didn't say what happened. I'll just say that I wrote a book, T, The Story of Testosterone, The Hormone That Dominates and Divides Us and I went on Fox News and said that there are two sexes male and female and someone who is representing themselves as speaking on behalf of Harvard in my department accused me of transphobia and then there were other bad things that happened and it resulted in me feeling I had no choice but to leave my job that I'd been in for over 20 years and loved. And now I forgot your question. Would you see yourself back? So no because I was traumatized. I was in shock. I could not believe how people were behaving and I learned a lot and one of the things I learned is that I was way too trusting and whatever I do I want to throw myself into it and I threw myself into that job and that's why it hurt so much because that was me, that was like all of me. I mean I kept some of me for other parts of my life but I really threw myself into it and everyone who worked with me knows that and so it feels way too risky. I won't trust an institution like that again or I don't know I'll have trouble. Yeah academia for me right now not a fan. I think I'm sure a lot of people can relate to that because anybody who's put every bit of themselves, take an example like your first love, right? The first person you fall in love with if they break your heart you're going to sit there and say that wasn't worth it. Like I'm not doing that again. The bliss of that experience wasn't worth the pain I'm experiencing today and I'm not going to sit here and suggest that you have to do it again because of you know look at all the students you were able to help because there's other ways to do it and you're obviously writing another book and so you know the truth of the matter is being on a podcast probably reaches more people than you would reach in 10 years of teaching. Right. What is your next book about if you're are you comfortable talking about what the subject is? Oh totally I'm really excited it's about what's happening with masculinity and I'm really interested in the cultural narrative. Here's where I also cry and that's how I knew I needed to write a book because why am I crying about masculinity and men being denigrated which I get very upset about that and I wanted to really understand what was happening culturally why we are in a place where masculinity is not valued and also to explore the interaction between biology and genes and hormones and what's happening culturally why is it that these cultural changes that we've had are affecting men in the ways that are different from how they're affecting women like economic changes you know men are falling behind in education for instance and why is why what's happening in schools and why are schools maybe less hospitable to typical male ways of behaving than typical females so I really want to dive into that intersection and to explore some of the questions that we you were asking today about aggression and sort of men's we were talking about men's need to compete and how it's different from women and how that plays out socially so I want to explore those issues really with an eye to understanding what's called the masculinity crisis and what I think has been that there's a kind of backlash going on right now which I think is interesting in that men and their needs and their right to be masculine I think has been under attack and now I think there's a bit of yeah some men are feeling freer to be more masculine I would say today what I want to explore is the denial of sex differences and how that plays out socially because if you believe that men and women are equally interested in engineering then you don't believe in sex differences you don't believe there are important meaningful differences between the sexes that play out in society that are not all the result of the patriarchy say certainly there are social influences and that all matters but there's this denial of that of real differences that we need to grapple with socially and if it's if you believe that all the differences are the result of society then you're justified yes in say potentially you're more justified in trying to create equal outcomes right but if you deny biological differences then you have more of a reason to do that but if you appreciate that they're real and that we have to grapple with them socially then it's going to be more complicated right yeah I mean I completely agree I mean I joke about this with my wife all the time right like the the reaction she has to a naturally aspirated v8 engine screaming at 10 000 rpm versus my reaction so you go towards she goes away but I mean like it's the greatest sound I've ever heard right and she is like what is that awful noise and there's no socialization that creates that difference like on average because we're we can only talk in averages here men are way more hardwired to love that sound like yeah and there are incredible interested in cars sure sure but there are incredible youtube videos where you can literally listen to every engine oh and it's like asmr for you yeah the v8 and v10 naturally aspirated engine screaming is the greatest sound I don't know what naturally aspirated just mean it's that you don't have forced induction so it revs very high and okay but but yes like if I if I had my wife listen to that she would she first of all she wouldn't hear the difference between any of them yeah she would think they all sound awful they're too loud and can we just remind your listeners that we are definitely not saying that there are no women interested in cars or that they know plenty of them but on average yeah that's right what we're talking about is differences on average especially those not with the cars but a lot of what we've been talking about are differences on average that persist throughout history around the globe and that are shared with non-human animals and for which we have a mechanism which makes sense and that is differences in sex hormones so how do you think as you write this book you will be able to do the seemingly impossible task which is to write about this in a manner that is scientifically objective without getting dragged into an ideologic yeah political mud pit yeah I mean I think I did it with my last book like I pulled that off in the writing in the book it was being in academia and talking about it in a way just saying that male and female are real that was taken as undermining undermining the rights of a certain group essentially and there's just nothing that you can do about that I think the way to respond is to encourage people to engage with arguments instead of assassinate character so you know that's part of what is very important to me is encouraging that and teaching people how to do that and that's what I did in my teaching in my classroom and it was great there was like really never an issue in my own classes even though we got into the most controversial yeah subjects so I'll just keep doing you know trying to stick to the evidence and being always remembering these are people's lives you know and being compassionate and emphasizing that biology is not destiny there's a huge amount of variation and it's perfectly normal to be a little boy who wants to play with dolls like that it's even hard for me to talk about because it's heartbreaking that you know people feel stigmatized for not being sex typical but that's something where if you understand the science you understand variation and you understand what is normal and there's there is a spectrum a huge spectrum of behavior across the sexes there's just not there's just only two sexes and we should learn to deal with that you know kind of reality well Carol really appreciate this discussion and appreciate you know without you know having experienced it personally what you've been through which which I think is it's heartbreaking I know I know several others who I'm close to who have been similarly just you know decimated by you know individuals who yeah the mob the the the angry mob so I think the good news is you've you know virtually all reasonable people can agree on a set of facts and but you can't please everybody and then there's going to be certain individuals who who are going to have their points of view I'm excited to hear you working on another book and excited that you've got more time at home to do so thank you so much for having me it was great