 d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter fairs for using ketogenic therapies? Yeah. Well, you're familiar with the Alzheimer's drugs, right? And, you know, there's been not a whole lot of movement there. We have the antibodies, you know, you go to antibody therapy, you're talking 50K at least, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars. You have the potential for side effects like cerebral hemorrhage and things like that. And they move the needle maybe for prevention. A hallmark characteristic of Alzheimer's disease is glucose hypometabolism. So that is actually being part of the criteria for evaluating. My thoughts are that in communicating with hundreds of people with Alzheimer's and communicating with people that do dietary therapies is that there's a subset of people with Alzheimer's disease or let's just call it dementia, right? Because Alzheimer's is still pretty fuzzy diagnosis, you know, clinically. And we have the PET scans to look at amyloid and then there's, P-TAL and other things. But I think it's better to put it under the umbrella of, you know, mild cognitive impairment. I think it's important to focus on that and advance Alzheimer's disease. So a ubiquitous characteristic is glucose hypometabolism. So we're under, I've always been under sort of the impression that the accumulation of amyloid and TAL are a consequence, our downstream epiphenomenon of inflammation. I think inflammation is the major driver. The more, and that wasn't even on my radar probably the last time we talked or maybe 10 years ago. But I do think that systemic inflammation leads to neuroinflammation. And, you know, we know that if we take mice or if we take humans or take mice and inject LPS, we can rapidly cause amyloid progression. Like, and so those studies have been done. So metabolic-based therapies, ketogenic therapies, you know, diet, these things not only change metabolic physiology and brain energy metabolism, but they change, they reduce systemic inflammation. And I don't know if you measure your, you know, inflammatory markers like hs-CRP, mine is even non-detectable. You know, I'll even do things like work out really hard and go and it's pretty much low. It only was elevated when I lived in an undersea environment and was breathing hypercapnic, you know, under a lot of stress. But I think the advantage of ketogenic metabolic therapies for Alzheimer's disease is really hinging upon suppressing inflammation, improving glucose metabolism, and elevating ketones to increase symptomatically brain energy metabolism. So I think these are the things- But of those, would you say that the latter is the most important, that it's the alternative fuel source that is the most important? And again, let's go back to, I haven't paid any attention to this, what's happening in clinical trials. This is a much easier thing to test. So has someone done the experiment where you take people in the earliest stages of dementia or in, you know, modest stages of MCI, mild cognitive impairment, who are progressing towards dementia, and you randomize them to standard of care versus the exact same standard of care plus a KD? Has that experiment been done cleanly in a randomized fashion? Those experiments, like many things, are ongoing. And I think you need, you have the acute effects. So I think what we can say that acutely, if we elevate ketones in the context of a cognitive deficit, we can improve cognition under a battery of different exams. But the question that investigators are after is that if you do an amyloid PET scan, you know, at baseline and two years, five years, 10 years, that is of the highest interest because amyloid is basically, that's how you, you know, that's the prerequisite for having Alzheimer's disease. So those studies are ongoing. And I'm connected with some investigators that are doing it and some that have done more acute studies. And the feedback is that I think there's a subset of people, most people respond favorably, but there's also a subset of people that are hyper responders. And you can have, with Alzheimer's disease, there's like, you know, vascular dementia. It could be a blood flow problem. It could be excess glutamate problem. It could be a number of different things that are amenable to being reversed or mitigated through ketone metabolic therapy. So patient selection is going to matter. Yeah, I think it's going to be huge. So I think, and I don't think they've done this yet, is that inclusion criteria should be patients that present with remarkable glucose hypometabolism. So I think that's really an important key because, I mean, there's people who have brains that are chock full of amyloid that have, are completely sharp and are completely normal. So the amyloid hypothesis has a lot of baggage with it, right? So I think tau, maybe amyloid and tau. We have p-tau that we can look at, but there's other things in the pipeline. I think the p-75 receptor agonist or amplifier looks pretty promising. Those studies are ongoing. And then, you know, for prevention, I think some of these things, the antibodies do have applications, but they also come with a lot of baggage with not only the cost and accessibility, but cerebral hemorrhage, something they have to consider. So the low-hanging fruit would be a dietary or more likely with this population, a ketone metabolic therapy intervention that could be a ketogenic formula that could also, you know, have a number of different cofactors and other things that can be. But like there's lactate, there's creatine monohydrate, there's, you know, there's alpha-ketoglutarate, but no one has, and this is a problem with funding agencies, they don't want to fund a formula. You know, there's some work done with MCT. Sam Henderson published in 2008 when the molecule was AC-1202. So, but if you look at the patent, it was just caprylic triglyceride and actually improved mini-mental status exam. And Dr. Mary Newport kind of saw that and gave her husband coconut oil and MCT oil, and he improved. And a case report with Dr. Veach being one of the co-authors on that was published, just a ketogenic intervention. And they followed, that was the longest case report for years, followed his progression and stabilization. He ended up coming to the disease, but she got many more years with him, you know, through ketogenic intervention. So, I think we have to, you know, think about putting together a comprehensive metabolic-based formula. And Dale Bredesen has been, you know, spearheading some things and looking at more of a comprehensive approach. Dr. Stephen Cunane has been kind of working on MCTs and other ketogenic agents for Alzheimer's. Also did a dual PET scan where you do a glucose ketone PET scan and showed and published that, you know, as we age, our capacity to use glucose decreases over time, but that does not happen with ketones. So, our brain's ability to use ketones over time is preserved. So, that's an important distinction and a good foundational framework for the rationale for doing ketone metabolic therapy. But I think you'll probably have more benefit by thinking about it as a comprehensive metabolic therapy where you can target different things. And I think, you know, there's another, a number of different molecules like alpha-GPC, but no one does anything with formulations. They're pretty much always doing, a funding agency is not going to fund it. What do you think is the state of the art with alpha-GPC, just in general, for normal cognitive enhancement? Yeah, I don't, it's hard because I always take it with like something else, but I've used it by itself and it kind of gave me a headache when I took it. So, and I didn't really notice any, I think it has the ability to be beneficial in the context of cognitive deficit, you know, like many things. And I do think that ketones are, you know, listen, everything that we study is in the context of environmental stress or some kind of deficit, right? And that's where ketones shine and they just tend to work. But I mean, just speaking personally, I think they give you an extra boost boost because they're a source of energy. What do you think they're best taken with? Ketones? Oh, no, sorry, alpha-GPC. Alpha-GPC. Yeah. I think it works good with caffeine. So alpha-GPC, MCT, and caffeine, and maybe theanine too, which is, has like a little bit of a GABAergic effect. That describes a product called Ketobrain. So that's a pretty good product that is kind of a staple product for me. I ran out of it. I kind of miss it. So I'm going to, it reminds me I have to go buy that, but it's been sort of what I sip on. I put that into my coffee and sort of when I'm working on grants or giving lectures, I just need long periods of cognitive. But I think alpha-GPC, cause maybe a little bit of too much, just makes me a little bit too hyper-focused and a little too stimulated. And I think it maybe can affect my sleep too. So I think people, I use that as situationally, just as I use fasting now. So I use fasting very situationally. And that's what I recommend to people. It shouldn't be your default. It shouldn't be like, you know, fasting every day. Cause I think the more you do it, the easier it gets, but I think you can actually maybe derive more benefits situationally. If you have an inflammation event, like there's a person, two people that reached out to me that has shingles or a herpes simplex flare up and then they fast then. And then it works for that, or they have a GI, you know, some kind of GI issue or some kind of, or if they're traveling or for me, when I'm just, you know, bogged down with a lot of paperwork, grant reviews, writing grants or something, I'll, I'll fast through for half of the day or more of the day. And I'm just sharper, you know, just using situationally.