 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter way versus a five-year-old girl, which are de minimis. Okay. Thank you so much. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. And thank you for saying it so clearly because there's some really important points here. People, and I think what you just said and what we're going to talk about in terms of childhood shows that you cannot judge anyone by their current testosterone levels. You can't predict that much. You can't attribute all variation in behavior and individual differences in behavior necessarily to current testosterone levels. And even within that, if you do have current levels, often, yeah, you can't predict much in terms of, say, sexual behavior or aggressive behavior. You certainly can't with kids because they don't have any differences. They hardly have any testosterone at all. What they do have is on average, I should have said this before, but all of this is on average. There is tremendous variation. The only thing that differentiates the sexes cleanly and essentially is the gamete production. Define that again because I want to make sure the listener understands when you're referring to gamete what you're talking about and the production of them. Sperm and eggs. So what road, what does evolution, what has evolution designed you for? If you're XY and you're going to be making sperm and that, there's going to be a suite of characteristics generally that are going to be different from the suite of characteristics that a female who has egg, who has ovaries and eggs will need to maximize reproduction. So all evolution cares about is how many, what portion of your genes are making it into future generations. So the design here is about reproductive strategies that coordinate how your body grows, what your body is like, what physical features you develop, coordinates the hormones, coordinate that with certain patterns of behavior on average. All of the bodies and the behavior can vary across XX and XYs. But what we're talking about is these broad patterns mostly to do with sex and aggression that tend to differ between males and females. So it's really all, and this is across sexually reproducing organisms for the most part. So all the other stuff can vary. It's not that like all XY people are going to have a higher sex drive and be more aggressive. That's just not the case. It's bodies vary, behavior varies. I want to come back to what you said about mini puberty and the differences in hormones. So I do think it's the differences in the increase in testosterone that males have that explain why they're more likely to have rough and tumble play, more energy. And by the way, how high a peak is this mini puberty and how long does it last? It starts within a month after birth, but then peaks around three months. And I think then goes down until something like six months. And it appears that it has important effects on brain development and on the putting the, like lengthening the penis. So it seems to be an important and it also- But does the female do it as well? In other words, does the female experience a rise in estrogen? Yes. There's a lower postnatal peak, but the mini puberty in boys appears to also be associated with activity levels in the boys and growth, even growth trajectories. So that's interesting. But- There's a very narrow window of time, right? Three to six months. Yes. Yes. Yes. So in terms of the activity levels, you know, it could be that that postnatal time, that the play in boys has something to do with differences in activity levels, differences in novelty seeking, different temperament, less fear also. And, but if you think about it from an evolutionary point of view, in male mammals that have to compete for status and operate in a dominance hierarchy, there's a lot of male mammals have dominance hierarchies, which tend to function to reduce aggression overall, because instead of duking it out every time there's a fertile female or a delicious piece of fruit in a tree, you just signal, I'm not going to take your fruit. I'm subordinate to you. So you can get along kind of as a group. Yes, there's infighting just like humans have, but humans have dominance hierarchies also. And if you don't learn how to compete physically with other males as a kid, this has been shown in non-human animals, and there's some evidence for this in humans, that you have more trouble. Sorry, it just occurred to me that this is obviously happening with social media. People are using their iPhones to compete instead of getting out in the yard and play fighting or fighting with other boys. That's actually healthy because it ends up reducing aggression. It helps especially young boys and young men learn their place in the hierarchy, what they're capable of physically, how to be threatening and when to be threatening, when to signal that they're submitting. You know, all of that happens and it's fun. So they're driven to do it because it's adaptive for them evolutionarily. So I just wanted to throw that in. And females tend to have more nurturing play. I had three older brothers. I was climbing trees. I was wrestling with them. But the girls almost never play by choice just with each other. Like they don't have a play date where they're tackling each other. My son is 16 now. He's still doing it. And he's six feet. And his friends are like one of them is like 6'2". And it makes me very, very nervous because they can really hurt each other now. But yeah, they're still doing it. Yeah, it's such a beautiful thing to watch if you just stop judging it for a moment and just ask yourself the why question. Like what is driving this behavior, right? So again, for whatever reasons that are tragic, this has become a political discussion. But it's really not. It's simply a discussion of biology. And it's endlessly fascinating, right? Like why is it that when I walk into the pantry and I see a candy bar versus a cheese stick or something, I want to eat the candy bar? Well, that's evolution. Like I can't – I can make a choice not to do it. But it would be silly for me not to appreciate how much my brain looks at the candy bar and sees the sweetness, the energy density, the fat, the sugar. And it's like, yeah, that's what I want versus like whatever. Pick the bland, healthier option. And similarly, when we watch kids play, I find it very interesting. I wasn't obviously aware of half of what you're saying. But this idea that if you let boys kind of duke it out the way we all did, that ultimately it settles them down. Any women watching this who are super competitive and aggressive, that's a thing too. It's not that women are not this way. They certainly are. And I see more and more examples on my iPhone from like basketball games and stuff recently. But they're not – they tend to be less physically competitive than men. On average. On average. So we have sports that ritualize this motivation or this desire, especially on the part of men. And we have a lot more men who are interested in watching sports because they're kind of getting that need met vicariously. They're like jumping out of their chairs. Often their testosterone is responding also to even the vicarious participation in sports, which is interesting. For the males to get this aggression out physically, what do we say about boys that play a ton of video games and get their aggression out there? So you could argue, well, if they're playing with their other friends, they're also – I don't know enough about video games. I'm going to embarrass myself. But like I'm sure there are super aggressive video games where you're killing each other and doing something in a virtual world that you would do if you were wrestling. Is there a positive to that? Is there – aside from the fact that they're not getting exercise, of course, and not being physically active, do we know if that serves as even a reasonable proxy?