 s So let's talk a little bit about how you might structure that, because I think this is the more realistic scenario. I think it's a luxury for the person who's got 18 hours a week to train where we can talk about how much zone two, how much zone one, zone three and zone five. But now let's talk about the mom who says, okay, I'm going to carve out three hours a week in total for training. That's going to be my resistance. That's going to be my resistance training. That's going to be my resistance training. First of all, how much of that three hours are you going to want to put in the weight room versus on the treadmill? Yeah, I mean, it would come back to goals, but if it was just a general, let's say midlife woman, I would absolutely prioritize a few days a week of whole body progressive resistance training. We're doing a study right now and have done where we try and get it into two days. We do a little bit higher intensity progressive and then two to three days where you're doing aerobic exercise, whether and hopefully two of those might be high intensity. It really does come back to the goals. Are they trying to lose fat, gain muscle, just move? But in reality, you need a blend of some resistance training consistently and some exercise that elevates your heart rate versus just low to moderate intensity. In that example, would you say, okay, we're going to do two 45-minute whole body resistance days? I mean, I don't even have time for that. Let's say 30 minutes where we've done a protocol, and this is not the only way, but just for time efficiency where it's 30 minutes, it's six to eight reps. So 60 to 80 percent one RM, 30 seconds in between each exercise, two minutes in between. It's 30 minutes. We're done. Okay. So that takes an hour a week. And then of the two hours that you're going to be left for, say, running on a treadmill or being on an exercise bike, how do you structure those? It sounds like you're saying two-thirds of that time might be high intensity. A third of it might be low intensity. Yeah. I mean, I would say at a minimum one day a week of high intensity interval style training. If you can get two in, it's going to be a bigger bang for your buck as you're starting. And I do think there's a lot of value of just movement. So maybe on that day where you have a little bit more time, whether you're walking or doing more of that low intensity riding a bike, I mean, the freedom to just get some blood flow and get that heart rate up. And how do you structure the high intensity days? I mean, there are so many different ways. The protocol that's been very effective for us in very fit individuals down to cancer individuals is 10 sets of one minute on, one minute off. With that one minute being anywhere from, you know, 90 percent to 110 percent. We've also done this with max. So I say that. So tell me, how do you explain 110 percent of max? Yeah. What I would do is say pick an intensity that you couldn't go for a minute in 20. You pick an intensity that one minute is really hard and you need to take a break. We've done it where you measure VO2 max and very calculated. Yeah. But we've also done it where we just said, hey, go do something for a minute. That's really hard and you need to take a break. And then that next minute you go again. Okay. So in other words, yeah, again, most people are not going to have VO2 max measured. But you would say anywhere from 90 to 110 percent of VO2 max. Or of max heart rate we've used as well. Yeah. My issue with heart rate training when it comes to anything that's that short is the heart never gets to max heart rate until the very end. So I find that the lay person, when they're training, let's say at the beginning of the interval, their heart rate has come down. It won't come down that much. But let's say it comes down to 100 beats per minute. Yeah. And let's say their max is 180. It's, you know, when they're 30 seconds in, it's only 140. Yeah. They might look at that and back off a little bit. They might be a bit confused. They might. So they might try to speed up more than they should. So I've always kind of felt like you have to be able to teach people how to RPE their way through those efforts. Of course, the nice thing is on a bike or on a treadmill, if you're doing it on some sort of ergometer, the power or the speed are locked in and that forces you into the effort. Yeah, 100 percent. I also think the goal of the interval style training, if you're doing it without, like, you know, in a lab, is that you'll still see benefits, even if you're not necessarily hitting that 90 percent. It might just take a little bit longer. And we've done this where we did some at home in a family med clinic and just said, here's some guidance so that they don't feel like they just have to do it on a bike or a treadmill. They begin to feel what a high intensity feels like. Also, because our PE and heart rate does vary day by day. And you suggested one on, one off for 10 rounds? Up to 10. Sometimes we start with six. But yes, it just feels you can do anything for a minute. Yeah. Now, there's a lot of good science of doing 30 seconds. And we've looked at different protocols, two minutes. But that one minute on, one minute off is something you could do on your own. And it tends to be very feasible. And when you, I tell that woman, we go back to, it really takes 10 minutes of work, 20 minutes total. And I love doing that sometimes when I say I don't have any time to exercise or I got to get my kids to baseball. I've got, you know, maybe it's only six intervals today. You get it in, get it out. And you have not only an effect there, but that lasting effect for the day after. And so if you're going back to the case of our hypothetical woman here, if she's got two hours that she's willing to put into cardio because you've taken one hour on resistance training, would you do two of those? Since with warm-up and cool-down, let's just say each of those is half an hour. So now you're at two of those is another hour. For the remaining hour, would you prescribe one or two low-intensity days? Yeah, I mean, it all comes down to do you have a whole hour by itself? Or like I now as I've aged, like I need exercise every day. Otherwise, I'm unwell. So that 30 minutes allows us to it's a bit more manageable to do and depending on intensity. So, yes, I would split it up so that more days than not we're doing some sort of exercise. The other thing I'll add is prioritizing that high-intensity training a couple days versus, you know, an added low-intensity day is it does increase lean mass as well, which can be helpful for that midlife. .