 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter the fence about hormone replacement therapy, it's probably something that should be in your purview and you should probably think about it more seriously. What would you say to a woman who's either about to go through menopause, in menopause or just out of menopause, who's coming at this purely through the lens of her brain? I don't know that many women who really check all the boxes. I think whenever patients come to the clinic, to the Alzheimer's Prevention Clinic at Welker Nut Medicine, which Richard Isaacson launched, I think it was 2013, most of our patients come to us because they're really scared that they may be experiencing early onset dementia. And we go through a series of tests and more often than not, these are midlife women. You know, what they're describing could be attributed to midlife changes, including menopause. In some cases, clearly there's an increased risk of Alzheimer's that needs to be mitigated. At this point, what we do for Alzheimer's prevention is predominantly behavioral. So the ABCs, if you will, of Alzheimer's prevention are lifestyle based and then include managing medical conditions like high blood pressure, insulin resistance, diabetes, obesity, all the cardiovascular risk factors. That can be done with a combination of tools that leverage diet, exercise, stress reduction, sleep hygiene and whatnot. And also medical, pharmaceutical routes when appropriate. For women specifically midlife, I do think that having a serious menopause conversation is important, not just for the short term, not just for the symptoms of menopause that one may be experiencing today, but because the research is moving so fast. And I do feel as a midlife woman, I do pay attention to all the things you mentioned. I am extremely conscious about my lifestyle and so disciplined. It's almost ridiculous. Like this morning, I couldn't find anything that I wanted to eat for breakfast. So I just skipped it because I'm not going to have a bagel first thing in the morning. Right? So I want to have all those answers, but we need to also wait for the research to get done so that we can then give women the right information. We don't, it's the first principle of medicine, right? First of all, do no harm. And I think as long as the lifestyle is concerned, it is important to be very consistent. And I think a lot of people, especially in this country, try a lot of different things. And then maybe those things don't work out. They feel like they're not working out and they switch from a keto diet to veganism and then go back to something else. And I think consistency is important. I do know that some very specific patterns are conducive to brain health. And I think it's important to embrace them and stick with them for long enough time. Like exercise. Yes. But there's so many different ways to exercise, right? That at least we have information that is specific to women, including women in midlife, which is that the association between intensity and gains, where gains is not building muscle mass, but more like for health, overall health, follows almost like an inverted U shape where moderate intensity exercise, if performed frequently enough, is conducive to the greatest gains, which I think is this zone too, that athletes talk about. It is, but it turns out to be a little bit more complicated in that intensity matters and duration matters. And it depends on how much time an individual has. And so the less time an individual has, the more they have to prioritize intensity. That makes sense. The more time they have, the distribution curve actually skews to lower intensity. But if you're in sort of a sweet spot in the middle, then you're probably going to get the most bang for your buck kind of at a modest level of intensity, which might actually be even north of zone two. So it's funny. I think, you know, I'm overdue for a discussion on this because I feel like sometimes I talk about this and I ironically create confusion by not being nuanced enough, which is a rare accusation for me. So I think I need to provide a little more nuance on that. But you know what I take from what you're saying, Lisa, which I agree with, by the way, that is the single most important thing to do is maximize the known lifestyle levers because it buys us more time. And I am more optimistic today than I was five years ago about treatments for dementia. Yes. Five years ago, I was in a state of despair. I thought this is a disease that will never be treatable. I really believe that once the protein started folding in the brain, like there was just nothing that could be done. And now when I look at treatments like Clotho and just full disclosure, I'm a co-founder of a company that is trying to develop a Clotho injection. And I look at the potential around GLP-1 agonists and I look at the ways that we're getting better understanding of hormones. And I look at other molecules, exercise mimetic hormones or proteins rather. I'm starting to think like we just need to hold on long enough. Like if you can delay the onset of something by 10 years through all of these modifications, that could be the difference between a normal cognitive life and a cognitive life that is cut short. And unfortunately, that's not the answer to the person who's 75 today who has dementia. And that is tragic. And I wish I could say, don't worry, tomorrow we're going to have something that's going to reverse this. I don't believe that personally. Maybe that makes me a pessimist. But I absolutely believe that in a decade, we're going to have things that are going to make a real difference. And therefore, if you're sitting here and you're 60 years old and you can keep checking all those boxes, as you said, that could be the difference between you being the candidate who gets the rescue before you're fully in the throes of the disease versus not. So... I completely agree. And whenever I mentioned lifestyle and people are always like, oh yeah, sure. But really, it's so important. And not that many people are as consistent throughout the years. And when we talk about brain health, I think it's important to understand that the brain is not the same as the rest of the body. And people are so used to seeing results quickly. Like within a matter of weeks, you can lose a couple of inches or you can grow muscle. The brain is built for stability, whereas the rest of the body is built for change. If you want to make an impact on your brain cells, you need to hit them frequently enough and long enough that that change is going to be recorded as an epigenetic mutation or as an epigenetic change or as something structurally permanent. And that, thank goodness, takes a really long time. It's thank goodness it's a long time on the bad end. Yes. But that's the price you pay on the good end. Yeah. So the good news is it takes a while to cause damage. The bad news is it takes a while to create resilience. Yes. But you can create resilience, which I think needs to be emphasized that this is not like a woo-woo, you know, wishy-washy thing. It really can give your brain cognitive resilience and brain reserve, which is what you want. In the end, you want your neurons to be strong. And you do that by having your body, for instance, move. We know the movements produces BDNF in the brain, produce iridine in the brain. That support the health and growth of your dendritic, right? Your synaptic extensions, for instance. We know that if you reduce inflammation, if you reduce oxidative stress, which is something you need to do from the outside, your brain will do better. We'll age less. So these are all things that are very realistic that every one of us can do on a daily basis. We can all make good choices that support the health of our brains in the long term or not. And then it will show. It may not show today, but it may show 10 years from now. So this is really the time, I think, to invest in brain health, because at the end of the day, we all want our cognitive lifespan to match our lifespan.