 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter amazing and has never left me, which is osteoporosis is a childhood disease. And what she meant by that, of course, was that particularly for women, they are reaching their genetic ceiling at about the age of 19 in terms of bone density. And then from 19 until the end of life, they're sort of hanging on to what they've got. And then they've got all of these things that get in the way, such as menopause. So let's just start with that. So if you're even not a teenager, you're a 10-year-old girl, how do you think about the role of exercise across several dimensions, but not the least of which being bone health, but muscle health, and reaching sort of their cardiorespiratory potential? It's a big question, but I would sum it up of exercise is the best medicine. Starting young, I would consider it more play and then transitioning into lots of different types of exercise. But really, and there's lots of literature to suggest this, the earlier you start and the better base that you have, the easier it is over time to maintain that fitness. So when we think about young girls, the biggest conversation and even some of the research we do is the addition of menstruation often is a turning point when women and girls leave sport based on a number of things of how their body changes, how their performance differs. And so part of what my lab looks at is understanding how that menstrual cycle might impact performance, recovery, bloating, mental health. And so part of why I'm here is the ability to have that conversation. When I was growing up, no one talked about it. Were you a runner growing up as well? Yeah, I played all sports. I loved every sport you could imagine. It was my ability to live life. And I'm very thankful for that. But I did. I mean, I grew up in a space where it was exercise more and eat less. And when you add running, it's this ability to really see how your fitness changes. Same thing with resistance training. You can see how strong you get. It's a very empowering tool. But I think we don't talk about it enough with young girls of what is menstruation? Why is it healthy? As when you go into sports, a lot of times it's like, oh, it's a badge of honor when you don't have your menstrual cycle. Or there's a lack of knowledge of it is very much related to nutrition. So let's talk first about pre-menstrual cycle. So are there any kind of do's and don'ts that you think of for young girls who are playing sports in terms of what they can be doing to augment their training? So, for example, if you're talking about a young girl who plays field hockey or volleyball or basketball, do you have any thoughts on what they should or should not be doing in the weight room, for example? Yeah. And I don't work a lot with young kids and I actually have two little boys. But I think that I would tell you the same thing of and there's a lot of really interesting data that we haven't done, but not specializing being in lots of different sports to, you know, accelerate lots of different types of muscles and movement. And I'll speak to my personal experience of my favorite lift when I was about 11 or 12 was the Romanian deadlift of like there is resistance training is the best prevention of injury. And oftentimes coaches don't include that. There's a lot of time on the soccer field or the softball field. And so, you know, total body exercises, whether we start with resistance bands or lightweights or plyometrics or med balls, those are all really great things. Let's talk now about this transition as a girl enters her reproductive years. It seems that intense exercise can delay that, right? The two athletes I tend to hear this most about are gymnasts and runners. Does that also happen with swimmers? I mean, they seem to have some of the highest volume as well. So I would guess that's the case. Yeah. It depends on, I think the events, but yeah, absolutely. Cyclists. Is there a downside to that? I mean, there is. And we've done a little bit of work more capturing once the female is in college. So kind of the aftermath of that. And there is data that it very much negatively impacts bone. Because the delay of estrogen onset. Absolutely. And I mean, there's a number of things oftentimes related to caloric restriction or indirectly over exercise. I am a big believer that it's not always intentional. The other thing we see often with things like track and field and gymnastics is every athlete we scan, they have not full on scoliosis, but a spinal curve, which really demonstrates the point you mentioned that, you know, osteoporosis is a childhood disease of setting bone. And what we do with those young girls has a lifelong impact, whether that's a straight spine or a curved spine. Say more about that. I wasn't really aware that the scoliosis component could be partially acquired. Yeah. So now I've been at UNC for about 15 years, but when we first started doing DEXA scans, we do a lot of whole body for body composition. Every high jumper and every gymnast has a very distinct curve. Some of them are aware, obviously it's a very thick scoliosis they know, but many of them were unaware. And it's really important then to say, okay, well, how do we stabilize this as you age? You've already got that. You can't necessarily change that at 18, 19, 20, but you can very much work on the musculoskeletal system. And I would guess pole vaulters as well, right? Anybody who's got an asymmetric. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Do we see something different in male equivalent of those sports? That's a good question. We do not have a male gymnastics team. Don't see it as much, but I would probably love to get your thoughts. What do you think?