 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter So you'd be down there and you'd be sort of draining a huge baseball size, pus filled abscess that's got broken needles in it. And this person is very sick. I mean, this is a person who's now risking their life due to this. And they would be back in a month with the same thing in a month and a month later, the same thing over and over again. And tragically, eventually a lot of these people would die. But I remember at some point saying to these folks, this was the best advice I could offer, which was not very helpful was, I don't think you can go back to the same place you live. Like, I think you need new friends. Now that's not a very helpful thing to offer somebody who probably doesn't have many choices, but the point was like, how could you expect this person to go back to the same place that they were living in the same environment with all of the same people doing the same things and say, well, you just got to resist it. I mean, it doesn't make sense, right? You, you know, presumably someone who decides they want to stop drinking alcohol really ought not go into a bar that much anymore. Despite, unless your environment is like a form of gravity, you know, like it just pulls on you and you can resist it for a little bit. But, you know, maybe a day or week or a month, but at some point it just starts to drain on you and, you know, sucks you back in. And to your point about, you know, going back to this environment that prompted the behavior in the first place. I mean, this is one of the stories I share in atomic habits, but it was the surprise that we saw from the Vietnam war, which is so many soldiers were getting addicted to heroin and drugs when they were over there. And then they came back and we were like, what are we going to do with all these addicted soldiers? And it turns out that 90% of them or more, uh, ended up being fine because they didn't go back to the place where they got addicted. They went home to their friends and family and like, they didn't have all the same signals, uh, that were prompting them to pick up the habit. And so they were able to drop it much more easily than we thought they would. And compare that to the typical drug addict who does the reverse. They go into rehab and that's where they leave all of their cues and, uh, influences behind. And then we, you know, once they get clean and they detox, we send them back to the same place where they got addicted before. And, uh, that is a much, much harder, uh, uphill battle. So environment, I think it's kind of like the invisible hand that drives our behavior. I mean, we, we, as you said, it's kind of like water, you know, a fish in water, we don't realize it. Um, but we all have these things that we say are important to us. Oh, I would like to lose weight or I'd like to build a business or I want to finish a book. But then you look around the spaces where we live and work and the cues of those habits are not a big part of the environment. And, you know, we all are busy strapped for time, uh, you know, minimal energy. We have kids to take care of or parents to do chores for or friends to see. Um, and whenever we have limited capacity or limited time, or we're low on energy or exhausted, what choice do we make? We often choose the thing that is most obvious in the environment. We choose the thing that, uh, is the easy choice or the path of least resistance. And so, you know, if I'm recommending a place to start for changing behavior, it's usually either the first law or the third law. It's making it obvious and making it easy because, you know, we can talk about making it easy, but scaling habits down, uh, obviously makes it more likely that you're able to complete the task and making it obvious, uh, essentially creates an environment where the good choices are right in front of you, where they're the path of least resistance. And individually, I think it's easy to overlook the importance of this because individually one change to the environment does not usually meaningfully move the needle or change your behavior, but collectively making a dozen or two dozen or 50 little choices to how your office is laid out and how your living room is laid out and how your kitchen is laid out. Yeah. Now, all of a sudden you're working and thriving in a space that is, um, stacking the odds in your favor. Uh, that's making it more likely that you will just choose the good thing because the healthy food is on the counter and the TV is behind a wall unit and a cabinet where you're less likely to see it. And the remote control is inside a drawer and there's a book in its place. And you have a couple books that are scattered around in your desk, waiting for you to pick them up and open them. Um, you can do it with digital spaces too. Like when I wanted to start reading more, I took audible for audio books and I moved it to the home screen on my phone and took all the other apps and move them to the second screen. That's a very small thing and it doesn't guarantee the behavior, but it's another way to stack the odds in my favor that whenever I open up my phone, I'm reminded to listen to an audio book for a few minutes rather than browse Instagram. Uh, and the more that you do those kinds of things, the more likely good behaviors are to, uh, to arise. So one thing I want to park for later, once we get through the laws is a very specific question around the challenges that some people face and that they don't control their environment. And again, I come back to food because I think for most of my patients and for myself, uh, food is such a struggle because again, it's always around us. You have to do it. It's not a behavior you can just opt out of. And I think those of us that have kids, not to throw our kids under the bus, but I haven't met too many people whose eating habits get better once they have kids. If they're, if they're generally inclined to be healthy people, because at some point you sort of start losing the battle of how much, you know, non crap you can have in the house due to time constraints and the other constraints, which is look, kids are going to eat things that are probably not so bad for them, but I shouldn't be eating. And, uh, you know, wheat thins, my kids love wheat thins. Uh, I love wheat thins. I think the difference is they can get away with eating a lot more wheat thins than I can. So I've lost the wheat thin battle. Like we have a pantry that is full of wheat thins and I'm never at least for the foreseeable future going to get those wheat thins out of there. So now every time I walk in the pantry, I'm staring down the barrel of wheat thins and I would love to get those wheat thins in the trash. But every time I do, my wife says, understandably, Hey, if you want to be in charge of feeding the kids every meal, knock yourself out, chef. But if you're not, let me handle food and our kids eat well, but they're going to eat wheat thins and a few other things that you don't want to eat. Isn't it kind of fascinating? Like, you know, I mean, you're someone that I think most people have described as disciplined and high performing and, you know, talented and skilled. And you like, look at yourself with that. And you're like, wheat thins beat me every time. You know, it's like, I think about myself. I was doing an interview with somebody else a couple of weeks ago, and he was joking about how the number of cookies he can eat is either zero or 30, because if they're there, then he's going to eat them all. And I'm exactly that way. One of the best hacks that we've come up with is I love chocolate chip cookies and my wife will make them, but she'll like make the balls of dough and then freeze them and put them in the freezer. And at night after dinner, we'll take them out and just take out two and put them on the pan and warm up the oven and put them in. And it's actually a better experience because you get to eat like fresh baked, warm chocolate chip cookies, but you'll only eat two because all the rest of them are frozen. And it's just enough friction to know that this is going to take another 15 minutes. If I want to take two more out and heat them up and you're like, I don't actually need another cookie. Like I just want to, but what, what limits you from putting five on the, on the, uh, on the, on the tray. Great question. We just haven't gotten in the habit of doing that. So hopefully this, uh, that question won't wreck my psyche. And now we'll be doing that every night, but, um, is part of that the accountability though, between you that like, probably you say, I want five, at least she's going to say, she'd be like, come on. Yeah, for sure. And I, I think we've seen that, um, we've seen, it's interesting the ways in which, uh, you know, there's a whole discussion we can have about habits and marriage and like relationships and how that influences things. Cause you soak up, each person soaks up a little bit of the other partner, but, um, we've seen it work in a very positive way for training, which is there are going to be some days where I just like, don't feel like working out after, you know, a full day at work, but she's like, all right, we're going to go to the gym. And you know, then I'm like, okay, I'll change, you know? And then other days I'm like, okay, I'm ready. And she's like, all right. You know, and she didn't feel like it. And, uh, that's really helpful, uh, for the long-term consistency. But I've talked to other couples who've said, you know, my nutrition habits actually got worse. Cause like one day I won't feel like cooking and I'll be like, Hey, can we just order out? And she'll be like, okay, fine. And then the other day she won't feel like cooking. Like, Hey, why don't we pick up something from, and you're like, okay, fine. And so you can see how, uh, it goes in both directions. And I don't, um, I don't have a good way to describe these kind of upward and downward spirals that we often get into, uh, where the momentum, once it's moving in that direction, you just kind of like, it becomes your default behavior and you just sort of keep rolling with it. But that there's something very powerful about that in life. Um, that if you get on a nice trajectory and you got a good spiral working for you, then that momentum just kind of carries you. And if you start to get in a downward spiral, you really got to find a way to just reverse course and gain a foothold. Even if it's a really small thing, just to get the momentum moving in the other direction.