

=== FILE: #01 – Tim Ferriss： depression, psychedelics, and emotional resilience [MgJTzkRg3cA].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions I've gathered along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of those successful top performing individuals in the world. And this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you with a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. Welcome to episode 1 of the Peter Atia Drive. I can think of no better person to begin this podcast with than my very dear friend Tim Ferris. Not only is Tim a really close friend, but he's also almost single-handedly the reason his podcast is coming into existence. In other words, if you hate it, you can blame Tim. Tim has been kind of on my case for about two years to do this. And more than anything else, he's just really helped me think about how I can sort of put something together that allows me to create something that is sort of new and isn't already out there in terms of content, but also is something that I'll find enjoyable to do. And that hopefully will come across as this podcast gets underway. I'm guessing most people listening to this know a lot about Tim, but on the off-chance that there are some who don't, I think it's just worth kind of giving a little bit of background on Tim. He's been described as a, quote, a cross between Jack Welsh and a Buddhist monk by the New York Times. He's one of fast companies, most innovative business people. He's an early-stage tech investor and advisor. That includes a number of companies that most people have heard of such as Uber, Facebook, Twitter, Spotify, Alibaba, and least 50 others. He's also the author of five number one New York Times best sellers and Wall Street Journal best sellers. The four hour work week, the four hour body, the four hour chef, tools of Titans, also known as biggest tools that's an inside joke in reference to the podcast and tribe of mentors. The observer and other media outlets have described him as the Oprah of Audio due to the influence of his podcast, The Tim Ferriss Show, which has about 300 million downloads at the time of this recording. It's also been selected as the best of iTunes for three years running. Now, I want to say something about this episode that will become apparent. Obviously, once we get started one, we talk a lot about things that are topics that Tim and I don't really spend a lot of time discussing publicly and certainly personally. And so it's important to understand here that while Tim and I do talk quite openly about psychedelic experiences, we've shared in South America, it shouldn't be taken to mean that that's what we were recommending that anybody go out and do. We're absolutely not doing that. There are physical, there are psychological and there are legal risks among these things. And it's important to remember that in the United States, at the time of this recording, psychedelics, like psilocybin, which we speak about quite a bit, along with masculine and things that we don't get into much detail around such as Ayahuasca, these are currently schedule one, which means that they are illegal. And while we believe, obviously, that designation is completely unwarranted and will likely, you know, eventually no longer be the case when the scientific community has a chance to catch up and understand the great potential of these things. Really the purpose of this podcast is informational only and well. I do generally provide a disclaimer at the end of my podcast that explains that all of this information is informational. I want to be really clear about this particular issue. We talk a lot about these things. We talk about a few other things as well. And I think even for the listener who doesn't find this topic to be particularly interesting, one thing that we talk about at the very end of the podcast that I'd been meaning to ask Tim for a while and certainly I get asked a lot is, what are the things that you still incorporate in your daily routine? Tim has written so eloquently about this stuff and has codified so many ways to find these minimum effective doses and to optimize everything he's doing. But I think people wonder, hey, which are the things that have really stood the test of time. And so I actually found that last part of the podcast to be, especially interesting, even for me, though I knew these things and I can see all the things that Tim does day in and day out, but this sort of have him say, look, if I had to pick five, these would be the five. Tim can be found all over the place, but I think the best place is to see him or on his blog, which is Tim.plog. You can follow him at T-Farist. That's F-E-R-R-I-S-S on Twitter. And you find him at Tim Ferris on Facebook and Instagram. I hope you enjoy this first episode half as much as I enjoyed recording it and there will be lots more of these to follow. So with all of that said, please welcome Tim Ferris. Hey, Tim. Peter. Thank you for having me on Austin this weekend. My pleasure. It's been a good weekend. Good view too. Yeah. What I can't believe is in the relatively short period of time you have lived here. You've become essentially the unofficial mayor of Austin. Well, I like to get involved and to explore all the various nukes and crannies of any city that I live in. And after 17 years in the Bay Area, I felt like I'd left almost no stone unturned. Have many dear friends who are still there, but many of them have traveled outside. And one of the places that was an annual migration was South by Southwest here in Austin. And had wanted to move here right after college gotten to know it year by year with increasingly longer stays in the city before and after the festival itself. And now it's home. Couldn't be happier. Feel like every place we went in the lasT3 days, everybody knew you like the owner of drostanolone would know you. And the coffee shop. And it was, I don't think I drank more coffee and topo chico in a short of period of time. I thought I had the lasT3 days. Yes, coffee, topo chico. And so many things here. Yeah, breakfast tacos is something I haven't yet explored. That's another form of religion here, right next to barbecue and a bunch of other things. But it's a cozy feel. It has a neighborhood feel and I've come to value that type of neighborhood feel and cohesion, which is something I probably wouldn't have paid much attention to 10 years ago. Yeah, I've sort of always assumed I would live forever in California and I kind of say, all your hard work here to get your friends to move out here. It's, I think it's going to pay off. I, I, I, I think I can see Austin in my future. Yeah, I have a lot of friends are moving and I think in many respects, it's defined by the fact that it's difficult to categorize. There is no one mono conversation about tech or entertainment or finance. And some people might view that as a weakness, meaning if you're looking to live in the epicenter of a certain industry and you're in your early 20s and want to cut your teeth and live that hyperkinetic super aggressive lifestyle while you're building your foundation for the future. That's one thing. But in my case, IMuch more so in placing value on the general friendliness, the cultural diversity, which is not just skin deep, it covers so many different bases here. And I enjoy the fact that you can go from a strict vegan restaurant to a dear processing plant to an electric scooter, start up office to a cowboy boot store, all in the stretch of a few blocks. That's exciting to me. And though I've never really bought the argument that people in New York and Southern California, which are the two places I spend most of my time are, you know, I'm not about the argument that those are snotties, super snottie places and nobody's nice. Because I do think that people are actually pretty decent everywhere and including in the middle of Manhattan. But that said, it's a different level of nice here that is completely foreign to me. Yeah, it is. I remember when I first moved to Austin and I had a number of neighbors drop off cards or come to the door to ring the bell to ask if I want to come over for dinner and I didn't even know how to respond, which really, you're like, one of myself. I'm being more about myself than I was so mistrusting perhaps. But in San Francisco, that does not happen as far as I know. I've never heard of that happening. Certainly in New York, it would be a time to check your security system and consider your avenues of getting out of the house. But here that's just part of the course and it's really been nice to embrace that. And even with in Texas, Austin is known for being very, very friendly. I've met many different people here who've moved from Houston and other parts, which are also fantastic in their own way because of the general level of friendliness. So I'm a fan. I always thought I would be, felt the gravitational pull here when I graduated and did not get the job here that I was so coveted at trilogy. And it turned out being a blessing to skies that I didn't get the job. And I think also for trilogy, because IMost likely would have been a terrible employee. But that took me to Newarkell had a great stint there, but that chapter came to a close. And it was just the right time. Well, as I said, it's been amazing to be here. Not my first time here, but each time I kind of like it more and more. I guess with that said, we are kicking off effectively the first episode of a podcast that you, more than any other friend, although several friends have played an enormous role in the so-called cajoling as I referred to it earlier and making this happen. So if this ends up sucking, I'll take all the blame. I'm blaming you. And if this ends up doing okay, I'm thanking you. But either way, I think this has been this will be fun. I think my customary 30% is very reasonable. 30% of what, right? Yeah. Now, obviously this podcast is on some level. And probably on a large level, going to come down to things that I think a lot about and hope to bring to people, you ask me the other day, you know, what am I hoping to accomplish with this? And I don't have a great elevator pitch on it, but one of the things is I find myself so often having conversations with people that I think, God, this person is so much smarter than me and knows so much more than me. And they're letting me be a sponge right now and absorb so much information from them. And so many times I find myself at the end of those discussions thinking, I can't believe nobody else got to hear that. What if I didn't extract everything from that correctly? What if there was more to be gathered? And so it's really that desire to sort of have as many of these conversations as possible and be able to sort of share them in their natural state that I think is a large part of this motivation. And while most people sort of associate me, I suspect, with thinking about longevity, we probably don't spend enough time talking about what longevity means. But the way I talk about it with my patients is it's both enhancing lifespan, but also a health span. And lifespan is the easier of those two to understand because enhancing lifespan just means not dying, which is not to say that that's easy, but it's conceptually easy. I think the health span stuff is harder to understand. And as I have come to learn in the pasT3 or four years, I believe for most people, it actually matters more. Many people think, you know, if you helping me, doesn't add one day to the length of my life, but improves thEQuality of my life, especially at the end, that would be sufficient. And so in many ways, what I want to talk about today is one piece of health span that I know the least about by far, but also I think is the one that we are least likely to talk about as a society, which is sort of mental health. Now, you've spoken really publicly about your interest in that. I knew a lot of this before you talked about it at TED, but can you tell me a little bit about that? And thrilled you're doing a podcast because I do think that just as a bit of overlay on what you said, there is so much focus on extending lifespan, rightly so, but the equal obsession, equal level of obsession that you bring to performance and health span. I think creates a compelling combination that I don't find in many places. I find the combination of those interests are a common, but the combination of competencies broadly speaking in both of those domains is very uncommon. So I'm excited to listen to other episodes of the podcast. And as it relates to mental health, I should as maybe a introductory preemble say that this is not a topic I've always been comfortable talking about publicly. In fact, I would say for the vast majority of my adolescents and certainly throughout high school and college, I somehow came to the conclusion that I was just not designed to be happy that evolution did not optimize for happiness. And I just did not have the code for happy, and that was okay, that I would be an instrument of competition. I would learn to be good at various things that were valued at colleges and then by the business worlds and so on, and that it was not worth trying to be happy or to not just love myself, but really have a high opinion of myself and in fact, that was self-indulgent. And that I would just focus on being the best competitor possible and hopefully turning that into something that was not only a value to me or that I was rewarded for, but that would help other people and that perhaps I would find some joy in the joy of other people, but that was the extent of it. And suffered from many different bouts of extended depression for as long as I can recall. Really, and that is also something that you can spot very easily looking back at my family history on both sides. And if you look back to grandparents and great-great-grandparents, fair amount of alcohol consumption, certainly fair amount of alcoholism, I thankfully have not sued myself with excessive amounts of alcohol, but you see a lot of patterns that scared me certainly, but the depression was one that I could just not seemingly navigate around. And the TED Talk opened with a particularly close call. The closest call I've ever had, this is not a common experience for me, but in college, where I can very, very close to killing myself and actually got to the planning stages. It wasn't just rumination about what if I wonder what it would be like to take my life. No, it was a decision that had been made and I was already in the planning stages and to give people the short punchline to that, which explains why I'm here today, I had reserved a book, which was going to be the last of many that I had read on this subject, related to suicide. It was already checked out of the Firestone Library, Princeton, where I was at the time taking a year away from. And it was checked out to some other poor student, so I put in a request to be notified when it came back into the library. But I forgot to update my dress at the registrar's office and the dress that I had on file after taking this leave of absence was my home address in New York where my parents lived. And so my mom got this postcard, which was, dear Tim Ferriss, this is to notify you that, and then whatever it was, you know, the final solution that I did it out, whatever it might have been, the how to kill yourself manual, has arrived. Please come to claim your book within the next X number of weeks, or it'll be released to the next person who has it on reservation. Whatever the postcard said, and I got this very heartfelt, understandably nervous call from my mom with her voice cracking, asking about it. And I lied, I said it was, I was very fast on my feet, and I said it was for a friend, Rutgers who wasn't able to get the book for a dissertation, there are thesis, he was working on, so I reserved it for him, know everything's fine. But in that moment, after that call, I realized how these, in retrospect, little waves, small events can be blown, or even large events can be blown so at a proportion or seen as permanent in such a way that regardless of socioeconomic status, regardless of race, regardless of gender, people can be so knocked off course that they end up taking their own lives. And certainly, recently that's been very dramatically demonstrated and tragically demonstrated with the deaths of many people, including Anthony Bourdain, who comes to mind most recently, and that's just on the high profile side. But in my case, personally, I realized how my blinders and pessimism in this downward spiral had led me to really only focus on my pain. I didn't realize how until that phone call, committing suicide would have been like taking 10 times the pain that I felt and imposing it on the people who loved me the most. And that was a huge wake-up call. So that is why I'm here today is the lucky accident that I did not update my address at the registrar's office. And if that had not happened, IMean, I was ready to pull the trigger so to speak, although that wasn't how I was going to go. But it was all specced on. It's terrifying to think of really, really terrifying to think of. And I have some of my best friends in high school who you never would have suspected from the outside looking in, killed themselves, college, same story. I just know so many people who have taken their own lives. And it always came as a shock to people at least to knew them in school, for instance. They seem to have it all together. They seem to have the good relationship or the good job or the good grades or whatever it might be, the good family. And that's led me in the last few years in particular to it. The very least want to focus on discussing mental health, different facets of mental health from an experiential firsthand basis. Simply to tell people, if assuming I don't have any type of ready answer for them, you are not this is exceptionally exceptionally common. But it's the dirty little secret that so many people carry around and are unwilling to discuss. And so at the very least, I want to say, you are not alone. There are millions upon millions of people fighting similar battles. And everyone you meet is fighting some inner battle. You know nothing about. So do not assume that you are alone. And I think in that, hopefully people can find some solace. And then beyond that, I've spent the last few years, really investigating using the contacts and network that I've developed through the books and the podcast and the tech investing to explore avenues and potential treatments or interventions that can certainly help people who are on the brink get back to stability potentially. But also to take people who might view themselves as stable or normal and to mitigate against the potential of losing their footing. And then there are, we can go beyond that certainly. But that is, my interest in this certainly began on a very personal level. How do you I, is it possible? I should say, forget about how? Is it possible for me to manage this? And the type of thinking that triggers the most dangerous downward spirals is what's the point? If I'm, if I'm constantly going to default to this negative thinking and I'm so blessed for A, B, and C reasons, what's the point? And that is a really, really poisonous toxic mental landscape to immerse yourself into it. And get caught in. So is it possible for me to somehow decrease the frequency of those types of episodes? Is it possible somehow to decrease the severity of those episodes? Is it possible to look at my quirky biochemistry, my software in a way that I see some blessings within my day-to-day month-to-month experience, then some way counteract the tendency to view myself so harsh when the inevitable dips come. Long answer to a short question. But that's, that's really been particularly in the last I would say two years, three, mostly starting about five years ago, but in the last two or three, really diverting a lot of my attention that was going to start up investing. A lot of my resources that were going to start up investing to areas that are related to this. And there's so much of that stuff I can't wait to talk about today because you've brought a lot of people along on this ride with you. So obviously I can only speak from my own personal experience, but we have so many mutual friends who have also been heavily influenced by sort of a sense of awareness that you've brought to us with respect to all of these things, but also potential solution spaces that are outside of our realm of thinking. You said something at the outset, which was, you just thought you weren't wired to be happy, which IMean, I can resonate with that completely. I remember as a child, my mom would always say to me, you know, Peter, do you just not want to be happy? And I would look at her, like, I don't know what kind of dumb question that is. Like, it's not an option. Like, you might as well be asking me if I want to be 12 feet tall. Like, I have some say in the matter. It's not about wanting to be happy. It's just about metaphysically not being able to be happy. And then furthermore, my thought, which was even a bit more obscure, or maybe bizarre, was happiness was a bad thing because you would stop being hungry. Makes you complacent. Yes. Right. So right along with self-indulgence, there was that. Yeah, it was like, mom, if I was happy, I wouldn't get up at 430 in the morning and run harder and faster than anybody else. And of course, I didn't have the, I don't think I had the mental framework to probe that idea further, which is what are you proving? Who are you proving it? Two, why do you feel the need to do all of these things? But it wasn't until quite recently that I even began to entertain the idea that being happy is not a bad thing. We're put in another way that it's a good thing. Yeah. The double negative. Right. Right. Just to touch on a few things that you just mentioned, I think are really important. The self-talk, Jim Lair, who's a performance coach who has worked with many, many of the most famous tennis players and other athletes in the world. I had a chance to spend time with him for my last book and then also for some tennis trening in Florida. And he's, he spent time with one of my very close friends, Josh Waitskin as well, who's best known for being the basis for searching for Bobby Fisher for those people are familiar. And he talks a lot about the inner voice. The most important coach and voice you ever hear is your inner voice. So I've learned to pay increasing attention to the words I use, particularly when I'm rumenating, referring to myself, talking to myself, making a note to self. That's a long story inside, Joe, guys. Another time. And I found myself using perhaps very unsurprisingly similar language to yourself. If I were happy, I wouldn't be doing the things that are very clearly contributing to my success. Whatever that means. And not only that, but on every possible level, if I were to find joy in too many moments or to not feel deficient or inadequate or low-thewardly, which is honestly how I felt for the majority of my life. No, I don't just not love myself. Like there's a deep sense of why hate to use the word hate, but it's the right word. Like low thing. Like how could you be so stupid? How could you be so lazy? How could you be so filmed the blank? Tuff in the fuck up. And you may not have control over all things, but you know, you can get really, really good at doing is absorbing pain. Like it really good at absorbing pain. It's like, okay, if you were a card and have a high pain tolerance, maybe you can win. Maybe you can be successful and I should put in successful in quotation marks because they're so seldom well-defined by people who use this type of language, including myself for decades. But what I've come to realize, and this is also a, I think a common concern among type A personalities who consider or are told by people they respect, that they should take a stab at meditation for a period of time. There is this highly prevalent, almost universal concern among type A personalities by which I just mean driven like hard charging, head through walls. I can take the pain, fuck it. I'm just going to grip my teeth and white knuckle through anything that comes my way. Which, hey, let's face it. That serves people very well up to a point in certain ways. They worry about losing their edge. This is the exact wording that I hear so often. And the exact wording that I use with my friends when they first recommended a few of them, Rick Ruben and Chase Jarvis, very specifically Rick Ruben, legendary music producer. Although that doesn't, it's not even a drop in the ocean of what Rick does. And who Rick is? But Rick Ruben and then Chase, very, very famous photographer, also the CEO of a company called Creative Live, which is an incredible company in and of itself. Both of them recommended meditation to me, and I resisted for more than a year I want to say because I was afraid of losing my edge. Even though what I came to realize was, if you want to use your edge indiscriminately, like a kitchen knife, which is only a blade, like the handle is also blade it on both sides, you can continue doing what you're doing. If on the other hand, you want to put a nice ergonomic handle on that beautifully honed blade so that you can use it as an instrument for its highest purposes, you can utilize different tools, meditation being one of them when we could talk about all the different types of meditation as well because I think they do have slightly different applications. Is a tool in the toolkit that allows you to build this beautiful kitchen knife instead of holding onto the blade itself, just bleeding over and over again, scabbing, bleeding, scabbing, bleeding, which is I think day to day how many driven people experience life, whether they are financially stable or not, if they are compulsively active, if they are using the distraction of constant motion and absorbing pain and seeking pain to numb themselves that they don't have to be in their own head any longer than possible, which is what I did for a fucking long time, pardon my French, but I'm a decade. If they're able to develop other skills that allow them to and I've certainly less than seeking happiness, I have been looking for ways to both develop in myself and help others to develop a sense of peace even if it's 10 minutes a day. That does nothing negative in my book other than magnify your strengths and allow you to, maybe for the first time, see some of your weaknesses that are very often self-imposed and the blind spots that have been like an invisible hand guiding your life for, in some cases, decades. I really see no downside to that and since I've had two capuccinos and I guess have some extra personality, I'll further extend my long ass answer by saying my books very clearly track my priorities in some respects. You have the four hour work week which looked at different types of currencies, time being the most valuable non-renewable of those and how to address a few runs on Maslow's hierarchy of needs. As I've moved along and suffered my own burnout of different types, not necessarily financially related, but certainly for our chef took me out for the count. I bit off more than I could chew in part because I was having some personal difficulties and some relationships and I wanted to numb myself. I went back to that numbing behavior which included taking stimulants, which included over caffeinating, in addition to the pills and so on, using alcohol at night to wind down, engaging in exercise that was far more painful and ridiculously punishing than it had to be for any type of health or performance purpose. I crash and burned and that led to the podcast as a way to take a break from bookwriting which led to the explorations and talking to people like Brinebrain, talking to people like Tarbrain, talking to people like Jack, Cornfield and many many others that then led to say, travel mentors or tools of times, then travel mentors and where I am now. Where I look at this Maslow's hierarchy of needs and realize at least for myself, let's say you cover your food, you cover your shelter, you cover it, that that that that that you get up to these rungs on the ladder where you've checked off success. You are blessed, you are hopefully healthy, your family might be healthy and you can meet all of your basic needs and probably have some disposable income and yet you have trouble living with yourself. That's a fucking tragedy. IMean, it's to have deciphered how to achieve and yet not be able to appreciate is that it's just the tragedy of tragedies. It's this kind of fools errand that could have taken five years, could have taken ten, could have taken twenty and then you see people like that who do not know which way to turn and then perhaps just withdraw into a shell and sit at a table with their family and look at their phone for the entire dinner over and over and over and over and over again because they don't know how to emotionally engage with themselves, let alone other people or you see the more dramatic cases where they're like, all right, I thought these things would make me happy. I was told these things were the necessary ingredients for eventually solving this emotional ruby cube that I'm struggling with my whole life where I assumed that poof one day I would just wake up and have made it. Even if having made it just means you're not struggling with alcoholism and rant like your parents did or something like that. And I've come to realize you don't need to and you should not wait until you think you have all of the other pieces, non-emotional, non-psychological pieces that puzzle together to start working on self-acceptance among other things and untying some of those gordian knots that you have that you might have carried for decades since your childhood and that it is not esoteric, it is not intangible and you start to address some of those things, it makes everything more effortless, it makes everything more rewarding and that I think is a project worth tackling. It's a lot but that's, yeah this depression I think particularly among men who are very very very bad generally and I'm just going to paint with a broad brush because that makes this type of conversational easier but broadly speaking, cross across cultures, it really doesn't matter where you go. Women are generally better at social cohesion and building groups of friends who are mutually supportive and we could look at a through an evolutionary lens but men very often are biologically culturally who knows, fill in the blank, trened and maybe born to just bite their lip and suffer in silence and I do think there are certain places for that look if you're going to be an aviciel commander, waking up every morning and telling your direct reports like about your really hard dream you had, probably not strategically tactically professionally or ethically the right thing to do when you have to go out and then risk your lives doing things that are mission critical to fill in the blank, right? So there is a time for that but to make that you're one coping mechanism for navigating life or like the sort of the mesh that is imposed on everything else that you suffer in silence and that the solution to that is just to get tougher to get better at accepting pain to use cheesy tech parlance doesn't scale, it just doesn't scale. You know when I was on your podcast the first time which I don't know how long ago that was it feels like it's probably been three or four years ago. One of thEQuestions I remember you asked me which of course you asked many of your guesses what book have you gifted more than any other and I remember the book IMentioned at the time it was and remains a great book but I now have to update that answer. What was it just for people who were curious? It was mistakes were made but not by me which is just an amazing book on the psychology of cognitive dissonance but of course that now has been surpassed there is now a new book that is my most gifted book and amazingly I can't believe I didn't bring a copy to Austin to give you because I now I probably I think I just buy Amazon out of this book like I just have stacks of it all over like you have stacks of certain books in your place and this book is called I don't want to talk about it by Terence Real who have since reading the book and becoming obsessed with actually it comes back to you you introduced me to Esther Perrell. Esther recommended the book the book was one of a series of little nudges that ultimately led to me meeting Terry and of course that book has now been the book I have given most but what you said is spot on which is there is just this epidemic of male depression and it's not always overt that's the thing right people have this image of what depression is but you know like a guy who's constantly angry emotionally volatile he can bEQuite depressed so depression isn't always disthymia and I think that's where people miss this idea of how much pain people both men and women carry around but how men have this more orthogonal way of displaying it that makes it get masked longer and longer and I want to go back to something you said earlier because it really hit home about a year ago when a mutual friend of ours Paul ContIMade this point to me which was the way you treat yourself is ultimately how you will treat those you love most and you know when he really pushed me to think about that which is do you want to be the guy who treats his kids the way you treat yourself and I had to be put that way for me to think no IMean if I'm going to be brutally honest I would not want to watch my kids get treated by another human the way I treat myself even though I think it's good for me to treat myself this way so again I think the challenge is by far the hardest part is getting people to accept that maybe what they're doing isn't the right thing or isn't maybe right the wrong word it's not the best thing it's not the optimal thing I love your analogy of taking the best blade in the world and not having a handle on it IMean it's a limited tool yeah and there are so I would say just to maybe put a fine point on it going through life merely tolerating yourself which would have been a dream for me IMean I actively loathed myself and any weakness any mistake any foable any flaw I was I was and and still at times and I'm so incredibly violently critical in my own head that it is not the treatment I would want that I would wish on anyone I care about that is not a state you have to accept it is not programming that you have to accept and there are ways to begin to chip away at that and to rewire it and to reformat in a sense certain behaviors that you've experienced for so long many of them are thought patterns self-talk that you've come to believe they're completely unchangeable and in my experience and more and more the experience of dozens and hundreds of that and thousands of other people I've observed in the last five years it is patent it is patently untrue that you have to accept that and I think what you said is really really important to digest and ponder and that is how you treat yourself is how you're going to treat the people you care most about and I think it was actually glorious dynamo that a quote I don't know if this is accurate but somebody on the internet I'm sure will fact check this who said in effect I'm paraphrasing here but the goal and you have to remember that the golden rule goes both ways so we all know do one to others as you would have them do unto you if you flip that around it is do unto yourself as you do unto others and that is really has very profound and wide-ranging implications when you really sit with it for a minute and it's nice to say though you do not have to accept the inner voice or the patterns that have led you to pursue success with rare glimpses of any type of inner peace that is not something you have to accept so one of the most sort of profound experiences I've had sets of experiences I've had in the past few years our experiences we've shared together around certain plants that honestly I was completely unaware of an ignorant of for most of my life had never really given them any thought and probably much of the stuff that you've talked about written about in the past in particular there were two podcasts that you did one was with Martin and I'm trying to thank the other team Palanco and Dan Angle Dan Angle that was the other one yeah and those were two separate podcasts but they were very close together if I recall there a couple of months they were a few together and then a few of parts you had James Fademan and then Dan Angle and Martin together that's right and then later Michael Palan yeah but that first wave was probably 2015 ish yeah it was a few of course it was a year ago that was the thin end of the wedge and interestingly the thin end of the wedge for me was around something that wasn't a personal issue but more of a societal issue which is I was blown away by the discussion and the clinical results that they were achieving in Mexico using a plant called iBoga and using a iBoga and as well to treat patients who were opioid addicted and that's something that even back when I was sort of you know in my residency and you would see in a city like Baltimore what the effects of heroin addiction are and of course today it's even a much bigger issue and it's spread far beyond just heroin so that just interested me purely from intellectual standpoint which is wait a minute we have a drug or set of drugs that are so categorically addictive to so many for which our only treatments are at best useless and there's this other thing that admittedly comes with plenty of risk and plenty of unknowns but it seems to fundamentally change the way a person's brain is wired which would seem to address the root issue as opposed to the band aid that led of course to me wanting to understand more about those entire classes of compounds and that led to my very first experience with them which I shared with you meaning which you helped me through which to this day remains one of the most profound things I've ever done and if anybody's listening to this who's thinking what are they talking about what are these psychedelic agents aren't those drugs you know all these things one of the most remarkable things I remember after the first time I tried psilocybin was I don't feel like doing that again anytime soon like these are the most anti-addictive compounds on the planet what started your interest into that space the interest began and for those people listening who are wondering if if we'll discuss any other tools I think we should also discuss some other options on the table aside from this although this is very fertile ground for discussion so we can talk about meditations some other tools and books and so on later but the my interest in psychedelics began long ago with a close friend who introduced me to psilocybin contained in what is commonly called magic mushrooms must have been in college midpoint perhaps in college and it became an annual ritual and once a year I would meet up with a few of my closest friends and we would consume mushrooms in retrospect it was very haphazard we were not measuring any doses you just have a big bag of mushrooms and split it up and then hope for the best which is not ideally how you go about things and nonetheless despite the lack of controls and I do not recommend anyone uses compounds under uncontrolled circumstances I experienced what I began to refer to as as a reboot and I would have this anxiety and depression plaguing me I would go very very deep and looking back now I was almost certainly consuming minimum of five grams I'm sure I was consuming quite a high dose of mushrooms which is for those people who might read the writing or listening to some of the presentations of someone named Terrence McKenna five grams is referred to as a heroic dose and that is a dose sufficient to flatten even the most resistant to ego I believe is the wording that was used in any case I felt this decrease or even complete removal of depression anxiety that extended far beyond the supposed duration of effect let's just call it five to eight hours and there would be this after-glo period that certainly lasted most acutely for a day or two after the experience and I was going into this also with none of the best practices that we know of now in terms of preparation intention setting perhaps some of the preparatory steps you can take and then integration there's none of that so this was very bearer bones haphazard experimentation with a few friends nonetheless there were these periods of let's just call it two weeks to two months where I was able to finally see things clearly appreciate all of the incredible chance blessings that I experienced in my life and make decisions about things I've viewed as serious problems or challenges or opportunities whether it was making a decision about academics making a decision about a relationship to either start a relationship or end a longstanding relationship these were things I was able to look at very calmly and make decisions about and ultimately after I want to say four or five years of this had a very very very very scary and dangerous experience which was again with no sitters in other words no sober person supervising this any number of things can go wrong and one is people can wander around and get themselves into dangerous situations in my case I ended up coming out of my trip very late at night walking on the side of a street with cars whizzing by me IMean that could have very easily been the end and that scared me enough that I stopped it's never again two dangerous and I stopped I didn't revisit psychedelics until let's just call it let's think about this 10 to 15 years later when a girlfriend at the time who had some very very very difficult traumatic experiences as a child travel to Peru which has its own set of very real risks that we can talk about if he would like if you were going down explicitly for the purpose of using a psychedelic most commonly in this case IOSca but her experience was strong enough and meaningful enough that she came back and said to me that she wished it for me because it was like 15 years of therapy in two nights now if anyone knows anything about any of the books I've written or the way that I tend to view the world that is a very very effective sales pitch for two 15 years of therapy in two nights interesting and I put that in the back of my mind did not move ahead with it because of my fear which I think was very it was well-founded. I had a what could have been a very very dangerous experience or fatal experience things had to get much worse for me to finally decide to reenter that world which I did first through a guided psilocybin experience. I did not want to go straight to iosca which I to this day believe it was a very very big gun and can be very destabilizing. I didn't want to go I didn't want that to be my reintroduction so I did I had one guided psilocybin experience which also lacked much in terms of any type of prep integration or post so it it was effective in the sense that it it was like a returning home and it was a familiar feeling that I came out of unscathed. I took an absurdly high dose because I didn't know what I had taken before. So for those people who know anything about it I began at seven and a half and they did a booster in nine which for me is it is such an absurd overkill it is too as to almost defy belief at this point which by the way is a counterproductive taking too much is counterproductive it is not more as better by any stretch of the imagination. Being strapped to the icebreaker is not as very rarely what someone needs in any case came out of it realizing that you could approach this any safer fashion with a container physical and otherwise that allowed you to avoid the risk I had that it scared me off. Then went into the iosca experience about six months perhaps six months later took it very seriously had people sign non-disclosure agreements had someone act as my proxy to try to vet people in several different countries and ultimately honed in on someone I spent two nights with and it was one of the most disorienting on spiring experiences of my life without question. The first night I was prepared for all of the sickness and vomiting and terror that I knew it could be part of the experience and it was blissful it was an incredible first night. Second night was without any exaggeration the most painful experience of my life at one point I experienced full body seizures. So grandmall uncontrolled uncontrollable seizures for about I would estimate two and a half hours ended up with rug burns all over my face and hands and feet and was completely lost there was no contact no footing in this reality whatsoever and my subjective felt experience was one of being torn apart a thousand times a second dying a thousand times a second only to remanifest and have that repeat infinitum it was beyond horror and when I came out of the experience or the the main roller coaster was was coasting to an end after let's call it six to eight hours I was I was partially detached from reality for probably thirty six hours and I had very fortunately paid someone in advance to babysit me and act as a shaper on for that extended period in the off chance that happened which into being the case and the entire time as soon as I was cohere enough to even think in English which took a while I thought never again never again will I touch anything like this and it was only six to eight weeks later and I should mention that my intention I did have an intention this time going in to the second night specifically which was to let go of anger towards myself towards other people very a handful of very specific people and I swore I would never touch this stuff again it was just too scary, too potentially dangerous I thought there was a real chance that I could lose my moring from a sanity perspective and never come back and I realized six to eight weeks later after spending a lot of time with someone I've known forever who I've had a very contentious, emotionally volatile relationship with lots of triggers things I thought were beyond repair meaning couldn't spend more than an hour with this person without feeling extreme agitation and anger well up in some fashion and I had I had given up on that changing that long ago I realized let's just call it six weeks after my two nights that 90% of that was gone with this person and completely gone and to this day it has not come back and that has repeated itself or I've seen that in a number of my closest relationships the value of that is hard to overemphasize it's hard to even put it towards and it's so far outside any conceptual schema in medicine or therapy that I've run into it's hard to convey in a way that makes any sense because I've had so many people ask me well how did that happen I do not have a good explanation for that all I do know is since then having explored this both on an experiential level having spent time in several countries working with people who are some of the best at what they do and I do think I'm very very good at vetting that hopefully people believe that after looking at the books and the podcast and so on I'm really good at getting a hold of people who are really really good and I'm very good at vetting and having explored this space also from a scientific standpoint it just gets more interesting it just gets more unbelievable yet at the same time compelling and some of the changes I have seen in people are they they defy explanation by any conventional means and I'll throw out a few examples but before I throw out the examples I want to make it really clear that these compounds are not for everyone there are contrendications things can go wrong and they're not a panacea they do not fix everything by any stretch of the imagination but for certain types of depilitating conditions thought patterns fear they are remarkable really really impressive to the point that it is outside of the care and feeding and love of my family and myself my closest friends it is what I am most focused on furthering from a scientific standpoint certainly so you and another friend who's a mutual friend of ours so it's all this big circle of people we know but shared an equally remarkable story with me about a single experience he had had in this case it was so a siren as opposed to iolaska that also took him to this place of you know incredible emotional pain that led to a change in a belief in this case it was for this individual it was it was a belief system around a person who was no longer alive so some of them had lost I will never probably forget my first experience with siren for the same reason it's interesting I I didn't know that that experience you described came from your very second time with a lausca I was familiar with that story because you'd shared it with me before but hadn't pegged it to such an early time but my first experience with so a side been if not for the fact that I had that experience I wouldn't know what the hell you were talking about right now because it seems so improbable implausible and impossible that something that occurs over a span of six or eight hours that is nothing more than these compounds that come from these plants could so fundamentally alter the way we interact with other people in my case it was very similar it was a very important person in my life for whom I'd not had a great relationship in a very long time because I simply had no empathy now Michael Pollan has written about this so eloquently and I wish I could even half reiterate what he said because I remember him writing about it going that's exactly it which is for the first time in your life or at least for me I'm not seeing the world through my eyes anymore and David Foster Wallace has talked about this so eloquently in his talk which is one of my favorite talks this is water every experience we have is through our own eyes and these plants give you that ability to be out of that and I still remember watching myself as a 13 year old boy in this situation and for the first time ever not seeing that situation from my vantage point instead seeing it from the vantage point of others and that led to the most profound emotional breakdown which again these are very durable changes IMean I'm a couple of years out of this but I truly believe that 40 years from now I will still have this exact set of feelings about this particular individual and this particular experience and you're right there is how do you explain that it's very difficult and these compounds many of the classic psychedelics let's just for the sake of argument will leave LSD out of the running for a number of reasons including just the the political PR baggage that that acronym carries but we're looking at say mescalin which is found in payo de its found in the San Pedro or Wachuma cactus in South America among other places and we're looking at psilocybin found in quite a few different mushrooms these are compounds that have been used for hundreds of years probably millennia by different civilizations and you have amony to moscario which was used in Europe you have psychedelics that have been used all over the world psychedelics referring to and there's there are different ways to try to define this term but mind manifesting is what the word refers to if you look at the etymology but I would say experientially one of the defining characteristics of psychedelics and we probably will talk about we might have the chance to talk about mdma later which is in some way can be used for for many of the same conditions but I wouldn't consider a psychedelic simply because psychedelics provide what is often referred to at high enough dosages ego dissolution or a controlled death experience where you cease to exist as this subject who is viewing your experience of reality but that is so powerful that again we talk about it with these sort of in this sort of banal way but until you experience that that statement is so difficult to comprehend it is imagine imagine if you will and there there are different analogies or metaphors you can use but imagine if your whole life you have been the protagonist at least in your own mind you are the primary actor in the play of your life and you've always been the primary actor in the play of your life and there are other actors of course all these people you've ever met and for the first time you realize that it's a play and you're sitting in the audience and you're the playwright you're the person who has the ability to look at it from every perspective and you can change the lines of the primary actor that person known as Tim and my case that person known as Peter if you want to change their lines you want to change their backstory you want to change the stories they tell themselves you have the ability to do that because you're sitting in the audience as an observer of this person who is known as Peter or Tim and this is similar to the type of experience that people can have through meditation and they might describe it as instead of being outside standing in the storm you're standing inside looking through the window at the storm or you are instead of being inside the washing machine you're zooming out 18 inches so that you're looking into the washing machine in your observing what is happening as opposed to being tumbled by it and in fact the the states achieved through psychedelics and in very experienced meditators although I'm convinced that you can achieve this state pretty quickly through meditation it doesn't have to take 20 years is remarkably similar as best we know or there are some similarities I should say neurophysiologically in the sense that both seem to not necessarily deactivate but decrease activity in something refer to as the default mode network and this default mode network and Peter you may do a better job of explain this Michael Paul does a fantastic job of describing this in his book how to change your mind which I recommend to everyone yeah we'll link to the book we'll also link to your interview with Michael recently which was excellent as well even if people say they're not quite ready to read the book at the very least they should invest the time and listen to the podcast and by the way I would not suggest that anyone jump out and tomorrow go on Craigslist to try to find a shaman to take you through some experience even if you felt like that was an inevitable step you ultimately want to take there are some things that I would recommend first that can buy themselves be exceptionally, exceptionally useful so to come back to it though the ability to for the first time view this ego that refers to itself in my case as Tim who is a combination of many different things the identity that we have had to voice to upon us or conditioned into us but also that we've created for ourselves by the stories we tell ourselves that we've always told ourselves oh my you know my wife always does this my dad always does that I always do this I never do that these stories that we've told ourselves just so long that we've come to accept it is just a fiber in our being to look at it and realize that you can reformat almost every part of that or you can take trauma that you experienced as a child and for the first time ever re-contextualized as an adult without a motion to look at it with a level of emotional calmness so that you can finally close that that that circle is difficult to describe so I don't want to try too hard to put words to something which by definition if we're talking about mystical experiences which is a a corollary to the durability of these effects let me restate that and English that is a little easier to understand when you look at for instance studies that have been done research has been done at whether it's Johns Hopkins and why you are other places and I've gone to know the team at Johns Hopkins quite well and a huge amount of respect and admiration for what they've they've done and continue to do in many of the studies whether they're looking at terminal cancer patients and end of life anxiety or they're looking at lifelong smokers who came into a study specifically to look at how celcius I've been could be used for the cessation of smoking the duration of effect the durability of effect is very closely linked to something that you could refer to as a mystical experience and it turns out as you would hope there are different types of scales and measurements one can use to determine if something is a mystical experience or not and there's some debate about this but there are ways that you can assess whether something qualifies as a mystical experience based on looking at the historical accounts and writings of people who would consider mystics and one of them is in effortability the inability for someone to verbalize their experience that the words somehow do violence to the experience or don't do it justice. Pauling gives a great example of that in his book I believe it was Michael Paulin in his book how to change your mind about it you take somebody from you know whatever a thousand years ago put him in a time machine bring him the time square but I'm hanging out for five hours shoot him back can they describe what they saw not really they could say that it was big loud and bright but other than that they couldn't explain what a car is they couldn't explain what a building is or a skyscraper because the vocabulary hadn't even been developed and that to me is like the greatest example I'll be at somewhat a lib of this idea of being ineffable which is you and I can sit here and talk about it in short-hand but it's very difficult to explain to one of our friends maybe who hasn't experienced this and when you you know again it's these things sound so goofy when you say them like these experiences you see yourself from outside of yourself you know if someone hasn't experienced that I can understand why they would look at you a little funny and say okay intellectually I understand what you mean by that but why would that matter why would that be profound how would that disrupt your ego it's very difficult to convey and I would say that what I've experienced and what I've certainly seen and heard other people experience in their reports to me and in writing in book very books that I've read is the importance of the felt experience and that in some senses it's not that you have a psychedelic experience you have three realizations you bring those realizations back to this ordinary reality you take certain actions based on those realizations and based on that intellectual legwork your life changes it is not something strictly in the domain of words and thinking and just thinking harder and working harder in other words you're not taking the things that got you here if you've achieved anything professional or personally the pro and con list the spreadsheets the logical arguments it's not that you just get a better set of those things that you bring back it's that you are finally able to see and experience and feel something like empathy deeply for the first time for someone you've never felt it for or you feel love for yourself truly for the first time and you think holy shit like that's what's been missing I've never even felt that if someone had asked me what a self love feel like I wouldn't have had an answer for it these are the things that really stick and I think given the plasticity of the mind or plasticity of the brain that allow as one researcher put it to me you to instead of going to the top of the ski slope and then taking the tracks that have been worn and of course the deeper the tracks get the harder it is to kind of hop out of them as you're skiing but to get to the top and to have four fresh feet of powder fall on the entire mountains that you you have the ability to choose an entirely new path and entirely new record to play it's hard to verbalise but one way to think about it for me has as allowed me to come to grips with this because there's a part of me that has sometimes thought like this is too good to be true it's going to go away this new found empathy I have for person acts or this reduction in this horrible negative emotion I've had that's going to go away in six months and and I thought of something which is when you look at the opposite of that which is how often is a person's life changed for the worse based on one event and the answer is all the goddamn time a child could be abused once and that can change their life forever and again we're not going to go into that now because that is its own topic but so many of the horrible habits that we carry into adulthood are really because we never became adults we are basically adaptive children who are taking on a set of behaviors to protect wounded children and sometimes those wounds occurred very acutely and so in many ways these experiences with psychedelics if administered correctly in the correct setting with the correct integration can act as the exact opposite of a wounding event in other words with something that is so acute and so poignant you can just change the direction of this trajectory this vehicle doesn't necessarily mean it's orthogonal and of course there's so much more to it than that many people go through similar types of abuse and they don't all have the same impact and similarly many people can experience a psychedelic and not have the same impact but I think when I started to think of it in that way it started to become much more understandable why this could happen just as something horrible could alter the course of your life and you know I'm going to one of the podcasts I've already recorded that will be coming out later this summer will be with Cory who you and I spent a couple of days with up at Curn it's an excellent security prison yeah and when we did this we spent this this time up there with the five ventures the story of Cory's life is unbelievable and it's just a again at no point in there I think is Cory using any of these things that happened to him when he was young as excuses for the road he went down but it's impossible to argue that those experiences many of them very acute in this moment on this day in this place at this time completely set him on a different path and he could have been otherwise so as you said I I love the idea of this stage analogy because to me that's actually one of the best analogies I've ever heard about how how minefulness meditation works is it's the awareness that there is a stage that's simply what it comes down to and to be able to leave your vantage point as one actor to step back and see that you are an actor on a stage is I think one of the most empowering things and that's why I sort of love this interplay between you know meditation and these psychedelic agents there's an interplay there's an interrelatedness there is a reinforcement a mutual reinforcement also which is why I'd love to mention a few things just to give people a chance to crack their knuckles and stretch for a second in non-psychedelic territory there are a few things that I'd love to suggest people which help you to develop the same types of meta awareness that you can be thrust into through psychedelics that serve a purpose whether or not you ever choose to take one of these compounds. One would be certainly mindfulness meditation and I think by the time this podcast we're recording right now is live Sam Harris is waking up up I think it's just tremendous I think it does it exceptionally exceptionally good job of this and there's certainly guided meditations if you search say mindfulness meditation jack corn field tarab rock both outstanding Sam Harris also has some some guided meditations that he's recorded awareness meditation and Peter you feel free to jump in if I don't do this justice but awareness meditation being different from say other forms of meditation many of which I have used and still use on occasion perhaps one of the more popular of which being say trenscendental meditation mantra based it is a concentration practice where you are repeating a mantra to yourself over and over and over and over again as a way to hone concentration and although not everyone's going to love this description to give your psyche and self a break from the incestant monkey mind and you really can reach a trenscendent space where you feel like you are a point of consciousness floating if you do the 20 minutes twice a day very consistently that is a concentration practice if you are thinking of a candle flame and that or a a focal point for a period of meditation whenever you found yourself swept up and thought return to a candle flame that would also be a concentration practice if you're doing there are many also within awareness meditation there are different types but if you're doing say something referred to as I think it's sometimes called open monitoring where you're paying attention to anything that comes up as it comes up and there are different ways to approach this but a very often begins with the breath so it is in some sense a concentration practice but you're focusing on the breath you're not chasing it you're simply observing it then you focus on sounds then you focus on any discomfort or weight that you feel in your body then you perhaps later after 10 sessions 10 daily sessions begin to practice with your eyes open which I never really done before sams up which I found tremendously helpful as a bridge into then waking reality these are all practices that help you to spot the gap between sensory input and cognitive response so that you become more response able in so much as you you have a tiny gap within which you can choose your response as opposed to simply reflexively going through life like some type of slug that's been shocked in a scanner box or something and you have more optionality you suddenly realize they're just more options on the menu then oh whenever someone so does this I always get pissed off there are more options on the menu and that by the way having that basic ability having the just the ABCs of that awareness and control will give you a tremendous advantage and allow you to get very often much more value out of any psychedelic experience because you will have had let's just call it 50 sessions on a boogie board before they're like oh cool here's a surf board it's hurricane season have fun good luck like maybe you catch a wave chances are your first experience is going to be getting tumble a lot and you can accelerate the you can steep in the learning curve really dramatically for later getting more out of psychedelics very often if you develop some of this basic awareness beforehand I'm kind of amazed at how difficult it is for me to convince some of my patients at the importance of meditation and I find sometimes by just telling them about my own struggles and my own journey to accept first of all that this was something that was beneficial even when it didn't feel beneficial and too to realize that you have to sort of figure out what's going to work for you but it's worth making that effort I agree with you I think that just even putting the apps aside it's different people have different ways of explaining things and I remember a math professor I had in college and this was early this might have been like IMust have been I was either a freshman or a sophomore but he said something that always resonated with me because now you were sort of getting outside of like you know a rudimentary calculus and stuff and mathematics was starting to get very abstract and he said look if you're reading a proof and you don't understand it assume that the person who is presenting it doesn't know how to present it to you find somebody else and so I think that that really holds also for meditation which is there are just going to be some people who guide in a way that you're willing to be guided and so you shouldn't be put off if someone's listening to this thinking oh you know every time I try meditation it doesn't work for me or something like that and so I don't want to sort of name the app side went through but there were many apps that I went through that just didn't resonate for me you know just the way that they talked about this didn't make sense to me but then when you find the ones that do and there are several that do for me including Sam's waking up which you and I've been lucky enough along with a number of other folks to get the beta version of that which got it it's been six months it's been a while yeah I remember Sam giving me a to me in January the way Sam explains it really resonates with me and there are others that do so the same Jeff Warren was also one of the guides on Dan Harris is no relation to Sam Harris 10% happier I just love the way he explains stuff and so you know I would say to anybody who's listening to this who's feeling sort of bearish on meditation try a different app try a different guide try a different book try another way keep going till you find someone who can walk you through how to do this in a way that resonates and the others mentioned to others since they're very easy to test another is headspace the 10 and 10 program I think is a very very well done format for beginning us 10 minutes a day for 10 days and it is quite well done calm for some people who like the background nature sounds for instance I've used that app and many of my friends really find that to be with a female guide to be there preferred mode of meditation and then you can meditate in silence you can consider taking a TM course as I did which actually really served to kickstart a lot of my meditation because it cost money so I had that sunk cost working in my favor and it's effectively four lunch breaks over four days I want to say if I'm remembering correctly and you have to meditate in between those sessions so you have homework and you are going to feel like a dufist and a disappointment and be embarrassed if you don't do those sessions so you have someone holding you accountable I eat the teacher to actually put this into practice for at least a four day period and that in and of itself I pushed off for so long I for so so long and I remember Chase Jarvis I'll give him credit again at one point said 10 you can afford it it worked for me what is the downside if it doesn't work for you you still get to meditate with someone else for four days might that be worth it and I didn't have a good counter argument so eventually I acquiesced and took that step which was which was very it was one of the first times I finally felt what I had the first hand experience of what meditation could deliver which is in some ways equally difficult to describe as the psychedelic experience when you have your first session where you've completely lost any rumination or compulsive thinking about your to do list and it might just be the last five minutes of a 20 minute session and you come out of it and you just feel this serene piece that perhaps you haven't even touched on for 10 years you go oh okay now I get it if this is something that I could actually call upon reliably that is a super power and for that reason I would say for that if you're going to commit to this commit to it like you would a workout program or a diet you don't go to the gym once and come back and wake up with a six pack abs the next morning for me at least if I take a break and there are periods when I live especially by the way if you eat like we've eaten in Austin we have eaten there's so much good food here you have to be very careful about portion control but if you want to get a taste for what meditation can do I would say commit to 10 days and for me at least if for whatever reason I lapse and there's certainly periods when I lapse this happens to me diet happens happens to be of exercise and occasionally it's like you know what I have a meditate for two weeks for whatever number reasons it will take me I would say five to seven days to finally stop grinding gears and shift into a calmer state there there's a certain loading phase almost like creating or something there it takes me five to seven days to click into that different gear at which point I go oh yes this is why it's so important now I remember yeah there's a great book out there called altered states which I read this year that I think does a great job of parsing that concept out which is it altered states or altered traits oh it's altered traits and it makes the point that it's not about the state thank you for that correction we've had a whole bunch of people potentially going to Amazon I can't find this book or maybe they're at that book does exist and it's completely they're on book but that's exactly the point right which is that we don't meditate for the state the state can be pleasurable I ought to be honest I don't find it that pleasurable I don't actually enjoy meditating that much sometimes I do but but as many times as I do it's difficult for me it's work it's sometimes truthfully it feels like I suck like I'm boy it's really amazing the frequency with which thoughts keep entering my mind I forget who I'm again I can't remember if it was Sam Harris or a different guide who made this point which was actually I think it was actually Jeff Warren which was he described it as the bicep curl of the brain is not the cessation of thought it's the recognition of the thought that then allows you to go back to the breath or whatever the focus is and boy that really again that's just an example of like that's not a particularly like profound difficult to understand concept but it's exactly what I needed to hear which is don't be discouraged that you keep having thoughts that's the exercise the exercise is acknowledging it recognizing it going back to the focus which in this case could be the breath or a sound or something like that and so it's not about that state that you may or may not achieve just as some people who like you and I we love exercising so we actually get a pretty good state out of it I actually if exercise provided no benefit I would still do it just because of how I feel when I do it but for many people that's not the case but exercise is still valuable if you spend an hour a day exercising it's really what it's what it's doing through that other 23 hours so that's I guess that would be the next thing I would say to anybody listening to this who's tried meditation who has found it to be unpleasurable or uninteresting or whatever it's like that's okay you're not doing it for what you experience in that 20 minutes I would also add and this just just occurred to me because I think you're you're in some ways looting to this that in my experience having observed hundreds of thousands of listeners and readers attempt or not attempt succeed or not succeed with different forms of meditation it's very important and this applies to many many different things including physical exercises as far as as I'm concerned but the good program that you follow I let's let's lower it even further the consistent program that you follow is better than the perfect program that you quit so if you're having trouble following a meditation program and you've committed to doing it daily which is a very important commitment in the beginning keep lowering the bar if you think 20 minutes is too much do 10 minutes 10 minutes too much do five minutes if concentration meditation is too difficult use a guided meditation and I recall at one point there were there are two things that I recall having been said to me I think tarabrock mentioned the first I could be mis-tributing but I think it was tarabrock of first said this to me her book Radical Acceptance by the way ties into everything that we're talking about beautifully it had a huge impact on me and has had a huge impact on many people it's the type of title that's going to scare off a lot of people because I think it's going to be a bunch of woohandaway of you stuff there's a little bit of woo in there but it is a incredibly good book Radical Acceptance if you have any type of emotional patterns or thought patterns it's seem to control you as opposed to the other way around this is a worthwhile book and her guide in meditation is very good but we were chatting a header on the podcast on my own podcast and I believe was tarabrock said the repetition for doing the bicep curl isn't the 20 minute session where you sit perfectly without having a single extreneous thought occur the repetition is when you get distracted and something comes up and then bringing it back to the breath so you should be happy when that happens because that is the work the work isn't doing it perfectly every time it took me three years to understand that yeah three years of frustration and am I doing this right and you know why can't I stop thinking and and just all of this misunderstanding but boy once you get what the bicep curl is it's freeing and it makes the pass fail bar lower which for many of the people who most need meditation which I think has a brand like me branding problem it should be called you know emotional non-reactivity trening or something that sounds very appealing to you know type A driven people emotional non-reactivity conditioning program there you go or just warm bath for the mind might be appealing to other people but meditation as such is it's a word that's becomes it's so overused and unfortunately could use a rebrand but for the time being meditation and a successful meditation session should in the beginning be as easy as possible to fit into your life you need to stack the deck particularly in the beginning and TM trenscendental meditation was very good at instilling this in the trening for me at least they said if you say the mantra once in a session that is a successful session you have 20 minutes to say a two-cellable mantra once that's a successful session and you might even drop it further and say you know this is the goal this would be miraculous but if I just sit for 20 minutes with my eyes closed that's a successful meditation session and sometimes I've honestly wondered how much of the benefit comes from some of the mental practices versus just sitting still and breathing with my eyes closed. Well that's actually really interesting that that gets to something I want to talk a little bit about which is the study of psychedelics but while we're on that topic it's it's hard to sometimes study these things because of these performance biases right it's hard to disaggregate the effect of just sitting there for 20 minutes and luckily some of those experiments have been which is you know you take a group and instead of saying the control group just doesn't do anything maybe you have the control group sit in silence for 20 minutes and then you can sort of disagree at those things. So Tim you've spoken with mEQuite a bit about your interest in funding science and that goes back to even before the discussion of psychedelics but very recently you've made a pretty large commitment are you comfortable talking about that publicly. I am I am very very comfortable talking about publicly I have almost entirely redirected not just what I would have invested in startups but a multiple of that into scientific research. I've made the commitment for me which is by far the largest commitment to not just science but even any given startup that I've ever made financially and that's a million dollars a minimum of a million dollars over the next several years several meaning three or four and I expect I'll exceed that one million dollar amount with primarily a focus on psilocybin and mdma but that could extend to other compounds which which I also find to be understood and that have been in some ways shelved for decades for primarily political and not scientifically justifiable reasons. When we started talking about this when you were thinking about it I remember one of the stories that you really liked was a relatively unknown story in the world of philanthropy unless you dig deep in the animals about the woman by the name of Katherine McCormick that story really resonated with you what was it about that story? Well you should you should tell this story because I think it's it's so noteworthy on a number of different levels but what struck me was how if time to write and if thought about intelligently where you're focusing on points of leverage how even a single person with relatively moderate amounts of investment and moderate is relative right but let me rephrase that how how someone or a small group of people if concentrating on points of leverage in furthering in this case scientific studies can really bend the arc of history in a way that most people would find unbelievable because when folks think of say pharma or bringing a new drug to market in the largest scale census it's billions and billions and billions and billions of dollars but that story was appealing to me because on many levels but what I'd love to do is have you tell it and then I will I will point out the the parts if this were a Kindle chapter which parts I would highlight to go back to to remind myself of certain things but why don't you tell the story because it's such a great example of what one person or a small group of committed people can do I'll leave it at that well it can be probably be read about more eloquently than I can restate it but the just of it was Catherine McCormick and I believe the early 60s or late 50s met a gentleman I believe his name was Gregory Pankis if I'm not mistaken and I think that's right I had a dinner party or a copy of it yeah and and basically he explained to her that he was pretty convinced he could chemically synthesize hormones that could be served as a birth control pill or serve as a birth control pill for women and she was no dummy or self she went to it with MIT yeah I believe had been involved with also funding housing for additional female students so they could attend yeah and her hypothesis was if we could create a birth control pill we could completely change the interaction that women can have with education with work with the family balance etc now we take this we listen to the story today and we think well what's the big deal like so what she funded the research for the birth control pill but the reality of it is at the time again I can't remember IMust have the dates wrong but certainly it was long enough ago that this was viewed as an absolute no go IMean there was simply you know birth control was such a taboo and what's really interesting is she decided to fund something that was incredibly risky that no farm a company was willing to touch with a ten foot pole because it was viewed as just a way to sink money into a bottomless pit that could never achieve the regulatory approval and using again a relatively small sum of money and I believe in today's dollars it's to the tune of about 25 million dollars she sunk into the work of this guy pinkus and one other gentleman whose name is escaping me over the span of something like about a decade yeah maybe eight years and when you my favorite graph that I ever saw which was kind of the holy shit moment was the graph of the number of women in graduate schools professional school law school business school whatever pre and post the introduction of the birth control pill and it's you don't get to see a lot of hockey sticks you know as one of my friends once put it it's really cool when the data don't need statistics to be analyzed it's not like well there was a statistically significant increase in the rate at which women entered the workforce not like you didn't have to say the words statistically significant it was a step function change and I don't know I just I thought that was such an interesting story and I remember when you and I were talking about this a while ago I I don't know we've been away I told you the story but you you seem to really grip to it there were many reasons for it I think partially being at the time in Silicon Valley and surrounded by venture capital I saw some of the stupidest I don't know how else to put it just stupidest non viable ideas raise tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars let's just stick with film thru optic dollars no IMean thru profit okay startups repeatedly IMean you just saw dozens and hundreds of examples over time of this and it struck me that we find ourselves in a unique time which sposes something it goes without saying every time is a unique time but in the sense that long ago this is worth discussing for a quick second psychedelic specifically LSD were through the controlled I think it's the controlled substance is act scheduled put into the the schedule one class of drug classification which means high potential for addiction no no known medical or no medical application no demonstrate medical application putting them in the same class as heroin and to be clear for the listener who might not appreciate that even cocaine is scheduled to right which means it still has potential for addiction that everybody acknowledges but it does have at least one viable medical application which is it turns out to be a pretty good local anesthetic in the nose which is ironic of course but it therefore does have a medical use and it's used routinely in antisurgery so if these compounds are so useful if they can have some of the effects without guarantee of course it's not batting a thousand every time if you have a hundred people at random or using these some with direction some without you're not going to have a perfect record but if if even some of the time the effects can be achieved the outcomes can be seen that we're discussing how did these compounds including LSD end up in this category and there it's a it's a multi factorial problem and it's hard to say there's one causal agent but there are a few things that happened at the time number one many people don't realize pollen gets into this really fascinating but LSD 25 which was first isolated or synthesized by Albert Hoffman it was developed on the part or on behalf of a farm accompanied it was later used rose correct I want to say the sandals oh you're right you're right it was sandals and then it was later used in a program that if I remember incorrectly was CIA led called MK Ultra where it might be used as a truth serum for interrogations and things of this type or to confuse and sabotage enemies of the state and it got out into the wild and then the adventure began so to speak and LSD was widely distributed and at the time you had parents who had never experienced psychedelics we were going into the Vietnam era and we had a number of characters come on to the scene in a very high profile ways one of them being and he cannot be even though he is often given the blame I don't think it's it's fair to do this you know literally but Tim Lieri came onto the scene he was at Harvard as was Richard Alpert who later became Ram dos and the things exploded at Harvard and they were both I believe fired I don't think they resigned preemptively because psilocybin was given to an undergraduate when it was only supposed to be administered to graduate students and at some point Lieri decided that science was too slow and that the way to effect cultural change was to have tens of millions of people yet a specific number in mind and that that would effectively lead to a tipping point where all these positive effects on society would be inevitable and if you think about the cultural setting you have a lot of young people being told to drop out of school to resist war efforts and all of that made a number of figures including Lieri very high profile targets that could not in some ways be ignored by the administration and so Nixon famously said Timothy Lieri's the most dangerous man in America and you had parents who could not in any way conceive of the experiences that their children were having on these compounds and that along with dozens of other things was a recipe for political crackdown which is exactly what happened what you have now is you have parents who are well in many cases certainly products of the sixties who have had psychedelics experiences you have people who are in positions of power or in regulatory organizations who have in in some cases experience psychedelics you also have studies now being conducted even though it's it's with great difficulty because of all of the approvals and DEA oversight and so on that's required that are going back to the dozens and hundreds of studies that were performed before the the crackdown and rescheduling and applying more rigorous scientific standards and that is combined with a number of as you mentioned earlier epidemic level problems that we're experiencing that are costing I would have to imagine billions of billions of dollars namely opiate addiction depression PTSD right if you add up the costs associated with those three if we want to be a little crass about it and just look at the profit loss it makes a lot of sense based on the data thus far to explore some of these compounds and that's part of the reason why for instance in the case of MDMA and PTSD the FDA has granted MDMA breakthrough therapy designation which means that not only is the process expedited for ultimately phase three trials that the FDA is in a sense a collaborator so instead of saying all right your methodology is approved and I'm going to apologize and advance this is not phase three trials are not my or effects for these so if IMake any if IMiss speak I apologize and certainly feel free to correct me in comments somewhere but the FDA is effectively a partner who helps them to navigate the entire process instead of saying your methodology is approved see in three years and you're going to get a pass fail which is a precarious position for any compound let alone something that is currently scheduled to be that MDMA is and we don't have to get into right now but there's also something called the special protocol assessment SPA which should hopefully if the stars align in some ways which I think they they very well might give MDMA a very high probability of ultimately being prescribable with and used in supervised settings it would not be a take home drug in other words but PTSD and specifically with respect to let's say returning war veterans or victim of sexual abuse is a it is a highly bipartisan issue or I should better say it's a non-partisan issue it's very hard for someone to say fuck the vets so the risk of of that getting shot down politically I'm not going to say zero because it's never zero but it's there are more attractive targets if you're looking for a reelection or looking for press time there are safer targets to go after to achieve that than this and then within the scientific community looking at psilocybin which there are at least two entities right now that are presenting phase two data to the FDA and I'm optimistic that within the next year at least one of them will proceed into phase three trials psilocybin has shown remarkable efficacy at least based on preliminary data for end of life or I should say event based depression and people with terminal diagnoses terminal cancer diagnoses and that may end up getting extended to major depressive disorder which is to be continued to be determined but I've already helped to raise funding and also apply funding myself to a study that will be looking at treatment resistant depression at Johns Hopkins utilizing psilocybin and that means I believe by the book to pre-chronic depression that is failed at least two interventions or two other treatments. Are there other agents to him? IMean loosely speaking and this is a gross oversimplification and we will probably get into a few of these time permitting certainly as you said MDMA has really shown pretty remarkable efficacy in PTSD. It's it's wild it's one of those similar to the graph you mentioned I've related to McCormick. Yeah it's just not subtle. It's not subtle. You don't need the p-value to see the difference. No no no no it's I think I'm getting this right anyone interested can certainly look up maps that you can find them at maps.org who have spearheaded a lot of this but I believe that psychotherapy alone something like 27% effective at reducing the scale measurement and I'm adding a little bit here but let's just say that there is a rating of 0 to 10 for determining severity of PTSD anything abouT3 is PTSD something along those lines this is a bit of ad lib but I think it's something between 20 and 27% decreased to below a three so they were no longer they would no longer be diagnosed as having PTSD with psychotherapy alone I don't remember the timeframe. When psychotherapy was combined with MDMA was something like 70% IMean it's just not subtle at all. So which again we could spend just two hours just talking about the role the relationship of trauma and psychological damage and how MDMA can help with that the other thing of course which we talked about very briefly earlier was iboga and ibogane in the treatment of opioid addiction which probably has the worst success rate amongst societal epidemics that are being treated by conventional means IMean there really aren't great options for for the individuals with with opioid addiction and then of course celacid but as you said on end of life depression major depressive along with smoking cessation I heard it's even being looked at now for alcoholism. It is and there are few predominant classes people can look at when it comes to psychedelics I believe you have the there are the trip to means and then the phenethyl amines I believe it is but we don't have to get into all that partially because I'll just embarrass myself but coming back to the default node network which I think is worth returning to for a second which listeners might recall is this collection of different parts of the brain that appear to be active when you are doing nothing what is doing nothing mean and this was discovered I believe in part when scientists were doing calibrations within FMR I'm a chance to do nothing we want to get a baseline and this is the part of the brain that's quite exciting what the hell is going on and it appears to be highly activated when people are engaging in any type of self-referential thinking I had as it affect so not only like think about fear but what makes you fear what makes you fearful okay boom then default mode not work seems to light up any type of temporal projection in other words thinking about the past thinking about the future seems to also light this up and pollen does a great job of digging into this in the book and a number of people have written about this in very eloquent terms robin car her at Harris out of the UK is one of them but to do just pose a question that I think is something that's being explored currently if say anxiety is being stuck in the future and being depressed is being stuck in the past what happens if you're able to temporarily suspend or deactivate that system to some extent and to give yourself that witness perspective so you can look at yourself without being yourself and the implication if many of these psychedelic compounds are able to achieve that is an even Tom Insol who I think is the former head of the National Institute on or of mental health and I am age if you look at OCD you look at different types of depression different types of anxiety and so on these are nice these are very clenly separated out in some type of what is the the term for this desk reference the people use for the DSM DSM in the DSM but they may all be slightly different species of the same thing which is why something like psilocybin appears to be LSD very similar story mescalin probably very similar story at high enough doses can be used for anything that appears to involve obsessive thought patterns or behaviors that includes alcoholism it includes smoking it includes opiate addiction and there are studies that are seeking funding right now I know at Johns Hopkins related to opiate addiction through the lens of psilocybin treatment which I'm very very interested in eating disorders like anorexia these may in fact be very interrelated phenomena and conditions so you mentioned a few that are LSD I think is off the table not for scientific reasons but for political reasons it's just too loaded there's too much baggage and let us not forget that the media plays a very large role in how politics respond to things and in today's day and age I do not have a high level of confidence that LSD since it was once painted as the villain is not it's too seductive I think in a clickbait world to not fall into the same bear trap in a way so psilocybin then you have MDMA which is thought by referred to as some people as an anactogen or empathogen this is not probably not scientifically too granularly accurate but it appears to tone down that's not a scientific term but tone down the amygdala and fear response that we have to say recalling or reliving traumatic events and it allows us to people say with PTSD we've seen their friends heads blown off or had to blow other people's heads off whatever might be people have been raped etc to in some sense clen up a very messy experience that did a lot of damage and to help people to heal themselves in nonverbal ways this is really key it's very it's very it's very hard for many people to talk their way out of something they didn't talk their way into that's so well said IMean you said in one sentence what I tried to say in like 20 sentences a while ago about the experiences that can cause pain can be so jarring that it should be at least acknowledged or considered that equally jarring chemical experiences might be necessary to put that new powder on the slope definitely so you have MDMA MDMA I'll be honest I was I was biased in some ways against MDMA for a long time because AI didn't have much personal experience with anything chemically related MDMA I had a fear associated with it because of research which I think has since been largely debunked in terms of risks for people who are predisposed to depression for instance it was also at one point viewed as an end is still used recreational as a party drug and I've I've really been swayed to the other side I'm very bullish on MDMA as a therapy I think that it is extremely it's an extremely powerful inflexible tool that does not entail the type of perceptual distortion that some of these second Alex do which is not to say I am not bullish on second Alex I am but it requires much more sophisticated trening to administer so MDMA I boga and I begin going back to MDMA I do think it is important to point out if anybody is listening to this thinking well of all of these compounds MDMA is pretty easy to get and you know you can get it packaged and other things and it's ecstasy et cetera but this goes back to intent setting and integration I really do not I am not convinced that just taking MDMA going to a party is somehow going to unwind any of these problems IMean this really I would go further than that and I would bet against it yeah if someone gave me a hundred grand and they said all right this person is going to take MDMA go to a party ten times what is the likelihood that it's going to fix ex-long standing problem I'd go a hundred thousand dollars every single dollar against yeah I would short it and I know people in fact who have used MDMA recreationally and then used it in supervised settings and it is as if they are taking a different drug yeah that that just can't be overstated and I'm not just staying at cause I'm a doctor and I'm supposed to say something responsible but IMean that regardless it's and that for me is the urgency around this stuff it's I think about I think about myself frankly but I think about my patients and I think about a lot of my patients that would benefit from these things that I've experienced or even things that I haven't experienced that I've seen people experience and I I've never had such a sense of urgency around this IMean prior to this the most urgency I ever had was waiting for PCSK nine inhibitors to come on the market when I read that first paper in the New England Journal of Medicine about 12 years ago on the discovery of this type of you know these these individuals who had missense mutations in that enzyme that lowered their LDL significantly but boy the the anxiety might be the wrong word but the anticipation I had for that class of drugs which anybody listening to this is probably falling asleep thinking that's here an interesting guy if that's what was keeping you up at night waiting for that drug but but this takes it to another level which is almost nobody I know has not been traumatized on some level and it doesn't always have to be something that is so obvious so you know we've all been traumatized we've all sort of been hurt we're all dealing with these things and yet I feel how quickly can these things go through this regulatory pathway to get into the hands of people who would know how to administer them I certainly wouldn't right even if these things were legal today that's only half the battle it's can you create enough practitioners that know you know how to select the right patients and how to apply the treatment because this is in many ways harder than any other treatments we have today you know people talk today about the importance of combining psychotherapy with any depressants but that's really the tip of the iceberg compared and it's it's also tricky from a commercial standpoint in so much as part of the reason these compounds haven't been picked up like a football and run to the the end zone by big pharma is that many of these studies only involve two or three sessions with psilocybin yeah a naturally occurring molecule in these cases it's synthesized but there's a lot more money to be made in something that you can charge an arm in a leg for that you have to take on a daily basis or and every other day basis indefinitely as opposed to two or three times with some pre-work and post-work with durable effects in many cases that that's financially an unattractive model to many people and I think it's a mistake there are some for profit companies out there I just say startups who are going after this and I'll be very disappointed if they try to make their money on the molecule by blocking other people from doing a researcher manufacturing and good manufacturing in GMP facilities and so on rather I think they should make their money on the services on the therapy so that's that's maybe a separate discussion now why is ibogaine taken the longest track and why is that still the one that seems to have gained the least traction for testing in the United States I've spoken to a number of people philanthropists who are really interested in this open addiction problem and yet they are understandably not interested in funding research outside of the United States and basically their view is until the DA and the FDA allow for a similar pathway we're not interested in funding this and I worry that there's a bit of a stalemate there is this is this thawing I don't think it is yet to thaw there are some researchers in a blanking on names I apologize but there are a number of researchers are doing very good work looking at ibogaine have been studying at ibogaine in the United States part of what makes ibogaine tricky if on one end of the spectrum you have mdma which again I don't consider a classical psychedelic but as a tool that can be applied to some of the same conditions what makes mdma attractive is general low toxicity relative ease of administration short duration if we're looking at I want to say four to six hours let's say maybe a little bit longer four to eight hours i began falls on the opposite of the spectrum now i before we get to put it on the opposite of the spectrum I should say I know people very directly if you had family members who are her when addicts and say prostituting themselves IMean on death store if they weren't going to die from an overdose they might die from getting shot in the street and in a case like that where nothing else has worked including some say alternatives like method on i've seen kids who were ivy and has worked IMean don't the practitioners of this offer that at one year the recidivism is only twenty percent I don't know the exact numbers but that's given what else I've seen with these compounds it wouldn't I don't find that unbelievable yeah if i'm recalling that's only with two weeks of of intervention now these are people that are put into a you know a very heavily supervised detox environment where the the ibogaine itself are administered over a one week period outside of the you know pre and post integration so I think the entire therapy if i recall it's about six weeks there are there are many different formats and I know people who have been involved with running some of these clinics and certainly there are people like goboramate who have looked at opiate addiction very closely but ended up as I understand at least looking at iawasca and others for helping people who are addicted to opiates i'd be gain is very it's it's unlike some of the others such as psilocybin in that it acts on a whole slew of different receptors and let's discuss what puts it on the opposite end so yes it can have these seemingly miraculous effects on opiate addiction and part of the reason for that experientially is i understand it and I've never gone for a full ride i began or iboga psychedelic experience and i have no desire to it is very unpleasant it is very long so it can last as i understand it people feel free to correct me but 24 to 36 hours that is a long time and many people experience a full review of their lives and a controlled death experience whereby they get to see if in the beginning of life almost like a slideshow the decisions they've made how they've heard themselves the other people they've heard how their addiction is affected things and what goboramate they would how he might frame it is instead of asking why the addiction asks why the pain and the addiction is often a response almost inevitably but often response i'll say often to some type of trauma or pain and if you don't address that in some fashion allow people to reintegrate that somehow the likelihood of recidivism is very very high so just from a phenomenological perspective which is fancy i'm saying subject of experiential standpoint many people report that biochemically and there are people who are looking at for instance using a metabolite of i began nor i began which may mitigate some of the risks and this is part of the reason why i began hasn't taken and the risk i think we've stated is implicitly hardy i think yeah cardiac a-rhythmia people have and can die of cardiac events in using i began i don't know the specifics but i believe you can screen for this in a number of different ways to minimize the risk and then certainly you can monitor in ways having other types of more conventional pharmaceuticals on hand in the case there is some indicator of of a pending cardiac event or cardiac event itself that's one of the major risks it is one of the more potentially dangerous psychedelics it almost certainly is because compared at least say lSD or silcib and for which i don't believe there is a known ld50 meaning but you could experience better than i can yeah they all do fifty being the dose at which fifty percent of a population would receive lethal dose exactly biochemically when i was going to say this putting putting all that stuff aside for it for a moment what's so odd about this and i'm not an opiate specialist but i've had family members die from opiate overdoses i don't even know if i told you about this relatively recently and my best friend growing up on long island also died of a offentinal overdose so i have first hand experience with the pain of losing loved ones to this epidemic it appears that many people can come out of these i-bagaine treatments with close to no physical withdrawal symptoms and i don't know how that works i really don't but it does seem to be certainly one of the constituent pieces of this experience that lead to the success rate that many people are which is really interesting because it's true that opiate addiction opiate withdrawal is not physiologically harmful the way alcohol withdrawal is so delirium trements so that these detees that people get when they withdraw from alcohol will be fatal so you actually have to manage these people with benzodiazepines and other medications as you taper someone off you don't have to do that with opiates but the withdrawal is nevertheless psychologically devastating so that's interesting that you could mitigate i've read accounts where people talk very similarly about i-bagaine the way you described or the way i don't know if it was you or if it was Michael pollen on the podcast talking about the smoker i think it was Michael pollen talking about the smoker who says you know my lungs are just too beautiful to be insulted with this stuff and like i realized that and i'm like and it's like as silly as that might sound to someone listening to it that experience if profound enough can have a have a life-changing event that is durable and that's that the key is the durability and similarly i've heard these i've read these accounts of people who you know have been completely addicted to narcotics you know the account i'm thinking of in particular was it was someone using heroin and they came away from this thinking i could never stick that needle in my arm again like i could never do that to myself again because i now saw this connection i have to a plant and or another person and or another organism and again i i know that i realize that when i say that it sounds really silly it takes this or it brings us full circle in the sense also back to the beginning when i said that you shouldn't and you don't have to go through life simply tolerating yourself at best because there are a thousand things that could follow because but in part if you don't have any regard for yourself if you think you're worthless or if you think you're fatally flawed if you think you're a fuck up if you think you can't get anything right or you just don't you don't have some intrinsic love for yourself you don't see any beauty in yourself why wouldn't you be addicted why wouldn't you stick that needle in your arm why wouldn't you smoke pot five times a day and two now why wouldn't not to say there aren't applications the cannabis don't freak out people out there it's an interesting space we don't have time to get into it right now but there are so many ways you can numb or damage yourself which is a in some ways a logical coping mechanism if you have a lower guard for yourself but when you sense an interconnectedness and you suddenly have empathy not just for other people like we've felt through our experiences but empathy for yourself you look back at like the 10-year-old Peter or the 10-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old and I'm just like Jesus Christ fucking poor kid IMean and I can sit with that feeling and I actually identify with that kid and forgive that kid and assure that kid everything's going to be all right it's right now in words through this microphone probably not going to have the impact that I would hope it to have but for people to feel that as if you are in the same room with that younger version of yourself can be trensformative beyond anything that I could convey right now and when you have an experience like that as ludicrous as it might sound the idea of injecting some type of numbing agent into your body just becomes inconceivable in the in the same way that it would be inconceivable as you mentioned earlier how you treat yourself as ultimately how you treat others like what would you it like inject your son with that you're like to numb his experience of life of course not yeah that was just one of the most powerful experiences I ever had when I really finally accepted all of the issues I needed to accept and go into therapy was something they made me do which was carry around a picture of me at a certain age before certain things had happened that were pivotal in sort of shaping both the positive and negative aspects of my personality and the idea was and again it just works out that way it worked out that way for me that my oldest son is at about that age and just for what it's worth looks like me so it became a very easy way to look at him and say well that was me and it turns out that that was the that was the bridge to understanding it's very it's actually if you're a parent what parent can't find empathy for their child and that's like this stepping stone and so to think that these agents can do that because maybe not everybody has that luxury of having a child or having a child that looks like them at the same age when they were traumatized or something like that IMean it's it's it's very powerful and you know it just I guess it's uh there are many problems to which I really honestly have no not even the foggy as clue how to go about solving them from a practical standpoint like like talk about climate change like we could talk about climate change all day long and we could certainly wax philosophically on the lots of regulatory things that could be done to mitigate it but you start to realize very quickly that politically these things become challenging and you have all sorts of different economies around the world and they'd all have to be in lockstep and and you sort of not to be dismissive of these things or say we shouldn't work very hard at solving these but the solution space isn't that clear to me and yet when you see a problem that in my mind is the single most important problem that's plaguing our civilization and I know that's a big statement that's a super big statement and I realize it's also probably naive when you consider that there are many other problems going on but unhappiness is at the root of more pain I would suspect than any ailment that falls in thEQuote unquote physical body and to think that we have compounds that could play such an important role that are really facing you know challenges and getting approved I just find that really frustrating it's frustrating and it has been frustrating for people like for instance Rick Doblin who heads up maps who've been he's been at it since 1986 1986 which is just to make it happen before hand if you take into account I believe that that's when maps was officially formed if I'm not getting my facts wrong and we're at a very exciting time now where MDMA is being expedited psilocybin is certainly on its way for people who are interested in learning more about this I think maps.org is fantastic place to look in fact one of the areas where maps could you support as I understand it is in taking their approach to legitimizing MDMA use therapeutically in the US to Europe so there will be steps they'll take with the EMA I think it is which is the FDA equivalent in the EU for hopefully facilitating MDMA use in Europe so that that's certainly if you're looking to become involved with exploring and potentially supporting this as I am that is one clear and present need and it's we're also a very exciting point because psilocybin is one example which has a lot of good research to support it there's a lot more being done at places like Hopkins and NYU and many other places now may have and this remains to be studied but it's plausible that it could have profound applications to opioid addiction for instance and this comes back also to the McCormick story with birth control because the I don't I don't recall what the first compound was that was FDA proved but it wasn't approved for birth control I think it was approved for menstrual disorders that's right that was the thin end of the wedge was women whose menstrual cycles were unusually heavy or uncomfortable or the first approval exactly so and that's the most important step is it's much easier to use something off label once it's been approved than to get something approved right so you pick the right indication that's what's also impressed me about these organizations is just the strategic thought they've put into this which is understanding a roadmap that is interested in the least resistance right because to what does it take to reschedule something if you want to take it from the same classes a heroin and put it into a class where it can be prescribed with proper supervision medical supervision you need to well you you you one of the approaches like cocaine and the the nasally anesthetic demonstrate one clear medical application and if that is depression in terminal cancer patients that is a legitimate medical application and then that entire trence can get in motion that's one nice thing about where the DE and the FDA fall out is for the most part there's a sense that look once we've as these agencies done our job in scheduling something we're going to put faith in the practitioner to use his or her judgment as to how much latitude to grant around the application and and I'll also mention one thing just in case we have regulators or lawmakers policy makers people within the FDA or DEA who are listening and that is lead policy book check out policy book and immerse yourself in this fascinating area of research and and I'll give if like a lot of people you just don't have the bandwidth to dedicate a lot of time to this a something that pollen has referred to on a number of different occasions and that is the addictive potential so what is the addictive potential of these compounds if we're looking at say solosciving specifically we could use other examples but if you take a rat put it in a cage and you give it one dispenser little little lever that they can push to dispense food and another dispenser with cocaine that it can use to dispense cocaine it will consume cocaine to the exclusion of food until it dies in many cases if you do that with food and say salesciving and it gets delivered a whopping dose of salesciving it will press that lever once and the rat's like okay that was enough and it goes to the food and that rather than having high addictive potential many of these compounds have anti as we've already discussed anti-addictive potential and my god it's it is terrifying when I look at where I grew up on say long island and you look at the obvious put putting aside the all of the stuff that I don't see or hear about but the obvious among people I grew up with among my friends who have died of overdoses family members who have died of overdoses these are in some cases educated people in some cases not they are using prescription medications these are widely distributed easily prescribed medications that have demonstrated incredible abusive potential and to think that we have these molecules that can be produced at relatively low cost at scale that are not just non-addictive but anti-addictive really provide some hope that we can counteract some of these incredible epidemics IMean I you might have been the person who told me this could have been someone else but was it last year that opiate deaths exceeded automotive accidents yeah for it used to be that automotive accident was the leading cause of death for people up to a certain age and I believe the age is 40 and now opiate overdose has offset that so you know this isn't an isolated issue anymore you know for me I think I think the rate limiting step is actually going to be trening the clinicians to administer these things I think that's going to become the bottleneck and that's why I hope that you know and we we have friends who were psychiatrists psychologists who have become very interested in this and that to me is really heartwarming because they're actually going to be among the people who need to lead the charge on this yeah and there are groups thinking about this certainly both maps and other organizations that are involved to civil servant are thinking about this people who have come to the table to provide some funding like myself and for instance the Bronner family of Bronner soap and others certainly their technologists who have come to the table many of many of them have done so anonymously are very well aware that having these compounds legalized for supervised use is step one and that there will be a very very real need for trening clinicians and the wheels are already in motion with prototyping some of this there's a there's a group called CIS at California which is prototyping some some trening protocols for therapists who are licensed in various ways already so that when these compounds are available through prescription that there are trened clinicians who get in minister so we'll see we'll say I'm very optimistic but this is where I will be applying a lot of my focus and these problems do not they do not discriminate these problems these addictions depression anxiety that people experience in daily basis don't care what call you are don't care what gender you are don't care how much or how little money you have IMean given how publicly I've talked about for instance the content of the TED talk that I that I put out there on the depression I've had people come out of the woodwork from my listenership my readership some of the wealthiest people in the world who suffer from debilitating depression whose kids are addicted to heroin and then on the opposite end of the spectrum people who listen to the podcast who are just scraping by the same set of issues debilitating and you know in the last few years I've developed a real sense of optimism about myself and my lifEQuite frankly number one is a starting point which I think is a starting point like before you try to save the world is a good idea to try to save yourself and I have come away completely convinced that many of these stories I told myself which were crippling were unnecessary and that they can be wiped and you can write new stories new narratives for yourself and we talked about meditation there's a book you introduced me to then I think we should we should certainly mention also this is Saul for happy can you talk about this yeah so Rickerson who is a mutual friend and you actually introduced me to Rick probably about five years ago he gave me a copy of this book and it was one of those things that just sort of sat there for I don't know six months and it was just in thEQueue but didn't you know I didn't really appreciate why I ought to read it as soon as it was given to me you know something in the midst of a crisis sort of brought it to my to my attention a little morEQuickly and I just devoured it and so if if the Terrence real book I don't want to talk about it has now jumped into the number one spot of books I've gifted most Saul for happy is probably in the number two spot and those go that yeah I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing that right but M.O last name G.A.W.D.A.T. Yeah and that's sort of pushed mistakes were made but not by me into the the now number three spot just ahead probably of Shirley your joking Mr. Feynman it's weird it's interesting it says something about us the books we like to give people doesn't it you thanked Michael Paul and at the end of your interview or maybe it was somewhere in the midst of it but I thought it was at the end of the interview for writing the book that he did because you said it was the book you wanted to read and that you wish you could have written but you're no slouch yourself when it comes to writing books is there is there anything that if you if Michael hadn't have done that and you would have been writing that book in addition to all the stuff we've talked about today is there anything else that you would have included in that book that that wasn't included and that's hard that's a hard he's a tough act of follow a very tough act of follow and I'm so pleased that he wrote the book because I have been very clearly biased in the sense that I am AI've seen the power of these compounds firsthand and I'm not shy about as we've seen in this conversation putting myself clearly on the side of the support I don't think they should be available at every 7-11 some people think it should be every drug should just be available for anyone else to pick them up at any time I I disagree with that position completely but I am nonetheless exceptionally bullish on the scientific research and ultimately the rescheduling and widening of making these compounds available to people through qualified professionals in supervision Michael has such a pedigree and is so widely respected as a and I don't think you'd mind me saying this a skeptical highly skeptical investigative journalist that I'm I couldn't be happier that that he published his book before anything that IMight write on the subject if I were to write a book about or including I should say a discussion of psychedelics it would differ in along the lines of Collins and my writing styles meaning Pauline is is so brilliant at taking the history and science and characters in a given field and weaving it into a first-person narrative of his exploration of all of those things much like John McFee I don't want to digress he's also just a hero of mine but they're both so good at that I would never try to outpoll and pollen I'll get my face ripped off I could my book would just be a poor poor poor imitation of of something that he would do masterfully you know as I'm writing a book now sword interrupt it makes it that much more apparent to me when I read good books how much I suck and I'm not saying that in AI that's not a negative self-talk although it sounds like it is just the reality it's like look IMean these people are great for a reason and it's it's exactly what you said it's like the best books are not lecturing you they're bringing you on a journey and when when they can do that in really complicated topics and bring you along and also interweave history non-linearly that's yeah oh it's it's amazing but I would say just to give you a smooch on the forehead that much like the best meditation approach or app or teacher in the world for me may very likely drive you nuts and is not the right person for you that stylistically some writers some books will speak to you or grab your attention in an otherwise overflowing workload and somewhat and that differs person to person so rather than trying to outpoll and pollen or outmix feed McFee for God's sake that would be a losing attempt I've realized that I'm not what I enjoy doing is providing firsthand accounts of my self experimentation followed by prescriptive recommendations that aren't intended to work for everybody but that serve as more of a shoes-yone adventure buffet of options that I have vetted to at least work on myself and a number of close friends who span some different genders different age groups and so on and that's what I did with for our body that's right done with all these different books so if I were to write a book including psychedelics it would likely include experiments with other modalities other vehicles other tools that also produce not my neatly noticeable but profound changes in consciousness which is really the stage upon which everything happens right and in doing so provide you with an opportunity to rewrite the story of your life or to gain perspectives that are otherwise inaccessible and that might include sensory deprivation tanks it might include neurofeedback it might include other types of non-psychedelic pharmaceuticals it might include ketamine for example ketamine we didn't get an answer that would take a while but yeah ketamine is a whole separate ketolophish and I think my book would be more diffuse in that sense thematically connected but with independent modular chapters that includes some likely extreme experiment that I conduct myself and then report back and say I guess what I push the envelope and went way too far so you don't have to let's dial that let's dial that back 80 percent and here's something you can try that I think has an acceptable risk benefit profile that's probably the book that that I would write. Speaking of your books I don't know if I told you this story I think I did but if not it's worth retelling totally unrelated to this but it just made me think of it so like I don't maybe a year ago or so I'm in the airport and I just remember like my flight was delayed and I was sort of like a friend who I don't talk to that often like maybe once a year he called me and he's like dude I just read about you in a book today I think I know where you go and I was like I was like really what do you mean he's like yeah yeah you're in this book it's called biggest tools and I was like what he goes yeah yeah like there's a chapter on you in this book and IMean oh do you mean tools of titans he's like yeah yeah yeah that's it that's it and just kept like he just didn't even and it's it was just and he's Israeli and he has it like an accent so it's like you could tell that like the expression biggest tools didn't mean to him what it meant to me and I just thought that was the funny thing so to this day I feel like proud to be one of the biggest tools well you know that would be maybe the alternate title of the the podcast that you and I have joked about which is you know dumb things that smart people do and that's a separate conversation but there's so many ridiculous habits and obsessions that anyone who could be considered smart has if you have not seen it already just where where should people find egg boxing I will link to it but there's it's it's got its own Facebook page at this point it's hilarious that'll be a teaser I do have one final question that's not on the topic at all of what we've discussed but given that we have now between the two of us in the past two and a half hours drink I want to say 20 topo cheaker my bladder right now is robably at its maximum capacity I think pretty soon I'm going to develop hydrant of frosis so we're going to have to bring this thing to a close one of thEQuestions I get asked all the time is you know people say oh you're such good friends with Tim like does he still do acts does he still do why he wrote about this he talked about this I wonder does he still do it and so I was thinking for the person out there who's sort of wondering like how his Tim evolved when you think of all the things you have written about when you think about all the lessons you have codified for people what are the three four maybe five things that you have written about in some of your books that still consistently shape how you have continued to optimize your trajectory so the three to five things that I would say I return to most reliably are perhaps unsexated some people but one would be some type of hinging exercise movement I noticed that problems crop up when these are emitted for any extended periods time by hinging movement or hipp hinging movement IMean some type of deadlift or kettlebell swing two handed kettlebell swing very very simple to incorporate that into an exercise program I do not believe unless you have some type of competitive agenda that you need to do these more than once a week you can certainly do them twice a week for extra credit but kettlebell swings or deadlifts want a week prevent a whole host of issues and improve a whole host of performance factors so I'll be one number two would be fasting and entering a state of ketosis for at least one week at least once a quarter in conversations with Peter and conversations with Dom the Agustino is a mutual friend very impressive not just published researcher and scientists but also athlete himself the intermittent use of autophagy and entering the state of a fasting and ketosis seems to me to deliver a host of potential benefits with very minimal downside I also like the just the pure asceticism of the practice so we have the hinging movement like a deadlift or kettlebell we have fasting plus ketosis for an extended period at least once a quarter I just actually finished my latest segment about a month ago number three would be some type of meditative practice first thing in the morning I'm also asked constantly one of thEQuestions that I ask sometimes which is what advice would you give your 20 year old self what advice would you give your 30 year old self and it would be meditate 10 to 20 minutes first thing in the morning don't do it after you check your email and do a b and c because you're going to fail 50% of the time you just will knock go back to it wake up right now for instance I have a foldable chair that goes on the floor believe it's called a back jack or a jack back something along those lines usEQuite often in meditation centers right on the floor in front of my bed that faces out a window looking at a bunch of beautiful trees and I get out of bed through a some water on my face sit down and meditate I would say that's number three absolutely a some type of non-reactivity trening for 10 to 20 minutes or put another way non-reactivity rehearsal which is another reason why meditation sessions where you feel entirely scattered and you only return to the breath a few times feel like a waste of time but they are absolutely not a waste of time is that there are going to be periods throughout your day on many days when life is going to just roundhouse kick you in the face over and over again and you are going to be in that scattered state so it is good to rehearse mindfulness in that scattered state which is exactly what you're doing all right so we have the hip-inging movement at least once a week exercise wise Katosis last fasting meditation would be three number four would be the importance of group ritual and this is something that very often falls by the wayside that I forget because I've so often retreated into myself whenever I felt pain or depression or anxiety I don't want to impose that on anyone else and I feel like I should be able to figure it out on my own and just climb back into the cave that is my brain and this very often results in isolation or I'm just by myself even if I'm surrounded by other people by myself sitting in a coffee shop by myself in my own head group dinners at least once or twice a week cooking I found and this was not always the case for people interested you can check out the four hour shift for all the reasons why I find this so incredibly therapeutic but don't have to cook I just happen to find it adds a new another level of decompression but group meals at least once or twice a week would be number four and then if I had to pick a number five I would say I'm not going to use the psychedelics because we've been talking about this entire conversation if you feel like you're having trouble making yourself happy try to make someone else happy and I think that that is the workaround that very often then improves your own state so it's like if you're feeling just awful or depressed or in a funk it's like go get a coffee and pay for the person behind you IMean just exercise some of those random acts of kindness think about someone who has helped you and called them and leave them a voice meal and get them on the phone to thank them for how they've helped you and closely related to that the ties back into the meditative practice is if the meme me practice focusing on your breath focusing on your thoughts focusing on your your your your your meme meme me is maybe exacerbating some of your problems and you feel like you're you're having trouble escaping your own head take a look at meta meditation METTA also known as loving kindness meditation and I have found that to just be powerful beyond belief I didn't think it would do anything I found it kind of cheesy I thought it was kind of cliche I wrote about this a bit borrowing from the teaching of someone named shade man 10 who was an early engineer at Google and created a class called search inside yourself which was hugely oversubscribed by employees at Google I think it had some insane waiting list and this was one of the techniques he recommended so loving kindness type needed loving kindness meditation which jack cornfield has some some fantastic examples of jack cornfield KORN field and loving kind of meditation also known as meta METTA meditation and there've been multiple reports I've certainly experienced myself but by doing meta meditation say at night before going to bed do that for few days and you might have the most at piece week you have experienced in years it's it's really something else it's worth experimenting with so I would say those are my five at least the the five that come to mind right now that I would feel very comfortable defending and backing well Tim that's super helpful because I we managed just somehow figured away to spend so much time together that I when you say those things I'm like yeah I of course like we that's just what you're always doing so but I think it's great for people who are listening to this who who don't you know get the interact with you frequently who who to get that little update on stuff so you've been incredibly generous with you were time but what people probably don't realize is how generous you've been with your time off this podcast including sending me the links to like which pieces of equipment to buy for the recordings and sitting down with me and giving me the not just the one-on-one but the full course on luck do this don't do that waste time and energy on this don't waste time and energy on that so I really want to thank you I can't imagine having anybody else be the number one episode of this podcast and I I do hope that this podcast continues beyond the the initial 12 or 13 but even if it doesn't this will have been incredibly worthwhile and thank you again for your hospitality this weekend in particular I remember I put out something on Instagram another day about what was the over under on how many top of chicos I could drink in a weekend and I think I said it at 15 or 16 we have blown through that so I can't imagine I still don't to this anyone who's listening to this who doesn't know we're talking about we're talking about a sort of bottled water it's in a glass bottle and it's a it's a carbonated water but anybody who's tried it will agree it's not like a paria it's not there's something different little touch of magic sodium to keep you coming back for more among other things anyway Tim I can't thank you enough for for taking the time to be on a little rinky ding podcast at this point but anyway it's been it's been wonderful oh my pleasure man I expect to see you right up there with with our mutual friend Jaco who you introduced me to so thank you for helping to unleash Jaco on the internet and ever since our episodes on my podcast or I had you on as a guest I've been beaten the drum wanting you to start your own because I think that you're just going to do a fantastic job and then it's going to become one of the regular listens in my own rotation of podcasts that I listen to so keep it up in thanks bro you can find all of this information and more at peteratiamed.com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode you can also find my blog and the nerds of farie at peteratiamed.com what's a nerds of farie you ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-laying once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science, performance, sleep, etc. on social you can find me on twitter, instagram and facebook all with the id, peteratia and these but usually twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor patient relationship is formed. the use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk. the content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnoses or treat users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures. the company's iinvest and endore advise please visit peteratiamed.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: #02 – Rhonda Patrick, Ph.D.： paradox of IGF-1, ketogenic diets and genetics, benefits of sauna, NAD+ [oXQ9yvGVJDE].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions I've gathered along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of those successful top performing individuals in the world. And this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you with a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. Welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. In this episode, which I know is long anticipated. I spoke with Dr. Rhonda Patrick from Found My Fitness. I suspect many of you listening to this know everything about Rhonda and have been fans of her for a really long period of time on the off-chance there's anybody listening who doesn't know who Rhonda is. I suspect by the end of this discussion, you will also become a huge fan of hers and her podcast, which is exceptional. So I've known Rhonda for quite a while and despite the fact that we both consider San Diego home, and we've just been busy enough that we just haven't had a chance to sit down together in quite a while. So this discussion was kind of long overdue and it was sort of funny because as soon as Rhonda walked in, we just jumped right into a really interesting discussion and then ten minutes in, I thought, you know, we should probably start recording because this is interesting stuff. And so we did. And similarly, when the discussion finally ended, we sat around for another 20 minutes talking about a bunch of stuff that I found myself thinking, God, I wish we were still recording this because it's super interesting. So that's just basically to say, I suspect Rhonda and I will speak again at some point soon. So don't worry if all of your questions weren't answered here. The other thing about this podcast that was a ton of fun was that in the days leading up to it, she and I had emailed each other a few times back and forth some ideas of things we would talk about. And in the end, neither of us really had any notes sitting in front of us. We just sort of sat there and shot from the hip and didn't follow a script or anything like that and didn't even get to have the things that in our emails we had suggested we would talk about. That said, all the stuff that we talked about is stuff that I think Rhonda brings a great deal of expertise to. So I don't recall the order, but I know that we certainly touched on IGF. And the growth hormone, what I consider a little bit of a paradox, which is on the one hand we have some evidence to suggest that elevated levels of IGF are bad and that fasting may act in part by reducing those levels. But at the other end of the discussion, you have some confounding and conflicting data around that. We also got into a great discussion about the P-PAR enzymes, so P-PAR alpha, P-PAR gamma. One of the things that Rhonda does incredibly well on her podcast and I would encourage those of you who find this episode interesting, who aren't familiar with her work to go back and actually watch some of her stuff. Rhonda doesn't put out a lot of podcasts, but the reason for that is the amount of work she puts into them is enormous. So when she puts up a podcast on video, there's explanations, definitions, and stuff scrolling across the screen. So it's an unlike me who's incredibly lazy and can't even stand to listen to a podcast after I record it, Rhonda is methodical in her ability to make that easier for the viewer. So you'll learn a lot about this stuff. You think we're going too quickly over it by probably going back to Rhonda's site. We talk a lot about the possible genetic explanations for why some people do and don't respond particularly well to ketogenic diets. And of course, you can think of that in two ways. There's respond as far as the ability to make ketones, but then there's also sort of these patients that I describe seeing where you put them on a ketogenic diet and everything seems to go wrong. At least biochemically wrong. So that's a very interesting discussion. In many ways, I think my favorite part of this discussion was the way it started, which was the first question I asked Rhonda, which was kind of a random question. I think led to some interesting back and forth between us, which was effectively, what do you believe today that you didn't believe before in vice versa? And I always find that to be one of the most interesting ways to dive into a discussion with someone who's buried needy, deep into science. Because if you're really thinking about science, you have to understand, of course, that virtually all facts have a half-life. And our knowledge is constantly evolving. In many ways, that's what makes the field so difficult to stay on top of, but at the same time so interesting. And so to me, one of the marks of a very thoughtful person is someone who's beliefs are flexible and who's willing to acknowledge that something that they believed was one's true or not true can be flipped. And so I think, you know, Rhonda and I share that and I think it was actually really fun to see where her beliefs have changed over time. So with that said, I think the show notes for this particular episode are going to be very helpful and you can find those at Peter Atia, MD.com forward slash podcast. And I hope you enjoy this discussion at least half as much as I did. I suspect it won't be the last. So without further delay, here's my conversation with Dr. Rhonda Patrick. So great to have you here. Happy to be here. It's great to see you again. I can't believe we live in the same city and only see each other once a year. If you win. Well, thank you for taking the trip up here today to my office. My pleasure. And I'll join the long list of people congratulating you on your 10-month-old son. Thank you. Thank you. I almost don't know where to begin because there are so many things that, you know, we share and comment as far as interests. I want to start with a really broad question, which is you spend so much time thinking about many of the same problems I spend time thinking about. What do you believe today that you did not believe four or five years ago? Probably the biggest thing that has changed in what I now believe, but I didn'T4 or five years ago even more, is that one of the major modalities for, you know, increasing health span, which is the healthy part of of your life, delaying the onset of age-related diseases, the major modality for doing that that would be the best way to do it would be caloric restriction or dietary restriction. So eating 30% less food than you normally would eat. I used to really think that was the way to go for doing that. And I think that my beliefs have changed for that in that being the major modality for a few reasons. One reason is because I think that actually, so one of the things that occurs during caloric restriction is a major drop in the growth hormone IGF1. And that's, you know, that's thought to regulate a lot of the improved health span effects. At least in some organisms like mice and in racist monkeys. But I do believe now based off a variety of research from people like Walter Longo, that periods of growth actually specifically periods of IGF1 are really important. So you're not, you know, if you're constantly doing this caloric restriction, then you're not really going to have that period of growth because you're chronically doing that. And really interesting, I don't know if you saw the recent nature study that came out, I think it was an April of this year on lemurs. So the study essentially showed, and these are, you know, I guess they're not human-primey, animal model, but their lifespan is, you know, median lifespan is around six years or something like that. And I think their maximum is 11 or 12 years. I remember. But the caloric restriction did increase the median lifespan. It also increased maximum. So they like lived a year longer than typically. And there's, you know, a lot of delayed onset of a various degenerate diseases. But there was a massive atrophy and gray brain matter in regions of the brain that didn't occur in control animals, which is just another sort of example of how, you know, sometimes some of these modalities that we think are really good for increasing health spans, sometimes have other effects. And I think that getting into the IGF1, I think we'll probably, you know, and I will talk about that because we both have a shared interest in that. But the periods of growth being necessary for health, I think, I think that's kind of turning point in my mind. And so now I actually think that perhaps even doing periodic, you know, prolonged faster or a better way of doing that because you can, you can get that IGF1 boost and you can get the lower IGF1 among other things that occur. But we can dive into that if you want. But I think that's, it's going to be done. Yeah. But I think that's probably one of the major things. Yeah, there would be actually another interest that we share would be, I think I was a lot more skeptical of of ketogenic diets abouT4 years ago, in terms of being great for long-term health and health span. And I think that some of my, my thoughts on that have changed a bit based off of more recent long-term studies in animals, specifically in mice from work from Dr. Eric Verdin and also from out of UC Davis, showing that ketogenic diets in in rodents can in health span, increased median lifespan, certainly improved cognitive function. Now the caveat there is that typically with a ketogenic diet in rodents, it's actually can be most of the time is obeseogenic. And the way that these guys worked around that was they found that had, they had to limit the calorie. And what was interesting was that or cycle them, right? Well, so Dr. Eric Verdin, the way they did that was by cycling it. But UC Davis, what they did was actually put a calorie cap and turns out after talking with Dr. Sachin Panda that they ended up being on a time-restricted feeding schedule. And so the ketogenic diet was, you know, they were basically eating all their food within a certain, like, you know, eight or eight or so or nine an hour window. And then they were fasting for, so, you know, it's kind of one of those things where you know, in humans we don't really know, you know, I don't know exactly how people, I've never actually done a ketogenic diet myself. So I don't know exactly what people are doing if they're eating, you know, all the time or what. But so I'm also intrigued by that. And in many ways, almost have the mirror of your experience, which was, you know, four or five, six years ago, seven years ago, I guess, is when I really really got into ketogenic diets was on a ketogenic diet for three years, save one day. And I wouldn't say I have any less faith in them today. I just am personally less interested and find it much harder to do. So just as far as compliance with the ketogenic diet, you know, I think my life is just more complicated today in terms of travel and things like that and kids and stuff. But the thing that surprised me with the recent, because those two publications came out in cell, right? The ones, um, versus. Yeah, yeah. I was actually kind of surprised by a couple of things. So one was what you said, which was Eric noting that, hey, when we constitutively gave these guys this food, they just, they got obese. That's really counterintuitive when you think about how ketogenic diets increase circulating metabolic fuels. And that should downregulate appetite. And I think in humans, you know, there's a huge debate about why do people lose weight on ketogenic diets? So they're losing weight because they're eating less, where they losing weight because they're ramping up fat oxidation, disproportionate to where they were before, which drives up energy expenditure. Of course, I suspect the answer is both. In other words, if you do the latter, the formers should happen. So when people say, why do we less on a ketogenic diet? ThEQuestion is really, the thinking would be, are you eating less because you are basically eating yourself more? Because you're obviously oxidizing all of those fatty acids to make BHB. Or is it some other reason that, you know, has to do with the neurochemistry of these things that go beyond sort of the metabolic central part of me peripheral effects of it? So that's the first thing to surprise me with that study, which was why were those mice overeating? Was there something else in them because they couldn't have had that much sucrose, they usually put sucrose in mouse child, but they couldn't have been that much sucrose, or they wouldn't have been able to get into ketosis? And I think even previous studies, like earlier in the literature, showed something similar, where it was obeseogenic. Now there was certain genetic backgrounds that also seemed to kind of little, you know, regulate that to some degree. But what I was actually thinking, so you brought up some really interesting points, is that thinking of the in the context of like, let's say they're eating the constantly eating the fat, or they're not having the period of rest. I know that, for example, when you're making malinocoué, which is something that you do, when you're oxidizing fat, malinocoué inhibits the conatime palm till trensfer is the, basically the trensporter to trensporter fatty acids in the mitochondria. So if you're constantly making malinocoué because you're constantly eating the fat, then you're going to start to have this inhibition, and you're going to start to then store the fatty acids in out of a position rather than catabolizing them. Right? So it seems to me that- And we don't see that, by the way, with the exogenous ketones, do we? This is something I'm still trying to get a handle on. I agree. I'm certainly, I am extremely interested in the exogenous exogenous ketones, particularly because I try to show them. Okay, you try them. Yeah, yeah, I'm just going to bring you some of it. So I really enjoy the effects they have on my brain. So I've used them for endurance exercise, and I also like it for that as well. I do notice that I have a little bit of a, I seem to run longer than I usually stop at this point on the beach and like I can keep going another, but what I really like is for me, it really helps with focus and lower anxiety level. So like I seem to be able to- I'm always onto the next, you know, and so this kind of helps me, like, stay in the now. At least I- and that could be completely placebo, I don't know, but anyway, that's one thing that I like about that. But to get back to your point, I had one of the same thing because what's the effect of exogenous ketones on normal fatty acid metabolism. And the reason I had one of that is because there was a paper that recently came out where I think it was the one that was done in humans where humans, they were given the beta hydroxybutyrate ester for endurance and it enhanced endurance performance, but they found inhibited yes, and also it inhibited fatty acid, something to do with the fatty acid, a trensport out of the out of post, something to do with where I was like going with somewhere- some of that had to do with lipid metabolism, which suggested possibly there could be an inhibition. Now, you know, it's funny, I'm going to see- I'm in New York next week, and a Dom is going to be in New York, Dom, Degasino, who obviously you know well, and we're grabbing dinner one night, and we're going to talk about this paper because I remember when it came out, Dom sent me an email with- I'll know for sure if you want- or I can just send it to you. Yeah, send this to me for sure. Because there was something about that study that was a little bit off, I need to kind of go back and and look at it. But it does back another question. So I want to go back because there's going to be- I know this is going to be a theme today, which is multiple threads that are easy for us to go off on. You're an irgrated going on today. Yeah, yeah. Let's go back to the mice. Let's go back to the two studies. Do you recall if in the verdens study when they before they started cycling the ketogenic diet, when they were just giving it to them all the time? Do they have a window in which they could eat add libidum that they over-8 in or where they give in 24-hour access to food? 24-hour, So what they never tried then was let's give you food for 10 hours and let you eat add libidum. Because that would be interesting if they would overeat in that setting. Maybe not that interesting. The other experiment that I don't think has been done is remember when they did the- they took a variant which was high fat, but high-ish carb. And so it wasn't- there was enough carbon the diet that it wasn't producing ketosis, but it was still a high fat diet. I'd like to see that experiment repeated with an exogenous ketone. Because then you could start to identify the effect of the carbohydrate specifically and tease out the effect of the fat and the BHB. Right. I think I remember one of the big differences between the the high fat low carb and the actual ketogenic diet was the induction of PPR alpha, which was which makes sense because that's involved in, you know, ketogenesis itself, but to what degree that regulates, you know, any of the other important properties that were found, including the really the profound effects on the brain. And, you know, so I like to personally get my ketogenesis from my periods of fasting. More so than carbohydrate restriction. Well, I do, I do refine carbohydrate restriction, but I also, I think there's a lot of benefits and this is part of the reason why for so long I was skeptical of a ketogenic diet is because I think there's a lot of benefits in eating a variety of plants. I think that there's a lot of various micronutrients that are much higher density in plants, full-a magnesium, vitamin K1, but also there's a lot of fermentable fibers and things that are really also really good for the gut microbiome, which I also think is very important for regulating immune function. So that's kind of been my, my hangup, but I think, you know, like people like Dom seem to be doing a modified ketogenic diet where they're, you know, definitely getting the greens, trying to get the leafy greens. So IMean, I think that, you know, one way to kind of get around that plus, I think there's also a way to do a ketogenic diet where you're eating a lot of salmon, avocado, nuts, you know, olive oil, and it's not just like butter and keto bombs and all this like pork grinds and stuff where I'm just like, where's the nutrient density and some of that, you know, so yeah, it's funny. IMean, I guess it depends on how many calories you need, but at the time during that window when I was on a ketogenic diet, I was also still very active, certainly much more so than now. And I really required a lot of calories. IMean, I couldn't maintain my weight below 4,500 calories a day. And I still stuck the pretty strict absolutes on the protein and carbohydrates. I really kept my carbs. And I didn't look at net carbs. I, oh, by the way, for those listening and wondering what that noise is, this is something wrong and I are very used to. Those are F8 teams, which how many overhead drive buys we're going to get today? You feel to predict? I would say more. Yeah, I was probably between 4 or 4. Okay. Yeah, it's the sound of freedom people. So just get used to it. So I was getting probably 50 grams of carbohydrates totALCARb. I should say probably about 80 grams of totALCARb, but you'll see what type of carbs it was. Really had to limit protein to about 100 to 110 grams. If I went over that, I would get kicked out. And so fat made up about 90% of my total calories. And so there's only so many ways you can get that much fat. And the most efficient way is actually salad with olive oil. IMean, I couldn't believe the amount of vegetables I had to consume to stay in ketosis. You know, I basically had to have two huge salads a day where I would make my own dressing, which was a heavy olive oil based dressing. And I could probably only have one avocado a day, which I would always have because I didn't know if it was getting too much carbohydrate rate. So it's like a lot of macadamia nuts, a lot of olive oil, olive oil based everything. And then the hardest part for me was clearly being stingy with the protein. What was in the salads? Okay, so I go, you know, I'm a pretty boring guy. So it's romaine, tomatoes, cucumbers, celery, had to kind of like limit the carrots a little bit. I normally love carrots. So you get tomatoes and everything on the ketogenic? Yeah, yeah. Now again, part of it, as I can get away with more, because I probably exercise more. And I was doing this before people were sort of putting butter in their coffee and stuff like that. So that was not, I consumed a lot of dairy, though. So see other things, tons of cheese, tons of sour cream, because you just needed those calories. And I actually developed like a spreadsheet that was customized for my coloric needs, but I had this formula of looking at every ingredient. Like, could you find the food that you could eat without restriction that wouldn't destroy your ratios? And so for me at my coloric levels, like cream cheese and sour cream were sort of the perfect thing. Whereas even high-fat Greek yogurt had too much protein. So I had to consume that in moderation. That's the other interesting thing. And I think I talked to Eric about this was, you know, how much of the effects, you know, on health span, or due to low protein intake and how much were due to, you know, the actual being in ketosis. Yeah, I've talked about this with Walter a few times. We don't see Ida eye on this because for several reasons, one, I'm not entirely convinced of the IGF paradigm anymore. So that's one thing where, you know, thEQuestion I asked you, that would be my answer. So five years ago, I would have said IGF is the devil. Girl, Thormone is the devil. You want them to be as low as possible. I'm not convinced of that today. And I can't wait to explore that with you. But the other thing is, if you really want to produce the lowest level of insulin and IGF, I am not aware of a way to do that, beyond a ketogenic diet that is incredibly low in protein and incredibly low in carbohydrate. When I go back and look at my blood levels, because I check my blood about every six to eight weeks, and I've been doing this for, you know, 10 years, IMean, my lowest IGF levels were during the three years I was in ketosis. IMean, they were very low. They were, IMean, not ridiculously low, but 25% of average versus say 75% of today. So that makes sense to me because if you think about, you know, some of the major dietary regulators of the IGF one pathway are protein, essential amino acids specifically, and also insulin. insulin through IGF BP-3. Is that, or IPB-1? Yeah. So IMean, I think that, so for example, you know, if someone's eating a low protein and low, you're getting, you may not be a vegan, but even if you had your limiting your protein, you know, even to some degree, you're certainly getting more than someone maybe me, that's not not doing that really. Although I do kind of limit my protein. But it's a misconception. You see, I think a lot of people assume ketogenic diets are high protein diets. I think some people do consider that, yeah. But if you're, there may be certain people out there who can produce ketones with high protein, but in my experience, personally, and more importantly, clinically, meaning, I don't know, over the course of my practice and my career in medicine. IMean, I've probably at least encountered 50 or 60 patients at a very detailed level on ketogenic diets. Almost without exception, protein is the bigger thing that fouls people up. And so that's the thing I've always found a bit confusing in some of those discussions is, and even Eric mentioned this on your podcast, which is, well, you got to be careful if you're on a ketogenic diet. You don't have too much protein. And I was like, those don't go hand in hand. You're not on a ketogenic diet if you're eating a lot of protein, because you won't make the ketones. That said, I wouldn't be surprised if there are polymorphisms that allow people more or less. And you've obviously talked a lot about the P-par, is it P-par alpha or P-par gamma, where you see the differences in a person's ability to generate ketones? The P-par alpha is predominantly found in the liver, and it's involved in fatty acid cataplysm production of ketone bodies. So that would be the major one. Now, there's nothing empirically. I've seen the literature that's looked specifically at P-par alpha and a ketogenic diet or fasting. But, you know, there's most of the literature out there looking at the effects of P-par alpha with people that are either heteromazagas or have to do with the context of like high saturated fat, low polyunsaturated fat diet, because polyunsaturated fat activates the P-par family of trenscription factors, which are a nuclear hormone receptor trenscription factors. But the P-par gamma is predominantly found in like adipose tissue. IMean, they're found in other tissues, but I see predominantly that's like the most, they're highly expressed in that adipose tissue, and it plays a role in basically taking up fatty acids and adipose tissue, whereas the alpha, which is in the liver, take plays a role in the trensport, cataplysm. So one would just sort of imagine, IMean, it would be nice to see that, you know, someone look at that, you know, people with these specific SNPs and how they're... Just promethius identify various SNPs of P-par alpha? Yes, but they don't really tell you anything. They sort of pull abstracts from P-par met and just kind of like dump it there. So you kind of can start with research there. I've been developing a genetic tool, and I just were actually developing it a lot more of a former NIH geneticist who's probably phenomenal who's been working with me and to tell me sort of develop those. Basically, look at, you know, the literature and see what some of these SNPs are doing, and then in conjunction with looking at biomarkers, very blood biomarkers, to kind of help people guide, you know, what sort of they should do, what's a bypass around a potential bypass, for example. So with the P-par alpha, gamma, I think that the take home, at least from the literature, is essentially you want to have a higher ratio of poly and mono-insaturated fat tissue saturated fat ratio in order to lower your tetradide, B-d's risk. You're saying for any, for people with the wild type or with people with certain SNPs. With the, with the, with the steps within P-P-R alpha, yeah, because end-gammant as well, because to some degrees, some of the ones in P-P-R gamma affect the uptake of fatty acids and out of post tissue, and so, and also muscle, and so it kind of kind of, kind of, you know, you have a lot more free fatty acids around, and that can, you know, have, have an effect on insulin sensitivity and other things as well. So we should talk about this offline because I have a subset of patients for which we have such rich data, and if I'm positive, all of them would be interested in knowing this, and, you know, we'd certainly get their permission, but it would be interesting in taking their, you know, just their straight-up 23 and me data. So, so here's the pattern I've seen, and I'm very curious as to what the overlapp is. So there's a clearly a subset of people. I think my N is too small to quantify it, but directionally it seems like I don't know, 10 or 20 percent of people. When you put them on ketogenic diets in the standard way, which usually ends up meaning you're getting at least 40 percent of your calories from saturated fat, typically 40 to 45 percent from mono and the remainder from poly, everything goes to hell on a hand basket. And the obvious things that go to hell on a hand basket have been certainly written about on the logosphere and Twitter sphere, which is usually their LDL particle numbers sky rockets, despite the fact that they're triglycerides go down. So they seem to be getting more insulin sensitive, but yet inflammation is going up, and you see that both specifically cardiac specifically. So things like oxidized LDL and LPPA-2, but even non-specifically C-Rective Protein Fibernogen. But the deeper level is the why, and what you see is they're making much more cholesterol. Markers of cholesterol biosynthesis like dysmarchalol go way up. And some of their phytosterols go up, which is very counterintuitive. Phytosterols would generally go down on a ketogenic diet, but they're going way up, suggesting that they're absorbing much more cholesterol, like biliary cholesterol. So the first time I noticed this was 2012, and I think I wrote about this one son of a blog, but I don't remember. Maybe I'm thinking of another example. And it was this relatively young patient who really loved being on a ketogenic diet. But when we get his blood test back, IMean, his LDL particle number was above 3500 nanomol per liter. And I know there are a lot of guys out there who seem to think that as long as you're on a ketogenic diet, it doesn't matter. None of this stuff matters. I completely don't subscribe to that. And my view is that's irresponsible. So I said to them, I said, look, I don't think a ketogenic diet is right for you. And he said, no, no, no, no, it's the best thing I've ever done. Like, I feel better, I look better, I'm performing better. We got to figure out a way to do this. And the only thing I could think of, and I talked with Tom Dasebring about this, and he said, let's try and experiment and rip all the saturated fat out of his diet. He was sort of like me. He was eating a lot. He, IMean, he's a high-clawed consumer. So that gets really hard. So we created a diet form that was only about 20 to 25 grams a day of saturated fat. And he ended up getting about 65% of his fat calories from mono-insaturated fat, which was pretty gross. IMean, you're drinking olive oil at that point, but he was interested in doing the experiment. And sure enough, after, I don't know, maybe eight to 12 weeks, same macro nutrient distribution. In terms of fat, protein carbohydrate, the only shift was the type of fat. So we just substituted mono for saturated. His LDLP was 1300 animal per liter. All of the inflammation was gone, and all of the sterile biomarkers went back to normal. I've since seen that about six times. And now I'm wondering if we took those patients and ran them through what you're doing. Yeah, yeah, that was really the ones that have those SNPs. And there's a variety of them that do that. So there's the PPR alpha, PPR gamma. There's a couple of FTO related SNPs also that the relationship of saturated. And basically, in the literature, these studies have all looked at the ratio of saturated to mono-in polyunsaturated fat. And for whatever reason, people with those SNPs, when they have a higher saturated fat poly your mono and or mono, they have higher inflammation, higher oxidized LDL, higher O-small. Then cell the L, higher, you just, you know, all these just terrible. Do you have a sense of the frequency based on the research you've done on this? How prevalent that is? Kind of. I would say, you know, I'd have to look back at the data probably less than 20%. So it might be in the ballpark of what I'm seeing for this different phenythal. It might be, yeah, it might be. So that would be really interesting to run them through through my tool. And like I said, we're even expanding that a little bit. I found a few more. Are patients sending you any of their data? Or are they doing it on their own and just they're doing it on their own? Some people have shared their data with me because they emailed me and something interesting. And I'm like, oh, wow, that's super interesting. Do you mind sharing that with me? And they have? So if anybody's listening to this and they're saying, hey, you know, I had an advanced lipid test before and after I went on a ketogenic diet. And I looked like this situation you described, can they reach out to you through your blog and send this data to you? If they can actually just use the genetic tool and then sort of, you know, share with you the data. If they want to share with me the data, you know, I can't promise anything, but they can certainly get the why themselves by just using genetic tool right now, which, which I have, I have free reports for, for example, the PPR genes, but then I have a whole comprehensive report that's a $10 recommended. So if someone doesn't want to pay $10 to do comprehensive, they can just get the free report and get the why potential why themselves. So I hope that anyone listening to this because I, again, if I'm seeing this at 10 to 20% of the time and you're seeing it, and it'd be great to get a few hundred people who are that phenotype and find out if the phenotype matches the genotype. Right. Yeah. It would absolutely be. And like I said, I have, I have had people have that problem where they've tried a ketogenic diet and couldn't figure out and they did have one or even more than one of this, that regulate fatty acid metabolism. So. And then there's another phenotype that fortunately is more rare. And I also wonder what's going on with PPR alpha specifically, which is people who do everything by the book. And maybe I'm a sucker and maybe I'm gollable and maybe I believe patients too much, but I don't think I've ever had a patient lie to me. I really think like when they're not doing what they're supposed to be doing, they tell you. I'm not doing what I'm supposed to be doing. So it's not uncommon in this rare subset of patients that is where they're doing everything by the book. IMean, they're working their tail off to keep their carbs here, to keep their protein here, to keep their fat here, to keep it within this distribution. And they cannot get even close to half a millimolar of BHB in their blood. And to me, that's a really frustrating situation for the patient because they're sort of like what the hell I'm doing everything right. Like I'm not making ketones. And I think Steve Finney sort of put out this notion that the threshold was about 0.5 millimolar. I don't have anything to argue that one way or the other. So I generally can based on my own empirical experience personally. I sort of felt like 1 millimolar was about the threshold, but again, I think that's neither here nor there. But when these people are doing what I'm describing and they're at best 0.2, maybe 0.3 millimolar, it just made me wonder, there's something in their machinery that's not doing this. Now thEQuestion is, is it a like policies problem? Is it an oxidation problem? Is it a conversion problem? IMean, that I don't know, but it would also be interesting to understand, where could the weaklings be in their ketosis machinery? Right. And there's probably, you know, there's a variety of SNPs in these genes. And, you know, there may be certain SNPs that aren't having even really been tested or who knows. It sounds like, you know, to me that there's certainly something going on with the process of ketogenesis and some of the patients and their active levels or their active. Yeah, we're pretty, IMean, we've evolved a lot in our thinking on how those patients can be helped, but it seems that the best way to get them over that hump is fasting coupled with exercise if they're capable. But it's got to be relatively, it has to be, it's not gardening. Like it's got to be exercise exercise, you know, they have to really deplete glycogen. So that's the other thing I sort of wonder in some of these folks is what's happening with gluconeogenesis? Because I, I think until you start to dip down and glycogen a little bit, it's really hard to do this. And of course, we can't do liver biopsies. Well, the fasting does get them in ketosis. And so again, we're dealing with such a small end that I don't, I want to be thoughtful about not generalizing too much. So there's one patient in particular who's the poster child for couldn't do the ketosis thing straight away. But when we put him on every month, five day FMD. So he would do the five day FMD, but ketogenic, not long goes FMD. And then the 25 days of ad lib was time restricted eating, ketogenic. Then we've seen great results doing that in two people. So that would suggest that something, again, we're not doing this as an experiment at this point. It's like clinical. It's like just try to get the job done sort of thing. But that would suggest that something about the fasting end or the exercise end or the time restriction could get them over the hump. But it's interesting because from an evolutionary perspective, you should have been selected out really quickly if you couldn't make ketones efficiently. Well, it sounds to me that maybe there's a glycogen, you're not, you're not getting depleting the glycogen too. If that's, you know, so maybe it's not to do with the production of ketempies. But it's actually just takes a long time to complete that glycogen. I do think there's a huge variation. Obviously physical activity plays a role in that as well. I can fast, I can do, you know, like when I do my time restricted eating, ideally I like to do it within, you know, nine or ten hours. You don't might fit within nine or ten hours. And then I, you know, I like to fast for like 15 hours. I can do that. And with my physical activity levels, you know, I will be closer to one millimolar fast, like, we will get to one millimolar after 15 hours of fasting. I will be closer to that when I'm really physically active, like during the periods a couple of years ago, and I was doing lots of like long, like long distance running and stuff, I can get closer. IMean, IMean, I'm, I'm going off of like a precision extra, which probably is not very none of no precision extras. It's, IMean, that's really good for that. Yeah. So I can get between like 0.7 millimolar to like 0.9. But are you consuming a ketogenic diet during your feeding when you're eating? So my, my diet typically, so I like I said, I've never really intentionally tried to do a ketogenic diet, but my, my diet is, I'm, I pretty much eat a lot of the same things, and typically it's salmon, a salad, or a sauteed vegetable with olive oil, some pasturase, you know, butter from pasturase animals. And my food will be like blueberries. I'll have avocado, so I'll have, sometimes obviously, with some blueberries, avocado and kale. And will you have two meals in that window or, so it depends if I have this, but they're not typically I'll have breakfast and then an early dinner, and then I'll have like a snack either nuts or this smoothie, the kale with some blueberries and avocado. So I think it, you know, I need a lot of nuts too. You know, I probably do what kind of nuts? Walnuts, macadamian nuts, pistachios, cashews, almonds. I think probably I could. I put cashews in the candy category. Oh, really? No, no, no, I just mean like, I can't stop eating this thing. So yeah. When I talk about nuts, I'm like, I eat nuts and sometimes cashews because like, I just might as well be eating M&Ms. Is there other flavor? Well, yeah, no, look, you know, all kidding aside, when I was on the ketogenic diet and I had to be very mindful of this stuff, basically I could only consume almonds and macadamia. Everything else was just a little too high in carbohydrate. The cashews just, like, my own personal demons. Okay, I don't know what it is about cashews. Like, I love watermelon, like the summer, like right now. Oh, like my son loves water. We could eat a whole one. Oh, yeah, like put a little salt on it. Like my father-in-law from the south and taught me that. So in the summer time, I like to eat some watermelon. I like to eat peaches. You know, so while I'll definitely indulge in more fruits because that's when they're around. But, you know, so I do, I think my diet tends to be... So it wouldn't be surprised if before you entered your, like, so let's say you finish your feeding window just before you went to bed. It wouldn't surprise me if you're already at point two or poinT3 millimolar range. Probably, yeah. Yeah. I know, actually, to measure the right. So check that. Yeah. And that'll give me a sense because if you, if you're going to... Well, I'm not doing as strict because I'm still nursing. So I'm because it's just so hard to, like, time-wise get everything. I'm eating probably more like within the 11 to 12 hours. Okay, okay. Well, when you, when you get back to the 15, I'd be curious because if you're actually able to go from zero or point one millimolar to point seven to one millimolar in a 15 hour fast, that's impressed. So, so when I took the exogenous ketones and I've done this, did you do the ester or the by HBMN? I did their instructions, which is either with a high carbohydrate diet. So I had a a little bowl of some hollows with some blueberries in it. And then I took the BHB ester. I literally went from, like, point one millimolar ketone to one hour to six millimolar. Wow. Six. One hour. That's really high. So... That's impressive. Okay. I'm trying to think, I definitely don't get that high. And that's just with one bottle. With one bottle. And then how long did it last? Do you recall? Well, it depends on whether or not I did exercise like intense exercise. And so, if I did the intense exercise, like an hour later, I was down to, like, two or three or something. And have you ever taken it and just done work, for example, where basically the brain is doing more of the exercise than, yeah, that's what most of what I do it now, but I'm not measuring because I'm usually like doing a podcast or going traveling and doing, you know, something, but that's, that's typical what I use for. Is that? So I'm not really doing the, using it for exercise. Yeah. They've really come a long way in taste. Really? They still taste awful. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I remember Kevin Rose, who's a good mutual friend of ours, when he tried them first. He texted me and he's like, dude, these things aren't that bad. Like, you made it sound like these things were horrible. And I was like, when I had it, I thought I was drinking caracine or jet fuel. I thought I was going to die. Go blind first, then die. He goes, not another stuff's good. He goes, actually, I wouldn't call it a sipping key tone, but it's actually I was something guys at human and the T-Dall that I spoke so I think they've done a good job kind of making them less ridiculous. They must really have tasted bad when you try it because I personally think it's closer to the caracine side than that. It was so bad around there. There was like a good three-month period where my favorite thing to do, like more than anything in the world was if anyone came over to my house for dinner, they had to try one finger dip worth of stuff. And of course, the first time I drank it, I just took 50 ml and chugged it neat without mixing it or anything like that. And yeah, I had a few days just getting people to try this stuff. The salts are obviously much more palatable. Yeah, I've just lost studied, but more. I didn't really, I wasn't, I certainly didn't feel like I had the same effects as the Esther. And also, if I took a really high dose of it, I felt like I had some GI distress. Absolutely. And I have also noticed that for some people that is, for me, that's the case. So I cannot take the BHB Esther on an empty stomach. The only way I can tolerate that at high doses is either to put it with powdered MCT or actually just take it with a meal. Which in many ways defeats the purpose because I kind of like it as a way to avoid meals. Does it lower your blood glucose? Because IMean, like it, like so significantly, it was like like astounding. Yeah, yeah, no, it's pretty impressive. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and I know that Jeff Wu, the CEO at Human is very interested in that. And I republished a post. I wrote five years ago on Exogenous Keytones like a couple of weeks ago. And a lot of scientists have reached out and said, hey, we're really interested in studying this. Like, what can you tell us about this? And so I think people are starting to realize that's an interesting way to lower glucose. Really significantly higher. More than 20%. I dropped 30 points. Wow. Yeah. That's for, again, you, you're, like after a high carbohydrate, after a high carbohydrate, like I said, I had oatmeal with some blueberries. It was nuts. Of course, my, my blood sugar because at the time, too, IMean, I've just been nursing at night and so, waking at multiple times that has terrible on your for your blood glucose levels and such, but so they were a little higher than usual. But yeah, I dropped me 30 points. Well, yeah, that's more than we typically see. Is it? Yeah. On the topic of blood glucose, have you ever experimented with Acrobose? No. I've experimented with it with cells and culture, but not like personally. The stuff's pretty interesting. It works quite well. Yeah. I'll certainly, if I'm going to indulge in some high carb action, I'm going to take 100 milligrams of Acrobose beforehand and just flatline my glucose. Wow. You know, in many ways, I find that actually more potent than metformin at glucose reduction. IMean, I think metformin has many other effects that we'll probably get into as well. Let's go back to the IGF thing. Yeah. Because this is sort of the thing that here's the thing. I'll just jump right to my punchline and my question with this. There are two issues I now have with things I used to take to be the gods on a street. Actually, three things. The first is I found Cynthia Kenyans work on the Daph 16 mutants in C. Alligans to be the most convincing evidence of the role of IGF or attenuating IGF in longevity. And I now question that, not question the work, but question the inference that that can be applied to humans, given the fact that only their germ cells divide. And therefore, cancer in that organism looks nothing like cancer in us. Cancer in that organism is only a cell getting larger. There is no proliferation. We have to sort of, IMean, it's obvious. The risk of stating the obvious, which is we're not worms, but that's a huge difference in biology. So that's the first thing. Let me let you comment on that. Yes, because I've done those experiments. So that's probably what straight out of college. I went to work at the Solkin Institute with Andrew Delin, who trened with Cynthia Kenyans. I was a chemistry major in college and I decided I wanted to try some real biology. I only had a little bit of biology in college. And so I went to work at the Solkin. And really, it was like this first experiments I did with worms where we knocked down the insulin IGF1 signaling pathway, also known as the Daff2. And their worms would live like literally a 100% longer. They go from two weeks to four weeks, right? Yeah. IMean, it was like, and not only that, like, the worms were so youthful. Like you would look at these worms, you know, because it's all I would do day after day and then microscope is just picking and poking and looking at the worms and how they move. And you know, as they get older, they start to become less mobile. And IMean, it's just very odd. It's the most convincing day. It is very convincing. And now it's me in my mind was kind of like when I was like, like, we have a gene that's sort of homologous to this. And this is happening in those worms. Like I want to understand that. Like, and here's the thing about that data. And this is what I think, if you get rid of another gene that's homologous to Foxo, Daff610. Oh, Daff610 is right. That's homologous to Foxo. It completely obliterates the life spent extension. Meaning it's the Foxo 3 that seems to be really important for we have how many we have four Foxos. You mean different Fox genes? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know exactly how many, but the Foxo we have 3. We have 1, 2, and 4. Was it 1, 2, and 3? There was like a 1, 2, 4, 5. But their analog is 16. I remember that, right? Their Daff 16 is basically our Foxo. Foxo. Yeah. So, okay. Well, anyways, yeah. I'm not sure I'm getting confused with that. You know this better than I do. But okay. Yeah. But what is interesting is that the life spent extension was completely like a meal related to life. And did their health span curves? Because the experiment you're describing and no one can see what I'm doing. But you know what I'm talking about. Like the natural was a two week lifespan, where for the first week they're youthful. And then they have a declining health span curve. So at the time of their death, they're totally decrepit. In the experiment you're describing, if I'm thinking of the same one, you doubled the lifespan. And their longevity curve became a square function. It just went out. Kind of yeah. Exactly. Yeah. That's exactly what happened. But you get rid of the Daff 16 and they're like wild type. Oh, they're like wild type. Yes. I think so. And that largely has to do with, you know, so that the IGF1 insulin signaling pathway both inhibit Foxo 3. So if you get rid of that inhibition considerably, Foxo 3 is constantly active on those warm. IMean, it's just like super, you know, making super oxides. This mutate is they're making more stem cells. They're making just everything's active. You know, more topology, more strict. Like all these stress resistance pathways. IMean, Foxo 3 is a trenscription factor. It regulates whole host of genes. Many of which have to do with DNA repair, autophagy stem cell function, production of antioxidants in anti-inflammatory pathway. So it's a lot of really good stuff. You want to act up all the time. So there's that component to the longevity pathway. And actually, if you look at the animal data from rodents, whether it caloric restricted, if you get rid of the Foxo 3, the median lifespan extension is gone. So the lifespan extension depends on Foxo 3. The cancer stuff was still like, it didn't matter. So the cancer reduction didn't depend on Foxo 3. Only the lifespan extension. So I think there may be an uncobbling between humans and IGF1, one of the major problems with IGF1 is actually cancer. And if you look at, you know, animal studies, if you look at humans, human studies, like humans that have polymer physicians that make them have more IGF1, they have much higher cancer incidents, vice versa. So if you look at people that have polymer physicians, I agree. Is that the case? IMean, we look at the opposites, right? We look at the ones that have low GH and by proxy low IGF and have less cancer. So you're talking about larynx syndrome. Yes, larynx syndrome, yet yes, they do. But I think there's also another one in IGF. There's heads and IGF1 receptor. So this is you're not talking about acromegally or people that are making too much GH. They also are more susceptible to cancer as well. Yes, I am talking about them as well, actually. The people with acromegally are more susceptible to cancer. Maybe I am, that's what I was referring to with that have higher circling levels of IGF1. So you're saying you can't uncople the growth hormone from, yeah, that's been one of the things I've struggled with. Is it's hard to uncople the GH, the effective GH on the liver? Yes, exactly. But animal studies that that has been uncopled. Like if you do any sort of tumor trensplant animals and then make them have high GF1 through a variety of modalities, the cancer will grow rapidly. So how do we explain the human epidemiology, which, and I'm like, there are a few people that are more critical of epidemiology than me. I'm not a particular fan of it. But I find it to bEQuite interesting in the negative, meaning the contrapositive with an epidemiology can bEQuite interesting. So this is the next thing that caught me going, wait a minute. And that was, there's a U-shaped mortality curve that is skewed to the right for IGF and all-cosmortality, cancer mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and neurodegenerative mortality. But when you uncople them by disease, you see a very interesting pattern. So all-cosmortality, as IGF goes up, it actually starts to go down. It natives at the 70th percentile and then it starts to rise. But it doesn't get as high as it started. I know for people listening, this is confusing. So we'll include the figures of all these from the papers. But the point is it's not that as IGF goes up, mortality goes up. It's the opposite for 70% of the ledger, only at the very end. In other words, only high levels of IGF, very high levels of IGF, seeing problematic. And as I know you've talked about, I've heard you talk about this on your podcast, you have to then disaggregate that by age. The older you get, the better IGF seems to be, presumably because of the preservation of lean tissue. It turns out that most of the uptick in the mortality above the 70th percentile is driven by cancer. But actually cardiovascular disease and neurodegenerative disease seem to get they flatline by the end. So meaning there was no benefit to being at the 100th percentile, or the 99th percentile versus the 80th versus the 70th, but you weren't getting penalized for it, which suggested to me that low IGF might not be the ticket, maybe it's some combination of cycling high and low IGF, but living it around the median to slightly above that, the 60th, 70th percentile. And again, that's probably more a function of my misunderstanding of the literature five years ago, but I really came away thinking, IGF, we got to keep that as low as possible. It's funny, you and I kind of have, have evolved in the end. Very similar, because I now also think that, you know, so IGF1 does play a very important role, obviously in development, but also in the repair of muscle, in the growth of muscle, IMean preserving muscle mass. Also, it gets trensport across the blood-brain barrier, plays an important role in neurogenesis and allowing existing neurons to survive, which kind of brings me back to that gray matter thing with the limmers. But, you know, so, and the thing that was interesting to me was the effective exercise on IGF1. And the fact that for one, it's been shown that the boost in neurogenesis after exercise in the brain via brain-drivener is requires IGF1. Animal studies have shown that mostly rodents have shown that that exercise causes IGF1 across the blood-brain barrier getting to the brain. But in human studies, I've also seen some showing that it does lower serum levels, I think presumably it's also going into the muscle and the brain. So I think that, you know, people that are exercising, they're putting that IGF1 to the places where it's supposed to go, muscle tissue, brain tissue, as well. But in addition to that, and this is kind of what's more recent work from Dr. Falto Longo, is that he does these prolonged fast and I think the prolonged fasting is extremely interesting for a couple of main reasons. And one is, I think that it has tremendous potential for the treatment of autoimmune disease and also cancer based on, you know, his work and what he has shown now in animal studies and some pilot clinical studies is that doing a prolonged fast and or in some cases, the fasting-mimicking diet causes this massive shrinking of organs where, you know, he doesn't know how much of it's due to cell-sized decreasing versus A-pop doses. He does know A-pop, A-pop doses is occurring and he has show that in multiple publications like there is a massive induction of A-pop doses after a prolonged fast, which makes sense because it's a very strong stress. And then after during the refeiting phase, the organs basically come back, they come back, they grow, regrow. And presumably selectively repopulate. Yes, so he's shown that these stem cells get activated, so that basically they have to be activated by the low IGF1. But then to proliferate and differentiate into whatever tissue type we're talking about, let's say we're talking about the immune system, then IGF1 is required for that proliferation and differentiation and repopulation of the tissue, which means you can't just keep the IGF1 low. The refeiting is just as important as that. And the IGF1's key in that. And so, you know, what he's shown now is that you can take, for example, in the multiple scrocers, animal model, you can actually cause stem cells to be activated through the prolonged fast and then during the refeiting phase, the stem cells make non dysfunctional, so they're making normal, non autoimmune cells. He needs done like a pilot clinical study with multiple scrocers, people with multiple scrocers, and it's helped with symptoms. But he's also done these cancer studies. And this is kind of where there's been some clinical studies that he's been involved with, like a 48-hour water fast that's been done in patients undergoing standard of care treatment. And he's shown that it was tolerable, not only that, there seemed to be less mylo toxicity, less nutrient-eateny and so, basically, there, and it sensitized cancer cells to death. So, not only were the cancer cells dying more, but less of the normal cells were dying. And then he's gone ahead and shown this in animal models, also with the fasting mimicking diet. And it's like, if you look at the data, particularly in the animal model, because they can, you know, do all the tissue harvesting and stuff. IMean, it's like, it's so phenomenal that I would not be surprised that in the next 10 years, it will be required part of standard of care, because it seems to be so incredibly robust, I selectively killing cancer cells, which, you know, makes sense. IMean, oncogenes, they screw up all sorts of things. One of them is the stress response. And, you know, cancer cells can't respond. Just read their prime to die. IMean, it's, I spent a long time me not studying cancer cell metabolism apoptosis with a dugine, just a few other minutes, Sanctutulins, research hospital. And that's kind of one of the primary ways that a lot of these chemotherapy-to-drugs, if they can get to the tumor site work, is that because it's a stress, cancer cells can't handle it, you know, they die. So, I kind of went off on the tangent here. So, to get back to the IGF1, let me say one thing going back to what you just said, that is also interesting, but in the same thing. So, I agree that I think that it would really be great if patients had a better insight into nutrition going into chemotherapy. And the few times I go and give talks at hospitals or go and talk at like a cancer meeting. I'm amazed at how resistant the oncologists are on average, obviously there are exceptions, but on average, to interfering with nutrition. Because in many ways, their primary concern, tragically, is preserving weight. And so, I always get a little reclammed when I walked through an oncology ward and I see patients drinking in shore. Like, I couldn't think of a worse thing you'd want to consume when you have cancer. And yet, the goal is, hey, we've got to fatten these people up. So, I agree with you and I really hope that this research is accelerated because I do think patients would benefit greatly from this. And the other application that I saw in this several years ago, this is quite old now, but it blew my mind. I'm not sure if IMay have a J Mitchell's work up at Harvard. He didn't experiment where he took three groups of mice. So, the first group were considerably, colorically restricted for their entire life. These were probably like one and a half year old mice. So, they're about halfway through their life. Starting, starting, yeah. So, these animals were constantly at 70% coloric intake. The next group was your control group. And then your third group was at Libidham Diet until two days before an operation. And at which point they were calorie restricted to a near fast. And I'd have to go back and look, I can't remember if it was 24 or 48 hours of fasting. It might have been a 24 hour fast. 48 would be pretty extreme for mice. So, in summary, you've got control, this straight up eating, you've got 70% or 30% CR forever. And then you've got control and then fasted for a day. All the mice were then operated on where their femoral arteries were ligated, held for a period of time. And then they were reprefused. For people not familiar with that means that it means you open the animal up, you put clamps on the femoral arteries, which would basically stop all profusion of blood to the lower part of the body. And then after some period of time, just before you kill the animal, you release that. And then you reprefused the blood basically, the oxygen reprefuses the organism. That's considered a reprefusion injury, which is about one of the most stressful things you can do to an organism. So, that you can really rapidly kill someone by doing that. And that's something that in surgery happens quite a bit. For example, you end up having to clamp something off to repair something downstream of that. Okay. So, what happened was all of the control animals died without exception. Of the other two groups, the groups that were either calorie restricted for life or trensiently starved before the surgery, a significant subset did not die. And I can't remember the number. And again, I know we're going to probably link to this study. So, people are going to listen to this and go, that idiot got all those details wrong. But this is the just of it. A non-trivial subset of them lived. And what's interesting is you could get the same benefit by an acute period of caloric restriction in proximity to an insult that you could get by a lifelong of caloric restriction. And the third piece with it was interesting was the group that were just starved trensiently actually had a faster recovery. But again, they were fitter organisms. I remember the first time I came across that thinking, there's got to be something to cycling. And people used to always ask me, like, why are you on a ketogenic diet every minute of every day? Would there be any benefit in cycling? Now, I still don't know the answer to that question. But I'm more curious about it now based on what you just described from Voltaus work, plus this type of stuff, plus just the general ethos of the way we evolved. We've fasted. We fed. We fasted. We fed. We fasted a long time. We goreged. Like, it just seems we've evolved for cycling. Right. Yeah, I agree. It's really that with Voltaus work, I just am so excited about about the prolonged fasting and the potential benefits of it. I think that actually something that you and I discussed several years ago and I had your interview on my podcast that you brought up that I thought was really interesting how to do with like the failed clinical trials with binding IGF1 and cancer. And Voltaus brought up something interesting in a conversation I had with him. And that is possibly that we now know IGF1 having low and IGF1 is important. So if you're constantly having low IGF1, the IGF1 is important for the immune system or population, you can imagine the context of cancer when you're giving other treatments along with it, that would be important because your immune system is key in working off cancer. And I thought that was a really interesting point. Of course, we don't have evidence of that, but I think it's something that would be interesting to investigate and make sense. Yeah, I definitely am on the same page with you with, I'm not and like I started out with saying, I don't think that chronic color restriction and low IGF1 is the essential way for improving health span. And I do think that IGF1, you want it to go to your muscle, you want it to go to your brain. So I think people should definitely be active, especially if they're eating a high protein and or even high carbohydrate or something that's going to produce a lot of insulin, you know, they shouldn't be eating refined carbohydrates, but people do, they're eating them, they should definitely be exercising. That's another change in my belief system. I think today versus five or six years ago, I think five or six years ago, I didn't think exercise was that important to longevity, which actually sounds ridiculous for anyone who knows me, because I was probably exercising four hours a day, but not because I believed it would make me live longer. It was just sort of soothing my addictions. But I think today, I feel I am much more convinced by a lot of the data you've described, certainly the central stuff. When we published this paper earlier this year with Richard Isaacs and that you and I were talking about it before we started recording, we wanted to get a sense of like if you took a completely unbiased approach to and look at the literature, what was the single most compelling thing you could do to generate or preserve brain health? And we came away thinking that it was actually exercise. And I remember when the analysts were kind of going through this and showing me all the data, I was like, come on guys, there's no way exercise could be the most important thing for brain health. And again, I'm saying this is a guy who loves exercise more than anybody, but it just struck me as there's no way. And again, I think part of it was I was just thinking about it through the vascular lens. And obviously, you know, I think better than I do that when you start to think about brain health, you have to think about it through a vascular lens, a metabolic lens, growth factor lens. IMean, they're overlapping, but distinct pathways that are going to influence brain health. And so I was kind of humbled by that. And now, I guess in many ways, I'm a little more adamant about it with my patients, not that I wasn't, you know, adamant before, but this is like, boy, if you're not active every day, like we got to change that. I actually, the main reason I exercise is for my brain. It's certainly just not only for, you know, preventing neurogenophecies and atrophy and all that, but just because it affects my executive function and it affects my anxiety levels, it affects my ability to make decisions. I absolutely, if I have something that's bothering me, you're giving me anxiety or I have to make a really important decision going for a long run, really helps me. And there's been studies showing that it helps with executive function, a long-term planning, like aerobic exercise, specifically, you know, and high intensity, interval trening, all that stuff, they all do different things. Well, that's the thing we couldn't tease this out of the literature, which again, probably is just a limitation of shitty human clinical trials, but that's the second order question, right, which is if you're going to take the Tim Ferriss approach, which is what's the minimum effective dose? Because there are some people, like maybe you or I, who I think just generally like exercise and also get these other benefits, these endorphin benefits, but there are some people who are like, look, what do I need to do? Like, I'm going to treat exercise like medicine. And I think in that setting, I'm still not clear. So if you were that person, what I say, Rhonda, as long as you are lifting weights, one hour, three times a week, like if you can only give me three hours, would that be how I'd want you to spend it, or what I rather you be doing an aerobic aerobic type thing? Like, IMean, that's to me, those are where these biomarkers start to become very important, because we're not going to generate hard-outcome studies, with that level of control. Once you, you know, try to control that many variables and be that strict about it. You're going to very much lose a hard-outcome prospectively. But if we knew what to measure, right, and that's, you know, would we be measuring an integral of IGF, for example, so how much it rises, how much it falls, and then what that looks like over time. But I guess that's the funny thing, right? Like, the more we learn the less we know. Yeah, absolutely. I think that we definitely don't know the answer to that question. But I think there's a lot of data out there showing the for example, strength trening, you know, there's benefits on the brain that's been shown published, this benefits on preventing muscle, atrophy, there's benefits on preventing cancer, incident like, that's all been shown for strength trening for aerobic, and, you know, this high intensity interval trening is also, also, seems to be making its way as well. Like, like, there was a study that I found VO2 max, this is, you know, the ability of your body to trensport oxygen during exercise, which also is a indicator of when you're not exercising. And obviously, trensporting oxygen to the brain, for example, is extremely important. The O2 max declines with age, like 1% per year, I forgot starting at what age, but, you know, so 10% per decade. So that's almost parallels the muscle, master, clandestine. Yes, it does parallel, exactly. And there was a study showing that 24 sessions of high intensity interval trening, where it was like a 45 minute session, five minute warm-up, five minute cooldown, and then, you know, in between the max intervals, which were like pretty long, like a minute, there was, you know, the 70% of max work. Anyways, so 24 of those increased VO2 max by 12 per cent. So you're literally taking an entire decade of decline and reversing it with the 24. Yeah, that's, that's actually a point. When I was more active as a sort of competitive, you know, encycling, you would get our VO2 max tested about twice a year. Rye and Flairty, who we were talking about before the podcast, who's one of my close friends, and you've got to know him as well. I learned from Rye and that actually VO2 max is not the most important indicator as a runner or cyclist. It's VO2 max or pvo2 max that matters. In other words, for a runner, vvo2 max is much more predictive of performance, which is the velocity you carry at VO2 max. And for a cyclist, it's pvo2 max, which is the power output at VO2 max. That said, every time you go to test, you want to test well. So, you know, over time, I learned how to gain the system. You know, I want to make sure my VO2 max is in the 70s, which again, to put that in perspective, like, that's not at the level of professional athlete or something. Like the guys that are winning the tour de France are in the high 80s or low 90s in terms of milligrams per mill per kilogram. But nevertheless, just altering my trening for three weeks before OVO2 max test and dropping my weight. So, if I shed two kilograms and did those types of intervals, I actually had it down to a science where there was a workout I would do. You know, in Carmel Valley, you've got the 56 that goes out and it's got a bike path next to it. There's a section of that bike path that is 1.6 miles long and it goes up at about 4%. And just doing repeat intervals of that, which takes abouT4 minutes all out to go one direction and then about six minutes to cruise back, four of those. That was it twice a week for like three weeks and your VO2 max exploded. Now, of course, thEQuestion is, is that like, you know, cramming for the test, getting the result, but not necessary? Like, do you have to keep doing that to get the decade long benefit? I don't know the answer, but I agree that like, if you can maintain muscle mass and you can maintain peak aerobic performance, it's not, it doesn't even matter at that point if you're living longer. You're clearly living better. Like, if you don't budge anything on maximum lifespan, you've dramatically improved median lifespan. Right. And that's a, you know, that's for most people, that's what matters. It is. Yeah, for me, it is. IMean, what's the, what's the maximum lifespan that, like, a human's like 120? 120 for something like that? Is it 120, 120, 120, 120, 120, yeah? Living beyond that. IMean, that's, I think the goal is really to, at least for me, I think that's a lot more achievable is increasing my, my median health span, my health span, you know, so, so basically preventing, staving off cardiovascular disease, cancer, Alzheimer's disease, those sorts of things. So that I'm, so that I'm living healthier. And also, you know, a little bit longer, but obviously not 125 or six years. Yeah, I don't really subscribe to the theory that we're going to meet some takeoff point where, you know, there's immortality. I'm really not convinced that that's, that that's sort of biologically possible. And I don't suspect that I'll be alive at a time when it would ever come to fruition. I don't remember the journal. It was a paper that came out of Japan. And the study looked at a variety of people of different ages. So elderly population, centenarians, which are 100, semi-super centenarians, which are between 105 and then super centenarians, which are 105 plus. And looked at a variety of biomarkers for health and aging. So telomere, senescence, kidney function, glycated hemoglobin, lipid, the whole lipid panel, triglycerides, kidney function, hematopoesis. Like all that stuff was looked at inflammatory biomarkers. And what was found is that aside from age, what was predictive of being able to basically stay alive was low inflammation. Like more than hematopoesis, more than glycated hemoglobin, blood glucose levels, lipid, all that stuff. It was basically the ability to press inflammation. Like that was a predictive of cognitive function and also basically staying alive. Do you remember what they looked at? Were they looking at C-Rective protein and things like that? A relatively general markers? They look at inner lookins and stuff also. TNF. They looked at a whole panel of, and also some immune cells that are indicative of inflammation. So there was a whole panel of biomarkers that were looked at for inflammation. HPV, tighter or something was also looked at. So the interesting thing about that study was that inflammation was so key for each age group, right? Like even more than all this other stuff, like that, I thought about like senescence and telomere and low-clucost levels and all that stuff. And so I really, and if you look at some of the rodent literature, for example, I remember the study where NFCAPA-B, which is classically thought about as an inflammatory mediator, which it is, it also has an anti-inflammatory component to it. And if you get rid of the anti-inflammatory component, rodents will have this sort of low-level chronic inflammation because every time it's activated, there's not that anti-inflammatory part that's kind of keeping it in check. And so there's kind of like this like lower chronic inflammation that's happening. And those animals live like 30% less. So they're life spans cut short by about 30%. So that's kind of interesting, right? You're just just getting rid of that little anti-inflammatory component of just one major regulator of immune system. It has an profound effect on life span. And then of course, if you look at SNPs and stuff, of course, you can always find, you know, well since naryins have a higher percentage of 10 in anti-inflammatory anyways, you know. So the inflammation, it's an interesting finding that keep suppressing inflammation seems to be important for at least, you know, according to that study for making it to every part of, you know, I don't know what you call it, every, basically progressing to the maximum level that maximum lifespan level that humans can possibly live. Well, there was a clinical trial published either earlier this year or last year that looked at an IL1 antagonist. And so this was a study that took people and made no change in their lipid metabolism lipid biomarker. You know, this was they, they didn't do anything to the patients as far as differentiating the groups by traditional biomarkers of cardiovascular disease. But one group was given a placebo, one group was given an IL1 antagonist. ThEQuestion was could that impact cardiovascular mortality? And we've long talked about how cardiovascular disease is sort of this trifecta of life-approachings, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction. But this was in many ways the most elegant first test of that in humans using heart outcome. So made your adverse cardiac event stroke MI death. The hypothesis was found to be correct. So the patients getting the IL1 antagonist despite having no difference in lipids or any other biomarker had an improved outcome with the spike of cardiovascular health. About a month ago, another trial that was using low dose of methylthrexate, which is an immune suppressive, was halted early. And the results will not be announced until this fall. But if you read kind of the fine print, it does not appear. It was halted for a bad reason. Meaning it might have been halted actually for basically early efficacy, which presumably would have been in the group getting the methylthrexate. So again, we won't know that until the meeting in October, I think when this will be presented. But if that turns out to be the case, that's pretty interesting because now you've taken something that we practically have great examples of the one you've given, and now potentially there's ways to think about using it. So taking a step back from all this stuff, I think about it at the level of like, I'm just a mechanic. It's like, how can you manipulate these things in people? Cycling, using nutrition and fasting to cycle IGF, maybe even using an exogenous growth hormone for all we know. Maybe, you know, I've always been quite skeptical of growth hormones use in the field of longevity, but maybe periods of oscillating, wrap a mice in a growth hormone and fasting where you're cycling high periods of antibiotic, high periods of catabolic phase, maybe there's something to it, and then cycling agents like methylthrexate and all these things. So I don't know, that's my hope is like in 10 years. We've got a complete personalized toolkit for how everybody could figure out exactly what drugs or hormones or nutrients to take and cycle and how to do it. And then of course, the key is you have to be able to measure stuff. You know, the, the, with the cardiovascular rate and mortality, the, the sauna is something that is interesting to me for that for that reason, because of the profound effects that it has specifically on lowering cardiovascular related mortality, and of course, there's some clinical trials showing that, you know, there's a variety of other biomarkers and potential mechanisms by that, but which that's happening. But if you look at some of the data by Dr. Yari Lauken and out of Finland, if you look at some of the observational studies, you know, where there's like a couple thousand men that we're doing, it's sauna, so you pick what is in Finland. But if you look at, for example, men that are using it two to three times a week, versus 47 times a week versus once a week, and you look at, for example, cardiovascular rate mortality, two to three times a week, it's lowered by like 27%. But when you jump to 47 times a week, it goes to 50% every year. All cause mortality goes to 40, all cause mortality, all cause mortality is also lowered, dementia and Alzheimer's disease, again, like 20% lowered if you're doing two to three. I'm so glad you brought this up because I almost forgot, and I wanted to talk about this. This is one of those things where I think three years ago, I was completely dismissive of this stuff, which is to say I still love going into a sauna because the one thing that I felt sauna really mattered for was sleep and not for the growth hormone level. But because I think there's pretty good data that a great way to sleep is to create a high gradient of temperature. So the faster, the more negative the derivative of temperature, dT by dT, when you sleep, the faster you'll go to sleep in the longer you'll stay asleep. So a sauna before bed, if you could jump in the sauna, then take a cold shower, then jump into a cold bed. You're going to sleep like a baby. I've done it. It's absolutely true. It's remarkable. Yeah. So I always accepted that, but I looked at all of that epidemiologic stuff, and I was like the healthy user bias here is through the roof. Like I came up with a hundred reasons why I just couldn't believe it, including sauna's are painful. So if you are fit enough to sit in a sauna seven days a week versus the guy who can only sit in it one day a week, like how do I know that that's not driving it? Now since that time, I've become a lot more interested because now the mechanism is starting to become more well understood. And so I'd love to have you talk a little bit more about this because I know you've talked about this a lot on your podcast, but in many ways your pursuit of this has become one of the more convincing arguments in my thinking on the actual health benefits of this independent of the healthy health user benefits of this. You know the healthy user benefits of course and with with the Yaris work he's tried to correct for all that physical activity that he's done everything like looking at lipid blood cholesterol numbers LDL number like just like really you know try to try to try this best to kind of correct for that healthy user bias and of course there's a dose dependence which always makes it more convincing. But he's then since published some clinical trials where he's looked at for example the arterial compliance and of course blood pressures and that's one of the main things that's effect is blood pressure but also just like the ability of the arteries to like expand and contract in response to pressure like that's improved which is really important. So I think that you know obviously the son at the heat itself does does affect blood flow plasma volume all that stuff is change. So I think that the cardiovascular aspects and Yaris trying to really kind of tease part more mechanisms because he's a he's an MD PhD he's a cardiologist by trening but he's also got a PhD so he's he's trying you know really hard to to kind of understand exactly what's going on but I do think that it's really seems convincing. It's really convincing with the cardiovascular related mortality specifically it's very robust. Personally it's kind of interesting to think about how much of you know exercise also elevates your core body temperature IMean there's the overlap there you know and when I sit in a sauna my heart rates are to elevate like I'm doing cardiovascular and that's what happens like I'm doing cardiovascular exercise sort of to sweat IMean a lot of the same adaptations that happen with exercise or happening when you're sitting in a hot sauna and even a hot bath like more recently another study came out trying hot bath effected had a positive effect on a variety of cardiovascular related markers as well which again if but you have to sit in it long enough you know to to experience some of those effects of the elevation of the heart rate and all that stuff but there's also really profound effect on the immune system like part of the benefit of exercises that it is an acute oxidative stress burst an acute inflammatory burst you know there's then a response to that and the net response is a positive anti-inflammatory and antioxidant response but the inflammatory and oxidant response is required to get that and something similar is happening with with the sauna as well recently there was a study looking by Dr. Charles Rezon he had made this like fancy contraption where he elevated core body temperature and he had a sham control so actually the sham control also made people a little bit hot and they thought they were actually getting the treatment but it had a very strong anti-depressant how do they do that he explains it on my podcast and you can go this trenscript you can just kind of that strikes me as one of the few things you can't placebo they did some crafty thing which I'm not going to try to explain I will absolutely botch it and they did it and they had a sham control and in fact about he said about 70% of the people they had the sham control thought they had the actual treatment so it were like there was definitely a they were trying to control for the placebo effect what's interesting is I even the reason I got into this sauna was the effects that I felt on my mood when I was in graduate school like I lived across the street from a website and so I started using this sauna and it was like very black and white like I was like wow this is amazing like I can handle all this was a wet sauna dry sauna this was this is a dry sauna do we have a sense of dry sauna versus IR versus all the different yeah so IMean the infrared sauna is there like they only get to like about 104 degrees Fahrenheit you know it's not very hot if you look at Yaris work it like their sauna is that they're using them Finland they do they have a lot of what they call low lieu or something which is like they throw the water on makes the humid which makes it really hot I've been a Finland and try that try the their sauna's before but basically the temperature gets to around 170 between 175 and 79 degrees Fahrenheit and most of the men in these studies are doing about 20 minutes to get the maximum benefits the 11 minutes had some benefits sitting in 11 minutes but there was a stronger effect they say to 20 minutes so if you're in a infrared sauna that only gets to 140 degrees Fahrenheit you probably would have to stay in a much longer to get the same benefit and I see so the IR doesn't doesn't get deeper penetration thereby alleviating the need to stay in at a higher temperature it doesn't IMean sometimes people talk about there's a lot of marketing involved in a lot of that you strip that out though if you strip that out the the infrared sauna's do affect the sweating mechanisms like something to do with the penetration there you do do sweat which is great because you actually do excrete things like BPA and falades and mercury and heavy metals and things like that from sweat so that that is that's what a lot of those mark those stuff straight up dry sauna to 170 degrees spend three or four nights a week in that my favorite yeah that's personally I would much prefer sitting in a regular dry sauna or even a sauna that you can throw water just not in infrared sauna yeah so that would be you know the obviously the the fire hazard risk is more when you're having a sauna like that versus just an infrared and the infrared ones are I think cheaper as well so it's certainly more convenient to have an infrared sauna but personally I prefer for the other like the barrel sauna are really nice there's also an effect on the immune system I was mentioning Charles Rishon he measured IL6 which is also it's part of the Janis side of kind because it does like it's got like multiple pleatropic effects and it's it's a cutely released upon exercise as well it has it's very important for you know an anti inflammatory response releasing myocines and all these things in muscle so it has it's important for insulin sensitivity a lot of the insulin sensitivity effects um exercise has so so the sauna does the same thing that the exercise does where there's just a rapid IL6 release at least according to Charles Rishon's data and he said that actually correlates with the different you know I've never looked at I wear a continuous glucose monitor a lot but I've never really paid much attention to it in the sauna and I don't have a sauna but I'm going to be this weekend at a friends place who has a barrel sauna and so I'll make sure that I document what my glucose levels doing um because you would think trensiently would go up right but I know that at least there's an one animal study where the heat stress quote unquote animal sauna it it actually increases glucose trensporters and a type two diabetic model that actually improved insulin sensitivity lowered blood glucose because the glucose was now being taken up into muscle butter so I wonder you know how much of the again it's like you're you're affecting the IL6 is is is really important for that IL6 is released upon heat stress without without the exercise so on coupling you know how much of the benefits from exercise there's certainly some overlap and I think that there's also their separate benefits that exercise has as well independent of the heat stress component of it but I certainly think there is a lot of overlap between those two things and so the sauna becomes very interesting and then there's the whole heat jog protein part where you know the heat stress is one of the major ways to increase heat jog proteins which do play an important role in neurogenogenic preventing neurogenogenic diseases and I do think it's also really hard to un-couple the effects on the the vascular system which is important right as well because it's having such a profound effect on the vascular system the heat stress it's hard to un-couple how much of the staving off of dementia and Alzheimer's has to do with that versus each other proteins in our own. This is to me the biggest challenge with Alzheimer's disease just is you know we're talking about it in a pretty nuanced way but I think unfortunately clinically it's still considered one disease but you know to the best of my understanding it's really several diseases that all have a very similar common final pathway you know for example like going back some of the ketone data you know why why does ketone enhance memory in some in some models certainly even going back oh god 10 years you see a lot of anecdote of people in early stage dementia who when given even MCT oil would see trensient improvements in cognition now Richard Veech did some of the most elegant work on this Richard Veech by the way is the guy who along with Kieran Clark created the ketone Esther that T delta S licenses to human and you know they showed I think quite convincingly in this animal model that the BHB was basically bypassing pyruvate dehydrogenase and so all of a sudden you know you think about the energy deficit that a neuron would experience if you have insulin resistance at pdh so if you know glucose is going to pyruvate and pyruvate can't get in because pdh is resistant giving BHB would just bypass it you go straight into the crebs cycle you make all the ATP you want but that might only be a subset of people that are you know suffering right there's also going to be the micro-vascular variant and then there's going to be the sort of more toxin variant so the nice thing about sauna too just thinking about it is it if IMean as again like I'm becoming more and more convinced of this it's actually like a really pleasant thing that you can do to potentially live longer and certainly live better because many of the things we talk about IMean let's call a spade as fastening is not fun I wish I could tell you that you know not eating is fun but like I just love eating so anytime I'm not eating I'm sort of like there's a discipline that's required to do it but I don't know sitting in the sauna for 20 minutes before you go to bed is pretty enjoyable of course the problem is it's not it's not it's not accessible no it's not every month you don't like yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it's enjoyable until you like holy shit it's hot I want to get out but it's knowing that like you get to get out and then that that jump into the pool or the whatever it is is is is is is yeah and the discomfort you experience from from like the heat stress where you're really hot is actually I think key for the positive benefits at least for me it was on my mood where it was just like felt so good so what about the reciprocal of that cold so I used to you do a lot of cold therapy but all for Dom still the late onset muscle so that was my main interest was you know back in the old days I would go out and buy £100 of ice or £50 of ice I guess throw it in the bathtub cold water and I would immerse myself and that was unbearable but that really sped up my recovery from difficult workouts it's a pain in the ass so I started doing cryo and the data well I was pretty convinced that whole body cryo three minutes of whole body cryo at the right temperature was going to produce a roughly comparable effect in Dom's but had a fraction of the time and 10x the cost but I've also had people talk to me about and again I've never really looked into this but I'm guessing you have ice cold showers for you know increasing nor up and effort in levels things like that mood altering have you have you looked into this I've looked into the literature yeah that's something that I did that I did notice from from doing cold showers and sometimes I'll do them before like a big talk or something because it does help me focus and it helps with my anxiety kind of very some sort of so yeah I was going to say how do we square the two completely different things right you would you sit in the sauna to help with anxiety and then you could have the cold shower well I didn't start getting into the cold shower until probably a couple of years ago the sauna I started doing in grad school yeah long time probably about 2008 so long time ago so they're they're completely uncoupled in my experience IMean so do you think the sauna is working more through GH and other I think the sauna has a very profound first it affects the immune system and that inflammation has a major effect on rain and I think that that's worked from Charles Raison is pretty clear it's definitely there's definitely an antidepressant effect that seems to correlate with biomarkers of the immune system so so the more potent the aisle six response the more potent the antidepressant response in addition to that there's a very strong effect on beta door fins beta door fins are dumped and also this other system called dinorfen which is you know the opposite yeah and and what's interesting is that when you activate dinorfen through the the cap opioid pathway instead of new opioid you feel uncomfortable and it's the part where I'm we're talking about your leg I'm hot I want to get out it's the part when you're exercising where you're like oh this you know it's that uncomfortable feeling well that's you're making dinorfen partly because it cools your body down so it's kind of a response to elevating your body. I'm convinced by the way there are subset of athletes that don't produce that at the same level IMean seriously like there are people I think who there are because we talk about like why can that guy tolerate so much more pain than that guy yeah and at some point it's possible that they're actually experiencing less pain there they're definitely our variants in the cap opioid receptor pathway and all that so I'm surprised that hasn't become a performance enhancing drug which is you know blocking that receptor the pain receptor in the brain which is a you know a very interesting thought but now so so then on the cold front what do you think's mediating that neurotrensmitters so so basically on the cold front the nor at the nephrine your it's that's been shown so animal studies have shown or no upper nephrine released in the locus coroleus reason of the brain after cold exposure and a variety of cold water exposure cryotherapy if you're doing a cold water 50 degree you know it's like 50 degrees Fahrenheit you got to stay in a little longer than like a couple of minutes and in a really cold cryotherapy chamber but in humans plasma norpone fefran's been looked at which does seem to sort of cool correlate with the release and so hard though to look at the plasma to understand that so I know it is it is so I do think that some of the mood is affected by the norpone effort as well have you experimented with the stacking which is go do the sauna for 20 minutes then go do the ice shower for whatever 10 minutes and you get an additive effect into the water I feel really good yeah I feel really good and and that's when I did notice that my sleep was really profoundly affected what's interesting is there's some studies showing that that heat stress at least in piglets does affect actually seems to elongate the REM sleep stage which I don't know how you know what what all that means but so there's there's certainly an effect of heat on sleep and then of course cold is you know lowering your body body temperature is important for sleep on set but I don't know there's something about the combination of the two absolutely like I sleep amazing after doing the combination of both I think cold is really interesting for the effects on mitochondrial biogenesis IMean exercise is probably one of the best ways to increase mitochondrial biogenesis but cold exposures been shown human studies both an adpust tissue and in muscle tissue to to boost biomarkers of mitochondrial biogenesis well depends on why tissue we're looking at the so like you know PGC1 alpha would be would probably be one of the best I would say for a muscle tissue in in anapost tissue perhaps the same I would say PGC1 alpha is probably one of the best it's another downstream one I can't for some reason I'm drawing a blank yeah so that that that's interesting to me that the the effect on mitochondrial biogenesis but personally I like the exercise you know for my my my mitochondrial biogenesis I'm not like doing cold exposure all the time it's not like something that I they do often like I said I'll do it once in a while before a big event I have to talk at or something just because it does seem to help me with my mood and my my my my my my if you ever swim in water that's so cold that you actually feel like you're on fire yeah I have been yeah that's that's me is amazing I assume it's due to the vaso construction I don't know but it's the coldest water I ever swam and was in the Colorado River and was 42 degrees which is IMean that's that's unusually cold and the only reason I think I was able to swim in it was it was it was May and so the sun was it was about 90 degrees Fahrenheit was the air temperature so you could like I wouldn't be able to swim in 42 degree water on a cloudy day for example or cold day but I couldn't believe the sensation of feeling like I had jumped into boiling oil it was incredible which is very different from my normal exposure to cold I used to swim a lot in the ocean and you know if you do a three hour swim at 50 degrees Fahrenheit or 52 53 you get a little bit of that effect but you know more or less you can still you still know you're in cold water but this particular time I remember and I probably spent 15 to 20 minutes in this 42 degree temp the entire time I felt like I was burning wow and again I I I I know no idea why I guess it's my assumption was that's such profound vasoconstriction in the periphery that you know the one thing that I wanted to mention when you brought this up for recovery is because there is some evidence that for whatever reason strength trening when you do cold exposure like immediately after strength trening if you do it within let's say before like sometimes with it sometimes within an hour before or before sorry after after strength trening it seems to blunt some of the hypertrophy effects yes yes and and actually it seems to you say that that's the exact reason I would never take like ibutamoren or any anti-inflammatory agent I would limit it even that day I wouldn't take any of those agents because you're impairing that that rebuild yeah yeah so that so that's also interesting that the timing of it seems to be you know again there's it's been shown that about an hour after exercise is when the the anti-inflammatory response starts to peak and so it's like if you can you basically if you're within that hour window when the inflammation's happening to create that anti-inflammatory response you don't want to dampen that at least that's it seems to be what I think and and literature seems to suggest and there's of course mechanisms where it's like specific macrophages and muscle tissue are really important for activating all these things that you know eventually result in satellite teleportation you know and of course IGF ones in there somewhere so again you know the immune system activation is important for a lot of the benefits of exercise including muscle hypertrophy so so there's one more topic I just want to get to if we can spare a bit more time which is which is NAD the precursors the whole stick you've spent a lot of time thinking about this what is your current thinking on is having more NAD to NADH matter the the thing about the NAD I guess I should provide context for people why am I asking this question right so there's lots of supplements out there now that are you know either giving NAR or NAD and the claim is that these things can enhance longevity it would live longer and that also you live better you have more energy all of these other things and so in the mitochondria you have complex one which converts NADH to NAD and the idea is we do know that as you age that ratio of NAD to NADH goes down and so part of the thinking is well and this is outside of the Sirtun pathway but this is upstream of that but if that you give more of either the precursor or NAD you're basically fixing something that is getting worse as you age yeah so that IMean the thEQuestion is why does it go down and that's I think there's multiple reasons for that at least that's been shown literature NAD is a very important co-factor for mitochondria IMean obviously mitochondria are making NADH and that hydrogen the proton is used and electrons are used to basically generate energy through the electron trensport chain and it's also generating the mitochondrial membrane potential by kicking out the the proton so that that's really important for mitochondrial function respiratory function energy production which is like the key of everything right but in addition to that you have as you mentioned Sirtunans which are histone deocetylases which have a whole host of functions that they're doing regulating tons and tons of different pathways they're also seem to be very important for health span and then in addition to that there's very important DNA repair enzyme part that literally sinks up NAD IMean it's like an NAD sink IMean you know so you know we're constantly having damage to it. Where does it reside that enzyme? Where in the cell? Yeah is it nuclear it must be yeah and the reason I ask is how do we know that these supplements that we take orally are going to actually reach their bioavailability in the place we want them. Right. Okay but that said we'll come back to that after. I think it's in the nucleus IMean it would be a sense to be there but yeah. Otherwise it shuttles there but I think it is so it's very important for repairing you know DNA damage and so that's one of the major sinks and actually inflammation all these things are kind of upstream of part activation so the more that's happening the more part being activated so you kind of have you have NAD going there. So one argument just to make sure I understand what you're saying is look if you're getting older you're going to have more DNA damage that's just stochastic and if your little guy that repairs it requires NAD as fuel that would explain one reason potentially why NAD would decline as we age. Yeah and it's certainly a sink for it yeah and the other so the other thing is well if your immune system is constantly you know activated too if you're more inflammation you have all that energy is required so NAD is being consumed more for that as well so that's sort of another sink basically NAD levels decline with age and it's probably because it's just getting used up more or the other the alternative is you know is there's something else going on in terms of like this whole salvage pathway there's another pathway that you can do to regenerate NAD and if that's kind of going wrong and I think there's some increasing evidence for that as well. Would that make metformin a bad idea from this standpoint because metformin inhibits complex one so metformin lowers the ratio of NAD to NAD to NADH. Does it has that been shown so you're saying it should lower it? It should lower it now of course that's counterintuitive because we know it activates AMPK so I probably have to sit down and think about this but we do know metformin inhibits complex one and we know that complex one turns NADH to NAD which makes me wonder does is it possible that metformin would impair DNA repair through that mechanism by reducing substrate? I have no idea. Well I'm gonna write that down that's a bit of an effort to look into because I wasn't aware of the and I didn't understand that link about yeah yeah I think that's a major one I literally think that's a major thing for it I think that the part is I think it's just like going there. Yeah so the animal evidence you mentioned some of this supplements you know precursors I can form NAD I think that the animal evidence suggests that it can at least enroll in improved health span particularly in models with like that are heavily dependent on mitochondria like muscle myopathy models or something like that I think that was one and also the brain so I think those are the two the two organs I've seen like major positive effects with with NAD supplementation and then there's some of course pilot clinical studies showing that yes you can take for example Nikotana Med Rice, riboside and it does seem to increase NAD levels in plasma and a dose dependent manner now again you raise that up. We have no idea if it's getting in the building. What is it getting in the cell? Is it getting in the mic? Now we do know in animal studies I think that has been shown because it's affecting the mitochond like I said those animal models of myopathy and stuff in mitochondrial function was improved and all that stuff so so in animal models it obviously is affecting mitochondrial function so it must be getting to the right place. I don't know why I have found myself kind of skeptical of this. I think it's good to start with skepticism IMean I think that NAD levels are you can you can increase them with fasting so when you fast you know as you mentioned you convert NAD into NADH in the presence of of energy because that's basically when you have a substrate like glucose or fatty acid that's when you produce NADH or FADH too. So in the absence of those substrates then you start to your NAD starts to build up so back to your metformin question. You said I know who to ask I definitely know I'm going to ask Nav Chendell he will know the answer to this question. I follow a lot of his work when I was in graduate of him, Ralph G. Bardinis I did because I was doing a lot of cancer metabolism, my mitochondrial function and stuff so I had followed a lot of this work. Do you have NADH's book Nav the Gating Metabels? No I don't. No I just used to read his papers back when I was a graduate school just. Yeah so Nav and David Sabotini were in town a couple of weeks ago and I was leaving town the day they were coming in the town so we hung out for three hours near the airport and I was just reminded of how much fun it is to talk about mitochondria. Yeah. For sure. What is the most interesting question you feel you don't yet know the answer to but you feel is noable that you're sort of actively putting in lots of your clock cycles on thinking about? I would really like to know if for example someone who is like myself who and I don't have a lot of body fat I'm active I eat a pretty healthy diet you know I don't smoke I don't have any of those bad habits if I were to do a prolonged fast a couple of days a year would that truly have an effect on increasing my stem cell production potentially you know getting rid of any dysfunctional immune cells dysfunctional liver cells dysfunctional whatever you know muscle cells and and repopulating them with like healthy new cells like basically this rejuvenation like could I get this like burst of rejuvenation a couple times a year and would that have in turn have an effect on delaying the onset of age related diseases improving my health span you know keeping my stem cells less damage that would be very interesting to me because to me that's something that's very doable for myself IMean the experiment to figure that out is different because it's you know in humans and so that's going to be really hard you have to figure out like if you can even look at certain biomarkers to know that but I feel like that would be something that's so easy for someone to do it's interested in longevity and you think it would be sort of once or twice a year doing like a five day water only mineral in the end well thEQuestion is how often yeah and how long of it like so you know we have a lot of the studies coming out of animal data which even these these rodents they lose 20% of their body weight after a 40-hour water fast yeah I find it hard to infer anything from rodents when it comes to fasting because of this exact reason it's like either even the J Mitchell stuff I talked about earlier IMean I think it's an interesting proof of concept but I don't actually know how you would apply that to humans right so thEQuestion is it's like okay so if you have a 48-hour fast in a rodent or a magnet that's human as a base sensor yeah so I guess I'll expand my sort of answer that question like maybe do a prolonged water fast like time what's the frequency what's the duration to get the maximum benefit yeah and I am specifically interested in this shrinking of the organs and then regrowing like this potential robust activation of stem cells clearing away you know we're not just talking about claring away damaged mitochondria pieces of DNA protein which is all really great you are getting that but well in theory in humans in addition to that IMean I'm talking about clearing with a damage to the whole cell like just getting rid of it and replacing it with a brand new young healthy cell like that's what I'm interested in you know I would I would love to you know even just the hope that that's possible you know based off of some of the pilot studies that multistending humans and certainly the the animal evidence like I'm convinced I'm going to at least try because it seems it seems very possible I know I know that he is trying to find the best biomarkers to look at for you know stem cell activation so it's not quite as straightforward can't just you know harvest a bunch of tissues and and look at things but I certainly have gotten some anecdotes from people that have had autoimmune like diseases and things said that fastings like completely reversed some of it like like X amount or something yeah you know no it's weird it's you know where it's anecdotal but certainly when you start to have enough people saying the same thing it's like wow that's interesting that you've heard that five five or six times now yeah I think that would that's a good one I guess I think of a very similar question with rap a mice and rap a mice and yeah what what does and what frequency to produce the best longevity seen at you know the interesting thing with the rap a mice and is the effect on the senescent cells like that's so interesting to me I didn't know really about that until I listened to your podcast with Judas yeah she's amazing she's really she's really she's really great very knowledgeable in the whole senescent field yeah I had no I had no idea either the life's expanding effect is is that males only or was it both males no male and females and it's across IMean it's it's everything from yeast to worms to flies to mammals IMean it's the only drug that's uniformly extended life across a billion years of evolution IMean and there's really interesting work IMean I think Matt Cable and talk about some of my spanner are we talking medium actually and the mice it was I don't think I'm back in the book I'd probably in it's most of the time it's medium but yeah yeah and it was interesting in the mice as they started late in life they started at 600 days which is you know that's about 60 years old yeah that's like starting is with a small that was really late in life for the for the mice yeah it was wow that is that is very interesting so Cable and's work do you know Matt at the University of Washington he is giving rap and mice into dogs but these are pets right so these are not laboratory animals which is what makes it really interesting is you've got animals that live in our environment that are and dogs sort of have a very predictable demise right they're either going to be you know dying in accident be you've been I have cardium iopathy or die of cancer that's basically how dogs die and the cardimiaopathy that they get is not an atherosclerotic cardium iopathy they get a cardimiaopathy where the muscles are actually just getting weaker and weaker and their rejection fraction is going down and in studies as short as 12 weeks they're seeing a 10 percent increase in ejection fraction of these dogs and so thEQuestion is how much of that is working through syncesses just selectively knocking out syncess and cells and letting myocytes regenerate yeah that study out of the myoclank where they they did some drug that selectively targeted syncess and it led to 20 percent increase in median lifespan certain sort of an interesting proof of principle how just well that was in I think an accelerated aging model so they had accumulated more syncess and so obviously they had to do something like that but um but it all comes back to this idea of specificity and selection you know everything we've talked about if you really stop to think about it comes down to how could you target this tissue and leave that tissue alone or how could you target this cell and leave that cell alone and the in many ways I think that's kind of got to be the next frontier here is you know even if you think about something as crude as chemotherapy it is not hard to kill a cancer cell with a chemical that's trivial it's hard to kill a cancer cell and not a normal cell and that's why chemotherapy obviously targets rapidly dividing cells and it's still very crude but the stuff we're talking about is like taking that to the next level which is how could you get this enzyme to work more efficiently but in this subset of cell you know just in the muscle but not in the fat or not in the liver and then yeah and that's again where the fasting is just so impressive to me the fact that you know all the normal cells is you're enhancing all these stress response pathways so the chemo drug becomes that most more less you know efficacious like it's like almost like a lower dose because it's like got these robust anti-apoptotic and anti stress response genes that are dealing with that sort of stress and so it's like it can take the toxic and so because of that upregulation that fasting is doing and the cancer cell just can so I'm I'm so glad that that works being done I hope that there is more funding that goes in that area I think that it is a really important area of research again like I said for the you know this is and this is all from from Voltares work and some of his colleagues that's I'm just kind of like the fan girl you know but I'm certainly I'm happy someone's doing that research and I would love to see that be used as a standard of care some day for sure so around it many people listening to this will know everything about where to find you but for the let's assume there's someone here who this is their first time meeting you where can they learn more about you and how can they interact with you? I have a podcast it's called Found My Fitness you can find it on iTunes and on my website found my fitness.com all the episode pages there with links to the video which in your video is are remarkable because you put so much work into actually like a podcast like this unfortunately we're too lazy like I'm not going to actually do much except create show notes but on yours it's like it's like a Khan Academy right it's like everything is being explained in the video as well like yeah I think yeah it's explained the the figures definitions and all that are there in the video and also and I think we're having now definitions and stuff on the website so people can the the goal is to definitely showcase you know a lot of the the researchers and scientists that I interview and also educate people as well so found my fitness someone I choose and my website and social media you can find me on them and what do you like most is Twitter the easiest place for people to get through Twitter Facebook Instagram I'm on all of them but yeah and what's your handle found my fitness that's all found my fitness yeah so you were ahead of me on this like you you immediately recognize the value of exercise I'm a late comrade of this IMostly from from personal experience I realize I was like this is like this is great for my brain and from there I just kind of got dove into it was convinced yeah for sure run I can't thank you enough this has been awesome I don't suspect it's the last time we'll talk about this stuff so until next time awesome you can find all of this information and more at peteratiamed.com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode you can also find my blog and the nerds of barri at peteratiamed.com what's a nerds of barri you ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-laying once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science, performance, sleep, etc. on social you can find me on Twitter Instagram and Facebook all with the ID, Peter, atia, and but usually Twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor-patient relationship is formed. the use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk. the content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnoses or treat. users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures. the company's I invest in and or advise please visit Peter Atia md.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: #03 – Ron Krauss, M.D.： a deep dive into heart disease [AtqzKuGhYzk].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other as obsessions I've gathered along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of those successful top performing individuals in the world. And this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you with a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. In this podcast, I'm speaking with Dr. Ron Krauss. First and foremost, Ron is a very close friend and an amazing mentor. I was introduced to Ron probably five years ago and have worked with him closely in a number of capacities and he's always served as sort of one of the three or four lipatologists that when I get stumped on a really difficult clinical case, he's the person that I'm reaching out to along with a couple of these other folks that hopefully will also have on the podcast at some point. So he is certainly recognized globally for his research in lipatology. He wears a ton of hats. He's a clinician. Obviously, lipatologist, his interest in nutrition, genetics, drug research is quite profound. He obtained, I believe both his college degrees and medical degrees from Harvard. He's board certified in internal medicine, and her chronology in metabolism. And currently, he's a senior scientist and the director of Athosclorosis research at the Children's Hospital in Oakland. So in this episode, we talk about a lot of stuff, but obviously we're really focusing on Athosclorosis and cardiovascular disease. I was really excited to have this discussion with him because a lot of these topics, I've certainly covered in writing. As some of you may know, I have that sort of nine part straight dope on cholesterol series on the blog that I probably wrote abouT4 or five years ago. Obviously, some of that's a little bit outdated. And I also was quite deliberate when I wrote that not to be prescriptive, meaning I don't really get into this is the drug treatment you would do for this. And I largely avoided a lot of that stuff, whereas in this podcast, Ron and I get a little bit into this. This podcast was pretty technical at times. So my hope is that both the curious patient will get a lot out of that. And hopefully the physician will get a lot out of this or the person that is also kind of on the front lines of having to make decisions about how to treat dyslipidemia and reduce the risk of Athosclorotic disease. I think a couple of really interesting things in this. I actually for the first time learned about Ron's motivation for this, both his family history and the five legendary articles that he read in the England Journal of Medicine that largely shaped his career. This is the stuff we talk about with Friedrichs and Levy and Leaves who I've written about in the cholesterol series because these guys are sort of the fathers of this space. We certainly get into one of the age-old debates about LDL particle size versus particle number, lots of controversy here. And I don't represent that we've necessarily resolved it. But I think that's the beauty of talking with really smart sophisticated nuanced people is they have the humility to say we don't know the answer sometimes. We really dive deep into the whole statin discussion. For reasons that aren't entirely clear to me, this has become an increasingly controversial area and somehow it's turned into a binary discussion. Statins are good or statins are bad and very few things in life tend to be that binary. So I'm sort of surprised that it's turned into that. I don't remember if I even say this on the podcast but certainly have people who probably heard me say this before and I say it to patients all the time. The answer tools and the most important thing when you have a tool is knowing how to use it and knowing when to use it. So if you have a Philip screwdriver, it's really important to know that it's very good at putting Philip's screws into things. It's not good at putting nails into things. It's not good at clening windows. So I hope we can shed some light on that. We talk a little bit about the really interesting and recent stuff around chronic inflammation and the role that that plays in Athoscarosis even independent of cholesterol levels. And perhaps for me personally, one of the most interesting things we discussed was another very controversial topic which is around Niacin and Niacin, which is a branded version of that. Which those of you who follow this world will know that Niacin was basically kicked to the curb a couple of years ago. And I think that Ron's insights into that are incredibly interesting and actually have even made me re-question or reevaluate, I guess, my willingness to ever consider using it again. Ron does a great job explaining the HDL paradox, meaning why is it that all the pharmacologic efforts to raise HDL seem to also raise heart disease or at best make it no better. And finally we end with a discussion of PCSK9 inhibitors which I suspect will have a completely dedicated podcast to this topic at some point. And we touch on LP little A though later on in the release of this podcast, we're going to have a dedicated discussion on LP little A. Okay. So with all that said, you can find a ton more information including a lot of links to the papers that Ron has mentioned more information about Ron in the show notes which are at Peter at tmd.com forward slash podcast. So without further ado, here is my conversation with Dr. Ron Krauss. Well, I'm here with Dr. Ron Krauss today and this is a really exciting topic for me. People know I've written about this a lot. I talk about this a lot clinically, but the genesis of this discussion today is that about a month ago, I called Ron to have a discussion with him about one of my patients in particular. It was a patient who had a pretty elevated calcium score if I recall pretty significant LAD calcifications. That's an artery in the left side of the heart. But he was very hesitant to do any treatment and he wanted to second opinion. So I thought we should involve Ron and Ron, I remember I was sitting in my kitchen. We spoke for probably half an hour and at the end of the conversation I said, you know, Ron, I wish we recorded that conversation because this is exactly the kind of stuff that I think a lot of physicians and patients would benefit from. And so I said, you know, why don't we do this again more formally and that brings us here today. Let's start with a big question, but an important one for where we're going. And that's basically the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis. A very recent review article I read described quite eloquently as a smoldering inflammatory condition fueled by lipids. What does that mean? Well, first of all, thank you, Peter, for asking me to talk with you today and address this topic, which is, you know, I have a deep and long standing interest in. Hopefully, I can address the issues that you're also interested in. And we'll have a good conversation. Well, as we're going to discuss, of course, is the underlying process that leads ultimately to vascular disease, particularly clinically-fenced heart attack and stroke. It starts in childhood as well known that there is early on the buildup of cholesterol in the artery wall that forms what's called fatty streaks. And that's a process that's actually a fairly normal condition, even in young people. And if it doesn't progress any further than that, it's really not hazardous. It's a way that arterial tissue can put cholesterol in itself and some of that cholesterol is actually used for various purposes. So that's not necessarily a pathologic process, but it can progress. And when it progresses, there is a combination of factors that conspire to make that fatty streaks into a much more toxic process. And it is fueled by lipids, the same lipids that lead to a fatty streak. But under conditions that many of us live under, there are changes in the lipoproteins that are taken up by the artery. And we'll talk about those in more detail in a minute. In particular susceptibility to oxidation and the change in the properties that allows them to stick more tightly to the artery wall. And when that happens, particularly the oxidative changes, it does trigger inflammation as a very early part of this next phase of the disease process. And inflammation is defined in one way as the accumulation of cells in the artery wall that deliver various inflammatory molecules, things that ordinarily, if one bruises oneself or has some sort of an injury. Those inflammatory processes cause redness and accumulation in some cases of clotting factors. When that happens in the artery, that can convert this fatty streak into something that is much more milder. And then there is a process that kind of feeds on itself. And it does involve platelets and clotting factors in an important way and involves a number of inflammatory molecules. And if there's continuing input of these bad, anthropogenic, if you will, lipoprotein particles, that can actually change the nature of the plaque and inflammation comes into play in a very serious way when that results in a breakdown of the surface of the plaque, which ordinarily protects it from any kind of serious consequences. So even fatty streak in development to a plaque in a plaque in this case is essentially a larger fatty streak. The plaque has a cholesterol, but it also has all these other cells. It's a much more complex phenomenon. So that plaque is ordinarily, relatively benign conditions encapsulated by a fibers layer. But inflammation in the release of various molecules can cause that fibers cap that protective cap to weaken an ultimately potentially rupture. And when that rupture occurs, that is the beginning of the end in terms of the process that we're talking about here. These cases of heart attack and stroke involve this type of acute rupture and ultimately formation of a clot that blocks the arterial flow. So starting from a relatively benign process, this can develop into something that's much more serious. Now when I was in medical school, I remember in first year pathology lecture, the pathologist said, let's see a show of hands. What is the most common first presentation of heart disease? And you know, everybody puts up their hands and says a chest pain left shoulder pain, shortness of breath, and he said, no, no, no, no, no, no, it's sudden death. Yeah. That was a little over 20 years ago. Is that still true today? The estimates I've heard and I think this is arguable because these are really rough rule of thumb calculations somewhere in the range of 30 percent, passing past the upper to 30 percent, which is still a huge number. It's staggering. It means that one third of people's first brush with the knowledge that they have at the risk of the virus is death. And I have patients, and I'm sure you do as well, who have died and come back. And so there is this process where there's an acute event that causes an irreversible change, but for some people, fortunately, we can bring them back. But together, that represents really the basis for calling this disease the silent killer. Because as you're saying, we don't, in those patients, have a mandatory symptom. Sometimes in retrospect, they are there. And that's the important reason for educating the public as organizations like the American Heart Association does as to the first signs of heart disease, because it may be, and it probably is true that a significant component of that 30 percent. Right. Upon further querying, there was some exercise intolerance in the right. And it's very hard sometimes. One of the things that we'll be talking about is ways of assessing risk. And those are still in perfect. We can't with 100 percent certainty use any kind of risk predictor to know if someone is destined to have heart attack with certainty. Yeah, you said something at the outset, which is this is a disease that begins in Infancy. And I, I, one of the, I have very few textbooks and or papers that are, I refer to so frequently that they actually sit on my desk in my office, so that every time I'm with a patient, I can pull them out. But one of them was a book that was given to me by one of my mentors. I consider you a great mentor, Tom Dase, bringing a great mentor out in Snyder, and a great mentor, and Alan gave me this textbook of pathology. I think believe it's story is the, the author. And while I believe that data represented there are somewhat dated because it was largely based on the Vietnam cohort and Korean. Yes, where obviously smoking would have been a higher prevalence than today. Right. The fact remains that when you look at autopsies of young people who died of unrelated reasons, homicides, accidents, et cetera, and you look at the histologic sections of their coronary arteries, it's amazing how many of them have lesions that are type three or beyond type three, meaning obviously a type of pathological region where you go beyond fatty street. Yes, indeed. That's right. So a subset of these youths will have more advanced lesions and the studies have been done. I have linked all of the usual risk factors, smoking certainly diabetes, hypertension, and dyslopidemia all of and the in a lipid disorder, all of those have been associated with the more advanced lesions and those individuals. So is your point out even even a more significant plaque development in a current childhood? I think the thing that's hard for people to understand, and I think it's true of most chronic diseases, but I don't think any disease is as clear as it is with atherosclerosis, which is the compounding nature of the disease. You know, another great example of one of thosEQuestions that the professor asks that gets everybody stumped, which is what's the greatest risk for heart disease? You know, is it smoking? Nope. Is it high blood pressure? Nope. Is it dyslopidemia? Nope. It's age. That's right. It's age. IMean, and why is it age because it's exposure? It's time. It's area under the curve. Yeah, that's exactly true. You know, age, regardless of a risk factor, or the cuts across many of the diseases, chronic diseases that we have to deal with, cancer, for example. And yeah, that's right. It's a cumulative process that can progress at various rates, depending the condition. So people, as you know, when we talk about, we have genetically elevated, severely elevated cholesterol levels, we'll have that process accelerate and have the disease so up clinically early on, sometimes with these severe genetic disorders and the teens, whereas others, most of the population, fortunately, who do have risk factors, show a gradual increase in the manifestation of disease as a result of those risk factors as a function of their age. You know, at last check, and I can't remember if it was jamma or another journal, but it was about a year ago, and they looked at some actuarial data for people out through being past centenarians. And the only disease, once you normalized for a few things, the only disease that increased monotonically by decade in risk was atherosclerosis. From childhood, yeah. Yeah, even cancer, actually, you know, by think by the ninth decade, it started to come down. Yeah, you know what, yeah, it's right. It's definitely the latency period for cancer also is the factor there as well. So there's this sort of latency period, nothing happens in all of a sudden in all of the research, it pops up. I'm sure a lot of people listening to this are going to say, okay, well, God, I'm really confused by half the terms you guys just use. So let's unpack some of them. Beginning with, we use the terms sometimes lipid, cholesterol, like the protein. We throw those terms around interchangeably, but I think it's probably important to give the average person a sense of an understanding. So what is LDLC versus LDLP versus APOB of things like that? Sure. The underlying concept that we are going to address is cholesterol because that's really the compound. It's the molecule that winds up causing plaques. So cholesterol is indeed an important component of the plaque and it gets into the plaque by uptake of cholesterol from lipoprotein particles. And so lipoproteins are complex, spherical macromolecules, big guys, which come in varying sizes, and are composed of cholesterol along with other lipids, such as tracliss ride, and most importantly, perhaps for distinguishing the various types of lipoproteins, is their protein content. So there's a variety of different proteins that form the package that actually it capsule around the lipid. So let me interrupt you for one second. Is it just a point at clarification? The reason we even need these lipoproteins is that cholesterol is hydrophilic. It's like a pertene hydrophobic. It repels water. And so therefore to move cholesterol through the bloodstream, you have to package it in something that is hydrophilic or dissolves in water. And correct? Yeah. And for the techno files here, it's the cholesterol ester. So there's a, yes, it forms a cholesterol and it's the fatty form of cholesterol is cholesterol ester. The other form is more waxy. So the fatty form is trensported right from one tissue to another. And that is the purpose of lipoprotein not just cholesterol, of course, but tracliss or as IMentioned, perhaps more importantly for many functions and energy metabolism. And other compounds are just phospholipid. As well as passengers on the truck, certain vitamins, et cetera. So these are packages that serve an important biological function. They're not here to cause heart attacks. We divide them into various categories, but the common parlance that sort of the most typical way that we think about cholesterol as a pathologic factor is when it's on LDL. So that's called LDL cholesterol. And that measures the amount of cholesterol on an LDL particle. And LDL is low density lipoprotein. So this is a form of lipoprotein that is characterized by size. And it's also characterized by its density, which is related to its capacity to float. Because there's, when there's fat in anything, it causes the thing to float. And that's to very degrees defines different classes of lipoprotein. And it's the LDL that is the most strongly connected to cardiovascular disease risk. And the cholesterol in LDL, which is measured commonly clinically as LDL cholesterol, is what has been most widely associated with cardiovascular risk. And forms the basis for many of our recommendations for lowering risk. But it's important to recognize that this is a tag on a much more complex substance of a particle. And this will talk about, I think, very shortly. Particle is what causes the plaque to develop. And it brings the cholesterol with it. So the LDL particle, the low density lipoprotein itself, this spherical molecule, or macromolecule, which carries around cholesterol, fossil lipid, triglyceride, it has a signature on it, doesn't it? Something called APOB100. That's right. The key protein that holds this particle together that allows it to form a sphere and to encapsulate the lipid cargo is called APOB protein B. There are two major forms of APOB. The one that's found in LDL, particles is called APOB100. And oftentimes that is used as a surrogate for measuring LDL. Particle concentration, this will talk about. And this is a big clinical distinction. I think it is safe to say, at least in my, you know, relatively modest sampling of physicians. Most physicians let alone most patients are not really clear on the distinction between the number when they say LDL is 100. They don't necessarily realize what they're saying is the LDL cholesterol is 100 milligrams per deciliter, meaning if you took all of the LDL particles in the body, smash them apart, gather the cholesterol, ester, the mass per unit volume is 100. And free cholesterol. And that's, yes. And that's very different from saying how many of these particles do we have. That's right. And that's important. And so that observation really forms a very significant component of my history in this field because I entered the field as a young fellow, knowing about LDL cholesterol, I was interested in diet effects and drug effects and heart disease. But I learned about lipoproteins actually from a group of investigators in Berkeley, California, who were part of a team that initially identified lipoprotein particles. And over the course of the next 10 or so years, I dug into that knowledge and discovered that there are subtypes of the various forms of LDL as well as other lipoproteins which we can talk about perhaps in a few minutes. But focusing on the LDL, there can be variation in the amount of cholesterol that is carried on the LDL particle. But there's only one APOB per LDL. So APOB represents a pretty good signature for an LDL particle. It is found on some other particles, but it's primarily on LDL. But the amount of cholesterol attached to that APOB as part of this particle can vary as can other lipoprotein components. And that results in variation in both the size, as IMentioned, and the density. So that some forms of LDL have less cholesterol. And some have more cholesterol. The ones that have less cholesterol are smaller, generally, and the ones that have more cholesterol are larger. But they all have one APOB protein B. So there can be an important clinical consequence of focusing on LDL cholesterol to the exclusion of APOB because it's the particle that is really the agent of damage in the artery. And measuring LDL cholesterol can under represent the number of LDL particles compared with the measurement of APOB protein B or APOB, which is a much better measure than number of particles. And when individuals have smaller particles because of this variation in lipid content, they are actually at high risk of heart disease because those particles have that render them more pathologic, more toxic. So there's a double whammy. If you have small particles, first of all, clinical measurement of LDL cholesterol may under represent the number of particles. And furthermore, those particles themselves are considered by many, although there's still not total consensus on this point, to have greater pathologic properties. So let's use a specific example. So if a patient has a blood cholesterol level, and let's just assume it's LDL calculate a measure directly, not even calculated. And the LDL cholesterol is 100 milligrams per desoliter. At the framing hand population, that would place them at about the 20th percentile. But let's say that patient has an LDL particle number of 141300 nanomole per liter. And of course, in the units that tells you it's a number per unit volume, that places them at the 50th percentile. Now, at least to me, the literature is very clear on, in the case of discordance, which of the two is driving risk. I think both the Mesa population, the multi-ethnic study of Athoscarosis, and the framing hand, and framing hand offspring study, make it very clear that risk is tracking with the number of particles, not the cholesterol concentration. Do you agree with that or are my missing some? No, the data are out there. And just to take a step back, LDL cholesterol, that clinical measurement, has worked reasonably well for a significant subset of the population as a marker for LDL particles, because most individuals have particles somewhere in the middle of the LDL size and density range, and the cholesterol content in those particles, is fairly proportional to the number of LDL particles. But where things break down is the increasing proportion of the population who have different LDL particle distributions. You need to consider that higher LDL particles with normal LDL cholesterol, which I will answer your question. Yes, it was associated with an increase in risk. This is not reflected by LDL cholesterol. So that is the discordance we're talking about on the high end and conversely individuals who have high LDL cholesterol, but normal levels of A, B, will tend to have disproportionate the less heart disease risk than would be predicted from the LDL cholesterol. So that's the discordance, which I think is pretty well demonstrated in a significant subset of the population at both ends. But underlying that, and again, there's some debate on this issue, it certainly reflects the numbers of particles. And that is the bottom line, but it also reflects the types of those particles. So there's really two features that both ends of that distribution. Smaller, cholesterol, good particles associated with discordance, that the localest role that HIPAA protein B ratio and conversely larger LDL particles associated with less risk at the other end. And there may be systemic factors here at play, because you know, there's some pretty, I think pretty widely accepted data now. I think 10 years ago this was a little more obscure, but one of the greatest drivers of the discordance in the wrong direction, meaning the LDL particle is disproportionately higher than the LDL cholesterol, is metabolic syndrome. In fact, there's a very beautiful graph that I've written about at some point in my blog that talks about how based on anywhere from 0 to 5 of the characteristics that an individual has at metabolic syndrome, the proportion of discordance goes up. So it also could be that as discordance rises, risk rises because of the other factors such as hyper-insulinemia, which itself may contribute to entomal damage, inflammation, and other things. Is that possible? It is absolutely possible and likely to be true. So this brings up a pattern, like a protein pattern that I will take some credit for having to find in my own way about 25 years ago, 27 years ago, and now called the Atharogenic Dislipidemia, Atharogenic Lipoprotein phenotype, which is a constellation of lipid changes that includes higher triglyceride, lower HDL cholesterol. So that's the cholesterol in the protective form of lipoproteins being deficient and a predominance of smaller LDL particles. And so that triad, that lipid triad has defined average genetic dyslopinemia, and it folds right into the metabolic syndrome. Right, two of those three make up two of your five. That's right. Criteria for metabolic syndrome, which for the listener would be low HDL cholesterol, high triglyceride, high fasting, glucose, high blood pressure, and girth basically obese. Exactly. Drunkal obese. Yeah. So I remember being part of the discussions where that metabolic syndrome was defined. This syndrome acts. This is very interesting. Yeah, well, that started with insulin resistance, this is centerpiece. You can put various molecules in various processes, through the center. They all contribute. And as you point out, in hyperincinemia, associated with insulin resistance is likely another marker of another process related to glucose metabolism and its consequences. And then the blood pressure connection is an intriguing one, but that's also part of it. But a lot of that is driven by increased girth. IMean, it's sort of of the five conditions. The one that I think is the most prevalent underlying factor that these two, the development of metabolic syndrome, is increased abdominal fat, which is associated with increased. Specific ways of cholesterol fat. This is what we're going to do around the internal organs. And you can have metabolic syndrome without that, but the vast majority of people that certainly Caucasians. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And non-cocations, populations such as the Stations, who don't have increased waste, still can have increased fat internally, as part of the syndrome. But it's probably acting on an underlying genetic predisposition, which is very common. And so, and there's many other factors that come into play as part of the syndrome. But I would say that just the pedemia is probably both clinically and pathologically the one that I think has the most substance in terms of a direct causal connection to cardiovascular disease. Yeah. And you know, I'll tell you, it's a very interesting historical footnote, uh, Gary Tobs, a mutual friend of ours. And I don't know if this actually was any any of his books, or IMight have read this in one of the outtakes. But it was an interesting footnote, which was basically at the time of the framing him study, which I'm talking about the very, very first framing him study, which was really a two-part study. Of course, one of the things that came out of that study was that low HDL cholesterol and high triglycerides was four times more predictive of athroscarosis than elevated LDL cholesterol. Now, that rings true with what we just said about metabolic syndrome. Now, we're in the five criteria of metabolic syndrome was high LDLC. It's low HDLC and high trig. But it's interesting that the LDL cholesterol story really took off. And at least Gary argued, I believe if I'm remembering the argument, that part of that had to do with the fact that the kind of blank on the name of the trial, the first trial, there was the LRCCP, but then there was the one before it, uh, it had a funny name, like, improve it or somebody wasn't. It was like, no, it was a trial of fibroid, the fibroid trial was LRCCP. No, that was that was close to our meeting. So I think that's when you think, okay, okay, I think you're thinking of this LRC. Yeah, I was, I was, so part of the writing, yeah, that's where I got my trening in, uh, but it's, uh, before I came out to Berkeley, actually, that's what I got my first dose. And that study was going on at that time and there was a lot of a nail biting. Well, and, and in the argument here was look, we kind of spent, we lost a decade and a half between say 1980 and 1995, when we missed the role of insulin resistance because we really went down this LDL cholesterol rabbit hole and didn't necessarily see the bigger picture. Yeah. And one of the things I hope we have time to talk about today because it actually something that I spend more time scratching my head about than anything else is you look at a drug like niacin, which lowers apoB, LDLC, and raises HDLC. So in theory, it's doing everything in the right direction and yet when it comes to outcomes, it's a very confusing picture. So maybe later on this afternoon, we can get to that because I think that's there's going to be some rich info in there. If you put that on a table, I'll be happy to pick it up when you're ready. I'm ready to lunch with that. I cannot wait. We're definitely going to do that. Okay. Let's talk a little bit about a paper that you were an author on this year. It was the European Athrosclerosis Society consensus statement. Now, you and I were joking about this a while ago that you almost couldn't believe this paper needed to be written, but sometimes there's a benefit in writing it in. What was the conclusion of that paper? Or more to the point consensus statement. It was more than just a paper. IMean, it was really a four to four. So this this paper assembled a multiple lines of evidence addressing thEQuestion. This LDL causes heart disease. It's LDL a causal factor for heart disease. And just to be clear, the counter argument is sure people with high LDL are more likely to get heart disease that can't be disputed. The epidemiology is clear. The counter argument is but LDL is not a causal role. That's right. And it's associated with that efforts to lower LDL cholesterol are not fully justified as a means of attacking the cause. I don't want to be responsible for having stated that incorrectly because I still can't quite believe anybody would hold that opinion. But that was my understanding that led to the coming together to counteract that perception that lowering LDL was not beneficial. But there are there are many people. IMean, not that I spent terrible amounts of time on Twitter, but it's a pretty commonly held view at least in the vocal minority that loved to write about this and talk about this that hey, LDL cholesterol is in myth. Right. Heart disease has nothing to do with this. And the problem is and it's a comment on the paper to some extent. But I'll tell you there is a second component to that effort that is still being written. It was planned and will be a two part series. The first part is assembling all the evidence from epidemiology, clinical trials, genetics, et cetera, the speak to the causality. And the second one was really relating all of this information to the role of LDL and the pathophysiology of Athroscrosis and that paper is working progress. But it clearly goes to papers assemble just about all the evidence when needs to support the use of LDL cholesterol. And when will that second paper be out? I can't tell you you don't even need to take on longer. Yeah. We'll certainly link to the first one in the show notes because that was published in early 2008. Yeah, we expected next year or so. But one thing I do want to say because there's a caveat and part of my life as a researcher as well as a clinician is recognizing the complexity of what we're dealing with. In discussion such as this, it's important to keep the concepts straightforward and understandable to the best to be possible. But the flip side of that is the risk of oversimplifying a complex situation. So when I just said that the evidence is at lowering LDL cholesterol as beneficial, that's not always true. And so when complete if one is so inclined to the evidence that under certain conditions and certain populations with certain approaches, only LDL cholesterol does not result in reduced heart disease risk. And to the extent that you consider that to be a fatal flaw in the argument, that can be a, I think, brain misleading because it's not the fact is that LDL is causal, but there are other circumstances that modify that causality of the extent that some forms of LDL under certain conditions and this may not be uncommon can be elevated without pathologic consequences. And so lowering LDL in those cases may not get benefit. And that we know what there is heterogeneity and the clinical response when one looks at how do they ask your protection with LDL lowering treatment. So I have to absolutely extend the simple notion of LDL causality to saying that when has to look very carefully at the arguments against LDL causality because the latch on to piece, but this is piece of information that are really misleading. It's just because lowering LDL cholesterol is not always beneficial. It doesn't mean that LDL is not pathological. And the second component of that is the focus on LDL cholesterol that goes back to our initial discussion here today as a marker for a causal mechanism, but it's the particles that are causal and LDL cholesterol. As we just talked about, it's not always mirror the number of LDL particles. Now, I don't think we should necessarily take the time to go through the paper and incredible detail, but it did touch on eight criteria for causality, plausibility, strength, biological gradient, temporal sequence, the specificity, consistency, coherence, and then the relative risk reduction or risk reduction within intervention. Among those, I found the Mendelian randomization to also be very compelling. So, you know, when I talk about this with people, I generally talk about the natural experiments, such as the people with PCSK9 mutations, both hypofunction or gain of function loss of function PCSK9, the FH patients, the Mendelian randomization in the intervention. If you were going to bring up three points from the paper that you think probably are most relevant, what would they be? Well, you've just touched on probably the number one strongest argument. And it's really where we, those of us who have been in the field for decades, started with being impressed with the role of genetic elevations of LDL, very, very strong evidence. I would put that probably right at the top, and you talked about this condition, familiar hyperclistolemia, when there's two doses of an abnormal gene, the LDL, levels from skyrocket, I referred to that little while ago, as the condition that can lead to heart disease early in childhood is unequivocal. In fact, the reason I got a little bit taken it back by the need to do this more extensively, which I think, by the way, was quite a good exercise for both for those of us who didn't, and people hopefully would be to. But all you have to do is look at a eight-year-old child with cholesterol levels that are either nine times normal, whose candidate for liver and heart trensplant, to know that that's it, that's causal. But the genetic support it beyond that. Right. Now in those cases, the genetic defect is one in the LDL receptor. Correct. So closing the loop on how this works, right? The body makes cholesterol. The body, you know, so every cell in the body makes cholesterol, then cholesterol gets recirculated, ends up mostly back in the liver. It gets secreted. Some of it in bile gets reabsorbed, and this process continues. But it's this LDL clearance. Most leave the LDL receptors in the liver that seems to be where a lot of these genetic things go awry. That's right. Yeah, the liver really is the factory, as well as the disposal plant, if you will. Most of the cholesterol that winds up in the blood is released in terms of in the lipoportines that are synthesized by the liver. And then they come back to the liver. Ultimately, after they've done their thing, so to speak, deliver their cargo or interacted with cells in various ways, and come back to the liver. And a large portion of that return is mediated by these receptors that latch onto a pobe. It's able be that is the kind of the key that binds to the lock that snaps up the LDL and the liver. And it grades it and it's not a biome. And that's the way we dispose of cholesterol. There are other mechanisms involving HDL. But the receptors are a key determinant, and new represent a mechanism by which most of the drugs that we use to lower cholesterol act to increase LDL receptor mediated disposal of LDL particles. I'm just going to connect that concept to something you brought up earlier. And that is the duration of exposure to, in this case, high levels of LDL. We talked about it as a function of age, the longer the, the reviewers, the longer the exposure. But there's also a dynamic aspect to LDL metabolism that we just touched on. That is particles are produced actually precursors of LDL, which are called the LDL. It's carried mostly, right? This is an apoporty and BS. Well, those particles are being actively secreted. They interact with peripheral tissues receptors and other trensporters that handle various lipids in various ways. And like in enzymes, centers a lot of processing that goes on. And then what's left comes back the liver throughout the LDL receptors. Now, if that process happens riskically, if there is a nice fast turnover, if you will, of those particles, you can just see that there is less time for the arteries to be exposed to any of those pathologic forms of lipoportyings. They can be scooped up. But what underlies, at least to me, a common concept, a common underlying factor that connects a various lipid traits to heart disease risk is the extent to which they influence the circulation time. That is the length of time that a particle is circling in the blood. So that particles are not being cleared by LDL receptors. Efficiently, they will circulate longer and have more opportunities for mischief. What is the typical half-life of a VL-DL particle? So very low-density lipoproking, IDL, intermediate density, and low-density. I'm probably going to get this wrong beak, and this is where I don't want to have to go back and look at the textbook and I love it. Directionally. So particularly for a larger VL-DL, a track list, the half-life is half an hour an hour and two hours. It's pretty rapid, because that particle is rapidly subject to enzymatic digestion. Let me just jump to the LDL. So the LDL that are formed from those precursors, more like 12 to 24 hours, or longer. So it turns out that smaller particles have a longer mess in its time, because they are less avidly removed by LDL receptors. So there's a range of circulation times for LDL. In some cases, you know, days actually, and then IDL are somewhere in the middle. The intermediate density of that propoteins are ideal, which we're referring to. That's the step between VL-DL and LDL that is involved in their metabolism. So it's these longer exposure times, and these intermediate particles can include and do include very pathologic forms as well. And so there are disorders and metabolic syndrome coming back to that is one of them, where the clearance of those intermediate particles, which also comprise what we call remnants, partial breakdown products of the LDL on the way to forming LDL. Those intermediate particles can have much longer exposure times, and they can be subject to various pathologic effects involving oxidation and the position of partial digestion products of various lipids that cause them to be more toxic. And those particles can be damaging even with a shorter residence time because they're so toxic. So that gets into what I was referring to earlier, as somebody created complexity of beyond thinking just about LDL cholesterol, thinking about LDL particles, thinking about the types of LDL particles, in terms of the pathophysiology, and then also thinking about the role of these remnant lipoproteins. They all participate in this potential risk. And it comes down and it might be in the end to the length of time that a particle with certain pathologic effects is circulating in the blood. And this LDL cholesterol, LDL remnant problem is one that is unfortunately very often missed even by relatively astute clinicians. Your textbook case is these type 3s, these hyper triglyceridemia who have normal APOB, normal LDL, see you think they're relatively low risk. You sort of miss the fact that their VLDL cholesterol is 75 milligrams per desiliter and they have these just devastating, atherosclerotic plaques. Yeah and that was again one of my learning experiences when I was at the NIH, the NIH at a time with working with Dr. Fredrickson and Levy when the very least for the listener, it's important for them. I think to understand the luminaries that you just described. Right, Fredrickson and Levy and Lees, IMean let's put these guys in context right. This is you had people that figured out that there was this thing called cholesterol, but it was really those three that did the pioneering work in the 1970s that laid the groundwork for fractionating, figuring out all of the different subparables. 60s, late 60s. Yeah, no, late 60s. I'll just give you a slight anecdote since you paused me on this. I was always been interested in heart disease because it runs in my family. As a medical student, I read a series of five articles that was published in the New England Journal of Medicine and I think you're referring to the three authors, Fredrickson, Levy and Lees, that completely trensformed me. It was a epiphany because those five articles describe lipid disorders in terms of genetic types, differing like protein profiles that had different metabolic effects, different consequences and very influenced differently by various diets. I thought this was absolutely the most important lead I can imagine. IMade it my business when it came to deciding what I was going to do after my medical trening is to come back Instagram, Dan Ayes from Work for Those Guys. I was fortunate enough to be able to do that. It was really in the era where what was called the Fredrickson typing system, identified these various forms and then when you just refer to the genetic forms of lipids that have been going off and always consider, it was called Type III and that was characterized by abnormalities in receptor mediated clearance of these remnants of particles through a mutation in April, protein E are varying in April, and that also was fascinating. I happened to be in California when the April E is where discovered. I sort of feel like one of these characters that shows up at the appropriate time. It was called the Ardridge Pep Diad initially. The history is just, I wrote a review actually of the early history of lap of protein research, which I would commend to the point that I was here last year. It was in a journal of the bit of research in 2016. If I just got a fan letter for that article because anybody that seriously interested in this field should probably understand the origins. In fact, I got a letter, we have to that paper was published. I got an email from Joe Goldstein who is the other one of the other livener icons in the field. He said, everybody that goes into the lipid research should be this paper. It's not a book. I don't make any money off of it. We're going to make sure that people want to get smart on that story. Anyway, piggyback to these remnants, I think particle for particle, the remnants are probably the most pathologic particles, because of this rampant ethoscrosis when there's elevation of remnants. Unfortunately, this condition of Type III is fairly weird. It's like one in 10,000. But it does illustrate the same analogy. I've seen certain, so I've seen you've seen something. Right. So yeah, what I was trying to say, actually initially what I was trying to say, when I was at NIH and my trening, I saw all these things. All the types of them. You collected them. Yeah. IMean, patients who had the Type III, we had Type III, which was a serious elevation of triglyceride. Type II was familiar hyperclosed trening. It goes on and on. Yes. And it's really striking. I tell my students, I've lecture on this to students at Berkeley. I show them pictures of what are called San Thomas, which are the positive cholesterol on lipids and tissues. And you have these very characteristic lesions that used to be rampant in patients before we had adequate recognition and treatment. As a manifestation of the underlying pathology that also affects the arteries, the cholesterol that winds up in the arteries can also break into the skin. And these are just very striking illustrations of the role of genetics. So it gets back to your earlier question, about causality. There are so many situations where genetics helps in establishing causality. And this certainly is one of them. After that, you asked me, what are one, two, and three, right? You asked me how many, what might my top three? I didn't answer that. And before we leave FH, I think the other nice thing about the PCSK9 mutation. You know, FH is only showing you the change in one direction. But with PCSK9, you see both directions. That's right. I believe the hyperfunctioning were the first people identified correct. Yes. So these people had an enzyme PCSK9. It hyperfunctioned. Therefore, it this enzymes one of its roles is to degrade the LDL receptor. And so they had fewer LDL receptors. They had more LDL. They looked a lot like FH patients. Correct? Yeah. Yeah. I'm just to begin for the technical who was in the phone. Oh, it's actually not an enzyme. It's kind of behaves like an enzyme. It actually drives LDL receptors into the garbage disposal machinery in the cell called lysosomes and causes the LDL receptors to be broken down. But it's the same end basaltus you get less LDL receptors higher LDL cholesterol. And then the mutations in the other direction are the ones that led to the development of PCSK9. The lysophunction, antibody is the PCSK9 mimic the lysophunction mutations which lower LDL. And that's one of my, you know, when I get to tell these stories one day, I'll look back and say that was my aha moment because I think that paper came out in 2006 in the New England Journal of Medicine. It was either O4 or O6, but I remember this well, which was the discovery of those families with the hypofunctioning PCSK9. Yes. These people walked around with an LDL cholesterol between 10 and 20 milligrams per desol. Yeah. Two things about them stood out. The first they never got heart disease. The second, it didn't seem to suffer any other consequences that you might concern yourself with. Right. Yeah. One of those patients, classically, I was, I think a physical therapist, somebody that was very active and had an LDL of in the teens, which is, you know, one sixth normal and is doing fine. Yeah. So that's another use of genetics in a way to confirm that lowering a LDL. Not necessarily using all the ways that LDL can be lowered, but at least certainly that form of LDL lowering is healthy. And probably most forms of LDL lowering a healthy, we have very little evidence to the contrary. Do you want to say anything about the LDL and randomization? It's, you know, I think it's not at the most intuitive concept to people, but it is actually a very powerful concept. So the principle of medialian randomization, first of all, Mendel, regra Mendel was an 18th century monk who discovered the principle of inheritance of traits in P's actually. But the idea is that these genetic variants are randomly distributed in the population. So that assumption underlies this concept of medial randomization because then you can say that the occurrence of a genetic variant in the population or a collection of variants can be either single or multiple variants that are associated with a biomarker, such as LDL cholesterol, can be used to test the causality of LDL by looking at another relationship. And that is the association of those genetic variants with the disease process. So for example, and so I'm going to give you an example because it's really a little bit abstract without an example and we'll talk about PCSK9. So the PCSK9 loss of function mutation causes a lowering of LDL. There is independent evidence that that mutation is associated with reduced cardiovascular disease risk. Nothing to do with LDL, just the genetic association with outcomes. That relationship parallels very closely the relationship of that variant LDL cholesterol. The difference is that the risk associated with a genetic of variant of risk of heart disease is actually less than would be predicted from the LDL cholesterol using standard risk relationships because this is lifelong exposure. This gets back to the exposure so the genetic marker like this in the Indian Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended tells you that lifelong exposure to a genetic variant that either races or floors risk. Well, it has effects that can be attributed to LDL because that the LDL change is predicts that risk relationship. Yeah, whereas a lot of the conventional risk models are basically looking at maybe a decade of risk or something like that and they're always going to fall short, both under and over estimating long term risks. So in the paper that you referred to that the Kiemata of the European consensus, there was a heavy dose of Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended Mended either the main author or one of the key authors. It did a very good job of showing how the genetic markers for their connected to LDL receptor levels, both so PCSK9, others associated with higher receptor activities. Well, predict cardiovascular risk much more robustly than do the results of clinical trials. So that risk reduction, which is parallel, but is displaced because the magnitude of that effect is blunted because it's not a lifelong exposure. So it's very instructive. Yeah, let's go back to something else you said a few moments ago that I think is, I would say 10 years ago, I don't remember when Jim Otposes and Alice has came out, but Jim, who's an incredibly thoughtful person in this field wrote a paper that basically said, once you normalize for the number of LDL particles, the size doesn't matter. Now, I'm going to go, you said that your intuition is that that's actually not correct, that particle for particle, a small particle is more atherogenic. Is that a ferrocessment of your thought? It is, it is definitely an assessment of my thought. And unlike what we've just been talking about, we don't have a way showing in-controverably that that's true. So when tries to sort of dance around this question by using statistics, can you use statistics to factor out everything with which the particle size? And let me clarify one other thing before I go on and that is, the reason particle size got on the map was that I wrote a paper, I think in the 80s actually, probably three plus years ago, in which the only test we had was particle size measurement. And we showed the particle size, small particle size, which was related to risk. But we also said it was associated with lower HDL and higher track, let's say that, so that was the definition of this triad that was just talked about. And we never said that the particle size was independent. We never actually said that. IMean, I've never said it was related to independent of the risk. It was a marker for this whole syndrome. The particle size context that I was referring to early on in our discussion today was not the size of particles but the numbers of particles of different sizes. That's a somewhat different concept. So there are techniques that measure the given number for whether most of the LDL and the blood is larger. And we typically did bifurcate this, like something like 20.5 nanometers or something. Right. And the other thing I'm going to say because this is what I'm going to say because there's an opportunity to say it. If you measure those particle sizes correctly, the distribution in the population is by modal. That means there is a discrete subset of the population that has smaller LDL particles. Now that says nothing about their heart disease risk. That's just that says that there's something going on that tips in a quantum way towards the small LDL trait. And that is the marker for the metabolic syndrome. So that's not about heart disease risk. That's a metabolic marker. The heart disease risk depends on the magnitude of that small LDL mode. If you have a lot of LDL particles that are small, that's bad. Now the argument that our folks and others have made using statistics that will come back to an amendment is to why I think this is flawed approach. Is that if you do certain statistical corrections for interrelationships of various particles with each other, there is a significant relationship to risk of larger LDL as well. So that's not untrue. A larger LDL can be a matter of fact. As long as something is less than 70 nanometers, it can enter the sub-endithelial space. So any large or small LDL can enter space. So it can't be a to resonance time. Yes, how long are they stay? So it turns out. So this is going to be a little bit complicated, but I'm going to try maybe we have an audience that's willing to handle it. I'm going to work like a company work through this with you because I know what I want to say and I just want to make sure that I say clearly. Let's talk about larger LDL. So this in this large LDL mode, that signifies sort of the flip side of metabolic syndrome. Generally, identify people who have not only larger LDL, but higher HDL cholesterol and lower triglyceride. So that's a low risk syndrome and often low insulin. That's right. And so quite a part from thEQuestion are these particles that are worse. They signify a metabolic profile where there's a pretty brisk circulation of those particles in the exposure to the every wall is very low. Now if you have an LDL receptor defect, it also causes large LDL. Right, FH patients have large LDL particles. So why is that that's because of the risk of the time as much higher? Right. And so neither I, well, there's some people that have taken some of my own work and taken it to an extreme that I don't feel is justified and that is to say that large LDL are not anthropogenic. It all, they certainly can be. There's no question about that. ThEQuestion is, are they equally atherogenic to smaller particles or any other particles in the LDL spectrum? And I'm just, I'll just say this, the work that you're referring to did not address that. All it said was that you can, you can show that the large LDL are associated with risk. And then the second thing is that if you adjust the total LDL particles for the peak size of LDL, the peak size is not associated with risk. So those are two different statistical manipulations, neither of which, neither of which, this proof that it had pothices, that's smaller LDL, carry more anthropogenic risk. And we have an example of something, I'm going to tell you again genetically, which may or may not be something that your audience is familiar with. There's another genetic syndrome that involves a variant that affects the region of the genome, which is responsible for synthesizing a protein called sortle. So where TIL, I am. The genetic variant was discovered probably six or seven or eight years ago now. And was associated with both high risk of cardiovascular disease and high LDL cholesterol. And in fact, the association of the genetic variant with cardiovascular disease was as strong, if not slightly stronger than the associations of genetic variants in the LDL receptor itself. So this was a new player in the spectrum of causal factors. Again, relating a genetic mechanism that raises LDL to an effect on cardiovascular disease risk through a pathway that doesn't involve the LDL receptor. This is not an LDL receptor story. What we published as part of the initial description of this variant in this relationship to cholesterol metabolism is that in two independent populations using two independent methods, it's specifically associated with small and very small LDL, not the Rgil LDL at all. So here's the genetic variant that as far as we can tell affects. So it's not connecting clearance. Well, we don't know about clearance. I can't tell you about clearance. I always can say it's not LDL receptor mediated clearance. There may be, we don't know. And this is, and it could be, could be, name and pick one like one player. So if you're going to ask me later on, what one of the experiments that I would do, if I had all the resources in the role that would relate to this mechanism, because the genetic association, it's not clear exactly what's being affected by the genetic variant. It's not clear how it works, but what's definitely clear is that that variant is associated, in terms of that, but protein changes or anything else that we can measure in the usual risk factor range exclusively with small and very small. It's even a subtype of small LDL, but it's that collection of smaller particles that is somehow affected by this variant. So those patients have elevated triglycerides or low HGLC? No. No. It's a exclusive encounter is the argument that I would say, gosh, maybe these small particles ultimately are just a marker for an inflammatory metabolic dysregulation. They largely are. But this example, this gets into what you might consider in the US. I'll tell you another anecdote. When I first discovered that people had all these different forms of LDL, this is again in the 80s. I don't know how many. This is 35 years ago now. I was invited to give a talk a couple of talks actually, various meetings, one of which was in San Diego, actually, and others were represented this data. And it was using not the current methodologies, but a very elaborate procedure involving the ultrasound refuge, which separates these particles into various fractions. I have a picture of what I showed on the wall of my office because it's so emblematic of the existence of these discrete forms of LDL. And I remember talking about this to very intelligent and experienced people in the field, and it was considered as a terech. And for about 15 years, nobody paid any attention to it because it was felt nobody else had methods to show what we had been showing in large populations. Unfortunately, they had around that was remedied by more widely available methodologies that we were possibly responsible for. But the bottom line is that the recognition of these various forms of LDL, we tended to simplify to avoid having people think it was too as a terech. So we talked about large and small as if they were only two forms. And these two modes, which is a terech. And all that's true, but within the small LDL mode, within both of those, but the small LDL, there's yet another sub-type. And it's this very small LDL. So the garden variety small LDL that is generally measured by techniques that are being used such as NMR and Amability method. Well, I actually measure this small LDL that you're talking about. It's part of this generalized metabolic syndrome. But this very small guy looks like it's another pathway. It's another pathway. And it's a pathway that has a strong genetic association with risk. And we are, I'll just say this to this audience. We are trying to do some studies and this gets back to the studies I'd love to do to test the hypothesis. These particles may be secreted directly. So this might be a mechanism that spits out a pathologic form of LDL without going through the VL-DL pathway. That's a hypothesis that we're now. So it sounds like almost like an L-P little A. In a way it is. Yeah, this is a good point. It's a particle that we don't know how to lower. I don't know how to go up. We were assigned to other, that's another topic I guess. We're not going to get to L-P little. That's another topic. But yes, it's a genetic factor that is associated with risk that we don't yet know what to do with. So let's go back to something that you've kind of touched on a little bit, which is canal-DL, cholesterol, slash LDL, particle, slash APOB, B2L. And I'm referring specifically to a pharmacologic intervention. So I think we've already established that the people so genetically blessed to have hypofunctioning PCSK9 seem to be completely fine. But if someone came along and said, look, I'm walking around at the 30th percent hell of the population, I want to walk around at the first percent hell of the population. I'm going to pharmacologically lower it. Is there a downside? Right. So I guess I'm hung up on genetics today because I think the best scenario to consider and evaluating the pros and cons of RAL-LDL, our genetics syndrome is associated with RAL-LDL. And we just talked about one of them. So PCSK9, lots of functional mutations are an example of which you're asking those individuals have lifelong exposure to RAL-LDL. And as far as we can tell, do fine. There are people who have abnormalities in the APOB protein that results in impaired production of LDL, ultimately, and most people do very well. And we have less heart disease, they think they live longer. So this is the genetic evidence for the safety and the benefit really of having RAL-LDL. That doesn't imply that we can extrapolate those genetic observations to all treatments. Now for the PCSK9 inhibitors, if we assume that the use of the antibodies, the lower PCSK9 therapeutically, mimic the genetic effect, then one would have the same confidence that this would not be hazardous. You know, yet no other that they're not other effects of these antibodies. It may not necessarily fully mimic the genetic effect. But by and large, I think it is a vote of confidence that those treatments that lower the that particular treatment with PCSK9 inhibition probably does. Not only lower risk, but have no significant downsides, but they're the LDL lowering. But we don't know the clinical trials of any of the drugs at LL, have not done long enough to know what the life-long effects might be. So if you look at the most widely prescribed class of drugs for lipid lowering, it's obviously going to be statins. And statins really do two things. You know, they have a direct effect, which is they inhibit the first committed step of cholesterol synthesis. And so that directly lowers the burden of cholesterol, thereby lowering the burden of lipoprotein. But in many ways, their indirect effect is at least as strong, which is the liver in response to this upregulates the LDL receptor and you get enhanced clearance. Now, the latter, we certainly have a genetic model to look at. Do we further form a do we know of people who have deficient cholesterol synthesis? Outside of the extreme, we know that there are certainly inborn areas of metabolism that are uniformly fatal. But outside of those people are people walking around with low cholesterol, or the defect is in cholesterol synthesis, that would give us confidence that, hey, inhibiting cholesterol synthesis can't be that bad. I'd have to say I don't know that there is such a genetic variant. There are genetic variants in the rate limiting enzyme, HMG query.tartase that is the target of statins that affect LDL levels in heart disease risk in the expected direction. But those variants have a modest effect size. They are not big time, players to knock down LDL to those same real good. That's what makes the PCS canine story so exceptional. There's just nothing quite like it. So the answer is to my knowledge, no, we don't have that kind of evidence that would apply to very low LDLs that are induced by genetic factors. And that's a scenario that I think I clinically struggle with. And I suspect there's going to be at least one other person listening to this that's going to share that struggle, which is, I do get a little bit nervous when I have a patient whose risk of atherosclerosis is so high for example, a patient with significant family history and a very elevated LP little A, just as an example. So you've got, and you know, I seem to collect these patients. So you've got these folks and they've got a clinical burden of disease. So they've, you know, they're CTNG gram shows soft plaque. They're calcium score shows that they've got calcifications. They're LP little A is through the roof. And they're tolerating their statins, meaning they don't have the myalges or CK elevations or any of those things. But to get their LDL where it needs to be in a patient like that, I'm going to put to the fifth or tenth percentile. I have effectively by all means that I can measure almost shut off cholesterol synthesis. In those patients, I panic because of a couple of papers that I've seen that look at the opposite end of the spectrum, which is, you know, they look at markers of cholesterol synthesis and patients who are medicated and then the risk of dementia. And particularly those are paper that looked at the testosterone levels and it found that if the level was below 0.5, which is, you know, generally very low on the scale we look at, and they use that as a cutoff on the receiver operating characteristic curve. The area under that curve, which again can vary from somewhere between about 0.5 to 1, 0.5, meaning it's a useless test. It's a coin toss. One is a perfect test. You know, they're coming in with, with AUCs of the ROC at 0.87, 0.89. That's quite suggestive of this. And certainly biochemically, there's a plausibility to this, right? We understand that every tissue in the body has the ability to borrow cholesterol from elsewhere that doesn't appear to be the case in the brain. Like, the proteins don't seem to, you know, be able to traffic across the blood-brain barrier. So I guess that's just one area where I certainly don't know an answer, but I've become, I think, clinically much morEQuick to move people to PCSK9 inhibitors when I get uncomfortable with the degree of cholesterol synthesis. Do you think I'm paranoid? You've opened up a big topic all by itself. I think that is the off-target effects of cholesterol. If we consider the target, that's not even the proper term. It's the off-tissue target because it's the tissue targeting of statins to the liver, inhibiting HMG-crabic ductase in the liver that is the therapeutic goal. That's right. That's actually all you're really trying to do. That's right. But we can't. We have to hit all of these peripheral tissues. That's right. So there's something called pharmacokinetic. So to last the 16 or 17 years, I have been leading a program in studying statin pharmacogenetics, which is... I just want to explain this again because I know you and I are sitting here in the social media service, but I want to make sure the listener understands that you just made it so important. In an ideal world, a statin would be a dream drug. If it only inhibited cholesterol synthesis, meaning HMG-crabic ductase activity in the liver, such that the liver would upregulate and you wouldn't impact peripheral tissue metabolism. That cholesterol metabolism, for example, in the brain and the muscles, etc. Unfortunately, that's not the case. So I like you can do this. So this has to do with these my exposure to this set of issues through the world of pharmacology. So I have been hanging out with pharmacologists for the last 15 years through this pharmacogenomics program. It's obvious even without that experience that factors that affect the disposition of statins like any other drug, are important determinants of clinical outcomes. So the disposition that term refers to getting it to the tissue, if any of the tissues, but he wants to get statins of the liver. For the most part, statins are very efficiently removed by the liver. So that tends to offset some of the concerns that you have. However, there is variation in the genes as well as other factors that affect a statin disposition. The nature of the statin itself, it's chemical composition, the presence of absence of certain genetic variants when in particular that's been well-structured, that affects the amount of statin in the blood that prevents it from getting it to the liver. Under those conditions, there is a way to likelihood that the statin will wind up somewhere else. And that can be muscle, which is the most common symptom, but it can be all the other tissues. And part of my research experience right now is delving into all of these other effects that go beyond the desired inhibition of HME-CoA, Dr. Tastin, the liver that are actually quote on target effects. So I'm going to come back to the brain in a minute because I've been extremely interested in the issues that you describe and I'll come back to that. But there's a condition that's even more, I think, clearly connected to an unexpected effective statin. And that is its tendency to increase blood sugar, and increase the risk of diabetes. That's been demonstrated now. What's the relative phrase? It's about, you know, if you talk to cardiologists, I'll say the relative risk is small because the benefit is much greater. Well, that risk is about 10% on average. We have published a paper over a what period of time, over in a duration of the clinical trial. So it's about 6 or 7 years. Yeah, up to 6 or 7 years. But we've published that risk can be a significantly higher in women than men. Perhaps this higher 30% or plus. And so, and do we think that that effect is due to disregulated glucose uptake in the muscle? There is evidence and we're deeply involved with these studies of direct pathologic effects on muscle energy metabolism. That's more closely connected with, obviously, with muscle symptoms than with diabetes, but insulin resistance is a certainly another factor that could be involved and the muscles could be involved. The liver could be involved. So that's one situation where there may be on target effects, even in the liver that might contribute to this. We think it's probably not liver. We think there is probably effects either beta cells and cells that produce insulin and or the tissues that insulin acts on such as such as the cell muscle being an important. Right. So the reason I haven't been more specific, had us, we really don't know. There is a number of theories all of which sort of collectively could be true in different individuals, but the net effect is not trivial. Is it dose dependent? Yes. Well, there are some evidence that are glyceozyclic, e.g. the effect is dose dependent. In fact, this was very limited information on this actually, but there is some evidence that seemed to be, so for example, when you look at Symbestatin, it seems to have a much higher incidence of myalges or CK elevation. When we look at the entire suite of statins, do we see some that seem higher risk for diabetes, some that seem lower risk? Yes. And again, this is sort of a collection of observations from various sources. One of the statins that's most recently been introduced is clinical pitavestatin. Liverlo. Yeah, liverlo. That group in Francis has shown pre-convincingly recently that this is not associated with diabetes risk. This is kind of my go-to statin, but before IMove to a PCS K9, if this is my last line statin, it's not that potent, as you know. That's the problem. You sort of, you know, once in a while you'll save someone, you'll get a guy who can't tolerate anything, but he tolerates this and you're off to the race. Same here, exactly. So it's probably, or potency, and it's probably its chemical characteristics. Again, when I'm saying right now, it's still not established in a conclusive way, but it does suggest that there is differences in the statins, and that being one has less association of risk. And the one that's probably most commonly associated with risk, and we've seen this, and studies that we've not yet even published all of them, as a tour of a statin appears to be a higher barrier. I look at it. Yeah, have a higher risk. So there's interest. And we don't think that that's just due to the fact that it's so ubiquitous. No. So would that be a reason, because I got to tell you, I think when I'm confronting a patient for the first time with a statin, I am generally almost tossing a coin between Crestor and Lippator as a first line agent. Very quick to flip between them, if I see, you know, any CK bumper, LFT bump. But what you're saying would almost suggest that if it's a person who's not incredibly insensitive, where none of this probably matters, you know, someone who's borderline, you'd lean towards Crestor over Lippator? Yeah, this is sort of putting on my clinical judgment hat rather than my scientist hat. No, no, but that's, but unfortunately, like for many of us, we still, but we have to make decisions. You like you like to use evidence-based criteria, or this is one of the things that I struggle with with evidence-based criteria. We don't have the evidence that allows me to give an answer to that other than saying, yes, I agree that that's what I would do. And I'm also going to back up a little bit and make sure that I have not conveyed the impression that a terrorist statin is a diabetic drug. It's still a minority of the population and we think that this genetic factor is the contribute to that. And we can measure it. IMean, that's sort of the other thing. I sort of sell patients. This isn't going to sneak up on us one day. We would get with diabetes. I use plenty of a terrorist statin. Yeah. And I have to leave this big concern about it and the patient who's risked Barrett's statin treatment. And because as the cardiologists arEQuick to point out, the benefits of statin treatment with any of statin's cardiovascular risk and patients with diabetes far outweighs the risk of actually developing diabetes. And there's even some evidence that the microbiomeoscopic complications might be improved. So we can argue that statin is not causing damaging effects through this mechanism. But it does raise just a little bit of a caution. In fact, it's a caution. I think that should lead to more widespread monitoring of glucose on statin. It's just so that when can detect those individuals who may have an adverse effect. But it's still a minority of the population. And it's not something that should be considered a hazard. Yeah. I think for me, IMean, I sort of, you know, talk to patients that say look, I think there are short-term things that we're generally going to figure out in three months, which is myologist plus or minus a CK elevation. So either your muscles are going to get so or with or without an elevation in CK, which is a way that we can measure the breakdown of muscle. And changes in your liver function test. We look for those elevations. I don't know about you, but I see a lot more LFT bumps when combined with Zedia than just statin alone. I find a lot of patients I have the tolerate any dose of a statin than you add a Zedia. It seems to me like 20% of people just immediately have an LFT bump. I have a machine at that often, but I have a machine at that. And then I talk about the long-term stuff, which is actually, I think in many ways, what we should be more concerned with because the short-term stuff, like you figure that out in 10 seconds, right? But it's the, and the diabetes doesn't worry me as much for all the reasons you've stayed, which is it doesn't sneak up on you and you can measure the progress. But for maybe I'm being overly cautious and I've had many in argument with many cardiologists that I share patients with who, you know, we'll have a patient on a maximum dose of a statin. It, I'll give you one example. I've got a patient who came to me on 80 milligrams of lipitore. Still wasn't quite at goal. We added the 10 of Zedia. So then he was at goal and given his burden of disease goal for this guy is about a 700 nanomole per liter of LDLP. But, you know, he had no cholesterol synthesis that we could speak of. So put him on a PCSK9 inhibitor that took his LDL down to like 200 nanomole per liter. So I said, great, let's back off the lipitore and his cardiologist just thought like, this was malpractice. And, you know, it took many a discussion to just even get that back to 40. And my goal is to hopefully get him down to maybe 20 of lipitore so that I can actually see some cholesterol synthesis come back. It's interesting. But again, now we're also a little outside of evidence based medicine. And this is more the art than the science. That's right. And it's a fascinating issue to deal with because we are conducting an experiment in the global populations, certainly in the US, that has never been done before. And that is prescribing statins to millions of people as a lifelong treatment without knowing what the downstream effects are beyond the clinical trial data that we have, which is limited. And we can call in genetics. But it doesn't necessarily mimic the effects of using a statin drug for 40 years. And so I'm just going to say very briefly that I don't want to open the lid on the discussion that many of the naysayers have used to say that statins should be avoided because they can have long-term effects. But I will say, that's like saying driving should be avoided because driving has a negative effect. Right. Right. Right. But there are things that we don't know that certainly I would like to learn and hopefully our own research project will contribute to this as to what may be affecting certain subsets of the population with prolonged use by understanding the mechanisms that might be operating in tissues like the muscle, pancreas, and the brain. And so that bandastanding those mechanisms and perhaps developing markers for people that may have increased likelihood of these undesirable effects that we may be able to guide our treatment more effectively. That's the way the goal of this trauma question. We understand the mechanism of the myaldras. I tend to give patients a ubiquinol. But honestly, the trials are, I and I explain to them, I said, look, I use it as a practice, but I can't point to amazing data. What do we think is going on there? We just talked earlier about the European consensus group that I was on whether it was a second one that I was on and that was statin side effects. And so the first paper in that series came out a year or so ago and that was myopathy. The second paper is I think just out and it describes the data as they were like the diabetes, cognitive function, et cetera. The first paper attempted to address thEQuestion you asked among other things and that is what's going on here. And all we have is a diagram that has many points of attack. One of the things that we're actually working on, one of my colleagues in my research program is mitochondrial targeting of strength. There may be on target effects. That is a normal response to statins in some people or maybe in a significant percentage population may affect mitochondrial function in ways that generally are not clinically important, but which in some people could be magnified and lead to changes in muscle function and muscle number, muscle cell number. That's a hypothesis that I'm speaking to now is the lack of a clear single mechanism that we can point to. That's just one of several possibilities. The effects on a coinsam cube, you can all mention, has certainly been out there. But as you say, very high placebo, I find reverse that it's right has not been that successful. One of my patients, I said doctor actually, I'll say this for whatever it's worth. This is one of the sort of clinical pros I have a doctor who was really a very good observer who wound up getting a liquid form of coinsam cube as opposed to a capsule. A capsule that didn't work is muscle symptoms dramatically disappeared or it's improved for the liquid form. Maybe there's issues of absorption or yeah, who knows? Well, I do think there is actually, IMean, we've just empirically used a wheat test co-cute hand levels in the blood and I've noticed for what it's worth that virtually every version doesn't show up. The only one I have found and just to be clear, I don't get paid by this company at all, but there's a brand made by Jero, which I, Jero, I think is probably the best supplement maker. I've seen it. We've had some of their stuff tested, but Jero's ubiquinol is so readily absorbed because the clinical trials call for 600 milligrams. I don't think I have a patient on more than 400. In fact, most people at 200 milligrams of the Jero variant reach systemic levels that are above our onset and target. Again, does that mean anything? I actually have no clue, but for what it's worth, I've noticed that on most other versions and variants of ubiquinol, we just do not measure it in the blood. Yeah, that's really, you don't have that experience, that's very interesting to learn, but again, how that's what it's missing. Yeah, right. The other thing I just mentioned along the lines, again, it deals with diving deeper into the biology of the system. There's about 20 intermediates on the way to ubiquinol. It's just as complicated a pathway as cholesterol synthesis. And so we don't know whether there may be other targets in that pathway, just happens to be the end result. So there's lots to learn about how statins impact biology in ways that could affect health. It's in part because we have such a large population who is doing this experiment basically. And it's also because of the centrality of mechanisms that statins affect. So it's not just cholesterol synthesis. It's precursors of steroid hormones that are in this pathway. And it's these other pathways that can affect intermediates like ubiquinol and other phyndocields. There's lots of other downstream products that are affected by statins that may have biological effects that tell us something about what the drug is doing in the physiological way, but may also have pathologic consequences and some people. What do you make of the evidence for and against the case that, and this is not a common argument, but it is one that shows up enough, which is okay, statins do reduce events, but it's not by lowering LDL. That's an unintended consequence or an intended consequence that is true, and unrelated, but the benefits of statins actually come from the endothelial health and or inflammatory reduction. So this is another deep topic, which is obviously, clinically important to people understand what it is they're treating and why you get back to a couple of issues. One is the causality of LDL, which we discussed a while ago. LDL is causal. That's established beyond doubt. So the benefits of drug induced LDL going, let's say statins, have to be considered as operating in part through that mechanism. Otherwise, let's at least see that in part otherwise you're just ignoring reality. So that's number one. Number two is, is it the most important factor? Is it the only effect in the answer? It's certainly not the only factor. There's no doubt in my mind anyway. I'm not sure how much of this is opinion versus evidence, but well, there's only anti-inflammatory effects and there's a lot of work that the friend Paul Wickler has been involved with to help establish partners at NIH. No, he's at the, or he's a break of Zbriggum. Yeah. Yeah. Early in establishing the importance of C. We act of protein as a marker for inflammatory risk not just to practice these, but and we should detour on that topic, because it's so important. Right. There was a recent trial that looked at Lodo, said, meth, a trex eight. Which is an ant, no, it was an Iol. It was an interlucant one. Well, weren't there too? There was the Iol. It was a trex eight isn't out yet. Oh, okay. Maybe I just see other one. Okay. Okay. The other one's out. Yeah. These, and in Lodkin was a one or six. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One. And so that was a very interesting trial. I was a true. Because that, yeah, that was okay. That's right. So that was a trial that said, look, we can make no change to the lipoprotein. We reduce inflammation in a subset of patients. These patients had to have an elevated C reactive protein of a recall and you reduced events. Yeah. And we may see the same thing with this methotryx eight study. And I think that speaks to you. We're not. Yeah. Yeah. Either way, it's an important finding. Exactly. Exactly. So, you know, with the reason I asked thEQuestion, among others is, can you make the sentence? Right. Yeah. Okay. Because then you can say, well, what does statins do to this pathway? Well, they do lower inflammatory signaling down this same pathway. And again, risk error was a pioneer in studies such as the Jupiter trial in earlier ones as well that were analyzed, the predicted benefit or the associated benefit of the LDL lowering against CRP lowering some microprinflamation. So this goes back to using CRP as a marker for inflammation. And achieving a lower level of CRP and a higher level of LDL was associated with benefit, achieving a lower level of LDL with a higher CRP was benefit. So they both contributed to risk and so targeting both LDL to less than 70. I think it was and CRP less than 2,000,000,000,000,000 for deciliter. I think, but targeting those two risk markers together gave the greatest benefit to each contributed. And I think that model stands up pretty well. That it is a double whammy and one of the reasons stands are so effective. It's probably because of their unique ability to hit inflammation as well as as LDL metabolism and get spected PCS keynotes. Doesn't quite have that's an intro. That's exactly where I was going to go, which is I've got a number of patients that are coming to me saying, look Peter, I don't care about the cost of the PCS K9 inhibitor. Get me off this stat and I just want to be on a PCS K9 inhibitor to which I say the only issue I take with that is and I don't have a problem doing it in the patient who is completely statin intolerant. I have a couple of these patients where they absolutely need to be on lipid lowering therapy and they absolutely can't even tolerate you know, live alone. So we know there we just do what we have to do. But the trials don't actually tell us how well PCS K9 inhibitors work in isolation relative to non-treatment. So that's just sort of the evidence based reason for hey it would be ideal if we could at least keep you on some modest amount of a statin. And then secondly there's it's not clear the PCS K9 inhibitor attacks that other mechanism mechanistic aspect is and it's not just inflammation down the trilucon CRP pathway. It's also there's nitric oxide synthesis of the tetrachyric oxide being a basic dilator. So I think there is a good mechanistic case as well as the clinical evidence case for not abandings that if a PCS K9, unless of course the patient is statin intolerant. Where do you think the effect so one of the things I sort of try to divide this is men, women, primary, secondary prevention. That's a nice two by two square. I don't think there's any IMean again I'm not talking about the bloggesteria Twitter but like if you actually look at evidence is there any dispute in the efficacy of statins in secondary prevention for men or women? No. So those are not disputes. So we won't even need to talk about that. Let's talk about primary prevention. The variability in clinical trials when you look at primary prevention especially in women but I think for men to some extent as well. Both in the NNT so that means the number needed to treat so and you know the NNT of course being the reciprocal of the absolute risk reduction. So an NNT of a hundred means you have a 1% risk reduction you need to treat a hundred people to prevent an event. You know when you look at the summary data on this it's amazing how all over the map it is. So how would you rate the strength of the evidence? Just just a quick question for all of us. I'll just give you 30 seconds to answer this. Now the strength of the evidence in primary prevention for statins in either men or women. Okay well let me start with women and let me also specify that you need to think about a cardiovascular events and then mortality from cardiovascular events. Right so we'll talk about major adverse cardiac events so myocardial infarction stroke versus death. So the evidence again importantly from the Jupiter trial which has had a very large enrollment of women but collectively another trial as well for the benefit of statins for high risk primary prevention in women and the high risk caveat is really important here because it really speaks to this very fine radiation between high risk primary prevention and secondary prevention because if you're at high enough risk and haven't had a heart attack you may be five seconds away from the heart attack so yeah we may have had a silent MI that was already right so that distinction could be a little bit fuzzy but technically at least the evidence is there for primary prevention of cardiovascular events in women it's not it's not really there at least to my reading and IMaybe wrong about this because I haven't gone back and double check but I haven't seen evidence for benefit on mortality for primary prevention in the women women yeah and in men it's kind of weakest for mortality but it's certainly present for events. And is it also possible that you know one of the things I try to explain to if I'm giving a lecture or something to students is you look at a paper and you see no statistical benefit the first question you must ask yourself was was this study powered adequately to detect a difference and it's very often the case that there could have been an effect but we didn't you know it was too small to see with the number of subjects I feel like in some of the primary prevention trials duration might be the bigger issue it's if you're only looking at seven years which is probably the outer limits of where these trials look it might simply be that when you're talking about a one percent absolute risk reduction over seven years it's not really that interesting of course a one percent risk reduction over seven years over 30 years is an enormous difference Alan Snyderman is actually working on a paper now that looks at 30 year risk because of course all the risk calculators are based on 10 year risk which I think has value but also has great limitation and I guess I think that's part of what I struggle with this clinically which is you know we never want to expose a patient to something unnecessarily and there's no substance you're going to put in your body whether it's you know vitamin C versus a stat and that comes with zero risk so how do you weigh that benefit you know this really speaks to need for much better markers that could help us predict benefit versus adverse effects so that we can identify not just the the high risk candidate for statins based on conventional markers but individuals in whom we have evidence for mechanisms that would be benefited by stat and treatment that would argue strongly for benefit and on the other side markers ideally they could assess risk radvers effects not just symptoms but underlying pathology for example and again without I because I want to come back briefly to your question about kind of defunction because I I sort of escaped talking about that because I feel this is because you forgot because you're cognitive functional no it's an effect that he's like he's like the opposite I fit it in a part of my brain that has made me not forget that there can be effects that are our long term that we simply can't assess easily and so one of them could be kind of a function but having said that there's no evidence in an arts consensus paper that just came out and sat in in time it's no evidence really well the population level I would say it's the opposite at the population level I think we see that the risk if anything goes down a little bit yeah and there's a cardiovascular that's exactly right and the cardiovascular element that even contributes to to classical Alzheimer's disease but again the data are really not compelling this is the challenge this is personalized medicine means at the end I don't care about the population I care about the one person sitting in front of me at this moment when we have to make a decision exactly exactly but what's intriguing and what you what's your question open up and that be careful because I don't want to go down the rabbit hole on this one to be sent to statin this influence mechanisms that interact with cholesterol trensported the brain and apo protein eat which we mentioned is a variant that causes tights of rehab of the BDMA apo protein ease is a key protein that has a variant another variant that increases the risk for Alzheimer's disease but we're looking at ways of cholesterol metabolism intersects with that pathway and and conceivably that's just one example of a gene that could interact with statin and if the statin or getting past the blood brain barrier in some cases an inflammation might be a factor that could be exposed to that you could start to have imagine effects that could go either way but but perhaps potentially this function that's just a completely off the you know out of left no no look IMean that's exactly IMean that's that's sort of the hand waving that I use right so when I have patients that have one or two copies of an apo e4 gene I am that much more careful with them with statin use and until proven otherwise yeah yeah and we don't know and we don't know you know IMean I actually there's a there's a wonderful group of apo e4 carriers that has formed a sort of a support very large that I've interacted with they came to my lab there's about 30 members of the groups that came and we I gave a talk about apo protein and nutrition actually I had to sort of be careful because these people were just anxious for advice but we do it we've got this apo e4 variant what do I do with my diet and that's all you know we've done a lot of studies along these lines but we don't know what the effect and disease and yeah disease risk but there's one other cumulative fact that I'm going to mention without again turning the tables on the value of statins and that is getting back to muscle effect because if there is a adverse effect on matter how drill function which we can we can show that in others have shown that and if they're individuals who for one region or another are at risk for muscle wasting sorry it's called the sarcopyr pines muscle wasting conceivably that on target effective statin is the extent that it is an effective muscle tissue could over decades conceivably impact the rate at which this muscle wasting could occur and so there may be a time this is just I'm telling this out that the probably we're near the end of this discussion as a kind of just a thought is it may argue for after a certain age not worrying so much about high dose statin treatment unless the patient is really high risk and because the one may be adding and the elderly individuals and exposure yeah you're creating a new risk in the presence of another risk reduction and it's the experiment that we probably were never going to be able to do and so in just has to sort of be cognizant I've had patients and again I actually take care of a number of physicians actually my clinical work who asked me I've reached age of 75 or 80 and you know done well if you know it's family history meant to me find out and it's a difficult question to answer because because we don't have the evidence base behind age 75 that was really where the cholesterol guidelines that came out a few years ago stop because that's where the evidence stopped yeah we do have benefit and older individuals who are at high risk but we don't know what the trade office in terms of adverse effects that people that don't really need to be taking it any longer now you were involved in one of the ATP guidelines correct yeah well I was on the ATP for on the last panel that handed it off to the American Heart Association Merck College Cardiac I was connected with it when it was part of the NIH that you took issue with something didn't you well there were some concerns that I and others had regarding the scope of the effort originally and this is now personal experience with it when I was brought on I was expecting and we originally talked about having a wide range of topics to discuss not just LDL lowering but how we manage triglystriides who role of HDL emerging risk factors help you the lay we had probably 15 or 16 high priority questions and I was intending to be involved heavily on the discussion of some of these other risk factors I thought the LDL story was obviously important and when had to address should we update the guidelines that's what it was really designed to be and to turn out in the end that because of various changes in support of the whole program the number of questions was reduced down to jusT3 and they all had to do with LDL lowering and the evidence for it and it was very heavily dependent on trials that were available to provide evidence-based conclusions so that means that the effort was really limited to a very strict interpretation of evidence-based guidelines and that led to an abandoning of the LDL targeting that we had the LDL levels that had been used to guide management of risk were abandoned because there was no study that actually addressed specifically that question that is does reaching a certain target reduce risk and I personally got rather discouraged at the limitation that we were under eventually it's sort of got a little bit softened actually after I left the committee I think there was a little bit more tolerance of potential role but basically by being that narrow we not only lost a lot of important questions and lipid management to just murder and address try to decide you know it's a letter to write where IMet a box in room wasn't really touched down at all so it was it was disappointing to me and I'd help you little and I thought my LPA right and so I thought my role in the LDL lowering side was sort of limited I'd actually been involved with being consultants and companies that made the other way drugs I had to actually excuse myself from even the decision process so it was really a point where I just wasn't able to contribute the way I thought I could so I decided to step off. I could continue this discussion probably for six more hours but there is one other thing I want to go back to that we did talk about and I think it's the NIS in question. I think you're forgetting that. No I sure have not. So what is NIS in due right so first of all I don't think anybody actually really understands the mechanism by which NIS and lower ZAPOB do IMean is that is that generally yeah that's right I would say that's a fear statement but but NIS and as a drug that lowers LDL particle cholesterol it also raises HDL cholesterol quite significantly in fact I've seen it raised HDL cholesterol more than I've seen anything in those seat-teppenhibitors so it seems like the dream drug it's doing everything right now it does also create some insulin resistance and it seems to do that at a higher level than even statins do but do you think that that's the explanation for why the hardout come data aren't there and why NIS and has fallen so far out of favor that you know I actually called in NIS and for a patient about a year ago it was we're kind of doing an experiment he couldn't tolerate a statin couldn't afford a PCS canine inhibitor you know we were really reaching for straws and we couldn't even get NIS informed IMean we literally couldn't even get his insurance company to pay for NIS and so it is persona non-gradah. Help me understand that okay so my disclosure is I still use a lot of NIS so why do I do that in the light of this trial so let me just back up then and say that the trials the high profile trials that led to the dismissal of NIS and it's a therapeutic option when was a aim high and the other was it was in the previous PS2 both involved the following criterion and that is NIS and was tested as an HDL raising agent in the setting of LDL being at a low level as a result of intensive statin plus or minus set yeah to bring LDL cholesterol levels to a low enough level that would be considered a non factor that is that the NIS and effect of the LDL would be minimized whereas the HDL is how do we assess the level of NIS and exclusively on its HDL raising properties because we've maximized LDL lower that's right so it would they were designed to test whether the HDL increase with NIS and it's beneficial and the answer is from those trials I say unequivocally no that is the HDL raising effective NIS and is not protective that that's the conclusion to take away that in my view was beating uh it may not have dead horse but a pretty sick one because I never really was totally convinced that that raising HDL itself would be with beneficially even though I was part of the really a study that showed that if you genetically feed mice with uh it can be a gene that raises HDL you can reduce the outdoor scrosis IMean there is a protective effect but I was of the opinion that the association of HDL cholesterol across the population with risk fell into the same category as the LDL small LDL store in the trensverse rates part of a interrelated metabolic syndrome and I felt that the most important pathologic features of that syndrome are not low HDL but the high levels of small LDL and track list rights and both of those components have been not just the LDL but the track list are I related risk have been pretty clearly shown to be causal and the HDL was a marker for that that that was actually my my guess just based on my behavior and there could be another issue here right which is to raise IMean there are there are known you know HDL like the protein EMEAS were very high HDL is actually athrogenic because they're so dysfunctional they can't actually deal epidains right exactly so the simple-minded idea that raising HDL by any means would be beneficial just like lowering LDL by any means would be beneficial was this proven by those studies plus all of the C-tep inhibitors that's right none of the C-tep inhibitors right and so there is something fundamentally pathologic about that effect on HDL that overrides any potential benefit that maybe due to other factors and in the case of the two major nius and trials you know there was some learning of LDL but as you point at the HDL increase was fairly substantial and and those particles are basically hung up in plasma it gets back a little bit to this resonance time issue that I was talking about regarding LDL well here's a situation for HDL well these particles are just it's sort of like the the toilet is plugged yeah you prevent them from doing their job right so you're not delivering cholesterol efficiently back to the liver for excretion and those particles are hanging around long enough that who knows what properties and may be acquiring that might possibly override some of the benefits of the LDL only effect so does that mean that nice and has has no benefit well there was a study that preceded those two studies that was carried out by Greg Brown actually was one that led to the impi study being funded by the NIH and that was called HTO HTH was grossed HTO HTH was grossed is treatments that HATS and that was almost as good as Mr. Fit which I realized now is the one I was forgetting oh that for the LRC that there's a multi-factor risk yeah yeah yeah yeah so going back to hats right so HTH was a statin plus nius and and there was other combination of pro-triach included nius and and that study showed benefit two levels one was the intended and point was quantitative and geographic progression measuring the narrowing of the coordinate vessels which is now not used we now realize that's not particularly right it happened to be correlate with the yeah point and in fact in that study even though it was initially underpowered to detect the benefit on endpoints it did that intervention did reduce risk of events it was a successful trial we analyzed data from that study using four different methods to look at live reporting particles as a part of this was to see whether we could learn something more than was in the standard lipid measurements would tell us and what it did tell us is that the small and very small LDO lowering cheap by nius and which it does do was associated with theascular benefit and that's study whereas HTO it to the extent of nothing else was explanatory and that was independent of all the standard lipids so we have this in the literature from just one study and I wish we would have access to other types of data that could support this but it spoke to a therapeutic effective nius and that would be lost in these larger trials because the statin hammer had lowered the LDO low enough so that additional benefit is probably just too small the tender power lost in the noise so the failure of those trials speak to the success of statins and the failure of HTO raising those are those are the two things take away so then but nius and I think in the patients which are small LDO particles I still use it and I like to see well that's not what I want to ask you let's talk me through the perfect nius in patient well perfect patient with nius and is actually twofold and we weren't going to talk about LPA but you did bring it up earlier and I'm sorry and so it's a it's a it's a genetic factor that is sort of the wildcard in an ethroscrosis it's certainly damaging and we like to lower it so nius and can lower LPA the lay by up to 25% or so and there is not conclusive but to me clinically impressive evidence that if you have a combination of high LPA and small LDO you're just a time bomb from Athroscrosis so if you have high levels of you know high particle number of the small LDO type plus LPA the lay elevations and there's there's always a strong family history of heart disease and the patients are going to be at high risk at a young age because nius and lorys LPA and because nius and lorys the small LDO particles so nius and you think specifically targets smaller particles over larger particles you know preferentially sorry yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah lower that pathway it's not clear whether just that's the VLDL pathway or not I honestly we don't know get back to your earlier statement that we don't know the mechanism really as well we just don't know the mechanism but in that combination that that really is the patient that and I've got patients like that who have and you put that patient on that over a PCS can I name him or if they could afford it well there's another because you're going to get a 30% reduction on LPA that's right the PCS can't be right there's another that's right this another angle this PCS can I has a similar LPA lowering effect plus it has a gangbusters bigger effect than an LDL particle LDL levels so no I wouldn't use it over PCS can I and the argument there is largely financial yes and when insurance will cover you can buy nius and that the local you know shop off the shelf you know along with acting nius and you know safe both of you say it for him for pennies you know you're going to pay an air nire 14 thousand dollars for PCS I've had patients like you who have been willing to do that who have been willing to sort of over pay out a pocket and that is the same category of patient and I probably would consider that even more effective although one other thing little tweak here and that is that both statins and PCS can inhibitors because they work as you said by up regulating LDL receptors as in the case of PCS can end that's the exclusive one for the sense it's part of the mechanism that effect primarily lowers medium and larger size LDL particles and has a less of a therapeutic effect than smaller particles and and none and the very small LDL so there's a great nation of effect which relates to the structure of the LDL mean more or less capable of interacting with LDL receptors and the larger particles interact well and so up regulating LDL. And this explains why we sometimes see a widening of the discordance. It's right in the statinized patient because they're lowering lowering LDL c more than LDL p because you're selecting out the larger more cholesterol than yeah. That's right and so that applies to any mechanism that operates to LDL receptors which is what most of the drugs do even is that am I so what does that mean for nice it will nice and lowers the small and very small LDL very nicely so there's a complementarity there to statinize and I think that's part of what attracts me to using it again I don't use nowadays because of potency of the statinized ability to get LDL on a target and such I have proportion of patients the availability of PCS can I I'd have to say there's fewer patients than I'm starting on nice and but there's still candidates out there that I think would benefit from this come this hitting small LDL hitting L p the way he's the complement the benefits of statins. The only patient I put on nice and in the lasT4 years is a really interesting case he's a guy with he doesn't have FH but he's clearly got some SNPs of FH because his LDL is incredibly high but normal synthesis normal triglycerides and normal absorption markers so you know his sterles are normal this is this is clearance problem unable to tolerate a single statin including one milligram of levelo so we went to Repaatha and there is no effect and we switched to Prowlulant no effect so he's missing this anepotope that I would like the DNA from that patient because I would be happy to introduce you to an anepotope that might explain that actually okay yeah so you use nice and yeah IMean it's it's like basically going to be what nice and anephoresis IMean it's this is really tough case yeah well again IMean you know I think it's legitimate to say that there's probably less if you were a candidate in the with the availability of this potential for using PCS canine certainly with in combination with statins but I would say the patients with moderate the elevated triglycerides in the 150 to yeah you give them a little phenophibrate yes I do actually despite that's another subset question that is a subset of patients who made benefit based on subset analysis subgroup analysis of clinical trials but unfortunately it's just not a very potent yeah but niacin I will use as an alternative approach to lowering the triglycerides and doing this model deal that's that's elegant that's something IMean if just on a personal level that's certainly an amazing an insightful pearl that I've gathered from our discussion today I appreciate you seeing that well and and with that Ron I want to say you know first of all just I consider you a great friend and an unbelievable mentor I feel so fortunate to have benefited from your knowledge and and and peers of yours over the last decade and your generosity is is unparalleled in terms of anytime I can pick up the phone and call you and run a tough case by you you're you're always there to do so so I greatly appreciate that I also think we need to do this again sometime because I literally have twice as many questions as we've got to I wanted to get into saturated fat fructose apoe there's all these other things that I know you are just an expert on that I know people are going to want to hear about so I'm going to have to come back to San Francisco and we'll have to continue this discussion hopefully during the Warriors off season have to do that Peter and thank you for your kind words and it's been a pleasure talking with you I I think the opportunity to help people understand some of these topics issues to something you've been very good at and I've been glad to be able to compete with you thank you so much Ron okay you can find all of this information and more at Peter at tmd.com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode you can also find my blog and the nerds of barri at peteratiamd.com what's a nerds of barri you ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-lame once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science, performance, sleep, et cetera on social you can find me on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook all with the ID, peteratiamd but usually Twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions and comments now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor patient relationship is for him the use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk the content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice diagnoses or treat users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures the companies I invest in and or advise please visit peteratiamd.com forward slash bount shape

=== FILE: #05 - Dom D’Agostino, Ph.D.： ketosis, n=1, exogenous ketones, HBOT, seizures, and cancer [q7kOs6bS1Hg].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions I've gathered along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of those successful top performing individuals in the world. And this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you with a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. On this episode, I interview my good friend Dominic Dagestino. Dom, as he is known by his a professor at the University of South Florida, his PhD is in neuroscience and that's where he got his background. But Dom is probably most recognizable to people listening to this because he is certainly one of the experts on ketosis. And that's in all variants of it. So starvation ketosis, nutritional ketosis, and in particular the use of exogenous ketones. Gosh, Dom and I go way back, we met probably a little over five years ago and instantly formed a friendship around our obsessive end of one experiments. Although I will say he is closer to winning a Darwin award on the basis of his and of ones than I am. Couple notes about this podcast first. This is highly technical at times. And in fact, we'll timestamp it in the show notes, but I would say roughly the first hour is even a little more technical than I had intended to go. I think part of the issue is just once I get talking with Dom about this stuff. I couldn't stop asking him questions. And I think there were times when I guess we forgot we were recording a podcast and it was just us getting really technical. I don't think it's too technical to follow if you have some background understanding about chemistry, but we'll do our best in these show notes to make sure that we're given even the recreational user necessary tools to follow this. Now that said, if you get 20 minutes into this thing and you're like, I don't understand what the hell these guys are talking about, do not hesitate to skip ahead. There's a lot of stuff that gets later on into the podcast and this is a long podcast. It's nearly three hours. There's a lot of stuff we get into at the end that I think will be kind of the stuff people really want to know even if they don't want to get in the gory details. So in particular, we talk very specifically about all of the key tones. And I'm getting a lot of questions about Peter. What's the difference between a key tone Esther, a key tone salt, one of the monowesters, one of the die esters, where does MCT fit into this? What about the Caprylic acid? And how many should we be using this one versus this one? And what are the advantages and advantages? This is going to be your dissertation level course in that subject matter. The other thing that we get into at the very end and we almost end on this, but again, look to the timestamps for exactly where it is is we get into what I consider one of the most interesting discussions I've ever had on what I sort of loosely describe as a metabolic oncologist playbook. So when I asked Dom about this, he had just some of the most interesting insights and I was really impressed by the breadth and the organization of his thinking around this. Now, I want to point out something here and I say it in the show, but it's really important for me to caveat this here. This cannot be construed as medical advice. Dom is not a medical doctor. He doesn't pretend to be one on TV. He is a research scientist who focuses on basic and trenslational research. He collaborates with lots of physicians. He is involved in a number of clinical trials. But ultimately, Dom is not offering medical advice and frankly, nor is anybody or nor should anybody be on a podcast. So this information I asked because I get asked this stuff a lot and frankly, I don't know enough about this sort of outreaching and outlying metabolic therapies out there. But I hope that if people are listening to this and they're afflicted by cancer, which statistically speaking is obviously going to happen, given that one and six people are going to get cancer in their lifetime, I hope that if some of this stuff does scratch someone's sort of desired to understand more that they can use some of the resources we're going to link to to potentially identify the right places where either clinical trial will be taking place or they could at least pursue some of these things under the appropriate medical guidance. I could go on and on about other nits and nats in here. But honestly, I think the best thing to do right now is probably pay a little bit of attention maybe more than usual to the show notes. Treat this as a little bit like a buffet. Go to the places you want to go to. Of course, I would recommend the entire thing if you really have an interest in this subject matter. And I hope that this podcast is going to answer many of thEQuestions that I see people asking out there. I actually learned quite a bit on this and I tend to know this subject matter reasonably well. So without any further delay, welcome to the podcast with Dominic DeGasino. Hey, Dom. Hey, Pete. How are you, man? I'm doing well. How are you? I'm doing really well and I'm really grateful for you making the trip all the way up here, I know that in part you're visiting family, but it's great that you've carved out time to come from New Jersey all the way up to the lovely city of Manhattan. I appreciate the envoy and love being here. Love this, isn't it? Well, there's going to be a number of people listening to this today who are already incredibly familiar with who you are, the work you've done. I certainly consider you probably one of the two most authoritative persons on the subject we're going to get into today. But for anybody who's listening to this, who is not entirely familiar with you, I suspect by the end of today, they're going to want to get a lot more familiar with you. So I actually remember the day we met and it's kind of funny. I was in Florida giving that talk at IHMC and I knew of you by name, but I didn't know who you were or what you looked like. So I wouldn't have recognized you when I gave a talk. This would have been 2011 maybe, maybe 2012. And at the end of the talk, there was like a Q&A. And it was a long Q&A and it just went on and on and on. And then you asked a question, now, I wish I could say I remember thEQuestion, but I knew from thEQuestion that that guy knows what he's talking about and then of course can Ford who knew us both had basically arranged for us to all have dinner that night. And so that was the night we met. And it was really at least from my standpoint not to embarrass you. It was like a love at first sight. Like I was like, I was just so giddy to be able to sit there and have dinner with you. Same here. Yeah, I knew who you were and I was looking for that talk and IMade the drive up there. And I felt like we were connected before we even connected, you know, or definitely on the same wavelength on the stuff. Yeah, you've got such an interesting history that we're going to get into about how you got interested in this space. But also I think one of the things that many people might not appreciate fully that I appreciate it just because of the, you know, the convenience and luxury of how we met was just your interest in self experimentation as well. Sometimes when you're studying something or interested in something that is not entirely mainstream yet, you have to bootstrap it and you have to look at like limited amounts of animal data, limited amounts of in vitro data and then sometimes combine it with insights that you get through early experimentation on, you know, yourself. Absolutely. So I am Earth myself and what I'm doing. I think that's sort of what that's how we learn. Yeah, that's really that's the best way to learn. So you did your PhD in neuroscience, correct? Yeah. What is the biology? 10 physiologists. So you're finishing your PhD and you're planning to do a postdoc? Yeah, I did it in the neural control of autonomic regulation. So the brain stem mechanisms sort of sense O2, oxygen and CO2 and modulate respiratory rhythm generation and also cardiovascular sympathetic tone to the heart like those neurons and how they sense oxygen. During my PhD, I got interested in diving physiology and it was amazing to me that we don't really understand how our brains and our physiology functions in extreme environments as it pertains to elevated hyperbolic pressure, elevated oxygen, CO2, anesthetic gases, for example. We know the anesthetic potency of a gas is proportional to its lipid solubility but we don't really know what that means. Like why what's happening at the level of the membrane or the mitochondria. So my postdoctoral fellowship was actually developing technologies to study that and that would be hyperbaryctomic force microscopy and that was like that's what I just delved into for how does that work? So I know what hyperbaryct means, you know what my microscopy means. Tell me about the part about the force. The first term for atomic force microscopy was scanning probe microscopy and instead of using light or electrons it uses a very sharp tip probe that can be so sharp it's monotomic and it essentially raster scans across the sample and can detect very subtle changes in the topography of the sample that you're scanning. So it actually spawned the whole nanotechnology world. This particular instrument was used to characterize materials and really help develop silicon valley in many ways. It's a microscope that we took basically an off-the-shelf atomic force microscope that gives you the scanning resolution of an electron microscope but also has a capacity to image living cells. And took this technology and put it inside an environmental chamber, a hyperbaryct chamber. And part of my project was doing the electrical, the fluid and the gas penetrations to make the thing functional and also doing a series of studies and calibration tests to determine that we could reliably make hyperbaryctomic force microscopy measurements inside this chamber and with this technology it gives us insight at the nanoscopic level of what's happening to the mitochondria to the cell membrane. So I got a grant through the Department of Defense which they give these equipment grants to develop this technology and also grant to use it and then later another grant to put a confocal microscope. You might have heard up a laser scanning. I actually used a confocal microscope in my undergrad thesis to the computational optical sectioning of terms. I know because I was an engineer so I was interested in a question of did the direction of extrusion that you put on a tibial plateau. So when you do joint replacements does the direction in which you extrude what's called ultra-hymolecular weight polyethylene does that predict its fracture and it turned out it did. But the tool to help us measure that was this confocal microscope. So that was my introduction to high end microscopy. It's an amazing tool. Yeah. So the second. Yeah. You got it. Through the toys that we have in the lab. So that was the next phase of sort of my experiments was installing a laser scanning confocal. So we could optically section individual cells and look at the mitochondria inside the cells under graded levels of oxygen and hyperbaric pressure, essentially. Pressure of an inner gas like helium, nitrogen. So to simulate, for example, a Navy seal dive or a deep sea dive. In the context of developing this technology and imaging a wide variety of cells from primary neurons to the leoblastoma cells to human-dermal fiber blasts, smooth muscle cells, I noticed that cancer cells would produce proportionally more superoxide anion, which is the precursor oxygen free radical that comes from the mitochondrial electron trensport chain as a consequence of normal metabolism. The cancer cells look to have what appeared to be their chock full of mitochondria and they were moving around very dynamic structures. And under normal levels of oxygen, they kind of produced a normal level of superoxide anion or oxygen free radicals. But when we hit the cancer cells with hyperbaric oxygen, the superoxide production went off the charts. And it was very apparent to me that they were producing excess free radicals and as we made measurements over time, it was very apparent that it was accelerating membrane lipid proxidation, which we use a variety of tests. One is a T-Mars test where we look at malady aldehyde production. And the technology, the atomic force microscopy, allows us to look at very subtle changes of the surface of the membrane. You measure the perturbations on the surface of the membrane and nanoscopic changes. We look at membrane roughness and you could look at the roughness of the membrane and calculate that. And that can correlate to membrane lipid proxidation. And it correlates the numbers correlate well. So what you're looking at is the physical correlate of membrane lipid proxidation when you capture that data with atomic force microscopy. Is that clear? Yeah, let me back up and make sure I can disagree with this in this step. So the first thing that you notice is lots of mitochondria in cancer cells. And shockful. And these are what types of cancer lines. The main one that I was working with that I ended up publishing the paper in neuroscience with was U-87, Gleoblastoma cells. And they were taken out of a 44-year-old patient. So humans are what we're doing. Human cell line. Yeah. A lot of people use it. You know, these are astrocytes. Right? These are not neurons. Yeah, of a Gleal origin. Yes, yes. So observation one, lots of mitochondria. Okay, good to know. Because obviously there's a understanding that more bird pointed out that says, hey, like, you know, these things largely are anaerobic, not a robex. So they shouldn't really need much mitochondria. Yeah. And then what you're saying is you put them into a hyperbaric environment. And how hyperbaric? How many times atmospheric pressure would you need? I saw the observation. So normal oxygen is 0.2 ATA. We say atmospheric absolute. And that saw a big jump up in super oxide anion production at 0.95. So that's almost five times atmospheric pressure. That's almost five times. Yeah. And actually 0.95. If you're breathing produces a P02 in the brain, if similar to breathing 2.5 atmospheres of oxygen. And then I actually went up to the experiment with 3.25 atmospheres of oxygen. And then that basically was cooking the cells from the inside out. The mitochondria were producing so much oxidative stress through reactive oxygen species. So superoxin anion can go to hydroxyl radical through the fenten reaction, the hydrogen peroxide. And that can be driven in different ways. And I basically saw the mitochondria exploding under hyperbaric oxygen conditions. And I never see that. Do you have a control in this of non-cancerous glial cells that are not doing the same thing? Most of my experiments prior to this with smooth muscle cells. I was looking at in primary cortical neurons, primary hippocampal neurons. At the time, I was just basically looking at, I was doing these experiments to validate the tool that we had just built. So no one actually had imaged living cells under hyperbaric conditions because no one had a hyperbaric microscope before. So I didn't actually know what I was even looking at. I was not a cancer biologist. I knew that cancer cells were rapidly proliferating so they probably had amped up metabolism. But it was just a very interesting observation to me. It was very interesting that they were also dying. And I figured cancer cells should be hearty. And you should be able to throw everything but the kitchen sink it them and they should live. And then when I saw them basically the mitochondria exploding and the membrane starting to become permeable and necrotic cell death, I became more and more interested in that. And we ended up publishing the observation. But I didn't actually know what it meant. Like I published it more like here I built this cool tool and we did this experiment. And I was actually just looking at the cell line as a model system to study reactive oxygen species and oxygen toxicity seizures because part of the military was funding me to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms of oxygen toxicity seizures. And it's thought that high levels of oxygen creates oxidative stress. And that perturbs the brain in a way that causes these grand maltonic clonic seizures. And we're developing tools. You can't understand it unless you know fundamentally what's happening at the level of the cell and the mitochondria. So I want to come back to that because that now makes sense for why diving could increase that risk because if you're using an oxygen rebrother, you're getting a higher concentration of oxygen and then you're under multiple atmospheres of pressure. You know basically replicated in a person what you were seeing a cell. But going back to the cell thing for a sec, do the free radicals that get generated destroy other cells beyond the cell that is generating the free radical or is the problem largely contained to the cell? It's a dose dependent phenomenon. And we were studying cells in this particular experiment in a petri dish or on a cover slip. So yeah, it's sort of like an intact neural network or cellular network. So the cells are literally connected to one another. Unlike a tissue slice where you have an intact cytoarchitecture, which that's a little bit different. But the oxygen free radicals and the substances that the cells produce do actually influence other cells adjacent to it or juxtapose to it. That's obvious from some of the experiments we do in cell signaling. You know, if one cell becomes permeable and we could detect cell death with various molecules, like a thinium home and dimer one, when that cell dies, it can stimulate exitotoxic events in surrounding cells. Same thing happens with the cancer cells. It's obvious that cancer cells use reactive oxygen species for growth and proliferation. And I know this is something that maybe contradicting to many people. We view free radicals is something that's damaging that the cell needs to get rid of. But they're very powerful signaling molecules, especially for cancer cells and growth and proliferation and in normal tissues. Can you mean nuclear signaling? In nuclear signaling and activation of trenscription factors. Basically, there are many ice study as neuroscientists. Ice study re-doc sensitive ion channels. So the re-docs state of an ion channel can dictate the permeability and the gating functions of that ion channel, which is intimately linked to cellular excitability by influencing the resting membrane potential. So as a neuroscientist, you can study a very particular and cells have hundreds of thousands of ion channels, specific ion channels that are redox regulated. But what was obvious is that cancer cells have elevated rates of reactive oxygen species that they use for growth and proliferation. It also fuels metastasis and invasive nissic cancer cells. And because they overproduce oxygen free radicals in the context of high oxygen, you can push the cells above their antioxidant potential and then trigger a popthosis. So it's like a double-edged. So it's basically a U-shaped curve or inverted depending on how you want to think about it where the cancer cell is not only optimized as a survivor, it's optimized to thrive at a certain level of elevated react levels. It's elevated level. But if you go too far, it becomes counter. Yeah, so they have elevated endogenous antioxidant capacity, right? But because their mitochondria are defective in many ways and that term is kind of controversial. Some people think the warburg effect definitely endows a cell's many benefits. But the aberrant activity of the mitochondria is creating this excess free radicals. And hyperbaric oxygen and chemotherapy, therapeutic drugs, the augment oxidative stress, our therapeutic modalities that can be used. It was very apparent to me seeing that in a hyperbaric chamber looking at a microscope, looking at these cells and no one had seen it before because no one had hyperbaric. My heart is too old. Yeah. And that kind of, at the same time, I was growing these cells under different conditions. I was very interested in lactate. And I became interested in ketones too, just not for this reason. I was not yet interested in the ketogenic diet. I was looking at it for a different reason, actually. But I noticed that the cancer cells were not growing as rapidly as they should in the context of one to end five millimeter of beta hydroxybuter eight, which I was growing in them in. And I thought the lab tech may have been doing something that was influencing, but she assured me. It wasn't. So we would pull the media off and put regular media on without the ketones and the cancer cells would start growing rapid. Why were you using ketones in the media? Well, I was looking at a variety of different substrates back in 2008 and nine. I see. So you were just a co-sciety glucose, B-h-b. Yeah, two deoxy glucose. Yeah, lactate. I was using a variety of different and ketones were like, well, let's just see what ketones do. You know, that ketones were something that the body would produce in fasting. But I didn't, I didn't even know the anti-seizure properties of the ketogenic diet. I was just sort of it is like, what do you bring in? In a couple odd papers, I came out like ketones could be used as fuel. I was very interested in alpha-l polylactate, various forms of lactate that could be used to preserve brain energy metabolism in the face of oxidative stress. And the ketones just, they sort of shine. So basically what they were able to do was allow the neurons to preserve their membrane potential and normal cellular function even in the context of extreme oxidative stress. And it made sense, right? Because the ketogenic diet, you know, I started looking more into this and discovered that the ketogenic diet was a very effective anti-seizure strategy even when drugs fail. About two thirds of patients. Respond favorably, you get, you know, 10 or 15 percent of super responders that never have seizures again. You can get them off your meds. And it was probably working through a mechanism independent of any anti-seizure compound. Because the ketogenic diet worked when drugs failed, you know, suggesting it was working through a different mechanism or many mechanisms kind of in synchrony. So the tools that we developed really sort of started to allow us to understand from a cellular and molecular mechanism how ketones were working. And I was looking at other compounds at the time. But it's just as I kept studying, I was looking at sigma receptor agonist. I was looking at other antioxidants, many different antioxidants and combinations of antioxidants that were catalyst, mimetics, super oxide dismetates, mimetics. You know, all these things that were in theory, they should work really well. But nothing was really working as well as ketones. And it also motivated me because when I discovered the ketogenic diet was a grossly underutilized anti-seizure strategy. I was like, wow, I could go back to my nutrition roots because when I was undergrad, IMajored in nutrition science. But I didn't pursue a PhD in nutrition because nutrition was not like a real science. Like there was no jobs in nutrition. And the 90s was a decade of the brain. So it was like, let me try to get into a cellular neuroscience program. So I kind of just left nutrition. And this was my opportunity to bring nutrition back into my research projects into the lab. Going back to that BHB in the media. Yeah. Did you have the same amount of glucose in as you had in the BHB free media? Yeah. So we did everything in the context of the same amount of glucose. Another about five million benefit was from the addition of BHB, not the reduction of glucose. Absolutely. Yep. And as I started to get into the literature and read into this a little bit more, we started doing glucose subtraction and adding ketones and saw that normal healthy neurons functioned and thrived in a low glucose environment if the ketones were present. But the cancer cells would die. And this was also replicated and published in various neuroblastoma cell lines. And I think Skinner was one person that published and I found that he was at University of Florida. But he was a fellow and just had to left the school at the time. And then I went up there and gave a talk. I think in 2010. And that further that got me more and more interested in studying cancer even though it's not funded to do so. It was like this pet project that was completely very intellectually stimulating to me. And something that I could not just shelf and come back to it a later time. I had to. I felt like the environment was kind of hot for this. So I just kept reaching out to different scientists and showing them my data and asking them to explain it. Like top level cancer biologists. Then I stumbled across Tom C for actually speculating why do you think Tom was one of the few people that latched onto this was it simply because he'd already been thinking the same things or because it's really it is interesting when you think about how many really interesting and impressive people in cancer have not sort of come around to thinking about this stuff. Now in 2009 I think it was 2009 and I'm sure you have read this paper a thousand times. It's sort of I think it was the first obvious mainstream view of this was the Matt Van der Heiden Lou Cantley Greg Thompson science paper. Is that 09? Does that sound about right? Which reminded me of that a couple papers around that time. Which one was this is the one that offered an explanation for the war burger fact. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was working on energy synthetic. That's right. Or expanding the biomass directing metabolites to do that. Yeah, and that was interesting because that's a different explanation than presumably Tom would offer. Right. It's accepting the war burger fact as a very powerful. But thEQuestion that Tom has really set out to address no one is arguing the war burger fact is present. But the initiation of the war burger fact that damaged mitochondrial respiration causes an energetic crisis that kicks on the oncogenes that basically turn on the genes that are the essence of the war burger fact. Let's describe it. I should I'm going to take for granted that everyone listening knows what the war burger fact is. So for someone who doesn't know how would you explain the war burger fact? The war burger fact simply stated is insufficient. Might a condrel oxidative phosphorylation or what we call respiration. With compensatory fermentation in the form of establishing the cell establishes. It's energy. It's production of ATP. Our energy currency through glycolysis and substrate level phosphorylation. And it's well recognized that cancer cells 90% of them I would say have a war burger phenotype meaning that they have highly accelerated like holocys and substrate level phosphorylation. So let me simple write that a little bit more. Our cells can turn glucose into something called pyruvate and that occurs outside of the mitochondria and that's not a highly energy efficient process. It doesn't generate much ATP. You then have a decision to make as a cell which is basically how quickly does the body want ATP and as a general rule when it wants it quickly it's an anaerobic environment. You think about things that drivEQuick ATP requirement. And so then it will just say look what does it turn this pyruvate into lactate? That's the glycolytic pathway which is not particularly efficient either. It doesn't generate that much more ATP but it has the luxury of saying I can guarantee to do this quickly and I don't need to be limited by cellular oxygen. Under ideal circumstances you would want to generate the most ATP you would shuttle that pyruvate into the mitochondria as a seedal co-a and you have this other process. So what you're saying is the war burger effect is hey, even under conditions at rest a cancer cell seems to disproportionately do this glycolytic thing and it generates its ATP that way as opposed to going into the mitochondria. Exactly, even in the presence of normal oxygen it utilizes glycolysis and pumps out lactate. So under no other conditions do normal cells ferment and pump out lactate. So then the war burger did he want a Nobel Prize for this observation? He want a Nobel Prize for his work in metabolism cancer cells. Yeah and it was more kind of appreciated a little bit later what the implications of this was but it was part of his Nobel Prize. You know I remember reading an article about this once that has since escaped me but then maybe I'm wrong so correct me but one of the reasons that the hypothesis was because this was in the 1920s if I recall. Yeah, the war was yeah. So one of the reasons that this sort of got discarded for lack of a better word or at least ignored was people tended to focus on the exceptions and there were exceptions right certain lung cancers certainly seem to pose an exception to the war burger fact and so the idea was will look if you have an exception then the rule is not so much a rule anymore and is there another reason why the war burger fact was largely ignored for you know a generation and a half to two generations. Travis Christopheerson wrote a book called Tripping Over the Truth that nicely sums that up and I think there's a lot of reasons for that but I think the the big focus was on understanding the gene pathways that were associated with carcinogenesis and then if we can understand the gene ideology of cancers and different types of cancers then that would explain cancer in a much more fundamental level and that is the case there's a dynamic interplay between metabolism and genetics so now we have an appreciation that metabolites you could call them on cometabolites are epigenetic drivers and metabolism is just not something is just not producing ATP there are so many different intermediates and read-ock signaling and so many different signaling molecules from metabolism that have epigenetic regulation and I think that has become when I got into this there was no cancer metabolism conferences you know and now there's a dozen or more where Lou Cantley is the keynote speaker and Craig Thompson is getting and this has all sort of exploded shortly after some of these observations that IMade and it's just you know it's I don't think it's coincidence anything remember that night yeah yeah remember when we had that dinner in DC at that conference yes I still look back at that as that was almost remarkable rooms to be sitting in as a fly on the wall because there was only about 12 people there and you know you had Lou Cantley you had Michael Bishop Steve Rosenberg David Sabotini who else was their Michael Pollock a vendor hiding yep that you can divide IMean you basically have some of their most thoughtful cancer scientists in the in the world certainly in the United States in one room and that was amazing conversation yeah yeah that's if I go back to the time exactly that's it's gold we'll talk this guy's into getting in a room again yeah IMean I think what you're basically saying is look part of its reason for being discarded or at least forgotten about was a new sexier idea emerged which is hey we started to understand the role of the genome and there's this weird sort of debate you hear and then the observation that things like viruses you know which could you know encode and change our DNA but but the viruses that cause cancer are the very same viruses that damage the mitochondria that damage the DNA and mitochondria and causing respiratory insufficiency which triggers an energetic crisis which can trigger the activation of oncogen through retrograde response so that needs to be appreciated too but those this explosion of technologies that allowed us to understand genetics and that was sort of being leveraged to really delve into the cancer I think it was do some politics influencing that too so is the first thing you did from that point because there's really two separate problems that you're talking about the first is why are these seizures occurring and I'm referring very specifically to your DARPA funded work which was why is it that when these social forces guys are doing their ultra secret dives which require rebrie there's why are a subset of them having these fatal seizures well it's the at the office of Navy research oh it was there's also not that okay okay okay they were doing more fighter performance like with ketoneesters just prior to you know what I was doing so so that's one problem yeah the other problem that's that you've also articulated is hey what's going on okay yes yes so oxygen toxicity seizures are limitation for Navy seal divers and we don't know how to predict them or prevent them it's also a limitation of hyperbaric oxygen therapy right so if you have carbon oxide poisoning right and you need to live as much as you need to get that that carbon oxide off your hemoglobin you need to basically increase the PO2 and your tissues oh do that carbon monoxide has a much higher affinity than oxygen for hemoglobin so you have yep basically up-competed yes so if you were to take a ketone ester which we know now increase your resistance to oxygen toxicity by like 600% and take a ketone ester and get inside of a hyperbaric chamber you have a much greater chance of living if you have wounds there's 14 different applications for hyperbaric oxygen therapy we think that therapeutic ketosis strategy would make it much safer and more efficacious so in the context of an oxygen rebreeder the advantage is that there's a stealth component because you don't produce bubbles you can dive in a quiet lake and go all the way across and surprise your enemy but it's just 50 feet of sea water within 10 minutes at 50 feet of sea water you run the risk of getting oxygen toxicity seizures that's pretty shallow I would say that again at 50 feet 50 feet of sea water 10 minutes you're on a dragger rebreeder according to the oxygen dive tables that has been enough to trigger a seizure in many guys so the produces a PO2 in your brain of about roughly 2,000 times higher than what your your oxygen level in your brain would be right now 2,000 percent higher yeah so that needs to be sort of appreciated and of course this could all be averted if you just stick to the dive tables right but if you have you know enemy fire with 50-kower machine guns coming down on you and you want to stay down if the water's clear you got to go down deeper if you have a plan of mine and get to the bottom of the ship or a bridge you you might be underwater for three or four hours and the enemy is still up there and it's you got to get down there and do your job and dive deep and avoid that and then you know after a time you have pulmonary oxygen toxicity too if you're down there long enough but generally speaking these your breathers are for shallow diving but situations where they need to go down deeper do you have an estimate of how many navy divers just in the United States both in trening or combat would would die in a given year from this or be injured it's pretty rare fortunate is pretty rare and if they do get hit with oxygen you know our friend Kurt Parsley will tell you that navy seals notorious about not telling what their issues are with her health right so if they do have a seizure they would be kicked out you know a lot of these guys because that may make them a weak link that they're vulnerable so we know recreational divers that push the limit who've been hit a couple times you know with this and we're doing some studies right now recreational divers so it's very under-reported but studies have shown I always show a video in one of my talks of a guy in a chamber where he has a mask on and the mask is breathing 100% oxygen and the guy inside the chamber is breathing hyperbaric air and within at 2.7 atmospheres of oxygen he gets hit with a seizure and has a really violent tonic clonic seizure and it stopped as soon as you remove the oxygen mask and start breathing air even if it's at the same barometric pressure the seizure stop so one of the beneficial things of these seizures if you want to if there's a beneficial component to it is that they quickly stop as soon as you remove the hyperbaric oxygen source or you go from breathing 100% oxygen to hyperbaric air so what's happening is that the high levels of oxygen are creating oxidative stress and actually in peating various metabolic processes in the brain and the brain is becoming hyper excitable and the neurons are firing so many action potentials that the cells essentially can't maintain their membrane potential and you get excitotoxicity that causes mass firing and the neurons and a seizure right and this is obviously under a very super physiologic super physiologic it only happens you know in these extreme environments of pressures and and the reason for it now is kind of you have S nitrosylation of glutamic acid decarboxylase there's two different ises ions and then what we think now is that you have more glutamate to GABA ratio so the enzyme that converts our GABA immunopotric acid it is actually created from glutamate right so you have much more excitatory than inhibitory neurotrensmitter so that ratio changes and it's a re-dox dependent reaction actually it's a you have S nitrosylation of this enzyme that converts more glutamate to GABA so you have increased neuronal firing and increased release of glutamate and also less conversion of the glutamate to GABA which has a brain stabilizing so this is going off topic for just a second but we know that as people age we see greater and greater oxidative damage so we see you know this susceptibility to ROS going up does any of what you learned in this super physiologic environment where in a very short period of time you're going to generate a ton of loss by exposing someone to high pressure and high O2 does anything you learned in that environment offer an insight into non-super physiologic or normal aging and disease progression yeah I think in many different ways so it's almost like exercise right if you exercise intensely your reactivation species are going to go up inflammation all these things kick on so high pressure oxygen increases oxidative stress and that kicks on many different processes that can end out of the cell with greater cellular protection so it can for example cause an increase in super oxidative mutate it can enhance enhance our antioxidant defenses so the oxidative stimulus is a trigger for adaptive processes that can allow our systems to be more resilient against the same level of oxidative stress this happens very robustly in a young animal and is significantly attenuated in an older animal and I think that needs to be appreciated so the adaptive response to stimulus is varies genetically probably between the individual there's a lot of individual variability between people and even if you take the same person under different conditions whether it be if they're sleep deprived what they ate that they there maybe if they're dealing with a little viral illness or something their susceptibility to oxygen toxicity seizures can be greatly affected by a lot of different variables but that adaptive response so we know hyperbaric oxygen stimulates the production of stem cells as much as something like GMCSF like a new pigeon or lukine like it's that powerful it causes the production and the release of stem cells which kind of hone in on sites of injury and aid in repair so that's why it's it's most utilized application is actually for enhancing wound production or wound healing effects I see you mentioned that there were 14 approved applications I wasn't aware that there were that many I certainly I think it's 15 now so what what are some of the others not to put you on a spot for rattle off all 15 but we can look it up but you sure just on top of your head what other ones do you know yeah radiation across us so for cancer if you are getting radiation therapy for cancer it is FDA approved for that so if you have patients you know who's have radiation therapy of course there's decompression sickness so we're recreational diving if you get bent another term for bends is decompression you know it's the same deal it's basically get the nitrogen out bi-basically you're just nitrogen out yeah beating it out with oxygen yeah carbon oxide obviously diabetic wounds all the hyperbaric the UHMS so hyperbaric medicine society approves the facilities and I would say 90 plus percent of their revenue generated from that is diabetic wounds which is a huge problem like you probably in your practice you probably see people with wounds that just don't heal well I don't see my practice but I certainly cut my teeth on it during residents yeah no pun intended significant problem yep so that's IMean that's a few different applications and there's a lot of sort of rare things there's noise induced hearing loss if you use that's one of the newer applications look that could be so some things that are kind of counterintuitive so when we think of high pressure oxygen a lot of times you think of retinopathy of prematurity right if you put a newborn and give them high levels of oxygen you could cause them to go blind right a newborn so that's an interesting meaning a newborn is more susceptible to susceptible to to oxygen it was a very common I guess you could say to put newborns on high levels of oxygen if they're born premature and why what is it about the newborn that makes them more susceptible? is it the angiogenic component of this? it yes yes that could be a component too and maybe they just don't have the robust and dodges the antioxidant you know capacity but probably it might be the angiogenic component too do you know off the top of your head if elevated mercury mercury toxicity is an indication for hyperbaric because I've heard of a lot of people doing this but it strikes me as a little bit off lately there's so much off label stuff being done so one of the things that I'm really interested in testing is for traumatic brain injury and I do think that low levels of hyperbaric oxygen therapy if used shortly after a traumatic brain injury I think the faster you restore oxygenation the more likely you are to salvage those neurons so ideally you want to treat with something that's going to re-establish energy in neurons decrease inflammation and increase oxygenation to hypoxic pockets and I think from my perspective giving something like a ketone ester with lower levels of hyperbaric oxygen therapy would probably work that's probably the by far the most controversial application because there's some remarkable responses from people who have even a regeneration of brain cells after the hypoxic injury for example in kids who are very resilient anyway I know Dr. Paul Harch you know has been on pretty much all the major news networks with the with the girl that sustained a incredibly severe hypoxic injury and brain death and regenerated some of her brain brain function and brain tissue. How old is the girl? She was pretty young I think five or six I believe and IMet her actually one of the conferences and it's very clear that nothing was working for her until she did hyperbaric oxygen therapy so but kids are completely could be another story you know we don't know if we could replicate that but there are a lot of stories out there anecdotal reports but it just has not been studied appropriately and the studies need to be done and what do you see as the resistance IMean when you look at what's happened in the last five years in the NFL that has brought along with I think just the returning vets TBI is IMean I don't think you could walk down Madison Avenue and hit someone with a rock who hadn't at least heard the term TBI so everybody knows what it is we've got you know these two completely different demographics who are highly affected by it athletes and soldiers what's the hang up IMean you and I have spent a lot of time behind the scenes trying to get organizations like the NCAA interested in studying this I'm struggling to understand what the hang up is you know they're looking for devices to quantify TBI's in concussion so that's a lot of funding is going into that that area at least when we talk about the NFL had challenged and something that you know we submitted to you know I don't really know I don't really know I think the scientific rationale for a metabolic based therapy for the brain makes a lot of sense in restoring oxygenation I think the waters are very muddy though when it comes to hyperbaric oxygen with TBI because IMean we even did some rat studies where repeated doses of hyperbaric oxygen in a concussion or a brain injury model or a rat caused more injury can exacerbate the effects whereas a single dose of hyperbaric oxygen right after at least in our rat model decreased the infarct size by maybe 30 percent something like that so this is dangerous IMean we we don't want someone listening to this who's suffered a TBI thinking I'm going to go to some off label clinic and just max you know repeatedly expose myself to hyperbaric IMean we the point here is this has to be studied it has to be studied rigorously it has to be studied empirically and then we haven't even gotten to something we will get into later which is the potential augmentation of the exogenous ketone yeah yeah I would not do hyperbaric oxygen therapy if people are going to do it within without you know what I say I would definitely do hyperbaric oxygen therapy if you're going to do it in strong nutritional ketosis because a consequence of hyperbaric oxygen therapy is could be a CNS oxygen toxicity so you do not the last thing you want if you have a brain injury is to have a seizure and we know 85 percent of all penetrating traumatic brain injuries lead to seizures and people who have had penetrating what about blunt it's less than that but how much yeah so I don't know I guess you would have to quantify the blunt the severity yeah but when it comes to penetrating but it's it's upwards about 85 percent of penetrating traumatic brain injuries have seizures and that's because you have excess glutamate you know and that's a very thing that's actually contributing to oxygen toxicity seizures right so I think the biggest thing to do is to augment your brain energy metabolism to burn energy more efficiently the ketones do that and lower neuro inflammation and I think there's a variety of ways to do that but you don't want to throw more fuel on the fire and I think high levels of hyperbaric oxygen therapy could be doing that I think maybe these soft chambers that go to like 1.4 1.5 maybe a better means to implement that let's get into ketosis a little bit I want to come back and talk about cancer I want to come back and talk about the exogenous ketones both the salts the esters and even different molecules but one of the most interesting experiments we've seen in the physiology of ketones like you know as far as old school experiments was the George K Hill starvation experiments right so it's highly motivated by that steady we're going to link to it here but what's why don't you give people the readers digest version of what George K Hill did that could probably never be done again yeah yeah and I was I was very lucky to connect with him before he died he passed away in 2012 by connect with him a few years before that and just to figure out you know did he really do this his studies and there was a lot of studies that also didn't get published that were pretty remarkable too that somehow they got past ethics review at Harvard Medical School but essentially what he did a very elegant study to look at brain energy metabolism the AV difference in blood and metabolites in subjects that fasted for 40 days and most of the subjects were divinity students I believe or maybe conscience and subjectors to the war or something like that but each person had like a different story behind it and he fasted these subjects for 40 days and just to be clear is water and mineral only water no calories yeah yeah but they took mineral sugar they had magnesium yeah sodium they did I I think they took a mineral supplement and they also were they weren't lean subjects so they were subjects who from their perspective were overweight if not obese subject so they had some weight to lose and it was very well documented and well controlled study where they monitored free fatty acids insulin glucose beta hydroxybutary to citoacitane and acetone and let's all just pause you there for a moment for the listener will come back to this because I want you to explain the difference between beta hydroxybutary or BHB acedosate or acedone how they produced which ones are metabolic theactic which ones aren't but hopefully by me just saying this between the two of us will remember to come back to that okay yeah so yeah essentially three ketone bodies beta hydroxybutary being the primary ketone that's elevated and more stable in the in the blood and probably more likely to be a brain fuel so and if we just focus on that ketone body after seven days it reached the level to where it was at or above the level of glucose in the subject so glucose came down from five to six millimolar down to three and stayed aT3 millimolar throughout the duration of the experiment throughout the duration of the fast from day seven essentially to the remainder of the 40 days so for the Yankees listening to this who finally read the metric system three millimolar is about 55 milligrams per deciliter so that's pretty darn low but what's interesting is it gets down there I think it was between day seven and day ten it hiT3 millimolar and then it just never went down again yeah yeah and just what the heck is going on these people don't eat any glucose how are the how do they sell and what that tells you by definition is their liver still had glycogen because that you have to be putting that glucose out from the liver yep so the maintenance of glucose is under very powerful homeostatic mechanisms so we have we're hardwired from an evolutionary perspective to maintain glucose and the glucose can be coming from gluconeogenic amino acids so we are breaking down some muscle and then the glycerol backbone of triglycerides too also contributes to the production of um so triglycerides being the storage form of fatty acids you have a three carbon backbone that's called a glycerol backbone it has three of these free fatty acids that are well they become free once they're cleaved they become the substrate that you're going to explain to us in a few minutes is how you make BHB or beta hydroxybuterate but you don't just throw that glycerol out you can actually deliver and turn that back into glycogen within itself to then slowly trickle out into the bloodstream exactly so when K-Helled did this if I recall insulin levels also got very low by with about day seven the insulin levels were you know rock bottom and sort of stayed there yeah yeah they're really one of the interesting things about the experiment what in addition to the stuff I want to hear about which is the brain metabolism and how did the brain partition those fuels is was this experimenter a different one where he was able to give insulin lower glucose levels but not generate CNS trauma through that yeah so the subjects were asymptomatic for have a glycemia and they felt really fine and in another round or level like one millimeter yeah so they infused IV infusion of 20 I use of insulin and pushed glucose from three millimeter or there balts down to roughly one millimeter which is like less than 20 milligrams per decilator yeah which would be fatal that would be universal fatal level even two two becomes like coma and essentially fatal if it's maintained I hit two very briefly during an insulin suppression test I had it stand for and I was no longer in ketosis because I was doing this in some recent tests so I started at about two and a half or three millimeter but 90 minutes later my ketones had weathered down to like poinT3 poinT4 yeah and then my glucose hit about 38 milligrams per decilator and yeah I really I that was the day I thought I was going through this area oh yeah no I thought I was going I have a little self experiment I can mention after this but essentially what they did which was a very bold and gutsy demonstration they injected insulin which facilitated glucose disposal in the patients essentially and brought blood glucose down to you know roughly one millimeter which is universally fatal and the subjects were relatively asymptomatic for hypoglycemia which was remarkable their ketones were maintained about above five to six millimeter that is out freaking rages like that when you just stop to think about how you could take a normal healthy volunteer and do something IMean we're all in the spirit of learning but when you just think about that from an ethical standpoint like how do you close mice I'm not allowed to do that in mice the eyeocook the Institute for AnimALCARe and the Committee you know would not approve fasting for more than 48 hours I think it's for 24 at our institution yeah so that's from mice and maybe rats might be 48 but yeah and the use of insulin to further you know that would I'm my serve on the eyeocook IMean these things would bEQuickly rejected IMean this is this was the wild wild wild west yeah and yeah and and then just the last thing on this topic that I remember which I'd love you to expand on is what did we learn about how the brain partitioned fuel how much of the brain's energy once you were in that steady state after about 10 days came from glucose beta hydroxybutarate and acetoacetate yeah so beta hydroxybutarate accounted for approximately 60% of the energy and probably 10% acetoacetate and roughly at that point after about 10 days only about a third of the energy was coming from glucose right and basically what's in your blood as far as ketones and glucose is what your brain is utilizing you know your brains in a hungry state and it's effectively utilizing and clearing those those metabolites you can do that it was it was very elegant demonstration and it kind of changed our understanding of brain energy metabolism as glucose being exclusive predominant fuel so in a fed state they were consuming for 100% of their brain energy metabolism was from glucose but only after being fasted did that change and he went on to write a number of reviews and went on with Dr. Beach who actually created and did the terms and they published together like he was a hostock with K-il wasn't he? A postdoc yeah he was a student of Hans Kreb actually and then yeah he was one of his best students from my understanding yeah from word of mouth yeah they went and they worked together in different capacities yeah I think you might have been a fellow with him I think most people listening to this if they can dig back to high school biology that that name Krebs will sort of ring a bell right should yeah yeah so you mentioned that that K-il shared with you stuff that wasn't even published do you remember anything that that was that struck you is super interesting that was unpublished yeah you know some things maybe not worth talking about yeah I don't know if he I do is some stories and then I heard some stories through other people too well I don't want to make you see anything that you're not comfortable saying about I would say some of the work that was done in animals definitely suggested that glucose could go lower even lower and that you could really trensition your metabolic physiology to be fueled off fats and ketones and and that that was against what we knew these were remarkable observations that changed the whole context of what we knew about metabolic physiology and brain energy metabolism do we know today if the brain can use lactate directly as a fuel without it having to go through the choricycle yeah most certainly can I I think I think lactates actually a great fuel okay and that's one of the first fuels I got interested in when I was studying hypoxia and then later even hyperoxia was thinking about using lactate different forms of orally available lactate like polio lactate you know I think it's in the product cytomax if you remember for cycling I still use cytomax so so so so I was actually interested in that and that actually led me to ketones and then once I got more into studying ketones and discovered somehow it slipped past me all the years I thought I knew what a ketogenic diet was but then I went ahead about the history of the ketogenic diet being used for almost a century and it realized that it was like the standard of care for seizures and then understanding that these ketones can largely replace glucose as the energy source and then they have these signaling properties that are even independent of metabolism that are remarkable over the last five years a lot of these big labs are looking at the epigenetic effects of ketones functioning as class one class two histone just amazing yeah the functioning as a suppressor of the NLRP3 and flammazone producing less inflammation in a metabolic independent way so you obviously pretty quickly come to this idea that these ketones are interesting molecules and they're interesting for a couple of reasons at the very least what you just said which is they have signaling properties that make them kind of unique outside of the exogenous ketones though you have to also undergo a pretty extreme physiologic change at least in a Western culture to make enough of these to matter and you have to restrict carbohydrates and protein to get there so did you first personally get interested in this from a nutritional standpoint and then eventually through this exogenous pathway or vice versa yeah so ketone esters to my knowledge in 2008 didn't exist they actually did but I didn't I didn't know of them I discovered them on a DARPA website as some work that was being funded you know in developing of the ketone esters for warfighter performance but at the time when I just decided to go down the route of the ketogenic diet I reached out to Johns Hopkins and the crew there which is where the anti seizure therapy was pioneered right yeah it may occlinic first and then they work together with Hopkins I would say the bulk of the the work that was done to develop the protocols for the ketogenic diet which are in use today was developed at Johns Hopkins and I got Eric Kossoff books his book with the public's with John Freeman which was I just went out and did the classical ketogenic diet the four to one ratio so four parts fat and one part being protein and carbohydrates it equates out to 87 to upwards of 90 percent fat maybe 10 percent protein and like one or two percent carbohydrates so IMean it's like basically eating super low carb and then adding mountains of fat on top of that plate making like a super low carb meal with protein restrict and then add some butter and a couple cups of heavy cream with that and that's I started weighing everything out and what year did you start the 2008 I think in nine I think it was 2008 or nine that Eric Kossoff published the modified ketogenic diet which was more liberal and protein and increasing protein from 10 percent to 25 and 30 percent or 25 percent is a huge difference like you can that's actually a diet that IMostly adhere to now and I followed the ketogenic diet and I bought the strips were very expensive at the time there was a couple different kits that I got to measure my own ketones and you know I immersed myself in it I got obsessed with it and I wanted to know what it felt like to have a brain that ran on ketones and how high did your levels get measured in the blood I kind of struggled to get up there even with the classical ketogenic diets two and 2.5 I would typically with the classical ketogenic this is before MCTs so I wasn't quite using MCTs yet in 2009 I started incorporating the same time I discovered the modified ketogenic diet was the same time I started using MCTs and a modified ketogenic diet with MCTs got my ketone levels probably higher than the classical ketogenic diet which was just mostly you know a dairy-based long chain fat sort of derived so let's tell everybody how we make ketones and then we'll tell them what an MCT is for that yeah so let's talk about starvation ketosis and then if there's differences between that that are worth highlighting with nutritional that would be great but evolutionarily I'm going to deprive you from eating for a few days how do you survive well you start burning up your liver glycogen okay so it was 24 hours later you've got that down to about half of its half to let put a quarter of its supply through the suppression of the hormone insulin we start mobilizing fat from adipose tissue which are cells pretty much all cells in the body especially muscle in heart cells burned fat like a superior energy source long chain fatty acids don't effectively cross the blood brain barrier so through accelerated fat oxidation beta oxidation and fats in the liver that stimulates the accumulation of acetylcoe which forms acetylacetate and ultimately beta hydroxybuterate so you start spilling these ketone bodies through accelerated fat oxidation and the liver the liver lacks succinyl coa trensferase so it does not actually use the ketone bodies for fuel and they become available for your brain essential nervous system and peripheral so the liver is secreting beta hydroxybuterate and the acetylacetate some extent okay so is the BHB being made and then being converted into acetylacetate or is the liver making both acetylacetate first and then beta hydroxybuterate and it's interesting that some people have a ratio beta hydroxybuterate to acetylacetate of two to one and some people five to one generally speaking abouT4 to one so acetylacetate is unstable in that it can spontaneously decarboxylate to acetylone which is volatile and we blow it off in our breath. Does it have metabolic activity can we? It was thought that it didn't but more recent work is suggesting that the carbons of acetylone do find their way into sort of lipid biosynthesis and some other things but it's kind of rare for the fatate. It's not a great ATP or not no not really. It has some effect on neurons so it has an anti-convulsion effect through I believe opening a potassium channel which could hyperpolarize a membrane potential and actually help attenuate some hyper excitability in the brain so there are people that study you know the effects of acetylone as a sub-narcotic levels of acetylone right acetylone can be pretty narcotic and be problematic but acetylone levels that are 0.5 millimolar and even upwards of one millimolar can have a neuroprotective effect. Once you get above one millimolar you start to dissolve some of the membranes and you can have sort of a dozen of some. Yeah you have problematic you know acetone as a pretty powerful solvine right it's a nail polish remover but small levels of acetone are neuroprotective and that's actually something that we study. So how do acetylacetate and beta-harder acetylute enter the crebsycle in other words where do we get ATP from them? It depends on the cells so different cells have different we're looking at this now different catalytic enzymes right so they can feed in through a number of different pathways like I said the liver is the production site of beta-harder acetylute and when it comes to skeletal muscle they have a range of catalytic enzymes that can allow them to enter the crebsycle at different different areas. So succinate for example so you can replenish TCA cycle intermediates with succinate you can acetylacetate can break down and provide acetylcoa for the crebsycle. So what we're finding is that the crebsycle is not the simple cycle that we thought it was especially as it relates to cancer cells. So it's almost like we can't even look at the biochemistry book and kind of pinpoint different pathways with substrate level phosphorylation there are a number of different pathways like the malade, aspartate, shuttle that are associated with cancer cells if we go back to those pathways. Did you see that paper that came out in nature two days ago about aspartate being a rate limiting step in cancer metabolism in the mitochondria? And in Cia? I haven't bothered I were just talking about it today. It's interesting because the paper was part of it was written through a lens of hey this might be how metformin can exert some of its anti-cancer benefits by interfering with aspartate. I think it was interfering with degradation of aspartate but again I haven't read the paper yet just sort of the abstract but was yet another like I didn't know that. Wow every day I feel like I'm I feel like I'm getting dumber because the rate at which I'm being exposed to new information is exceeding the rate at which I'm assimilating it. So it just it feels like I'm on a downward spiral to stupidity. There are textbook pathways that I used to just rattle off and it all seems so simple and then you know I read three or four papers and I realize that I probably shouldn't talk about it in simplistic terms like that. We're kind of going down the rabbit hole of glutamine allysis right so glutamine is the fermentable fuel so ketones are a non-framentable fuel whereas cancer cells we use glucose and glutamine as the two primary fermentable fuels. It's funny IMean I know that biochemically I'd never thought of it in those terms though. Yeah. Yeah. It's not fermentable. That's interesting. So that's kind of what I'm thinking about you know in terms of ketone metabolism with glutamine so glutamine glutamine can make glutamate right and alinean and aspartate and lactate and glutamine elysis is kind of driven by the malleuspartate shuttle and that has become a major focus now of many cancer researchers are looking to target glutamine and it's not it's not easy. IMean because you have if you have a glutamate inhibitor that has tremendous side of that. Huge toxicity right yeah so we need to approach this in a very nuanced sort of way when it comes to targeting glutamine. Yeah so let's go back to the mct so you talked about how you started out in a four to one ratio which is interesting I started ouT4 to one I spenT3 years on jusT4 to one I never deviated from four to one but then you mentioned you went to two to one which is obviously much easier to do but you augmented with mct so mct of course stands for medium chain triglyceride there a type of saturated fat and they're of a certain length and I don't even remember anymore is it eight to 14 carbons is what we define as mct. Yeah eight to ten I think eight to 14 from in that but when we talk about the key to genic ones the they're more close to capitalistic capitalistic. Yeah so why it is spring? Why it isn't taking those make this process easier? When you consume them orally they are trensported to the liver via a hepatic portal circulation and they're not packaged into Kyla Microns and you know long chain fatty acids when we eat them they're packaged in the Kyla Microns and then they go through essentially enter the lymphatic system and have a different route of entry they're metabolized totally differently whereas medium chain fats go directly to the liver through a patic portal circulation it's like a bolus of fat going to the liver and it's a type of fat that's rapidly oxidized right the liver is chock full of mitochondria so if I want to study mitochondria I'll take out a chunk of the liver and isolate it from that because that's the easiest thing to do so the mitochondria really burn up medium chain triglycerides very quickly and there's very high rates of fat oxidation the liver from an oral bolus of medium chain triglycerides so they're much less likely to be stored as fat there are source of calories and they can be incorporated into meals and into foods to further enhance and boost the ketone levels of the ketogenic diet or even if you're not on a ketogenic diet they can be consumed with a high carbohydrate diet and actually elevate ketones in the blood yeah IMean I've heard that but I've never actually measured it probably because I've only done this with liquid MCT which you end up getting to sort of GI tolerance becomes an issue probably before you get a high enough level but yeah if you're on a high carb diet and you consume I don't know two to three tablespoons of MCT how high could you reasonably expect your BHB to get depending on your absorption anywhere between 0.5 to 1 million molar. Vax high say yeah even on a high yeah if it's pure C8 maybe so with C8 you get about a 20 maybe 30% elevation above like a mix of the C10 CA which is generic there's some work being done that C10 may actually have some beneficial effects IMean that's kind of the idea behind the product exona that was on the market you know while back I don't know if it's on the market I don't know what it is yeah it's a basically C8 it's powdered C8 that was sold this you were C8 yeah you can order it like from Sigma or something like that yeah well I Dave Astro is brain octane is is Caprylic triglyceride and Peralo Nutrition makes captree which is a C8 oil so if you buy pure C8 not in triglyceride form the Caprylic if you just just straight for like acid yes that'll kill you IMean you you consume I bought IMade the mistake early on and bought from Sigma Caprylic acid but not you had you need to buy out of Caprylic Trichester and hatch that mistake before investing I bought it from Sigma and I think I was going to use it in experiments and we're going to mix it you know with our ratchow and I wanted to go through legitimate source and I put a little bit on my finger and it kind of burnt my tongue off and I realized wait a second I think I need to try glyceride form of Caprylic acid I need to acrylic triglyceride yeah I almost killed myself you almost want a Darwin award yeah yeah you know I never released it if any time recently did that before accidentally killed himself have you had any experience with the powdered MCTs yeah yeah so powdered MCTs allow me to increase my ketone levels higher than and I used thEQuest powdered MCT formula there's a couple on the market now maybe yeah I have that of this stuff at home because I feel like anyone who's ever made a ketone product just somehow figures out my address and sends them to me so I have a pantry full of every type of ketone you can imagine but I haven't yeah you probably get more than me I just haven't got around to trying any of the MCT powder but I'm getting ready to do a long fast in a couple of weeks and I was thinking I really ought to get make sure I'm back in ketosis the week before I deprive myself of food for a week yeah so I was actually just thinking about this last week which is I got to fire up those powdered MCT and kickstart this thing because I don't have like a couple months to get fully adapted yeah they are great IMean MCTs are kind of like the poor man's ketone ester right so they are they're found in nature they're versatile you can incorporate even the powder the middle classes man yeah yeah given how expensive ketone ester is not enough that's right that's right yeah so I tinkered a lot with MCTs early on and increase my tolerability from maybe 30 milliliters a day to 150 milliliters a day well really nice hang on a second but that's ridiculous yeah when anytime I went to 30 and one sitting 10 tables been full yeah that's it's hard to fathom you need to incorporate it with food so I was spreading it what I found I needed to do was instead of doing intermittent fasting now which I pretty much do now I inquire I spread it out over like four meals and maybe would have a little bit of MCT in the coffee too and not including that in a meal so I was eating a modified ketogenic diet but spreading that MCT out with salad dressings putting it on vegetables and things like that and I was able to because if anybody's listening to this and it's trying to like they're just sitting there thinking how what could I do to do it to have a bowel prep like yeah the answer is just just just drink MCT it's you know it's better than fleets phosphosota you will you will spend the day in the bathroom and you'll you'll have a great call but you can work your way up to it so there's a number of trensporters obviously that are up regulated and you are enhancing the breakdown and trensported these and MCT's actually do cross the blood brain barrier so we did studies and rats where we took out their getting absorbed portally how do we know okay some of them I forget the percentage but I think in some people say it's like 50% of MCT is converted to ketones but I think it's something like about 20% of MCT's and it depends on the energetic state of the liver you know which is the master regulator and your your physiology in general but you have a fairly significant portion of the MCT's being converted to ketones but the MCT's do enter the blood and they can cross the blood brain barrier unlike the long-chain fats and they for example if you take out the hippocampi of rats that are eating an MCT-based ketogenic diet you'll find MCT levels are significantly elevated so they're crossing they're getting into the brain and the brain is utilizing MCT's as fuel and do we know if that has any anti-seasier effect independent of the ketone that might be produced alongside it? That's a big area of research right now that MCT's is functional fats and as you've never heard that term before functional fats. Yeah like well fats with drug like properties so I think there's a number of patents around C10 actually that I know they have in the UK I think it might be a pharmaceutical now so C10 actually has anti-seasier properties so there's some people argue that the effects of the ketogenic diet at least with MCT's is not due to ketones but actually due to the MCT's and not the ketones so there's a little bit there's a couple of groups out there that are sort of arguing that and I think they have a case but I think it's probably a comment it's definitely a combination of the ketones and the MCT's so MCT's do have interesting properties. Do you know Elizabeth Teal? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I remember having breakfast with her about six years ago and asking her a question that at the time I don't think she knew the answer to and she was gracious enough to explain that and she was there with someone else in her lab so it was a very spirited awesome discussion but I wonder if the answer is known today thEQuestion was basically do you believe that the anti-seasier properties of a ketogenic diet are more the result of the brain having another fuel to display a glucose or due to the reduction in glucose that invariably accompanies ketogenicis and at the time she shared with me very compelling data that would could argue either of those points potentially suggesting it was the combination of them. Do you have a point of view on this or is there more information today that steers you one way or the other? Well I know she's done some work with the low glycemic index diet and so a so carbohydrate reduction but without the production of ketones. Yeah so a reduction it's carbohydrate restriction but only to the effect of maybe 20 or 25 percent you know. Yep. And then carbohydrates that are low glycemic index and what are the results of that intervention? For different types of seizures it can have a positive effect and for certain certain types of seizures. That's not the first line of therapy for you know very powerful tonic clonic seizures and pediatricers you want to go right to the Classical ketogenic diet but it does have a number of applications for different types of seizure disorders. And what about if you take someone on a fully carb diet who's having recalcitrent seizures and you give them ketone exogenous ketone does that have anti seizure benefit? Yeah so those studies have not been done yet and there's a study being recruiting right now for something called angelman syndrome which is a rare genetic disorder that has seizures where the exogenous ketones are the therapy independent of the diet so they're just being added on top of the diet. There are people out there because exogenous ketones are commercially available that are using this in place that the ketogenic diet because the families are either unwilling or for various reasons unable to use the ketogenic diet and they you know use arguing using exogenous ketones and the feedback that I'm getting could be biased but it does seem to have an effect. It obviously has an effect in animal models. The animal models that we work with we give exogenous ketones on top of a standard rat child which is high carbohydrate child and it it works very well for CNS oxygen toxicity but also for things like phenyline tetrazole seizures, PZTC seizures even for absent seizures we use a particular animal model with absent seizures or absent seizures or a workshop it works for that so it works for a variety of different seizure models independent we are circumventing sort of the dietary restriction that's typically associated with getting into therapeutic ketosis and just simply giving exogenous ketones and elevating exogenous ketones but a consideration is that exogenous ketones lower blood glucose so you have and in some cases it lowers it really low like the high dose ketone esters that we do in our rat models it pushes and rats typically maintain a glucose around 140 to 150 and it'll push it down to 40 so milligrams per decimal yeah and that's approaching the maximum tolerable dose of the ketone ester and it's interesting when we go above the maximum tolerable dose we actually see glucose levels spike up and this is the phenomenon that we see it's almost like it's stressing out the liver just regulating the liver in some way it's the data we're trying to figure out but if you titrate in ketone salts or ketone salt MCT combination or various ketone esters it's inversely proportional to as you elevate ketones you have a very predictable reliable decrease in blood glucose that's above and beyond the decrease in blood glucose that you'd observe with something like metformin and we use metformin for many many studies in a lab IMean we we've we have a lot of experience so what do we think you know it's funny I was up in San Francisco like a month ago and I was talking with Steve Finney who you know at the outside I said you're one of the people who I would say now is more about ketosis than anyone alive and certainly Steve would have to be in that category so I would if I were gonna just guess I would say that between you and Steve Finney if the answer isn't really known on ketosis the answer might not be known yeah so but and Steve and I were having this really fun discussion with a few other folks about why is it that the ketones are driving down the glucose levels and conversely and maybe this is a different question of course but why is it that when we do these experiments of you take somebody in nutritional ketosis and you make them do really really aggressive exercise you know do a two minute all out effort on the rowing machine that the ketones go way down and the glucose goes way up is it solely a consumption and hepatic glucose output issue is there something else going on you know and and I was like well I kind of always assumed that we knew the answer to that and that it was the explanation I had but you know it wasn't at the end of that discussion I was like actually I pretty much now don't think I know the answer to this question. I don't think we do I have three potential explanations one could be an exogenous ketone induced release in insulin that facilitates glucose disposal so where that happens you do get IMean it's not like consuming a protein bolus or carbohydrate bolus but you do get an elevation of ketones that's where that's how we moderate our ketone levels right so as our ketone levels if we're on the ketogenic diet and our ketones become elevated there's ketone area we pee out some ketones and there's a number of product but one is a ketone induced release of insulin which then feeds back on the liver to like a reostyle really and lowering beta oxygen which totally makes sense because that's the reason that someone with the hypone diabetes can get ketosodosis they they lose the checkpoint yep yep and other researchers like if you ask Richard Veech you'll tell you that insulin sensitivity is increased so the insulin that you have available and associated signaling is being enhanced in the presence of ketones so is that an immediate change or is that a change that takes place over a long period of time that that sounds like a long standing issue I think there's a number of regulatory things that happen I know in his study where rats were fed standard rodent child but 30 to 20 percent ketone ester I think within that child their baseline insulin levels went down like 50 percent so that's just simply by you know just the addition of the ketone just the addition of the ketone over time over I think it was like maybe a three week I got to look to see the study but it was it was consuming ketone ester that was integrated into the rat child over a number of weeks decreased baseline levels of insulin significantly IMean it was like a huge effect and the implications of that you know it was a rat study you know you can argue rat study but I can tell you experimentally that are just you know testing on myself that the same observation happens I can actually if I get a significant amount of my calories from exogenous ketones and I do that over several weeks and IMeasure my insulin it gets below the reference range whereas if I get back to regular ketogenic diet I'm always on the low end of the reference range but I did find if I can assume and the maximum tolerable dose of a ketone ester or ketone salt and then IMeasure insulin you know an hour or two after that I do get a little bump up an insulin but it's nowhere near the bump I would get up if I ate an equivalent amount of calories from protein or carbohydrates which would shoot me up to like you know eight or ten or something like that you know with a big dose but it's usually somewhere around I bump it up from like 1.5 to like 2.5 or 3 or something like that. Wow those are still super well and that's my baseline and it's usually between one and two. So is your IGF level changed in the years that you've been on ketosis have you tracked it much? I have not I've gotten it measured a few times but not reliably like I do insulin quite often like every two months or so like I'm doing that and if I'm doing experiment IMay do multiple measurements of insulin like throughout the week but I haven't measured IGF one recently I did it a while back and I was just in the normal range but I wasn't fasting I didn't that's the one variable I wish I would have tried insulin was a second assume IGF one might have been oh yeah so just for listeners and stuff how do we measure ketones IMean people talk about urine strips versus blood what are you measuring in each and breath for that matter you've goT3 ways to theoretically measure these things which one do we prefer and why for a new beginning into this I think the urine ketone strips will at least tell you if your in ketosis or not in ketosis what is it measuring or you're measuring on it and what does it tell you urine acetoacitate is measured and now there's a urine beta hydroxybuterate kits that are available so you could do that so the Abbott Labs precision extra and the keto mojo are two devices that will measure basically an assay a home assay kit for beta hydroxybuterate and we have used both of those things and kind of measured it against various assays in the lab and blood that we send out for analysis and it's pretty close pretty close plus or minus maybe 10 or 15 percent what does the urinary level even though it's a qualitative assay but you know everybody says hey my urinary ketone thing lit up bright purple can we infer anything from that about the blood level of BHB or acetoacitate usually you know unless you're running kind of dehydrated you know if you have a normal hydration state and your urine acetoacitate is 40 milligrams per deciliter above you're probably hitting one millimeter or above if you're anywhere between 40 and 80 to I think 160 milligrams per deciliter so your in a state of ketosis I would if you're a 15 that's like a light pink or something you're usually probably not in a state what I would say ketone that might be a normal state if you wake up in the morning and sort of a fast-it-state you might be hitting that but generally speaking you need to be at about 80 milligrams per deciliter on the urine ketone stretch and the one thing I didn't do rather when I was doing my sort of long for a ketosis is I didn't use the urine meters at all I was just you know I was yeah I was keeping habit in business basically about how many of those precision extrude strips I was so I don't know if my urinary excretion actually declined over time when my body became better and better at retaining this potentially preferred fuel have you done anything on that either personally or in the lab so what we use in the lab is the clinic-tech status device and that device takes the c-mins 10 SG kit so the multi-stick so you can buy for a similar cost as the keto stick you could buy the c-mins 10 SG multi-stick and that measures 10 things including urine acetoacetate and you could take that urine strip and stick that in a device that will give you more of a quantified number I see so that's how you were giving mEQuantitative information on the urine because I've only seen thEQualitative stuff well it's a color change on the strip that's measured in the device yeah so over the years I rejected urine ketone strips is something that just wasn't very accurate and the more I use them making hundreds if not thousands of measurements the more I gain an appreciation and that it can be a pretty useful device but I think it's it's kind of useful for the individual your hydration status definitely changes it IMean been in Ben and situations where I'm dehydrated where I've come out of the water after like a six-hour dive and I've beaten on those things and it's like it's like screaming and I knew IMean I did some diets where I purposely wasn't in ketosis for some of the research that we do and I was deep into into ketosis just because I was you know very very dehydrated I didn't know someone could dive for six hours I was on the NASA Nemo Extreme Environment Mission Operations trip so I was a crew member on that where IMaintained I was lived in saturation for ten days and I had an hyper-American environment and that that involves like an 18-19 hour decompression to come out. It's a NASA sort of a Mars analog mission where you work with astronauts underneath the sea and I IMaintained a state of ketosis throughout that whole mission and and did lots of lots of measurements on myself down there and I saw really when I one time I got out after maybe it was a six-hour EVA so essentially you're in a hyper-baric habitat on the bottom of the ocean and then you go out into the water and then you come back inside the hyper-baric habitat but when you're out in the water even know you're down in the keys the water water pools heat from you like 200 times faster than air so even though it's like you know upper 80s I come out of that hyper-thurmeric and dehydrated my blood glucose always was in like the 30s sometimes in the 40s when I was on a ketah I was testing some of the ketos supplements. Wow yeah. What were the other people experiencing under those circumstances? Well we'll find out with this my wife actually is a was selected as a crew member for NASA Nemo 23 I was on 22 and I did not get the IRB protocol approved to do all the metabolic studies that I wanted to do but I became an end of one on that and I collected a lot of data on myself so with this new mission we have the Nemo NASA Nemo 23 we'll be able to make some pretty comprehensive metabolic measurements including things like hemoglobin H1C we're going to measure inflammation HSCRP glucose ketones all these things on all the crew members. Interestingly this year it's a it's an all female crew so you have like Samantha Christopher Eddie the famous European Tracy Caldwell Dyson who I've known at NASA and my wife and it's all female so we'll have love some female data to go along with this. What surprised you the most in your end of one? What did you see that you least expected? I saw why predicted that the habitat would really trigger inflammation that was probably from the elevated CO2 levels and the elevated oxidator stress. I chose to stay in a state of ketosis with the idea that that was my baseline state. We're doing studies on sleep we're using the orring you're probably from over that on sleep and also the polar V800 to collect heart rate variability data gut microbiome we're doing body composition measurements we're doing stress so we use the NIH toolbox and and juggle to look at cognitive psych parameters so that data has not been shared to me so I don't know my wife collected some of that data and that's being analyzed you know later on for publication but from a metabolic perspective from a hormone perspective some of the things living in that environment for 10 days decrease my testosterone at a 25% decrease into testosterone from the time and so we're fairly maybe fairly sleep deprived I average about six hours of sleep per night but I was getting like two and a half hours of deep sleep which is more deep sleep very typically yeah I was like I don't know if it's something in our mind of how the sleep is being estimated in other ways you know if you think you're assuming you're giving that off the orring right yeah that was orring so the orring is measuring but I usually get about 90 minutes sometimes like last last night I got one hour and 53 minutes of deep sleep but I usually get about one and a half hours of deep sleep but I got over two hours every night and instead of seven hours sleep a night I was getting consistently just you know five to six hours sleep a night so where are you going to mostly shortchange done REM yeah on REM but my REM was even not that bad you show is getting about an hour you know an hour REM which is not as much as right yeah that's too low usually two is optimal for me I think so yeah we measured sleep the things that really stood out were being in the water really pushes my body into and being hypothermic really turns me into a fat burning machine my ketones go off the chart and my glucose goes way down and almost looks like a six hour EVA when I came back into the habitat look like I fasted for a week so I have all that data for that too that I need to compile and now should we be looking at that we meaning people as a potential way to replicate fast under a more stressful state looking at what just underwater yeah do you think it was a combination of temperature and pressure primarily that was driving that effect so over the holidays we went to Thailand and we did I did a lot of nightrocks dives something like thirty nightrocks dives and IMade these measurements too and I did see trens for decrease glucose and nightrocks dives were doing like an hour maybe hour hour and a half dives at the most and I saw trens but nothing like the trens I saw in the saturation environment when we did these long EVAs so do you think that the temperature was different from the temperature the temperature really has to have a difference because you come out and you're kind of shaky you know even know you feel very comfy when you're down there the first two or three hours and then by the end the last you know four or five six hours for a longer EVA you start like shaking a little bit uncontrollably you know but it's kind of subtle even though the water's kind of warm like it feels warm but it's just you know your body temperature is going down and they were on the days maybe I wasn't getting as much calories as I as I needed I came out of that mission later than I've ever been before I came out when we got back to mainland and I stepped on the scale I was two zero seven which is super low for me ended up losing about maybe I went in kind of late because I was trening for it I'm not a very good swimmer like you I had the really trened to meet like you it would be like a total day in the park for you to meet all the criteria for that but I had to tren really hard to meet the swim requirements so I ended up losing a little bit of weight but when I came out I would definitely what did you mention I lost nine pounds and it came out seven so I went in two sixteen so I went in pretty late I'm like two twenty one now so last year I entered the mission at two sixteen and I came out like two seven which was like I thought the scale was wrong so even though I ate a lot of calories during that mission IMet a ballad yeah my metabolic rate was really high you know and that that was a consequence of that is so interesting because it's those are two completely contradictory concepts to me on the one hand you're saying hey my glucose levels went down my ketone levels went up it looked like I had fasted for a week yep but of course if you fasted for a week you're metabolic rate would be going down and not up in fact you would expect to see a topo G skyrocket where as I'm sitting here as I'm listening to you thinking would a topo G have increased during a period of time or decreased I think anything that pushes glucose that low and ketones that high and I think not really without knowing it we're pretty task-loaded so you don't have all the time you know that much time to eat IMean part of the mission is that they're trening this is part of if the only NASA analog where astronauts are actually part of the crew members like other things like high-c's mission or NASA hero mission actually uses everyday folks and they push them to the limits to see how they they can break them but the NASA Nemo mission is actually trening sort of astronauts so they task-load you to see what you're doing and you don't have a whole lot of time to eat but I was I was consuming what my normal calories would be but I was under I underestimated my calories for this and I think it put me in a calorie deficit which probably decreased my testosterone may have it in my cortisol level increased but it was still within the normal range and you're away from the light so your circadian's probably a bit screwed up too being in the episode you have you're only at like 60 feet so you do see some of the light come down but but it's probably a little bit different then I'm a very light sort of sun worshiper like I always try to get some light in the middle you know in the beginning of the day and that that's part of something that I always do so it was a bit disruptive in so let's talk about ketone esters salts et cetera so yeah to your knowledge what's the first exogenous ketone that was ever manufactured is that the tally one or exogenous ketone manufactured so one three-butane dial has been around a long time since the 1950s actually MIT did some research as a space fuel so that kept there was a publication in 1975 where they were trying to identify and alternative energy fuel for long duration space flight and the best candidate was one three-butane dial which is sort of a synthetic compound that breaks down completely to beta hydroxybuterate meaning the liver is not required to trensform it into BHB the liver is required yeah through a couple simple steps so sodium beta hydroxybuterate would be the first sort of ketone exogenous ketone that was used clinically and that there was a number of papers that utilized that for rare metabolic disorders actually so that would be the first one and a lot of the IP and you know sort of the patents that came out were sodium beta hydroxybuterate and then maybe explain for people what the difference is between a salt and an ester so we'll leave acetoacetate out of that for a moment yeah but if you talk about beta hydroxybuterate but you can have a c-l-state salt too so I can mention that so I didn't know that I thought it was only a dye ester so that's well definitely want to hear about that so on the BHB front people are sort of inundated with ketone salts ketone esters and then a whole bunch of complete like weird stuff like rastery ketones and stuff but let's just leave the nonsense off the table yeah but if you just talk about comparing a ketone at BHB ester to a BHB salt what's the chemical difference? yeah so a salt is just an ionic bond right between the ketone molecule and beta hydroxybuterate a monovalent or a dye valent cation or an alkaline amino acid like arginine, citrline, histidine, lysine so you can literally ionically bond beta hydroxybuterate to a number of different things the easiest thing to do is to bond it with sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium. Now calcium and magnesium have two positive charges. You could put two to BHBs on them. That's the advantage sort of an advantage. And disadvantage I guess with magnesium BHB which is actually is very bioavailable magnesium IMeasured my magnesium after taking it. It went up quitEQuite high. Disadvantages that your GI tolerability to something like magnesium beta hydroxybuterate may be only somewhere between 1 to 3 grams. You know, 3 grams max produce. Wow, just not that mine. 1 gram, 3 times a day, at least for me had no issues. I could probably tolerate 2 or 3 grams per day. So it's nice. IMean it's something that's contributing. But ideally what you want to do with a ketone salt is because salt has a stigma I call them ketone electrolyte formulations. Yeah. It's to spread the beta hydroxybuterate out across monovalent and divalent canons. And they're the four that have the most utility. And then an ester of course is a covalent bond, not an ionic bond, right? Yeah. So you can take 1 3-butane dial and you could create a monoester with beta hydroxybuterate, right? And just add it do a trensestrification reaction and combine that beta hydroxybuterate to 1 3-butane dial or acetoacitate. You can combine it with 1 3-butane or you could take glycerol. So with glycerol you can come up with a triester of glycerol which we have. Amazingly you're creating a triglyceride that is instead of 3 fatty acids with 3 BHP. It's pretty cool. Monarchal, yeah. So we have some experience using that. Yeah, I told a story like many, many years ago, I've heard about how I drank this jet fuel and almost thought it was going to go blind. Of course what IMay have, what IMay or may not have emitted from that story was that you gave it to me. So the key to honest today tastes to heck of a lot better than that earlier gen stuff. And I even when I told you that I just took the 50 ML Vile you sent and chugged it in one sitting even you were sort of horrified. You're like, way, way, way, way, way. You didn't read the note. I wrote you explaining how to dilute it and make it. We had talked about it. IMean, I had assuredly talked about it. You were very enthusiastic about getting started. Yeah. I couldn't resist. I was too. That stuff's unbearably bad. Yeah. So what IMean, whereas the keystone salts actually don't taste bad. They're they could be correlated. But they're awesome. Yeah. Yeah. So why does the ester, is there an obvious reason from an olfactory slash taste perspective why they are so staggeringly horrible? Yeah. At least they were and IMean, I'm told they're better today. Yeah. I would say the key to genic potency is inversely proportional to taste. So it just seems like, you know, the more the more potent these compounds get, even the the triester beta hydroxybuter aid, the, you know, is pretty nasty stuff. Meaning that glycerol triglyceride that? Yeah. It's a great molecule. IMean, it has like lots of, you know, tremendous utility. Well, making a ketone ester with one three-buting dial is really cool because the one three-buting dial is getting more substrate broken down. Yeah. So that goes into another question, the whole anantimer. So if you use the R beta hydroxybuter aid with the R one three-buting dial, then you can really get ketone levels up pretty high. And that would be sort of the delta g or the human, you know, ketone ester that's out there. It's the R and antwer. That would be the R. Yeah. The R. It's R. So you have, you can get recemic one three-buting dial, but that's the R anantimer of one three-buting dial with the R beta hydroxybuter. We explained to everybody what the R versus L means and the, yeah, the anantimer world. So beta hydroxybuter aid, not a pseudo-astate, but beta hydroxybuter aid has a stereoisomer. So if you put your hands together, the R beta hydroxybuter aid, or let's do D and L, let's do that. So the D would be equivalent to the R beta hydroxybuter aid would be the mirror image of the L beta hydroxybuter aid. And the pre-dominant form of beta hydroxybuter aid in the body is D beta hydroxybuter aid. We do have a rassimase enzyme that in various tissues that can convert the D to the L. So but when you're in nutritional ketosis or starvation ketosis, ketosis, you are making D anantimer of the BHB. Predominantly, yeah. So we do have the capacity to make the L, but it's pretty, pretty minimal. So that brings up thEQuestion. I think 99% of all the ketones salts being sold right now are rassimic. So they are the D and the L. When you give equal, yeah, yeah, they're equal amount. And there may be a concern there, but we don't know. So most of my research has actually been with the rassimic compounds and they were great, they're a cuticle. In pharmacology, there's a sorted history of getting the anantimer wrong. IMean, one of the famous famous stories I know of is fenomened. Health is a little might as well. Yeah. So that's right. Philitomide and fenphen were both examples of using the wrong anantimer. Yeah. Many pharmaceuticals like, I think ibutamoren and a like a fedron, you know, is rassimic and many of the drugs out there. So and things like ringers lactate, I think lactate is rassimic. Is it D now? It used to be rassimic. Oh, really? Thank you. I think you can get both. Okay. So you're saying look, physiologically exist at 90 10 D to L. And then you're buying something rassimic. You at least have to enter, shame thEQuestion, hey, am I ingesting something that might have a negative side effect? Yeah. And so the ketone esters, they're mirroring the physiology or they're just going mostly D presumably. Well, the human ketone ester for minor standing is completely D. So it's produced the D beta hydroxybuter A. Interestingly, elevating just beta hydroxybuter A and r c's your models. Even with the D does not have an antisusure effect. So that's actually why we went to the one three-butane dial. Sorry, say that again. Yeah. Do you say that if you use a pure D salt? A D salt or D D ester. Pure D salt or pure D ester. No antisusure effect with beta hydroxybuter A. We need it. And the animal model even suggests this if you just look even studies beyond our study is that you need to elevate acetoacitate has the antisusure effect. And we don't know exactly why that happens. The ketone ester that we work with, which is one three-butane dial acetoacitate diester, elevates beta hydroxybuter A and acetoacitate in approximately one to one ratio. Is that what you used to give me? Or was I just gave you a bunch of things. What was the one that was one asshole that tasted even worse than the BHB? ester. Actually that yeah, that was the diester of acetoacitate. Yeah. And that's really potent. And it was bound to what? It won through the D dial. Yeah. That shit was from another planet of bad. I still have some because I've done shots of that. I like to just give it a few more. I put many gallons of that through me and donEQuite a bit of blood work and know pretty reliably at least in my body that it's not toxic and pretty much all the biomarkers go in a remarkably positive direction. But even know I know that it's not enough for me to even know it has that and that's no matter how great substance can be if it doesn't taste good. You know even me, I'm not going to take it. You know, even on a cast. I just think it's an aftertaste. Exactly. Well, I also remember you telling me because you sent them and I was like, oh, sweet. It'll be capsules because I had seen your animal data and I was like, I want that. And then you said, okay, well, I'll send it to you in capsules because you can't drink it. It's too bad. And I was like, perfect. Situation resolved and you said, and then not entirely, you'll still taste it through the capsule. Yeah. And I actually find it to be a great dinner party trick. Like, like who's the biggest, you know, tough guy here that just wants to show me how much of this stuff they can ingest? Yeah. IMean, we've done a lot of work with that Esther and it has remarkable effects, but we think it's probably more suited for like a medical food and something that could be sort of a parental, you know, IV therapy. So who first synthesize that? So I reached out to Henri Brunin Graver at Case Western, who was the director of the Metabalomics and I each funded, I think, Metabalomics Corps at Case Western. And I reached out to everybody, but I, to who had any experience, you know, either researching with ketoneesters or synthesizing them. And he kindly gave me the recipe on how to synthesize it that was above and beyond the patent. It was actually a detailed recipe on how to use a Cougarode distillation apparatus where to get the very few present. You didn't already know how to do that? I knew it was too. I'm sure past it. Well, actually, so Patrick Arnold, as you know, kind of helped me with the art. So an organic chemistry really is an art, you know, to be able to do this. And Patrick is an artist. Patrick is an artist and he thought this was like shady stuff in the beginning and I kept sending him papers and then he realized that this could be something big, you know, he realized that the science was there and there was a lot of big players in this field who had done remarkable research, but this didn't really have what it took to like actually make it a product like synthesizing and the stuff that you actually consume. I became obsessed with Patrick after all this stuff happened and he's actually introduced him to Tim and in the show notes to this, I'll make sure that we link to Tim's podcast with Patrick. Which I'd love to have Patrick on the show at some point too to talk about this. This should be shown to be shown to be shown to be persisting, but that episode with Tim and Patrick is so interesting. It's like if you have any interest in endocrinology in sort of like how the hormones work, how steroids work, it's yeah, it's just what I character. I owe a lot to Patrick. I don't think I probably wouldn't have gotten tenure without PIO so much to him. So I need to acknowledge him for that. That there were academic icons out there who could not do what Patrick did for me and he was pretty persistent in doing it. So he synthesized first the monoster and then it was a mix of monoster and diester, but he nailed it down to you know ultimately getting the art of the organic chemistry to where it's pretty much pure diester. He's such a wonderful human being anytime I email Patrick a question which invariably I do have like clinically I have a question about a hormone or there's no text book that knows the answer. There's no paper that knows the answer. I'm like Patrick. I got a crazy question for you. Even if he doesn't know the answer IMean he'll have a more thoughtful insight than you can get anywhere and it speaks to his capabilities. So first of all you've shared to me something I didn't actually know today that's really interesting which is this notion that if you are purely using the D and Antimer you do not get any of the anti-seizure benefits. Whereas if you're at 90-10 presumably you're getting them. So you don't need a lot of the L but you need some of L. Yeah I don't think there's any studies that show using an exogenous ketone in the form of pure beta hydroxybuterate is beneficial. So what we do know is that when you deliver exogenous ketones in a beta hydroxybuterate to a c2acetate ratio of 1 to 1 that that has pretty remarkable anti-seizure effects and there was some studies that were done with the c2acetate and also some studies that were done with acetone showing anti-seizure effects. So I do think it's the c2acetate is necessary. So what we don't know I don't think that resemic salts or resemic esters or esters that produce both D and L beta hydroxybuterate are a concern. I have not seen data to suggest that these would be a health concern. There are companies out there that are selling 8 million sort of doses per month of salts that are resemic in nature and there have been sort of no consequences from that that have been reported. So how are so many companies able to do this? Is there no IP in the salt world anymore? I don't think there is IP for the key. I think some of the early patents may expire so I don't think there's actually there's some intellectual property with formulations of acetone salt and acetogenic fat and MCT and that's some of the stuff that my university has and there's some composition and matter patterns and maybe some use patterns around the D salts I think and maybe the D ketone esters. So at this point in time do you think that the ketone salts have more physiologic benefit than the ketone esters just as a function of having a higher amount of the L and anantomer? So I think when it comes to purely a metabolic fuel I think the D beta hydroxybuterate has some advantages, right? So we also know that in regards to some of the signaling effects, especially the inflammation, the NLRP3 and flammazone is suppressed by beta hydroxybuterate both the D and the L form and we know that when we consume resemic ketone salts in the D and L form the L form tends to stick around longer and gets metabolized slower so conceivably that could be having a stronger anti-inflammatory effect because you have a ketone body and endogenous metabolite that's functioning as a very powerful signaling molecule that's suppressing an inflammatory pathway so the concentration just tends to get higher. You know that that's my view of it so we haven't really studied that in detail but the lab that did some of the work on showing the nature medicine paper that showed the NLRP3 flammazone was suppressed by beta hydroxybuterate it occurred both in the D and the L form. We do know that the L form gets metabolized slower so the concentrations and the tissue may actually reach higher levels so what we have observed is that the recemic beta hydroxybuterate has a glucose lowering effect so we're trying to figure out but we're not so pretty bad. We also see that in the pure and the pure and the pure tumor. I've seen that with the human product which is obviously a pure D BHB I think they're seeing about a 20 to 30% reduction in glucose do you see more than the it tends to be the case yeah it tends to be the case especially with one three-buting dial you see it and maybe it's a redox shift in the liver that's what honorary brunin grabber thought but it's pretty remarkable and when we compare so I have some products in my bag I'll give you I have I've been doing a lot of work with D salts so I've been consuming D salts and pretty high levels that bring my ketone levels up pretty close to an ester so you can formulate sort of D salts how high if the elevation of my ketones gets more than three millimolar I just start feeling a little bit weird you know which is interesting because you've experienced naturally occurring ketones that much higher than that level yeah but I don't actually am a pretty good ketone burner so you could you could do a glucose tolerance test I do a ketone tolerance test the ketone tolerance test is consuming a known amount of ketones and looking at that pharmacokinetic curve so you measure so you'll do fasting level of B.H.B. Glucose insulin fatty acid and just your ketone and then measure at 30, 60, 90, 120 minutes and athletes have when you challenge them with a ketone tolerance test I'm creating like a new test year they actually dispose of ketones and utilize it remarkably if I when you take a couch potato and this the same as the couch potato rats you could push a couch potato rat into keto acid doses if they're older their tissues are not effectively utilizing the ketones for fuel and I've seen that in some individuals and some people I've get hundreds of emails and people show me their data and one packet of even a commercial ketone product on the market can shoot some people up till like five or six which is like that in just a bit clear in the ketone tolerance test which by the way I freaking love this idea how have you not told me about until today holding out on your best amount it's just materialized in my brain what am I going to call it you know next time you get one of these ideas just pick up the phone you know my number you call me and you tell me this stuff this is your it's like your hold now I want to make sure I understand something is this independent of whether or not that athlete was in ketosis before or after in other words how much of that utilization is a function of the metabolic machinery in the muscle utilize ketone versus hey athletes are just better at oxidation to begin with. Fatadapted athletes are very good ketone utilizers and have a hard time elevating their ketone levels with the ketogenic diets. The ketocytone carbathlete who's still fit as a fiddle. Yep. Yep. You do this test. Yep. How do they behave? Not as well. And I do think that high-performing athletes probably are bouncing in and out of ketosis right you have post-exercise ketosis just from the energy or depletion that you get during exercise. So their bodies are probably used to seeing ketones using them as fuel but if you take someone who's a real keto adapted fat burning like ketone machine and you you hit them with high doses of ketone they tend to dispose of them very quickly. So they've upregulated ketone trensport across membranes across the blood brain barrier through the MCT trensporters which are upregulated we need to. And this of course is not the same MCT that we talked about earlier. No, no, these are monocarboczilla acid trensporters. It also trensport things like lactate and pyruvate and because the MCT trensporters are much higher and more dense in the membrane you could probably clear lactate faster. So I think that may contribute in part to why keto adapted athletes produce less lactate. It's funny you say that I hadn't thought of that actually. I didn't realize that in ketosis you upregulate MCT. I've always suspected that that might play a role in the genetic differences between athletes. Why do some athletes seem virtually unparallized by anaerobic activity and it's like look if you can shut a lactate out of the cell quick enough you can recycle it and reuse it. We actually tried to get an IRB of an N of 1 and getting Ryan Flarity who I don't know if you know Ryan. Yeah, you'll know of him. Yeah, so Ryan and I and a couple of other guys tried to get an N of 1 IRB at UCSD to do muscle biopsies on ourselves pre and post a certain type of nutrition exercise routine. We wanted to implement that Ryan has sort of pioneered with with a number of endurance athletes and that was our that was one of our endpoints was could we see an abregulation of MCT because the hypothesis was the certain type of trening stress was going to lead to that which would obviously increase our performance at a certain level of output but super interesting to think about that through the level of the ketone potentially enhancing that signaling. Yeah, it is a lot of things to think about there. So I'm going to caveat my next question with a really serious caveat but it's also a very serious question and I was sort of on the fence about whether I'd ask you this or not but I'm going to say screw it I'm going to ask you anyway. I'm going to caveat this by giving the disclaimer which is your PhD scientist you do basic research you are not an MD you are not an oncologist and nothing you say is going to be construed as medical advice. So with with that said I still have to ask you a question which is if tomorrow you your wife someone you cared about deeply was diagnosed with cancer and it was a cancer for which all standard therapies had been exhausted and you were now left to the best insights you have with respect to your knowledge of cancer metabolism tell me what pulling out all the stops looks like and again what I'm this is in the context of you've taken and you are complying with all chemotherapy, the radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, surgical therapy etc but you're losing right so something else needs to be done what what is that combination of that something look like so I guess IMean when we think about the worst cancer worst case scenario who would have pancreatics pretty bad but probably glioblastoma would top the list of things right and would your answer be different if I was asking you about pancreatic adenocarsinoma versus GBM? I think you know it would be there's things like with pancreatic cancer can make it hard for someone to fall the ketogenic diet right because and liver cancer and things like that so they need to approach it a little bit different and you could have a lot of unexpected consequences metabolic consequences by someone with liver cancer if they have heavy liver meds or let's make it similar and bring cancers let's talk about GBM and metastatic breast cancer okay so start with GBM you're loved one or you have GBM? Yeah I would say it would be useful not necessarily you know absolutely necessary to ask for an FDG pet scan do a pet CT and especially IMean with GBM it's gonna light up lighters no tomorrow right so just for the listener so FDG pet means you take glucose you label glucose with a molecule and then when you do the pet scan shows by lighting up anything that absorbs that and the most rapidly metabolizing tissues of glucose light that up which is almost always any cancer and then a brain normally lights up so a brain with cancer takes that to another level yeah so you're doing that to document that this is a high glycolitic tumor yeah okay so even now there's a lot of experimental things going on for GBM but pretty much the standard of care is not offering any survival advantage when it comes to this so we did GBM is uniformly fatal I believe the five the five your survival is almost zero yeah yep and the mutation rate in GBM is very very heterogeneous in regards to the number of mutations so many of the standard of care therapies that target specific pathways just are not efficacious because you have a grossly mutated cells throughout the tumor so I'd probably my answer would default back to this press pulse idea that we published in nutrition metabolism is that the one in 2017 which uh no actually so the the 2017 paper was in seminars in cancer and that was with oncologists at the Mothac cancer center where we discuss how the ketogenic diet essentially targets the warburg effect and in doing so really targets all the home marks of cancer so any cancer biologists you know is writing a review on paper like you know you talk about the home marks of cancer there's enhanced proliferation evasion of immune system and geogenesis all these different things evasion of apoptosis the ketogenic diet nutritional ketosis actually targets all those things and even the aberrant metabolism and the increase in inflammation that it's you know is now a hallmark of cancer so from the press pulse the the simplest way to describe it at least it's implementation which I think is probably most important for the listeners is to achieve a glucose ketone index so press essentially means you were providing metabolic stress to the cancer cells that can stop their rapid growth in proliferation it's like taking the your foot off the gas pedal of cancer cell growth and there's a number of things that we could do to slow down cancer growth in proliferation and metabolically stressors cancer cells and that can be done continuously and pulse protocols you have a wide expanding toolbox of modalities that can be used in an intermittent fashion that can be sort of tactically used at different time points to kill off the cancer cells that you have applied the press stress to so press protocols which are done continuously would be something like a calorie restricted ketogenic diet perhaps with intermittent fasting perhaps a low dose met foreman and what was the ketone to glucose ratio you want to see I would want to see anywhere between a maintenance of one to two meaning that's the glucose to ketone ratio I daily maintenance of one to two yeah so so glucose should never be more than twice the ketone level when both are measured in ideally in a perfect scenario three millimeter ketones three millimeter glucose so that's kind of hard to achieve but not not with a number of tools so there's a number of tools that you can use to achieve that and that needs to and there are things that we could talk about too so the fastest way to get to a glucose ketone index of and maintain that of one to two would be what I would call supplemented ketogenic intermittent fasting right so when you eat within a restricted time window say of like six hours a day you start eating at you know 2 p.m. and finish at 8 p.m. scenes relatively easy to do and within that fasting window if needed you could consume calories in the form of perhaps exogers ketones and that would further lower glucose and elevate ketone levels like within a range and they are commercially available ketone products on the market millions are being consumed and there's no kind of adverse effects you know when you compare it to something like a red bull which you'll find lots of adverse effects so there's fairly good safety data but this needs to be said but the difference is red bull sponsors a formula one team so it's exactly yeah yeah so these things are relatively safe and their utility are that you know they can help you achieve a glucose ketone index and when you do have a glucose ketone index of one to two you are limiting for meantable fuels to the cancer cells and also most likely suppressing the hormone insulin tremendously to get there and and because I'm sure you'll be asked or I'll be asked is the reason you are applying an intermittent or time restricted feeding algorithm to this because during the fasted time you increase ketogenesis or because there was something specific about having complete liver and gut rest in other words is there a reason that an individual should or should not consume exogenous ketones and or MCT during the fasting window yeah I think if it's difficult for them to achieve a glucose ketone index of one to two one of the tools in the toolbox could be to consume exogers ketones during that fasting period I think it can be help and you can also consume them during the feeding period too and they provide an extra source of calories that's a non-framentable fuel and I think have a benefit in and of itself you could just talk about the anti-inflammatory benefits you know I think there's a number of different so that's press protocol is pretty aggressive yeah and and it could also have things like meditation and yo IMean and exercise of course low intensity exercise I think but the most important thing from my perspective of the press so we're just talking about the press is to get that glucose ketone index to one of the better or one to yeah yeah one to two or better and then once that is achieved or concurrently so you could think about different modalities for the pulse protocol so changing your metabolic physiology with what we just described will have a huge effect on targeting the warberg effect and also will be already targeting all the hallmarks of cancer so you have a different person you have just changed that person's metabolism you know IMean the glucose ketone index of the average Joe out on the street is probably the only something like 25 or 50 it's like nowhere near that right right so you are literally changing the metabolic physiology of that person so modalities that they may be resistant to or completely failed may have an effect now so chemo radiation may be immune based therapies may be working now but it's an important point right we view this as in as an edge so you could do a neo-ag event concurrent or adjuvant approach so and I think that what I just described can be used as a neo-ag event concurrent and an adjuvant approach yeah so people talk about cancer approaches as look you you want to think about the legs of a stool so you take a chemotherapy to approach you take a radiation approach you take an immune based approach and you take a surgical approach those are really the four pillars of cancer treatment today yeah you're basically saying look there needs to be a new type of oncologist which is the metabolic oncologist so you have a surgical oncologist or radiation oncologist you have a medical oncologist you know have an immunoconologist why don't we have a metabolic oncologist yeah things will lead that way and just by the research that's being done now the huge amount of research being done even on oncometaballates and all the genetics people are now focusing on the how metabolism is influencing genetics metabolism is a driver for our biology and influencing epigenetic expression so you know the work I'd like to also point to the work of a friend of mine and colleague Adrian Sheck who was did her work at the Barrow Neurological Institute which demonstrated in a mouse model GL261 I think model of Gleoblastoma that using Tema's olamide and also radiation with really focusing on radiation that being in a state of nutritional ketosis made radiation therapy many many times more efficacious and that mouse model which is kind of a gold standard model for GBM it actually cured the GBM in that mouse model using the ketogenic diet combined with whole brain radiation so that was a pretty significant finding that actually spearheaded some of the ketogenic diet clinical research that's being done research this was done with dietary or nutritional ketosis not exogenous supplementation not it did she went on to do some work with exogenous ketones and looking at how ketones can reprogram the metabolism and ketones can actually have they are like cox2 inhibitors they inhibit reactive oxygen species which is driving growth and proliferation so that work spawned research just on ketones by themselves in her animal model so what is in your pulse pulse protocol can be varied so hyperbaric oxygen therapy at what frequency three generally speaking so with the GBM you have to so a consequence of the GBM could be seizures right so getting hyperbaric oxygen therapy with a GBM is going to be true so yes you have to start very low probably like somewhere around 1.5 at a and then work up gradually from there based on the individual person but generally speaking the research that we did showed that not five days a week which is typically used for wound healing but I do think there needs to be a day off for adaptive effects to happen so three days a week 2.5 atmospheres for 60 minutes three times a week and that produces well reverse tumor hypoxia for one thing so hyperbaric oxygen increases tissue oxygenation not by hyper oxygenating hemoglobin but it actually gets oxygen into the plasma and that's a very important thing because meaning you solubleize oxygen within the plasma yes because you can't really super saturate the hemoglobin. Yeah you're in the top of the curve yeah you and I are sitting here I don't know this air here but your your hemoglobin is essentially saturated you know probably 96 98% but the hyper oxygenation that occurs with hyperbaric oxygen therapy and this is why oxygen therapy does not work independent of an increase in pressure right so the increase in pressure is needed to dry the oxygen into the plasma and once it's in the plasma tumors have a radic vasculature right and then the red blood cells get caught inside the capillaries and the vasculine the oxygen doesn't get into the tissue inside the tumor but if the oxygen is in the plasma it can get past and all into the nooks and crannies of the tumor and then reverse tumor hypoxia which is tumor hypoxia is driving hip one alpha and veg F and causing oxygenacrisation. Ironically you're taking something that is initially a deficit of cancer which is its hypoxia but then it utilizes it as it's an advantage by saying hey I'm going to work around this it's going to make me more resilient it's going to allow me to exist my vasculature boom but you're saying hey buddy that little advantage you had that was a disadvantage we're going to reverse it we're going to hyper oxygenate you know we're going to take away your hypoxia and also in class for your radicals. Yes so you have a dual effect right so you are silencing the oncogenes you're turning off some of the oncogenes and also by hyper oxygenating a tumor which it's baseline is to be in a in a state of hypoxia by supersaturating the tumor with oxygen and that tumor tissue has damage mitochondria because hypoxia damages the mitochondria so basically your hyper oxygenating a whole bunch of damage mitochondria and essentially what that does is skyrockets superoxid anion which then through fentany chemistry so when you have a lot of free iron and all that you got a whole bunch of heement stuff that's being broken down the tumor so you have a lot of free iron driving the fentany reaction and which is producing hydroxyl radicals and that causes a massive oxidative stress specifically to the tumor and you're delivering a massive oxidative stress to the tumor while it's relatively non-toxic to healthy cells that have normal metabolism right because the tumor is thriving in a low oxygen environment and you're reversing tumor hypoxia and hyperoxygenating it and you have this environment which is just fueling redox stress you can then trigger a poptosis and endocrosis really driving the crosis in these tumor cells so hyperbaric oxygen delivered at the maximum tolerable dose three times per week and you could further enhance the oxidative stress of the tumor by something that's a lot of people haven't heard of this but I v vitamin C so vitamin C if given intravenously you could have brought up to about 100 grams about you could yeah 25 to 100 grams is kind of pushing it but vitamin C ascorbic acid also functions as a glucose antagonist you gotta make sure you have dextrose on hand if it's yeah but not if you're in a state of ketosis right so if you're in a state of ketosis so I did a pretty high dose vitamin C but being in a state of ketosis you can tolerate higher amounts right do you know what your glucose drop to so when you measure your glucose when you're getting vitamin C you get a false positive on the meter falsely high you get falsely high well at least the habit precision extra yeah yeah yeah yeah it's just you know when you measure that meter that assay on the meter is also sensitive to the pH of your blood to and there's a re-dox shift and right a scorbic acid is a powerful reducing agent and then that might be altering the the assay so it's not able to get my glucose like skyrocket I know I went into a hypoglycemic but my ketones were elevated and I took a pretty big hit you know a vitamin C and I was just doing it just for the you know the self experimentation that right so but what's the thought here so so lots of people thought about stress so vitamin C driving the fenten reaction to produce more oxidative stress so vitamin C is a pro-oxidant when you get blood levels of vitamin C in the millimolar concentration then it becomes a pro-oxidant it's not an antioxidant so we're not using antioxidants or definitely you don't want to use it yeah I was going to come back to that but the next thing is I'm sure somebody listening to this is going to say well I don't have access to i.B. vitamin C if I want to through that you can't do it you can't do it or really because of what it's not you can't get it out of the gut enough you can't you can only get like a very small amounts and then you know you're got auto-regulates it too so you just let's get to the next thing you said which is again highly counter intuitive to most people we're hardwired to think that there's nothing better for you than anti-oxidants yeah but paradoxically once you have cancer that might not be the case yeah so I think antioxidants may be blocking some of the efficacy of some of the the some of therapies too right because many chemotherapy-drucks their function works through enhancing oxidative stress radiation sure does so radiation maybe 20% of the cancer killing effects of radiation are due to damaging the DNA with double you know double strend nicks but 80% of the tumor killing effective radiation is by the generation of reactive oxygen species now does that mean you can't have blueberries and things that have low levels of antioxidants I would say no but you don't want to kind of saturate your body with a cocktail of antioxidants like you don't want to do a glutathione push right after you do same with an AC see you wouldn't have an AC I personally would not I don't I don't think none of the cancer studies and animal models or humans are supportive of the use of the antioxidants and that was a big focus of me IMean during during my PhD I wanted to do a postdoc research in antioxidant cocktails that were going to save the world and none of the research on antioxidants really paned out in my mind there's a couple things you know maybe for mitochondrial antioxidants for like free drinks a taxid maybe a ls and some research there but it's pretty subtle benefits but in the context of cancer no I don't I don't think antioxidant should be avoided anything else in your pulse protocol yeah IMean there's a lot of things that you could add so with the press protocol I think a low dose of metformin could be helpful too so that will activate amp kinase maybe decrease insulin a little bit maybe increase ketones a little bit too and it's just a readily available cheap drug that has a very good safety profile 500 milligrams to 2000 milligrams a day are usually well tolerated probably starting with 500 milligrams and working up but when it comes to the pulse protocol hyperbaric oxygen IV vitamin C and there are a number of drugs that we're working with now one would be 2D oxyglucose which in and of itself from a seizure world and I've I've been a reviewer in for the government for different grants and stuff and this is in the context of epilepsy 2DG is sort of like the ketogenic diet in a drug so by inhibiting glycolysis it has this gets back to thEQuestion right you have no ketones but you inhibit like a litic pathways perhaps even like reduce sort of m2 or signaling or some glycolytic and that may have anti-seusure effects so 2DG is something that we're working with now I think it was 2DG originally developed for pharmacologically I've been around for a long time for a long time I think maybe it was just in the realm of experimental compound but I know there's phase 2 trials in cancer the problem is it becomes cardio toxic above say 50 milligrams per kilogram I know can be I know there's some evidence that cardio toxicity but at 25 milligrams per kilogram at least on some of the grants that I reviewed that was how to pretty good safety profile for epilepsy so you know not making any recommendations out there but I think 25 milligrams per kilogram seems to be within the realm of therapeutic efficacy and this is being studied in humans and they're out of phase 1 so this you have phase 1 day and the epilepsy world yeah and I think there's some cancer trials going on too and I do think that synergizes really well once you create the environment where you put the press protocol into action then the cancer cells become even very selectively vulnerable to other things like 2DG will inhibit a glycolitic pathway that drives the pentoth phosphate pathway and that pentoth phosphate pathway is responsible for enhancing the endogenous antioxidant capacity of cells so it makes the cancer cells even more vulnerable to oxidative stress the more you can inhibit the glycolitic pathways so 2DG to dichlorocity is something that we've worked with to inhibit its pdh complex and that can DCA drug that's been on the market for a long time it's a small molecule as yeah it's been on the market for a very long time and what's it's normal use it's normal use is lactic acidosis actually so one of the side effects of metformin right is is once you start increasing the dose of metformin and escalating the dose the problem that you run into it's still it's it's a very powerful activator of amp kinase it's effects are primarily through the liver you know inhibiting gluconeogenesis and it's a mitochondrial toxin through we published a paper that it increases loss production from the the complex one of the mitochondrial so it's a himid in complex one correct it's inhibiting yeah mildly inhibiting complex one and it's triggering what the cell experiences as an energetic crisis and that you know it has an activation of amp kinase too so you are creating a scenario where that's putting a lot of persistent metabolic stress on the tumor cells and then you come in here with different modalities that have overlapping but independent mechanisms at producing oxidator stress so hyperbolic oxygen IV vitamin C and then cancer specific like the lytic inhibitors 2D oxyglucose 3 bromo pyruvate and low nidamine low nidamine is also hexicanase 2 inhibitor and those 3 drugs that IMentioned right there they are very powerful and they need to probably be used in two weeks on two weeks off and somebody's listening to this and they're thinking well how the heck could I ever do this are there physicians out there who are obviously doing this under the full and legal umbrella of ethical medical practice is everything that's talking about purely theoretical or their ways to actually have these things implemented I think there are some physicians out there that are probably not making it public but I think they are getting success with doing 25% of what I just talked about you know they're not doing all these things but everything that I just mentioned is readily available IMean you could most of the compounds in IV vitamin C hyperbolic oxygen therapy can be costly if you don't have a hard shell chamber but I like that with radiation if you're giving radiation to your body or it's like going in there with a flame thrower and you have a lot of collateral damage whereas hyperbolic oxygen naturally elevates the precursor for oxygen free radicals and the cancer cells selectively produce more oxygen free radicals so it's a very gentle approach and instead of thinking that we should just go in there and eradicate the tumor I think it's it's more appropriate to give sort of a gentle stress to the tumor so the therapy that I'm describing if the patient goes into it they're going to come out of it stronger than they were going into it and when you've fatted down and keto adapt your body so many metabolic biomarkers start to go in the right direction when you go in for chemotherapy and radiation and you measure things after your body's work in flammatory mess IMean you're metabolically deranged your insulin resistant you are pushing things and you have chemo brain on top of that that may not be reversible the suppression of your immune system with chemo is setting you up for more cancers potentially other cancers so the scenario that we envision is a comprehensive metabolic based therapy where you go into it and it's a more gradual approach and you start adding these modalities sort of as you go you know get the patient acclimated you know with that glucose ketone index of 1 to 2 and then start utilizing some of these other therapies you could potentially put someone on an IV right and pulse a low dose of insulin to make them hypoglycemic even one or two millimolar and then deliver some of these agents where you've really restricted the different mannable fuels so I was you know I'm a reviewer on different manuscripts that are coming in and some of these academic and clinical oncologists are actually suggesting this in you know medical hypothesis papers now and that's kind of counterintuitive because you'd think well we don't the last thing you want to do for a tumor is give it insulin because this is so because this is pulse a tile and it's acute and the amount of insulin it's not like 20 I use it's something like one or two I use so the patient comes in fasted and you give them just a little bit and that's facilitating mostly facilitating glucose uptake in the skeletal muscle so making it less available for the tumor right and that creates its scenario where you produce severe what would typically be fatal hypoglycemia and you could deliver ketones you know as an insurance and and also deliver some of these agents that would you'd probably dramatically sensitize that tumor tissue to the other modalities and and I know so IMean what I didn't talk about when I did this seven day fast like years ago I brought my glucose levels down really low and I got to a glucose ketone index of one or maybe even a little bit lower than one so you were about whaT3 to four on each of them yeah well my ketones were abouT4 five and my glucose got down to three so that was the lowest I ever like captured and that was just a seven day fast yeah after seven day you know after a bris walk at the end so I never got like ketone seven or a like I got it like four you know after like a long fast but then I did inspired by the k-hill study I used various strategies to bring my glucose level down you know pharmacological strategies and I did it slowly and just do me a favor dumb I really would be kind of pissed off if you like off to yourself doing dumb shit because I think the world kind of needs you to stick around so yeah see if you can just maybe get an IRB to do this in the mice or something yeah anything that would break my heart more than getting a call from your wife saying yeah dumb died of some freak hypoglycemic crazy accident what's the longest fast you've ever done well that was it and I was pretty adapted and the point I was kind of getting to that I brought my glucose down to where it was not even measurable but with exogenous ketones she's I was the meter didn't even read it so that to me and I did that years ago that motivated me more to basically focus on this area of research as sort of like my life research because it validated to me that this should not be happening and the ketones are an alternative energy source that can be utilized in these metabolic based therapies that can be game changers for for and we also study glucose trensporter type 1 deficiency center which is the inability and people who have let one D don't get cancer to my knowledge I've talked to the doctors and they've never came across anyone with glucose trensporter so that's kind of motivating too that you can carry a therapy for that that could sort of be a magic well what's interesting is this is sort of in many ways old school science right where scientists would begin by sort of experimenting on themselves identifying unnatural or extreme physiologic conditions that are not predicted by the current understanding and then that sort of provokes further investigation remind me again at the end of that seven day fast how much did you deadlift yeah I did 500 pounds for 10 and then I did sort of a one rapper at the end was six plates or a 585 but that's below my you know normal but it was it was amazing to me that you know I didn't want to push my body too hard but it was amazing that that amount of fasting does not really impact your how much of a verdict so what was your max at that time at that time what was tinkering around with like you know ketogenic diet and fasting a lot but within a year of that time I forget it was before after I did 675 for 5 and maybe 5 I did 555 for an 8 to 10 so so I did you know an extra plate for 8 to 10 but I went into this basically I felt like it did more I could have done more but I just wanted to stop I didn't want to hurt myself because I knew I was pushing the at that point and I didn't get sore at all so I did that and it wasn't like my body was broken down and sort of in a depleted state where I was wasted the next day I felt I didn't even have to recover from that like I had no lower back soreness the next day after that so I probably was like I probably could have not heavier but it was just validation to me that if you're in a keto adapted state your body is very resilient and from a military standpoint too which we work pretty closely with the military I'm trying to sort of get them to understand this idea that if you are fat and keto adapted and your faced and all steer conditions with limited food availability you could maintain your physical and cognitive resilience in those conditions which is pretty clear to me I was pretty much obsessed with eating like 6 meal a day for many years and it was very liberating not to have to do that now and I'm amazed at how little I can eat once you're a keto adapted and maintain you know your your size and your strength I'm not trying to be big anymore anything or try to do any records in the gym but it's amazing how easy it is to maintain once your body is adapted. You've been so generous with your time I want to sort of let you get on your way and you've got a long drive potentially tonight but I want to ask you a question or a couple maybe what do you believe today to be true that five years ago you did not believe to be true let's keep it within the purview of your ketogenic life what today do you think things that really I would say when I got into this field I was really fascinated and immersed in this idea as ketones as an alternative energy source so is even like space food you know we're still working on that front but then over the last five years the observation that beta hydroxybuter 8 is a powerful andogenous metabolite that's also a signaling molecule through its H-dak activity histone deacetylase. More recently we've been working with an organization that the name of the organization is called All Things Kabuki so there's a there's a rare genetic disease called Kabuki syndrome which is a gene defect in the K-M-T-2-D which is essentially an acetylase enzyme and a defect in that gene or that protein creates an imbalance between gene expression and gene repression right and in the mouse model of Kabuki syndrome two things have worked in this mouse model one is a histone deacetylase inhibitor H-dak inhibitor called AR42 which restores neurons in the dentate gyros and kind of silences the pathological features in this mouse model and another thing is nutritional ketosis so nutritional ketosis functioning as a histone deacetylase inhibitor basically salvages or rescues the phenotype of this and circumvents this gene mutation the K-M-T-2-D mutation the animals have a normal neuronal density and the dentate gyros and even from a behavioral characteristic and enhances sort of a learning and memory so this idea that an endogenous metabolite can epigenetically sort of control gene trenscription so I believe it's probably not unique to beta hydroxybutary I think metabolites we know that's true for acetylcoe and other things are epigenetic drivers and I think they are really they call the shots so you can even take a step back and say the mitochondria kind of call the shots too right because I think mitochondrial health the mitochondrial vitality would be the ultimate tumor suppressor so if the bio-energetica capacity of a cell in tissues are maintained to a high degree that bio-energetica efficiency is going to preserve genome stability and be far less likely to trigger oncogenes at the level of the DNA so when it comes to something like kabuki syndrome you have a persistent molecular genetic pathology that's silenced by the elevation of beta hydroxybutary functioning in a more volent-inpendant way yeah through their it's H stack activity so that to me is like mind-blowing and I think that's the direction kind of our lab is going into now I'm always fascinating with developing alternative energy substrates and alternative fuels as a form of nutrition for tactical applications, space applications maybe but this idea that you could develop an even engineer nutrition to have powerful effects on gene trenscription and epigenetic regulation is something I would have never predicted that's an amazing answer actually because I know that was probably a little hard for some people to follow so which you're basically saying is look five years ago you were completely intrigued and blown away by the metabolic properties of these key tons primarily as an alternative energy source and with that comes a lot of interesting stuff we've talked about but at this H-dack pathway this inhibition of something that can result in epigenetic change or activation of in this case you can basically take a germline acquired mutation and silenced it with an epigenetic overlay that seems to be signaled by something as simple as key and Dr. Verdon at the Buck Institute has spoken quite a bit about this as well IMean this really is one of those moments where you think holy cow we are really at the just at the cusp of learning about this stuff and if there's one reason to make sure we don't off ourselves with self-experiments it's to make sure we can stick around long enough to do this done working people follow you socially and then maybe more importantly see what you're doing from a research perspective sure so the site IMaintain for informational purposes it would be ketonutrition.org that's a dot org not dot com and on that website I have a list of you know podcast there's nutrition consultants resources like the Charlie Foundation which is an incredible resource that I've helped them do some educational work and gym Abrams of the Charlie Foundation it's really created an amazing resource there I have a blog and we test various ketones supplements ketogenic foods I'm self-experimenting and I've collected a lot of data and we'll be putting some of that data in the blog so I think that would be sort of like the one stop shop website for anyone interested in hearing more about what I talked about I'd also like to mention that our lab in collaboration with Epigenics Foundation is sponsoring the metabolic health summit that's occurring in January 30th to February 3rd in Long Beach, California and it's going to have an amazing array of basic scientists for example like Luke Cantley will be there be a keynote speaker Thomas Saferid there's going to be clinicians there influencers there and a lot of entrepreneurial people will be there representing companies that are really changing the shape of this industry so I'm very interested in technologies and foods and supplements that can make nutritional ketosis accessible for people that want to use it not only therapeutically for metabolic management of a disorder but maybe also for prevention or longevity or just as a lifestyle so you're going to find there's something for everybody at the metabolic help summit from basic science will be sort of what our lab is focused on but from clinical application to moving the science into human applications is really the theme of that and can people register for that already yes I think you can go to the website and register if you want to be a sponsor I think you can sort of download the sponsorship package there's going to be a lot of high profile representation there that would bring sort of more awareness and more reach to your product if you have a product there so we're looking for sponsors and I think we've nailed down most of our speakers but if you're interested in speaking to it might be good to contact us through the website. Donna and on Twitter you're pretty active what's your handle? Yeah before I realize how important is to have a handle you can remember it's Dominic, a Degosity 2. Well linked to it. Yeah yeah linked to it it's not the easiest to remember and also Facebook I'm fairly active Dominic, Degosity 1 I think that's my handle on Facebook too so I kind of cross post on each and try to use Instagram a little bit more because they tell me I got to use it more but not too active on that but. Alright well we'll make sure we link through all of those things I want to thank you again I owe a lot of what I know in this space to you and I can say the same thank you yeah. Well I credit my blog. It's been a great resource for many. You are arguably one of the most generous people I've ever met when it comes to his insights, Dom I don't know that you get enough credit for not only the work you've done but for how much work you do behind the scenes as far as sharing your knowledge with people I'll just share one very quick anecdote personally one of my best friends from medical school. His wife has breast cancer and you know without any hesitation you were more than happy to speak with them about some of these things that they could do above and beyond what was she was already doing which was participating in a clinical trial where by the way she is the only woman to still be alive in this clinical trial so the trial has closed that agent will likely not be approved though she will have a compassionate exemption but you know she is someone who has been on a ketogenic diet now for six years and has and remains incredibly indebted to the work that you've done and her oncologist and Boston sort of amaze that she's alive. That's all. Interestingly next year Lou can't Lee will be explaining a very plausible mechanism for why she is still alive. It's a paper that I'm sure you're aware of that was just approved and will be out in nature very soon. Anyway I could sit here and spend another hour thanking you for everything but I know nobody really wants to hear that so I'll I'll bEQuick about it and just tell you again that Dom you're an amazing guy you really are one of those people that I think fits in the category of just being kind of a treasure and so on behalf of many people I want to thank you. And thank you thank you for giving me this platform I know you're podcasts will be an amazing resource for so many people it always great to catch up with you it always very stimulating and in so many ways thank you Peter for having me appreciate. You can find all of this information and more at peteratiamed.com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode. You can also find my blog and the nerds of barri at peteratiamed.com what's a nerds of barri you ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more. Maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-lane once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science, performance, sleep, etc. On social you can find me on twitter, instagram and facebook all with the id, peteratia, and but usually twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. Now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk the content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice diagnoses or treat users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures the companies I invest in and or advise please visit peteratiamed.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: #06 – D.A. Wallach： music, medicine, longevity, and disruptive technologies [nJM0nRS__vs].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of the most successful top-performing individuals in the world, and this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you live a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. This podcast, I'll be speaking with my good friend, DA Wallek. I've known DA for maybe five years now, maybe four I can't recall, but he is truly a Renaissance man. I have been accused of being a Renaissance man on occasion, but I am not. DA however is, and if you look up Renaissance Man in the dictionary, I think you'll just see his picture with his curly hair sitting there. He is a recording artist, a songwriter, an investor, an essayist. He was discovered while I undergrad at Harvard by Farell, among others who signed him to a deal. He went on to become one half of the band, Chester French. They released three full-length albums, and he also has a solo album called Time Machine, which was released in 2016. We'll link to all of that stuff. Well with Chester French, they toured with a number of legendary bands and artists such as Lady Gaga, Weezer, and perhaps my favorite of them all, Blink 182. Beyond music, however, DA's sort of in a class of his own in terms of his intellectual curiosity and his ability to assimilate information that seems so far outside of his area of expertise. In fact, some of the most interesting discussions I remember ever having with DA is sort of what prompted this podcast. I remember one day he came over, he was passing through San Diego, on his way down from LA, came by, and we were sitting out at a park on the swings, having a discussion about liquid biopsies. And I was thinking to myself, how is it that I'm sitting here with this guy, my body, whose a musician, and a very good investor, having this discussion about liquid biopsies at a level of detail, but I don't get to have with pretty much anybody else outside of people who are knee deep in this field. And that was sort of when it clicked in my mind. I was like, you know, DA would be a great guy to have on the podcast. He's advised a number of startup companies, including SpaceX, Dr. On Demand, Ripple, Emulate. And of course, he was an artist and residents of Spotify, and we talked actually quite a bit about Spotify on this episode, for anyone who's kind of interested in how it came to be. The other things that we talk about, of course, is his background in music and his start. My daughter is a great drummer for a little kid, and I've always been interested in how one can continue to encourage kids to be involved in music. And we talk about some fun times that we've had when he's been over and that's jammed with her. We talk a lot about cancer screening, which anybody who's kind of ever heard me talk about this stuff privately. I really think that when it comes to the major metabolic diseases, cardiovascular disease and the other arthritis, the sporadic diseases, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases, the big tool that is really missing is these liquid biopsies. By the time cancer becomes visible on an imaging study, you can make the case you've lost the war. I don't know that that's true, but I do believe that if we can catch these things when they are not yet fully determined to be cancers based on either looking at a DNA signature and RNA signature, even a protein signature, that we might have a shot. We also get into some really kind of nerdy stuff that I think is very important for anybody thinking about screening, such as positive predictive value, negative predictive value, sensitivity and specificity. We'll link to some information here that we use internally in our practice to help patients navigate that. If you're interested in music, if you're interested in liquid biopsies, cancer prevention, general cancer screening, and just interested in listening to a really smart dude who seems to know a lot about a lot of things and can speak very articulately about them. I think you'll really enjoy this podcast. We'll be able to find the show notes for this, that Peter at tia md.com forward slash podcast and we'll link to a lot of the stuff that we talk about that will hopefully allow those of you who are interested to follow up and learn a little bit more. So without further delay, here's my conversation with the amazing DA wallet. DA Peter, thanks for having me over to your lovely place. You're welcome. You're welcome here anytime. I like how you saw that I was in the driveway before I got here and I was kind of just hanging out. Well, we have this thing called the door bird, which is kind of the evolved version of a ring. And you since you're interested in all esoteric technical things would be interested to know that this is the only web enabled cloud recording doorbell system that can hook into a electric strike, a strike being the thing that opens a gate remotely. And so I'm able to see who rings the doorbell and then if I want to let them in press a button from the same app that opens the gate. Remarkable technology. Yes. Technology is LEDG would say. Yes. So we have known each other. I don't even remember how we met. I think we met through Gary Tobs. We met through Gary Tobs and IMet Gary Tobs because I called emailed him, which is how most things started my life. Yes. And I called emailed him because I became sort of obsessed with obesity and nutrition research. This was maybe six years ago or there about six, seven years ago. And then I had gotten coffee with Gary up in Berkeley and he thought it would be worth our meeting. And now I talk to you more than I talk to Gary. Yeah. No, it became a, it was a love at first sight actually. And you know, one thing that's really funny, we're going to talk so much about sort of your musicALCAReer and things like that. But I will forever be grateful to the one night that you and Adam were over for dinner. This was just after my daughter Olivia started to play the drums. And you guys got up, Adam's played the piano, you played the drums, Olivia then played the drums. And it was really exciting to see, she got to see an action, what like improvised music can look like. And I really think that that's part of the reason she still loves the drums. Well, that's good. IMean, part of the drums that's fun is that you don't necessarily need to know the musical material as well as other instrumentalists do in order to play along with people. You know, you don't need to sort of learn the song. You can kind of, as long as you can learn the beat of the song or figure it out quickly, you can play, which is as someone who doesn't necessarily love practicing something that's always drawn me to drums. And I remember her teacher when she was five and I started saying, you know, it's really really hard because the music's really hard to read. So the only shot she'll have it starting this young is if she sort of has an intuitive feel for the music. In which case, she can get by on that until she learns to actually figure out that, you know, two, six, Dean's is actually an eighth and that kind of stuff. Right. That's good point. And I think the best way to learn instruments or to learn music in general is kind of to start without any framework, play around and explore yourself and then learn a little theory because what you don't want to do is become imprisoned by theory. But it does answer some important questions that you'll arrive at if you allow yourself to get lost in the first place. And so I've always said that, you know, when we have kids, my vision for piano trening would be you just have to sit there for half an hour every day and you can do whatever you want. You don't have to touch the piano if you don't want. But of course, anyone sitting at a piano for 30 minutes will and you can figure out how it works. And then theory, if you have spent tens of hours messing around is like an amazing gift because it goes, okay, well, that makes sense. That's how it works. It's just like if you were trying to reinvent mathematics with no orientation. Like Ramonusion. Yes, like Ramonusion, which, you know, I'm not. You're almost a Ramonusion of music. I wish. So speaking of which, how did you, how did you get started in music? Were you always musicals a child, were you playing instruments when you were young? I don't think I was particularly musical. I always liked listening to music and my dad would take me to jazz shows occasionally when I was young, which sort of infected me with an interest in jazz. The first instrument I tried playing was the saxophone because I thought it looked cool. And I remember we rented one. This was in the middle school band. So it might have been fifth grade. This would have been all to sax or a tenor. I don't even remember. And in any event we rented it, I brought it home and I tried to learn how to just make a sound with it, which is not trivial because with a read, you have to purse your lips in a particular way in all this. And I was so frustrated in the first hour of trying to play the saxophone that I gave up and became a drummer. And then played drums throughout middle school and high school. And I had sort of bands with high school friends and that sort of thing. And then in college became a singer, which was something I had never done. Oh, so I didn't realize that you had never sung until you got to college. I had never sung and IMet some cool guys in the dining room at my college. And then they said, you want to try out for this band, we're thinking about starting and I said, sure. And I tried out as the drummer, but I got beaten by my friend Damien, who then became our drummer. And as a consolation prize, they asked me if I wanted to be the singer. And I said, well, I've never sung before, but I'll try. And I've been trying ever since. So I didn't realize that. So you went into what became Chester French as the drummer. Trying to be the drummer. And then Damien, who became the drummer later quit and became a filmmaker. And as now one, like 10 Academy Awards, he did Whiplash. And then he did La La Land, which I have a small cameo in. But Whiplash, if you've seen it, is about a drummer and he's somewhat autobiographical about Damien. Oh, I didn't realize. IMean, Whiplash is there's only probably five movies I have stored on my iPad. Because they take up a lot of room, right? But the five that I have are such that if I'm on an airplane and everything goes to how on a hand basket and the Wi-Fi is broken and I don't feel like doing work, and Whiplash is one of those five. Which means it's a movie I've seen more times than I can count, but I especially like the last scene. Well, it's a high-octane movie. IMean, it's about human performance, basically. So I get what you like it. It is unbelievable. Yeah. But I had no idea about this notion that it was not just purely fictional. But there was some autobiographical component to it. A little bit. I don't think there was anyone as sinister and Damien's life as the teacher in the movie, but Damien, both as a drummer and now as a filmmaker, is incredibly self-critical and hard-working and perfectionistic. And so I think those elements are definitely a reflection of his personality. I'm always amazed when you look back, it's sort of the Annel's Iraq and Roll. How many musicians didn't come into it as singer? So for example, I remember hearing about Bob Dylan and Jimmy Hendrix and people who really never thought of it as their voice was what was going to do things. And yet we still think of them as completely iconic. Can anybody learn to sing? I don't know if anyone can learn to sing. IMean, you need a certain amount of physical instrumentation that you just can't escape. IMean, so there's things I wish I could do with my voice that I'll never be able to do, just like I wish I could dunk a basketball. That being said, I think there's probably an enormous range of refinement that can be pursued because I started as a pretty bad singer and I think it'd become an okay singer. And a lot of that, just like any physical activity is about learning how to mentally control a part of your body to get it to do what you want it to do. It's just that controlling your vocal folds and the way that you express air is a relatively fine-tuned set of physical processes. And so the sort of detailed control that you need to physically command over your anatomy is kind of difficult to obtain. But I became a much, much better singer. I think the thing that is probably more natural that you either have or you don't have is an ability to know when you're making a noise, whether it is on pitch. And some people clearly don't have this, but I think most people have a decent sense of pitch. And if they didn't, then they wouldn't be pleased by harmonious music. IMean, we have a natural ability to hear whether someone's hitting a sour note in a chord or something or whether someone's singing off tune. That bothers most of us. So if you can be bothered by that, then chances are you can hear the difference between that and the right thing. And that's what a lot of it comes down to. When you're singing, it's very important that you hear yourself because that's the feedback loop. Yeah. So do you remember the first time you sang on stage in front of people besides your bandmates? Well, it would have been a fresh manure in college and we began by doing sort of weekly performances in the student commons at Harvard. And the audience was 20 or 30 of our friends. And the band always had a sense of humor to the music, although that trailed off in our final album, which was not really funny. But earlier we had always kind of been humorous at some level. And I think that masked how poor my music and ship was for a long time because we could kind of play it off as a bit of a joke band. So sort of like bear naked ladies, like what was it? Not that they were a joke band, but you know what they were always having fun. They were silly. We were irreverent and somewhat subversive in the notion that what we did was meant to almost be ironic. So we would do songs about medieval nights. We would do totally absurdist music. And I think totally possible to hear it and either think that it was self-consciously funny or to think that it was totally clueless. And so that made it easier to sort of cut the tension a little bit and break the ice or so to speak, you know, that it wasn't like you were scared to death getting up there. For me, like if you said to me, Peter, you have to either go and climb Mount Everest or K2. And there's, you know, like a 30% chance you're going to die, or you have to sing in front of a thousand people. I'm tracking. Like I'm gone to the mountain. Like the thought of actually singing in front of any human being, like including people, like my kids, like there's no way I'm singing. Yeah, I don't know why there is some sense of shame that a tense singing. IMean, I know what you're saying. I don't feel it, but I wish I could. IMean, like part of it is, I think realizing that singing is just musical speaking. So we're really singing all the time when we're talking. We're just not using tonality and as deliberate away. IMean, there's a pitch to every time you speak. So singing is just controlling that pitch, which is actually a helpful thing that I learned from vocal coaches who, when I went to go touring, I went to see literally because it became more of a sport for me. It was now something that I was going to have to do for an hour to every day. And I didn't have the physical endurance and the muscle control to endure that without hurting myself. So I would go to some coaches to sort of get ready to tour. And they would make this point that singing is just musical speaking. And it really changed the way I thought about singing and made it quite a bit easier. So let's talk to the trensitions. You guys start this band. Tell me about the name Chester French. Where did it come from? Chester French was the name of a sculptor Daniel Chester French who did the Lincoln Memorial. And then he also did the John Harvard statue, which is in the center of Harvard's main quad. And we didn't know that when we chose the name, but we had a dining hall there that all freshman eight and that sort of looks like the Hogwarts dining hall in Harry Potter. Big wood paneled room with soaring ceilings and busts all around the wall. So we were going into lunch and we saw one of these busts and it had a little plaque under it that was we thought the name of the person who had been sculpted. And so he said, oh Chester French, that's kind of a cool name. And we picked it then and there. And then we later of course learned that that was the sculptor of not only that bust, but also these other great American sculptures. Got it. So when did you guys start to get some traction? And IMean, because most college bands don't end up going on tour. So what was that trensition like? We basically got no traction doing what we initially set out to do, which was to build a live performance following. So the conventional wisdom, if you started a band on the East Coast in college, which a lot of people did actually, they were musicians, was start playing on your campus, start playing at surrounding campus, parties and sorority, caggers and whatever. And then ultimately get a van and start driving around the East Coast and going to other colleges. And you can build a following among college students. And we tried to do this, but we just totally ate shit. IMean, we could barely get people to come to our shows on campus. And then we, I remember booked a gig at a club called Great Scott in Boston, which was kind of the, or Harper's Ferry was the, was the specific one that I'm thinking of here. Great Scott was another club. We booked a show at this Harper's Ferry. And we both tried to recruit our friends from campus to, to make a 10 minute journey to this club. I think three of them came. And then we also for the three nights prior to the show went and stood on the street in front of the club, figuring that people who lived in the area probably walked by the club. Or people who went to the club might come and see multiple shows, handing out flyers, trying to promote ourselves. And when we got there to do the gig on a Thursday night or something, I think there was an audience of like five or seven people. And you know, that's particularly depressing when you've spent two and a half hours setting up and sound checking and hauling all your gear. So anyways, that strategy failed. I'm not sure why. Maybe we just weren't good live or something. But we took a turn at the end of sophomore year in strategy. And our focus became just making recordings. And the thought was ultimately the product is a recorded music product. That's what we're really making. We're songwriters and we're producers. And so our focus shifted to essentially just living in the recording studio, making stuff. And the idea became let's try and make an album that we think is a great, complete representatianavar musical ideas. And if we do that and it's really good, it will speak for itself. And no one in the record industry will care whether we have this big live following or not. Luckily that turned out to work. IMean, it was not certain by any means. But we made this record over the subsequent two and a half years. And then in the middle of senior year, started sending out that album to as many people as we could send it out to. And ultimately, it got to Kanye West, who gave us our big break and flew us out to Los Angeles and offered us a record deal. And then that spurred a number of other people attempting to sign us to record deals. We ultimately chose to work with Farrell and did a deal with him in a guy named Jimmy Ivene who ran interscope records. And as soon as we graduated, we moved out to LA and that became our career. IMean, just put that in context from him. But that strikes me as like a fairy tale, right? IMean, what's the probability that Kanye West, IMean, how many times is he getting something pitched and having to pick a knee, a lot of a haystack? Is that how that works? I think it was a little typical that other artists supported us. And now that I'm sort of not doing music full time in a ratrice back to when I look at the bands career, it's kind of cleared to me that we were an artist's artist. In other words, our fans tended to be people who werEQuite musical, whether they were famous musicians or whether they were just random people who played guitar at home. But we were making a style of music that I think spoke to musicians specifically. Part of that was the result of trying to make music that we wanted to listen to. And so we were our own customer in a kind of weird way. So it certainly wasn't typical that other artists would be the ones to jump start our career. On the other hand, it was at a time when the music industry was changing. And so all of the paradigms by which artists got discovered were being destabilized. There used to be these armies of ANR people who worked at record companies and they went to concerts and scouted. And what was changing when we came on to the scene was that the internet was becoming the primary distribution channel for music and also the primary place where people discovered new artists. This is what like 2003-07. 2007, okay. And so Facebook was a couple years old. My space was kind of at its height. And we were one of the first artists to primarily build our audience online. So that was unique. It was Facebook a better channel for that than say having your own site that you're hosting, like how, how were you? Facebook was and remains a bad channel for that. But my space was an amazing channel for that. And my space had all of these features that allowed culture to kind of virally permeate civilizations. So tell me what my space did better than Facebook with respect to that or what it enabled. Well there were, let's say, two or three distinctive things about it. The first was that it essentially was a place where spam was totally legal and standardized. And so it was kind of like my space felt almost like time square in the 80s or something. You know, it was like a little unsavory. There were all these weird people on there. People had avatars so you didn't know if it was really them or not. Identity had not been formalized in the way that Facebook ultimately made it. So on the one hand, you could spam people. So for us, we could go on there and just randomly send our music to random people who we thought might like it. That was highly useful. The second thing was that they had this thing top eight. So on everyone's my space page, you could pick your top eight friends. And that became kind of like a prize to be one of the top eight of a famous person or one of the top eight of a famous band or something. And so you could kind of go on my space and try and find artists who you thought would share an audience or whose audience you wanted to steal. Essentially, it's not stealing because it's not a zero-sum thing. People can like a lot of artists. But we would identify these artists who we wanted to steal the fans of and then we try and get our music to them to get in their top eight. Because then tons of people would discover you. And then the third thing was that my space allowed each user an incredible amount of freedom in designing their page. So you could go in and change the HTML or the CSS on your my space page. And this from a user experience standpoint made it a very difficult place to navigate. But I think what it brought out was that everybody, when you give them a creative canvas, likes to paint on it. And what you saw was that ordinary people who were just my space users, consumers of content, themselves would really wear their identity on their page. And so you could kind of navigate this universe of my space and understand the cultural orientation of every person on it. And it made it really easy to figure out who were your people. You know, IMean, if you were like a Goth band or some of them are a metal band, it was very clear who the metal people were. And so for us, we could really take advantage of this and kind of hack the system to find our peoplEQuickly. I don't want to go to down the rabbit hole on this, but it's so interesting because I've never haven't thought about my space in probably 10 years or something like that. When the history books written and it can probably be written now, I'm assuming, why did Facebook win my space lose at the risk of oversimplifying things? I think there are few reasons I perceive and then there are probably many I have no idea about like you just strike me as having a better sense than the average person based on a pretty robust understanding of how both of them worked. My space was even if they maybe thought they were being scientific, it was not a sort of science project. In other words, the people building it were in LA, they were kind of more inclined to understanding culture and the thinking about personal freedom and expression. Whereas what Facebook was built around was the idea that if you created an accurate map of people's real world relationships, then the behaviors that they exhibit in the real world would end up mirrored in this digital environment. So social values like trust were going to be essential in the Facebook universe, whereas in my space, like I said, it was like time square in the 80s. It was like there were CD people on there. You didn't know if people were who they said they were. It was a fake place. And the early internet was much more like that. Everyone was in chat rooms with aliases and stuff. You never really knew who was who. Facebook became a digital version of the real world. And so it was kind of more valuable from the outset because things that you only previously could do in reality, like talk to someone or share with them photos or something, became something that you could do in a highly managed way through Facebook. That's really interesting. I have never, I would have assumed just as a guy who knows nothing that Facebook won because they figured out how to monetize this stuff better than my space. But it sounds like there's much more cultural, emotional sort of philosophical differences that may have decided which direction was going to have greater massive appeal. I think that's right. And you sort of see this resuscitated in the rise of Snapchat. Because Snapchat is also kind of back to that LA mindset. It's much more expressive and irreverent and kind of culturally contextualized. It's got a lot of character and personality. It's logo is a funny ghost drawing and this sort of thing. And so I wouldn't give up yet on the idea that the future of the internet may allow people to be much more expressive than you see them being on Facebook. Facebook is a little totalitarian, not necessarily an abad. IMean, that's a word that is pretty loaded, but yeah loaded. But I'm looking for anaseptic or anodine or I don't know what the right word is, but it doesn't have a lot of flavor. It's a reflection of the engineering mindset behind it, which itself is really ingenious, but it as a digital place lacks culture. Mark Zuckerberg, who I think very highly of and who's a friend, is a genius business person and technologist, but he's never I don't think been especially interested in culture. And when he talks about Facebook being a community and a global community, I think he is potentially always, you know, I don't want to put words in his mouth, but I think he's maybe always thought that Facebook shouldn't have too much of a culture that it imposes. It should basically be a blank canvas for all of the diversity that is in the world. And when you allow people to express themselves more, it's unclear whether what you're doing is loading a place with some cultural precepts of your own, even by the intent of the way that you design what those expressive tools are. Or if you're actually giving people more freedom. And so I think Facebook has always taken the approach of limiting people's expressive capacity, forcing them to make comments or post things in these very structured linear formats, where some of these other tools have been a lot more liberal in the attitude that they take to personal expression. When you went to college, what do you study? I did African American studies and I have a minor in Kiku, which is a canyon language that I no longer speak. Were you thinking about going to grad school after? IMean, were you just pursuing your bliss? Like what were you thinking you would end up doing before you ended up in LA? Of course. I wasn't thinking much about it at all. IMean, I think I've been very interested in public policy and so politics interested me. And I think academia maybe interested me. The arts certainly did. And I think halfway through my freshman year, I decided that the goal I wanted to shoot for was becoming a musician. But part of that was a response to finding when I got to college that Harvard was essentially a vocational school for investment banking and management consulting. I never, I didn't know that those were jobs in the world. I had never heard of either of those professions. And when it became clear to me that 40 or 50% of my classmates would end up in those jobs, I was kind of horrified. And I thought, oh my gosh, is that the adult life that awaits me. And maybe as a bit of a rebellion against that, I went full bore into, I want to be a musician. That is hilarious. The vocational school for investment banking and management consulting. I didn't realize it was that high. So roughly, I don't know. But whatever, even if a third of people end up as investment bankers and management consultants, that's pretty interesting conversation. And there's anything wrong. IMean, I know you were management consultant. Yeah. But there was a sense in which I felt that my college and elite universities in general, I've mentioned it a couple times, but I'm not someone who's a big booster. I'm not involved in alumni stuff. I don't take a lot of pride, particularly in having gone to Harvard or anything. Part of why is because I'm very suspicious of these institutions, both because they essentially serve a function in the society of reproducing inequality and social hierarchy. And they've been doing that for hundreds of years. And second, because they homogenize all of these talented young people. So they do an extraordinarily good job of finding interesting unique people in high school. And then turning them into boring, high achieving technocrats. And that's kind of a tragedy for the world. Because it's a waste of the formidable resources that those universities do have that what they choose to do with it is essentially pump out functionaries in the financial services. But somewhere along the way, you learn to think. And is it safe to then assume that you learned that before college and that college of anything didn't diminish that ability? Rather than augmented it. I'll tell you where I'm going with this. And we're going to talk a lot about biology and our mutual interest in hacking and life's been on all that sort of stuff. But I remember after even the first day we met, maybe it was like after our second meeting or some time, remember thinking, How does this guy know so much about this stuff? You had more than just a superficial understanding of stuff that suggested like you'd read a couple of things about it, which obviously just suggested to me that you learned how to learn. And as a result of that, when you decided, hey, I really want to understand this area and I want to understand the science of this stuff. You at least had a toolkit that you could use to do that. Where do you think you got that? I think IMaybe just always been curious. And that is a personality trait or disposition. Just wanting to understand things has always driven me to some degree. When I went to college, I was interested in race and the history of race in America and how this set of ideas about who we are influences what the world is and who we become as people. And I was essentially interested primarily in these very complicated phenomena in the social world. So I wanted to remember the first time I read Marx and whatever. It was so engaging to discover a set of these totalizing ideas about how history works or something. You know, whether I agree with them or not, it's a separate issue. But the idea that one could theoretically describe reality was always compelling to me. And what has happened intellectually as I've gotten older is that I've realized that science is essentially the best methodology that we have for describing reality. And I've realized that I think the things that most interested me, like social phenomena, government, public policy history, are very difficult to address with the science currently at our disposal. So ultimately, I believe we will be able to have an empirical understanding of some of these sorts of things. But I was going after them back then, I evenly thinking that we already had those tools at our disposal or that I could by reading a lot about history, develop a accurate picture of how it works. And one learning how to think is about understanding the limitations of our own biology, our own cognition. But then it's also about figuring out what's knowable and how you can understand things and what processes you can use to understand things. And so when I encounter a subject, I'm instantly tracking on what's the theoretical framework behind it. The details don't really interest me. It's what's the skeleton behind it, what's the structure of it. And for that reason, I don't think, you know, I've never been good at facts. I'm not good at dates. I'm not good at memorizing names of biomolecules. But what sticks in my brain are these kind of theoretical constructs. Yeah, somebody asked me on Twitter a while ago and I decided it would be a good question for an AMA at some point, which was if you could change something about the medical school curriculum, what would it be? And I wouldn't describe it probably as eloquently as you, but it's basically, I remember the first day of medical school they said, you know, the average college graduate has a vocabulary of X words. And I don't actually remember what X is, but I feel like it was about 10,000 or something like that. And they said, you know, in the next two years, which is before you go into the clinical stuff, you're going to learn, and it was a little more than that. So if it was 10,000 was the college grad, they said, like, you'll learn 12,000 new words. And obviously, you do need to learn a new vocabulary in medicine, but when I look back at medicine or in medical school rather, I think the biggest deficit was no attention paid deliberately towards how do you think. And that of course becomes relevant because, you know, all facts have a half-life and some facts like anatomical facts have very long half lives. So in an area like that, it's probably reasonable to know stuff, but another thing is like by the time you're done medical school, the information is wrong or irrelevant. And yet nothing's really put in place to teach that skill of how do you go about, you're now out there in the real world, you're taking care of patients and yet. Maybe what you learned about cholesterol or maybe what you learned about subject XYZ is kind of not right or at least should be revisited or the probability of it being correct is lower. So do you and Liz think you'll have kids? Yeah. And so how do you now I'm asking this as a curious parent, but how do you think about creating an environment to produce that type of curiosity and that skill set? What do you think a parent can do deliberately? I'm asking this based on you having been the kid not the parent so far. Well, you certainly have more experience with this because you've got kids. What I've heard people say and what I sense maybe real is that you actually don't need to teach kids this. They're born with a lot of it and what the world tends to do is squeeze it out of them. And so I guess I would invert thEQuestion and frame it as how do you not kill a child's curiosity and how do you feed it? Certainly one of the things I think my parents did was not sanction in a negative way asking questions or asking why questions. And by contrast you can inculcate a child in religious ideologies or strictures about how to live that are so imprisoning that becomes a fundamental part of their brain. And so I think just not making those mistakes is probably the most important thing. But the example you gave earlier of your piano lesson is 30 minutes of sitting in front of a piano for some period of time before you start to re-cheat music and start doing drills and things like that. I like that idea that's absolutely IMean, look, there's a balance between the sort of road discipline that is required in anything. And then the creative and exploratory potential within that area. In my mind, I tend to wait the latter. And so what's difficult for me is the brutal, repetitive skill building. And I've had to figure out ways in life of not making my success depend on that aptitude and figure, you know, that's stuff that I look to other people to help me with. And my band as an example, my partner Max is an, IMean, he's good at everything. He's a musically brilliant person at a compositional level too. IMean, he can write great music and he's very theoretical. But he also has that OCD capacity to sit there and practice guitar for 10 hours. And that's really, that's his happy place. I go crazy doing that. And so I think to come back to your question about children, I think the struggle for me will be figuring out how to impart to them a greater capacity to do the part that I don't like doing, because if you can really have both, that's the superpower. But it sounds like to me at least, maybe part of the, the secret is knowing how much emphasis to put on each of those two, again, they're not mutually exclusive, but you understand that this is a kid that if pushed too hard on the wrote stuff will actually dampen the creativity versus sounds like in Max's case, that's not the case. He can live in both of those worlds and bEQuite successful in. I think that's right. You know, the one metaphor I use to think about this, because a debate that comes up in all contemporary art, be it painting or writing or music, is essentially whether amateur work can be just as valid as quote unquote professional work. That punk rock, the whole idea is screw learning these instruments, I'm just going to pick up the guitar and express myself. And so, of course, there's a level of vitality that can be produced through that type of artwork, both the absence of formal rules, gives birth to a lot of expressive freedom. And you can get a kind of visceral version of someone, but there are only so many ways to smash a guitar on stage. And so if you're not a drummer as good as Jimmy Hendrix, it's a monorail. And Jimmy Hendrix can, he can still smash a guitar on stage, but he can also do a thousand other things that the remones can't do. And so the metaphor that I've been thinking of lately is almost like granularity or resolution. So, you know, if you imagine a photograph of something in low resolution versus high resolution, it's the same thing that's being expressed, but the greater the resolution, the more detail there is. And when someone is making music or singing or writing a poem or doing anything, what you're associating, and what you're getting is you're getting sort of a photo of their brain. And the more technical skill they have in this metaphor, the greater the resolution of that picture they can produce. And so I once remember being in the studio with Feral and her B-Hankock came by. And Feral is a kind of folk musician. IMean, he's incredibly successful and he's very very talented, but he's not a trened, he didn't go to music conservatory. He can't play you a box and not a, he can write amazing stuff. He's a theoretical musician, right? He's a great songwriter, and he's got great taste. And her B-Hankock came and he was showing us a bunch of piano exercises that he and his friends used to do in Chicago in the 60s. And Feral kind of expressed that he was scared to learn that stuff because he was worried it would eat into his roughness or his authentic expression. And I remember her B-Hankock saying, it's just going to give you more colors to paint with. It doesn't cost you anything. It just gives you more things that you can say with those ideas you've got. And I thought that was a great argument. You know, I think it was convincing to Feral too. When you were in high school, who do you in retrospect look back at and say, you know, those were really those musicians shaped my, either my taste or my philosophy or my way of writing or performing like who just broadly speaking who were your influences in that regard. There are a little bit mundane, but there's sort of the obvious suspects, the Beatles, Bob Marley, Curtis Mayfield, those are the big ones. Steven Wonder, maybe those four, Motown, you know, all the, all the Hollandos are Holland were the three great songwriters. He did a lot of the Motown stuff, a lot of the four top songs, the temptations songs. Any James Brown? Yeah, I like James Brown, but I would put, I'm more of a songwriter and James Brown, I think, is most important as both a performer and as a groove guy. So, you know, different music is good at different things. And there's a tradition in black American music that I think ultimately begins in Africa and in the African diaspora of music that is not really linear. It's not about a narrative story being told through something like a song. It's much more about setting a musical mood and almost being a place that you hang out in the music is also like this if you think about Indian Raga's, for example, it's sort of a tonal place and the piece of music may be half an hour long, it may be two hours long, but you kind of go there and you're just hanging out there in that vibe. Whereas the sort of music that influenced me much more that I've sort of work in is more about, it's again, it's kind of more theoretical, it's more about a story. It's a linear story, it's a three minute song, there's a beginning of middle and an end. It has some conventions about the way that it moves through those places and people I cited, I think, are emblematic of that style. Now, you're a drummer, so what drummer would you have identified with most? I'm sort of now going to double back on what I just said because the key function of the drums is most highly expressed in those types of music that are essentially groove music. So, Clyde Stubblefield who played with James Brown is one of my favorite drummers of all time. That style of music that James Brown made is all about the drummer, give the drummer some. And other people who are, you know, giants of that format are Bernard Perti, who's just, he's still still around and he's incredible. I think he claims he's the most recorded drummer of all time or has maybe played on the most hits of any drummer of all time. And, you know, then there are great rock drummers like Keith Moon or John Bonham. In jazz, the drums are much more of an instrument. You can sing through the drums in jazz music because the drummer is not just hitting hard and fast and loud. The drummer has an incredible dynamic range of tonalities and expressive options. So, in jazz drumming, you know, Elvin Jones is probably my favorite who played a lot with John Coltrene, but there are an almost unlimited number of incredible jazz drummers who I look up to. I think in the show notes for this podcast, we should link to some performances that you find particularly notable. I remember once you gave me a nice list of stuff for Olivia, which was like, here's some great Michael Jackson songs, here's some great James Brown songs, here's some great Boom Boom Boom and it was like, this is a great way for a kid to start thinking about music. That's such a helpful thing to provide. So, okay, let's go back to Elis. You get to Elis, you're living the dream, right? Like it's you've hit a home run here. It's hard to imagine, given what the denominator is on the number of people that are trying to accomplish what you guys have accomplished. And, are you primarily now still a studio band or are you, once you've got this break, are you becoming kind of more performance based as well? Well, by that time the band was just me and my bandmate Max, so it was a duo, really. And we, as we made music, were a studio thing still, but wEQuickly realized. And you were playing what, so you were doing vocals, you were doing drums, and were you keyboard as well? No, I was primarily writing the songs with Max and singing them. And Max in the band was the primary instrumentalist. He can play pretty much everything. And he can learn new instruments in a week. So, Max on the recordings was playing almost all the instruments. Occasionally we would have studio musicians come in and do stuff that he couldn't do. You know, if we needed a viola player or something. But my function in the band was largely to write the songs with him. I was writing all the lyrics. I was typically writing the vocal melodies of the songs. And then singing them. So how did Spotify come into the picture? Was that true true and unrelated? Was that just a did Sean start that or how did that? No, so let's fast forward a few years. So we basically, because there's, there's not a lot I think that is super interesting about this period in my life, although you may disagree with. I don't know if you're hearing of your life, it's not interesting. This is 2007. We get our record deal. We move out here. And then we spenT3 years making records in touring. And a lot of stuff happened in the previous. We went to a link at one point, right? We toured with all sorts of people. Lady Gaga, Blink 182, Weezer, huge number of really cool artists. And then I concluded that I didn't like touring. And it was around that time that I discovered Spotify. I think at the time I already had an interest in investing, but I didn't really know which direction to go. I had met Ashden Kutcher, who became a really good friend. And he and I got along. I think right away, because we were both from the Midwest, we were both artists. And we both had an interest in business and technology. But he was a decade ahead of me in terms of being a famous entertainer. And he was three or four years ahead of me in terms of thinking that Silicon Valley venture capital could be an interesting canvas for his artwork. And so he gave me a little bit of a template for an artist who was going to get into the technology business. And thEQuestion became, for me, how do I go from being a musician who neither has capital nor investing experience and become a professional investor? And Spotify ended up being in retrospect to the pivot that allowed me to do that. You know, historically the music industry has not birthed many good businesses. And so it was a pretty happy accident that right at this time that I wanted to make this trensition, this company that would become now a $28 billion public market behemoth was starting to become ubiquitous in Sweden. And I had friends who knew about it. And when they told me about it, the appeal of that product, of this idea that you could install a thing on your computer and have all of the world songs ever at your instant recall was an incredibly cool thing to me. I was just thinking of it as the customer basically. You know, I was someone who collected tons of music had hard drives full of it was always struggling to manage the data. You know, I'd get a new computer now I have to copy all the songs and I have to put them in folders and I it was such a pain in the ass that when someone showed me this I thought, whoa, this is what I've always wanted. And it was Pandora on the scene at that time. Pandora was really popular and it was just streaming. But it was streaming algorithmic radio. Right. In other words, you couldn't choose the song. What was so cool about Spotify was that it recreated the experience of having bought every song ever. You had MP3s that you buy through the iTunes store, for example, and they'd be on your computer, but maybe you'd bought 200 of them. That was your library of music. Whereas when I first saw Spotify, I thought, wow, for $10 a month, it says, if I bought everything ever. IMean, that was such a shocking value proposition to me that I thought this is almost certainly what everyone should have if the powers that be allow it. And the business question, which was much more difficult than the product design question, was can this company get everyone who owns music to be a part of delivering this experience to the consumer? And so was the hardest sell with the artists or with the studios? And the thing was a hard sell. Spotify was, I'm not going to take much credit for it because there were thousands of people working on this from the beginning almost, but everything about building that business was difficult. The first thing it was difficult was that record companies and music publishing companies own the rights to the music. And they had seen their business destroyed in the 90s. The record industry went to a quarter of its former size in the 90s because of piracy. And so you'll remember the record labels were suing in the 90s. Is that because the customer CDs had become so ubiquitous that it was easier to copy a CD than say a vinyl or a cassette. IMean, not that it's not hard to copy a cassette, but thEQuality is not as good. What was coincidental with CD-ROMs? So two things happened. One, sites like Napster arose that allowed people to trade music freely without paying for it. And then what they did with that music after they traded it on the internet, which was so difficult to control or put a lid on, was then they would burn CDs and copy the CDs and whatever. Not only did the format of CDs get unlocked with the ability to write CDs. IMean, you remember getting your first CD-R. That was really cool. But also, you had this unfettered digital environment in which people could share music without anyone getting paid for it. What preceded this in the 80s and 90s, really in the 90s, was the CD revolution. And so not only was piracy painful in its own right, it succeeded a decade during which the music companies resold the entire history of music in a 10 year period. In other words, they not only sold in the 90s on CDs, the new music that was being made in the 90s. But everything that had been made today. So they sold you an entire library of the world's history of music in a 10 year period. They were rolling in cash. And when they made new music, they would sign an artist, they'd make one hit song that they'd play on the radio. And then you had to go buy an 1899 album with 14 other songs you didn't want just to get the one you liked. So they were raken in the cash by completely controlling the consumer's experience. Piracy blew the lid off that and the consumers were bald and everyone stopped paying for music. And so the industry that Spotify came into was one that had been eviscerated by piracy. And then to add insult to injury, the legal paid download model that Steve Jobs pioneered with iTunes, Unil laterally recaptured the distribution system of what before then had been fragmented. So the record labels used to in the good old days of the 90s both control the radio stations. So they could make things get popular. But then they had a variety of physical retailers, Sam Goodie, Vergin Mega Store, all these different CD retailers that they could play off each other. They had all the leverage. They could make the thing big and then they could tell you at the record store that you had to give them this promotion or else your artist wasn't going to show up there into a CD signing. Well, when Steve Jobs invented the iTunes store, he became the only retailer that mattered. And so the record labels had this one-two punch they'd been subjected to of the industry disappearing and going to a quarter of its size. And then this one guy who didn't need them, Steve Jobs who made all his money selling hardware, gaining total unilateral control over them because he became the only place they could sell music. And so they were desperate, never to let either of these sorts of things happen to them again. They were incredibly paranoid about a new model that they viewed as threatening the paid download business. So Spotify was showing up telling consumers for 10 bucks a month, you get all the music ever. The labels at that point were still embedded in a model where what you did was you sold people downloads for a dollar a piece. They were used to selling you 10 songs a month for $10. And Spotify came along and said, let's give them 22 million songs for $10. So selling the record labels was incredibly difficult. And then the artists were ardently against this as well because for them, their lifeblood was selling downloads. They too were in an environment that was severely nutrition restricted from the past decade. And they were struggling to make money. Most of them were only making money touring and recovering a little bit of income selling their recordings. Spotify came along and what we said was, we're going to fix this problem. We're going to convince most people in the world that they should pay for music. And the way we're going to do it is we're going to give them an experience that is every bit as good as the free illegal experience. And we're going to get them hooked on it. And then we're going to charge them 10 bucks a month. And if we can get a huge percentage of them paying 10 bucks a month, that is far more than the average consumer at that time was currently spending on music. I still don't understand the economics of Spotify. So if you're spending that 10 and by the way, I couldn't just sign up for 10 bucks a month today. Could I, isn't those of you who aren't 10 bucks a month? I thought that was like a student deal or some you can sign up for $3 a month for the firsT3 months today. And then it'll go to $10 a month. I'm ashamed to say I still don't use Spotify. I still add to iTunes. You got to get on there. And I don't know if it's just like the hurdle rate of switching out of iTunes. But it strikes me as ridiculous because I pay a buck 29 per song. I probably buy an average of 10 to 20 songs a month. So I'm obviously spending more money than I would. But let's just talk about the remuneration for the artist. So when I spend a buck 29 on iTunes, where does the rent go? 30% goes to Apple. 70% goes to the record label. The record label pays out roughly 10% of their 70%. So 7% to the music publisher, which owns the song note that the song, which is called publishing, is different from the recording of the song. So if you and I write happy birthday and people sing it all over the world, we own the song. No matter who's singing it. But if Tony Braxton records a version of happy birthday, she owns the recording. The song owner gets about 10% of the 70%. And the artist will typically get somewhere between 15% and 20% of what's left after their 15 or 20% cut has fully paid back the record label for all the money that label has spent promoting them. So Apple is getting a straight 30. That's pretty straightforward. Of the 70, the label is getting the majority of it. The label is getting the majority of it. And the artist is getting anywhere from zero to maybe 10% percent. Yeah. Something like that. No, that sounds grossly unfair. What makes it less obviously unfair is that the record label is the one taking all of the financial risk in financing the music and very often paying for the artist's life. So in this economy, they are still the only companies that take a financial risk making original artwork. And they certainly deserve to be paid for taking that risk. So how does it work at Spotify? So now you paid your 10 bucks a month. How is that rent spread out? Sure. So what happens is you listen to music all month. At the end of the month, Spotify looks at the amount of time that you spent listening to each of those songs. And your $10 gets split pro rada to the originators of that music. And roughly the same distribution is the 70% out of iTunes got split. Yes. How much does Spotify get to keep of the 10 bucks? 30%. Okay. So Spotify keeps 30 and the other 70 goes the same way. But now it's pro rada. Yeah. That's correct. And so for a consumer like you who maybe before Spotify was spending more than $10 a month, it results in less financial benefit than it might have before. On the other hand, depends how much you listen to those songs. So if on Spotify, if you buy the song on iTunes and you listen to it one time, you're paying a dollar 29 for one listen. But a lot of people when they fall in love with the song, they're paying to it thousands of times. And they listen to it for years. And if you take a dollar 29 and split it among thousands, effectively, they're paying very little each listen. So the paradigm shift is towards a pay for listen model. It's a consumption based payment on. Now back before any of this stuff came along, if you had a radio station and you played a song, not satellite radio, just straight FM radio, for example. Did you have to pay a royalty for that? The radio station had an agreement with an organization called a Performing Rights Society. These are societies that manage a particular type of right in music. So if you and I write a song, we and record it. We've just generated a whole basket of different types of legal rights, all of which we begin by owning. And then we can sell those rights off to different third parties that will help us collect the income that attaches to the exploitation of those rights. In the case of songs that get played on the radio or performed at a basketball game or these sorts of things, that right is called a public performance right. And the radio stations do deals with these rights societies in the US, the two most prominent ones are called Azcap and BMI. And those organizations are responsible for monetizing that right on behalf of artists. So the radio station at the end of the year will give Azcap a million dollars and then Azcap will do something like Spotify does, which is tabulate what that million dollars corresponded to and they'll pay out the royalties to artists, pro-rata in accordance with that. And Sean Parker was involved with Spotify and with Napster, right? So he had kind of a, this was the evolution of what he and Sean Fanyning had done. It was they had intended Napster to become a legal service. And what they wanted 20 years ago was to go do deals with the record labels to legalize it. But the industry was so defensive towards them and so aggressive that it couldn't happen. It took 20 years and it took the industry being decimated for everybody to be desperate enough that they were willing to entertain solutions. To the internet. And that's what Spotify was. You know, it's interesting when you look at all of the businesses that have been disrupted by the internet and contrast it with those that have not, right? So you've just given us a very eloquent description of how the music industry was disrupted. But you also pointed out something interesting, which is it wasn't just the internet that disrupted it was the desperation that followed the decimation that permitted the restructuring. Of course, then you can write off all the glib and obvious examples, right? What Amazon has done to retail, what Netflix has done to blockbuster and you know, stores on the side of the street, what Uber has done to taxis, what, you know, all of the travel sites have done to travel agents. IMean, it's been incredibly disruptive. And yet when I think about medicine, it's like one of the least disrupted industries by technology. And you know, you basically still have hospitals eat all the rent. Payers, although most people generally perceive them as bad guys generally don't get paid that much. Providers get less and less on a per encounter basis. And it's, you know, overall a pretty much similar system to what it was 20 years ago. And that's, I don't know. IMean, I guess I'd have to think about it, but I can't think of too many industries that are as unchanged in the presence of this revolution as healthcare. No, I think you're right. The appeal of investing in healthcare is exactly what you just expressed. And that's what drew me into it several years ago. And what I've learned since then has been slightly disillusioned, but I'll give you my take on it. The first thing I would say is that healthcare is still an industry that largely gets paid through labor. So most of the money ultimately goes to labor. Goes to doctors, it goes to healthcare personnel. The hospitals don't make that much money. They're not that great of business. You know, if you look at Kaiser, for example, which is an integrated payer provider in California, I think they have a 3 or 4% gross margin. It's not a phenomenal business. The payers to your point have very low margins. They, in fact, have legally imposed limits on the amount of gross margin that they can generate, which, you know, you can argue about the ethics of the pharmaceutical companies, who everyone hates, seemingly extract enormous profits. On the other hand, it's a very competitive industry, and apart from the legalized monopoly given to them via patents on new drugs, they are the only companies sort of, as I said about record labels, they're the only ones who are out here designing new solutions and taking an enormous risk. Taking an enormous risk and their shareholders are taking that risk. Now, whether they're being overpaid or underpaid to take that risk is totally debatable. The other thing is that it's unclear where technology can deliver dividends in terms of human health. And so worth thinking about medicine at a moment in which we as a species have already made an enormous progress. IMean, whatever we've doubled or tripled lifespan, and, you know, these numbers better than I do, but even if you get rid of the infant mortality factor and these other things that distort the numbers, people are living quite a bit longer on average than they were even seemingly 30 years ago. And that's especially true of affluent societies until they get afflicted by the diseases of affluence. So, where can we get more life from or where can we reduce suffering in disease by way of technology? Is a little unclear. There are all sorts of things that we could of course do to make hospitals more efficient and to spend less than we do on things like end of life care that maybe aren't a good use of capital. But there's not so obviously a spotify of health care waiting to happen. It's more like there are a million little IT operating efficiencies that McKinsey consultants will over the next several decades implement in large health organizations. And then the big promise is around new types of medicine that I think will arise in the biotechnology industry. And that's where I'm now spending a lot of my time and attention. Yeah, it's sort of interesting because I think one of the challenges of health care, and I think this was most evident during the debates many years ago, not many, but what I call it, 10 years ago around the ACA and around complete revisiting a restructuring of health care. And one of the things I found a little painful in listening to politicians talk about health care was they spoke about it like there was just one problem to be solved. But the way I sort of think about it is there are at leasT3 completely separate but highly related problems, which is quality of care. And that can be broken down into two levels. You can sort of have it as just keeping people from dying versus like generating alpha. So, you know, really improving quality. There's cost, which is just the cost to the system and about 90% of the dollars are basically spent by three entities. The government, the employer and the payer, depending on who's at risk, the consumer is on the hook for about 10% of that cost. How could you reduce the cost? And then the third leg of that stool is access. How do you ensure access? And so, when we talk about technology disrupting health care, it's like, where do you start, right? Because, you know, for me, I can see things where technology can bEQuite helpful on quality of care. Not entirely obvious to me how to leverage technology to lower cost. I'm not entirely clear at least at a practical level how it can drive access. Although, in theory, that should be the first place you'd want to go after leveraging technology. But I think I'm trying to think about what you said about how Spotify went about it and trying to see is there a parallel there. Because the thing with Spotify that was hard was you had multiple constituents, right? You have artists, you have labels, you have consumers. They all kind of want something a little different. And that speaks of an optimization problem, which is clearly what health care is. But going on what you said a moment ago, it sounds like today you're a little less encouraged than you would have been four years ago, and you're thinking on this problem. Well, let me try and recapitulate your three legs of the stool in one simple framework, which is something that we should all be aiming for is to generate universal access to the current best available health care that anyone in the world receives. You know, one of my favoritEQuotes, I always forget who's quoted is, but venture capitalists talk about a lot, which is that the future is already here. It's just not evenly distributed. And I think that's almost always true. Look at what rich people are doing. And assume that in 20 or 30 years, everybody will have that. And so what are rich people doing right now? Well, they're paying doctors like you. A lot of money to do very bespoke types of medicine that leverage all sorts of deep biometric analyses of their bodies. A lot of thinking by you and your team. And a lot of spend on the usage of what are currently expensive machines. MRIMachines to do preventative screening for tumors every year, things like this that if you're really rich, you know, you might as well go get an MRI every year. Get a full body MRI every year. IMean, just see if there's anything going on. Why not? And so what stands between today and orphans in Somalia receiving that level of care. And what stands in the way I think is to some degree a level of technological leverage. What is happening in your head when you look at a patient's blood tests and try to gel that with your biophysiological mental model. So mental models is something that I believe computers will be able to do in the future. And so right now, we use physicians for thinking and for bedside manner and for guidance. And then we use some physicians like surgeons for physical procedures that they're essentially athletes at. And so I want high performing athletes who don't mess up or very precise who've done it a million times. Well, the roboticization of physical medicine like surgery is something that I believe will just continue to get better and better. It may take longer may not be replaceable immediately, but that will, you know, we will be primarily doing robotic surgeries a hundred years from now. The cognitive work that physicians do will I believe largely be replaced by computational systems that can leverage the same types of theoretical frameworks that our minds are utilizing to make good decisions. And what you're left with is all the touchy, feeling personal stuff that you as a physician and any other physician knows really matters. It's not superficial. The ability to help someone make good decisions about their own health, to make someone care about their physical health, to help them navigate difficult decisions that aren't straightforward, that involve trade offs. Are the sort of things that physicians right now don't have the time to do that they did when they were taking their medicine bag around to people's houses and hanging out for a couple hours. And so in a certain way, we may go back to an older style of medicine, but the people who do that may look more like highly skilled nurses than like physicians. So I believe that what you'll see is globally a lot more technology involved in the deployment of medicine and a shift in the composition of the labor market around medicine. And so, towards something that looks more like a large population of highly skilled nurses, fewer overpaid or appropriately paid, but maybe over trened physicians that right now are very scarce, that only rich people can access. And then most excitedly, you're going to see a lot of new medicine. That's the stuff I'm focused on now is an investor and that's the stuff that I think is going to be the most game changing. That's the stuff that's going to buy us years of additional life. So when did you make that trensition where you sort of your your big foray into this was obviously Spotify as far as like trensition one so DA 2.0 to DA 3.0 and then DA 4.0 doing the investing. So the bio text of specifically, when did you make that trensition? Well, I'm still making it because it's a hard trensition to make and there's been so much that I've already had to learn and so much more that I have yet to learn. I think the starting point was this realization that what mattered most in healthcare as a capital allocator meaning the the most useful place that I could help direct money was to. What goes through the pipes of the healthcare system as opposed to the healthcare system itself the healthcare system in America for the reasons we've just discussed is a. Prekey old infrastructure and it's important to fix it just like it's important to fix the government or the broken bridges that we have all over the country. But it's not the most interesting thing to do and it also doesn't have a global impact because fixing the US healthcare system doesn't do a lot for folks in Sudan or in Saudi Arabia or in Japan or anywhere else you're just dealing with a human system where what's broken. And are the human structures that we've constructed to deliver the thing. So that was my starting point was was realizing that the medicine itself was the thing that mattered more and ultimately despite all of the valuable things that physicians do. The biggest game changers in human health in the past 50 years have been pills. They've been pills that very brilliant people invent and that we can give to people through any number of channels and that actually fix the problem sometimes. And we're moving into an era of medicine that people call preventative medicine or precision medicine or whatever you want that really boils down to addressing illness at the level of mechanism. Understanding that diseases have a functional concrete explanation and that we can develop interventions that actually fix what's broken in a very precise way and without a lot of collateral damage and our ability to do that better and better is what's going to give people much more health in the future. And we're in any two or one of that journey. So as an investor there couldn't be a more exciting place to hang out and the advances that we're making on a monthly or yearly basis are staggering. So when I noticed that that was happening in the world it just became clear to me that this was not only an exciting and interesting place to be, but also one that could be enormously profitable both financially and in terms of the benefit to humanity that delivered. What got you interested in the problem of living longer personally? Well, I guess I am not primarily preoccupied with living longer or with longevity as I am with the reduction of suffering that already exists. So people who are really obsessed with longevity, maybe you are one of them, we'll make the argument that death is the great tragedy of human life and that you know we basically don't realize it's so bad because we take it for granted and can't see any alternative. That may be right, but I also think there's a lot of evidence in nature that death and the turnover of populations has some utility. Steve Jobs talked about famously that this is nature's way of clearing out the old ideas and bringing in new ones and creating an urgency and creating an urgency. But I don't want to downplay the credibility of the argument for longevity. I just think that there are enough people dying obviously prematurely from things that should be preventable and there are lots of people dying in the second half of their life or suffering from things that should be preventable that we should start by focusing on those things. Now, it may be the case that longevity is the skeleton key to all of those problems that the number one risk factor for all diseases is age and that if we could just figure out what's happening with aging, then we could get out in front of all these other diseases as opposed to playing whack-a-mole with all of them. That may be the case and I think it's a legitimate hypothesis to explore, but it's not the one that I'm starting from or else all of my investing would be in longevity. Whereas most of my investing at this point is preoccupied with individual diseases and whether we can arrest them and detect them earlier. So what are you most passionate about right now? Not necessarily from the investment thesis perspective, but from the technology or promise that the idea holds. Well, the holy grail for me is approaching what I think of as a singularity like moment in biomedicine. People throw around the term singularity mean all sorts of things, but I actually believe it's a who's who can do. You know, it may have been Kurzweil, Ray Kurzweil, or I'm not sure, but it may have been some of those old cybernatics dudes like I first heard it from Ray's work. I don't know enough. Why don't you explain briefly what how he's referring to it? Well, I think Ray Kurzweil is referring to the singularity as this moment when human minds merge with machines. And so we, for example, download our brains into computers and then are effectively immortalized because our consciousness exists now in a digital format. That's not the singularity I'm talking about, but the concept of a singularity is that this is a moment at which sort of everything changes and there's an almost infinite acceleration in our capacity to do something. The singularity that I envision in our understanding of biomedicine is the moment at which we can digitally represent complex biology. And therefore study it at zero marginal cost. So let me explain this right now what we essentially do in biology and what medicine is always tried to do is understand how the machine of a living system works. And in the work you do on metabolism, for example, the ways that we try to represent how the machine works are incredibly complicated. They're these flow charts with all these arrows and pictures and this connects to this and this connects to these 10 things and if you pull this lever, these four things happen and how do we even make sense of that. A way station to the singularity I'm talking about is the field of so-called systems biology in which what people do is they observe these biological systems and then they try to trenslate the mechanistic connections that they have uncovered into code into formal representations into a formal language that captures how something works in a way that a computer can understand. And in a way that is unambiguous and not sort of stifled by the inherent ambiguity of human language by which we describe a lot of these things in everyday life. And this is the system's biology I think will allow us to simulate biological systems in their full glorious complexity. And when we can do that, which we might be 20 years away from or we might be a thousand years away from. I don't know. But once we can do that, then we can effectively run intervention based experiments on digital systems at zero cost. And we can do the moment at which we will start to understand biology in the ways that we can intervene in it at an extraordinary rate. Until then, unfortunately, we have to do tests on humans or mice or dogs or monkeys. And unfortunately, we can only learn one thing at a time that way. We do controlled experiments where we hold everything, const and mix up one variable and in so doing we try to understand how that variable works. And this is a very slow way of learning and it's a very expensive way of learning. And although the people who participate in clinical trials are heroes to whom we owe most of our medicine, clinical trials are a brutal form of learning that cause many people to die from experimental medicines or that cause many people to endure enormous suffering without any benefit. And so that's the thing I'm most excited about getting to that singularity of digitally representing complex biology. Most of the things that I'm focused on as an investor, I view as somehow being stepping stones towards that singularity. If you look at other fields that could benefit from the ability to do digital experiments, consider macro economics. Wouldn't macro economics be even more complicated than biology. In other words, this sounds like the hardest problem I've ever heard of. All of these systems people put in the same bucket of complex adaptive systems kind of ground zero for studying these things is the Santa Fe Institute and organization in which I'm involved and I'm very passionate about. And part of the reason I'm passionate about all of these types of systems is because they share certain characteristics. So in a kind of vague way, they're all complex in just the colloquial sense. They're really complicated. They're a lot of moving parts. But it may turn out that we can come up with theories that actually describe all of these types of systems. So there's some sense in which these problems of economies and the weather and physiological systems are all kind of similar. And we may be able to come up with theories that are predictive that help us make predictions about these different types of systems. So that's a kind of intellectual promise land that I think is worth chasing. Whether or not it's going to happen or not. I think even trying for those sorts of theories is going to generate useful information. Whether we'll be able to simulate these things or not is sort of an open theoretical question. But I'm optimistic about it because it seems like it's the logical endpoint of all of our digital technology is to create digital representations of reality. And on the one hand reality is really complex, but on the other it seems to be driven at the bottom from relatively simple theories. And so to the extent that the laws of physics are ubiquitous and are driving everything from the bottom up and that everything that happens subsequent to the laws of physics are these emergent phenomena. It's not clear to me that we won't come up with simple parsimonious descriptions of these types of systems. And the physics of the universe before Newton probably also appeared interactively chaotic. So the way that anything looks to us before we understand it is I think pretty imposing, which is why when we have breakthroughs they feel almost like this enormous relief because something that seemed really complicated becomes really simple. Yeah, IMean the obvious example right would be the coding of the human genome which is now approaching 20 years in its anniversary. Do you feel that that discovery has underperformed overperformed or met expectations on what we would have thought prior to that codification? The pithy aphorism that I think applies to genomics and a lot of things in technology is that it is probably short term over estimated and long term underestimated. So certainly when the human genome project reached its initial milestones in Craig Ventures genome being sequenced. There was a extreme optimism that was unjustified that now that we've cracked this code we're going to figure out everything in five or ten years. Clearly that has not happened and so to that extent those predictions have failed. The other hand the sequencing technology that underwrote that is now being used to sequence mRNA to sequence methylation of the genome to sequence neoantigen in cancer patients tumors. This has become an extraordinarily useful set of tools for reading all kinds of biology. And so long term I believe the impact of the human genome and our understanding of it is almost impossible to overstate. Because it represents a basic part of a tool kit that is now integral to everything at the cutting edge of medicine. Yeah, so in other words the tool might actually be more valuable than the initial application. Absolutely, but the only way that people were able to justify pain for that tool was in this. In the hope that's what I say about Bitcoin and stuff by the way as well because this is now part of my theory of technology which is that. You take something like Bitcoin and all these blockchains and all of this I was an early investor in this company Ripple that six years ago now and so I've been interested in all of this for years. But I don't take the view that there's any end point I predict and know with any level of confidence all I can tell you is that having the smartest computer science. In the world in mass shift their attention to an area of technology is going to produce something. So whether Bitcoin becomes a replacement for the United States dollar is almost irrelevant. What I'm interested in is what's going to happen now that millions of people are working on this thing. Similarly, the human genome project was this kind of catalyzing event is very vivid built Clinton had a press conference with Craig Venter and it got everyone excited. And that sort of moment is what inspires a lot of 18 year olds there are a lot of 15 year olds to go into molecular biology undergraduate programs and then to become genetics researchers and you know so this is how history happens and a lot of things have already come out of genomics and we'll continue. Have you been paying a lot of attention and you alluded to it and I'm going to go but have you just on a personal level been paying what attention to the liquid biopsie space. A lot yeah I've been following the liquid biopsie space now for abouT4 years. Yeah you and I spoke about this a couple of years ago and I wasn't sure how much you'd still been into it. This is something it's very interesting to me you know one of the things I talk about with patients is. Even with my most best attempts at providing the most bespoke insights into how to prevent diseases when you take a big step back and say. Let's look at the three main diseases that are going to kill most people in a civilized society where you're basically taking care of the blocking and tackling that you've alluded to earlier. It's a thricelharotic diseases, it's cancers and neurodegenerative diseases. And my personal viewpoint is that the atherosclerotic diseases in the neurodegenerative diseases we have much more insight into how to prevent cancer's tough. And I sort of explained to people when you look at a blood test and let's talk about the best blood test money can buy. It's probably offering you 70 to 80 percent of your predictive value on the atherosclerotic side probably offering you 60 to 70 percent of your predictive value on the neurodegenerative side. It probably isn't offering you even 30 percent of insight on cancer because of course the mutations that kill are somatic not germline so we're not measuring those. We don't have great assays for measuring adoptive immune cell function. We can measure an a to immunity but that's so crude and it's irrelevant in cancer. So we talk about something else you alluded to which is how aggressive can we be in screening whilst solving for our optimizing around minimizing physical harm and emotional harm. Physical harm from the actual screening tool, emotional harm from risk of false positives because the harder you look the more you'll find. And the open gaping open hole in this is we can't do a liquid biopsy. So we got interested in this together you and IMutually around this inox two protein which was quite interesting but unfortunately that company that technology doesn't really seem to exist right now. It also had a number of issues with it but basically it was a western block it was a protein assay they were looking at a protein this inox two protein. And the belief was that that protein was found exclusively on malignant cells and could only be shed off not just cancer cells but cancer cells that had the potential to spread and attached to other cells. Now a company that we both know pretty well grail is taking a different approach that seems slightly more logical. Tell us a little bit about grail. Grails an interesting company it's a spin out of alumina which is the behemoth genome sequencing business they make all the machines that do sequencing that most people use. And the premise of grail is that by sequencing peripheral blood you can find all sorts of cellular refuse from somatic tissues and that this refuse. If you are able to amplify it will tell you about the cells that it's coming from and so one of the proofs of principle of this concept in general was non invasive prenatal screening pregnant women have in their blood. I think potentially 10% of their peripheral blood is actually coming from the fetus and so you can detect a lot of things about the fetus by looking at the mother's peripheral blood. And in that case maybe what you need to effectively do is separate the 10% from the 90% in order to look at it. When you're talking about early cancers you might be dealing with sub half percent or sub 10th of a percent concentrations of tumor DNA that are showing up in the blood. And so the premise of grail is that if you sequence the blood with enough depth meaning you sequence it over and over and over again you can detect just that DNA that's coming from the tumor. And by doing so you can identify things about it that give you a guide to where the tumor is and what its genetic characteristics are. And this is this is much harder than what you just said a moment ago because the problem you described earlier has two things going for it, which is one you've got much more of it there. Let's just assume the number is 10%. But the other thing is half of that DNA is foreign. That's right. 50% of that DNA is from the father, 50% from the mother. So you have half foreign greater quantity. If you have colon cancer and we are lucky enough to get the RNA or DNA of that colon cancer it might have 20 mutated genes. It's effectively self DNA. Well, it is self. Exactly. It's tumor DNA which is which tumor. Yeah, exactly. So IMean, that's a double whammy. It's not just a needle in a haystack. It's like a needle of hay in a haystack. That's correct and it's also difficult because I just came up with that by the way. I'm really proud of that. That's the first smart thing I've ever received. It's a good amount of the needle of hay in the haystack. I like that. You can use that as much as you want. I will. I'm going to start right now when you're looking for that needle of hay in the haystack. The premise of your search has to be that you know what you're looking for. In other words, you have to identify a series of potential oncogenes in which you're seeking aberrant genetic variants that would indicate the gene has essentially been co-opted by the disease and is now working for the cancer as opposed to working for you who want to defeat the cancer. And there are so many different ways that this technology is going to be difficult. That is matched by billions of dollars that people are investing in this because solving this problem is as the company's name suggests sort of a grail. I'm not an investor in grail, but I've looked at them and I've also looked at many of their competitors. There's another approach that's really cool that I'm investing in right now. A company out of Boston called Glimps is a business that was founded by San Guita Batia who's an extraordinary researcher at MIT. San Guita is a hepatologist, but a bio-engineer whose work has uncovered two really interesting ideas that I think are useful in cancer screening. One is that when cancer is setting up shop in a tissue, it remodels the microenvironment so as to build defenses for itself against the immune system and against the other physiotherapy. And against the other physiological processes that would stand in its way. And it turns out that there are in the human genome, 550 different endoprodeases that are in some combination utilized in the remodeling of tissues. In different processes, they're used primarily in healthy processes. But when cancers are beginning, these proteins get recruited or these enzymes get recruited rather to do this remodeling work. They're sort of the construction workers of the disease as it gets set up. And San Guita's work and the work of several other researchers that she's leveraging has identified what proteases tend to be implicated in the early formation of different diseases ranging from fatty liver disease. To liver cancer, to lung cancer, and a set of others. And if you can it turns out identify 10 or 15 enzymes that you basically only see, upregulated enormously when a particular disease is beginning, then there's another way of detecting it that San Guita's working on, which is to engineer nanoparticles that you send into the body. And you call them a synthetic biomarker. You let them circulate and you design them such that they break apart if they encounter those enzymes. And when they break apart, they fragment into smaller nanoparticles that can be detected in the urine. So San Guita's approach is rather than look for these trace amounts of refuse in the blood. That send essentially a team, a SWAT team into the body to circulate and hunt for a thing. And if that SWAT team finds the thing, get a much larger signal in the urine. I think that's a very out of that. Well, that have tissue specificity. It'll have tissue specificity to the extent that the disease you're looking for has a different enzymatic signature when it's in different tissues. Got it. So in the context of, let's say you get the signal and you would have to believe then that you're going to have different enzymatic pathways in the, you know, mesenchymal system of colon cancer versus lung cancer. I see. So it's not, you know, when you were saying this, I wasn't, I'm not familiar with the limb. So I was wondering if what you're going to say was it got taken up in residence and then you basically would do, you know, it was labeled with gadolinium or something and you do an MRI and you'd see, well, hey, this stuff is being broken apart in the lung. Therefore, that's where we want to look, but that's not what you're saying. No, this is all happening in the periphery in the blood itself. The breakup of the nanoparticles is occurring at the site of the disease, but the refuse from that interaction is going through the kidneys and into the urine. Who'd be interesting if there was a way to see if there's a way to capture the local signature at the tissue site of origin. There may, in fact, be ways to do this and there are several nanoparticle-based approaches that follow the lines that you described where it's an imaging agent that is meant to bind specifically to the tissue. What's cool about this though is you don't need to target. You just use the circulatory system to get these things everywhere. And if they detect the thing that you're probing, they change. And that's what you measure. I think this is a really clever workaround for some of the problems that I think have been be devolent liquid biopsy. But I do think liquid biopsy will probably work. And the other reason it may work and there's a company called freedom for instance that's taking a different angle on it. Freedom's approach is don't look for the tumor DNA in the blood. Look at the entire genome and see if there is any sort of smoke from the fire. If the cancer is the fire, try to detect the body's systemic response to the cancer and recognize that. As aberrant. In other words, even if the cancer itself is sending off a very small signal, maybe the systemic response to it is a much larger signal. And you can detect that. So people are going to try and get after this in many different ways. My prediction is that within a decade we'll have one or more of these that work quite reliably. And each of us will at our annual physical have a routine blood test that is pretty good at detecting cancer now. That gets another problem that people have raised, which is you know, what if we're all getting cancer all the time. And most of the time the immune system is disposing of it in short order. If that's happening, then we'll have another problem to solve, which is how do we know when we should treat people who are detected early versus when shouldn't we. But that's fine. Problems create solutions which create more problems. And that's what we do. You know, that's the problem that I probably worry about the most. IMean, I guess the second most. The problem I worry about the most is can we crack this. But that problem I got this glimpse into with with all the deep dive I did into Uncle BloT3 years ago, which was. I was asked by a company that was interested in acquiring them to help with the due diligence. I actually thought I was complete buffenary total quackery, complete and utter nonsense. But after about a year and a half, I thought there really was something there that unfortunately had been sort of bastardized by unsavory characters that were involved in basically creating kind of a profit center around selling alternative products that were complete nonsense. But when we did our own analyses on raw data that they gave us, we saw something pretty interesting. There's two questions you have to ask right when you're doing this is the first is. And rather than describe them in terms of sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive value, just describing this stuff in English. You want to understand something which is if you do a blood test on a person and it comes back and says nothing. How confident are you that they have nothing. That's the concept of negative predictive value. And then conversely, if the test comes back and says you have something, how confident can you be that you have something? That's the idea of positive predictive value. Now, if you look at how Uncle Blot was created and you look at how the FDA gave it a type of approval, which is not an FDA approval, but there's, you know, and I don't want to get into the weeds on that stuff. But basically it was approved, quote unquote, only for patients presenting with metastatic cancer with an unknown primary. Because if it's remarkable ability to create a differentiation around 27 different types of tissue. So someone shows up with a lung nodule that's not lung cancer. It's actually important to know is that breast is it thyroid is it what? Because they could have a primary that's so cult, but it's still metastatic cancer. And this is a life and death decision is to how to treat it. And that's where Uncle Blot was actually very useful. And so Uncle Blot became really, really good if someone had cancer and you did a blood test on them. You had about 99.4% likelihood of correctly guessing, not just that they had cancer, but what kind of cancer it was. But the flip side's really important, which is if you take a whole bunch of people that don't have cancer. And you can only do this out of a blood bank, prospectively, you can't even do this in the population. What's the likelihood that you're not going to be over calling cancer? And when we did an analysis and it was not a huge analysis, we were limited by the amount of data we had. What we saw was by about 5x it overestimated the prevalence of cancer at a given age for a given histology. And our interpretation of that was either this is categorically useless, or it's picking up a bunch of cancers that don't go on to become cancers. They get went out by the immune system, which is exactly what you just described. And that raises a very difficult question as a physician, as a patient, which is, what do you do if it's your annual physical? Now sometimes you'll get lucky, right? What's getting lucky? Getting lucky is it says you have colon cancer and you can go into a colonoscopy, which is a great way to assess that. It's not a great way though if a colonoscopy costs the system through your $4,000, and you now are giving people a thousand times more colonoscopies than we're giving today, because we've got some screening test that suggests this. I'm reading right now a phenomenal book that everyone listed in the podcast and you should read the book of why by a Judea Pearl or you day-up Pearl, who's a professor at UCLA. And his area is causal inference, and he goes through in the book some of the fascinating math that corresponds with diagnostics in particular. And frankly, I'm always confused by sensitivity and specificity measurements in which is the inverse of which. So do you want to send you my primer on the Senate? Please send me it. We've put so much work into this. I believe I understand it now, but for your listeners, I'll just from the book. I'll just from the book give you one example of it, and the conditional probabilities that express it. People will probably remember a few years ago the guidelines on mammography changed to suggest that women I think what under 40 should not get mammograms as a screen. And I was always a little bit skeptical of that conclusion because there's there's a certain intuitive way in which you think, well, if it gives you a false positive kind of who cares because just go get a CT. Whatever, you know, IMean, what's obviously don't go get your breast caught off, but if all the cost is to a woman is that she goes and gets another test. Maybe that's not good for the system from a cost standpoint, but if you're the patient, you certainly don't want to not get screened if you do have breast cancer. And so, pearl, though, in his book walks through the actual statistics of this, so if the incidence of breast cancer in the wild population is one in 700, that means that out of 4,000 women say five of them would have breast cancer is what you'd expect. If the sensitivity of the test is 73% which sounds high, that means that's deplorable. But still means, which is what the sensitivity is of a mammogram, 73% it means that if you get a positive test result, you still have a sub 1% chance of having breast cancer. Now, Bayesian statistics adds another level of complication to this in that Bayesian statistics gives us a way of updating probability estimates that we make. So there's a difference between you being a member of the random population and you being a woman who say has a broken mutation that radically increases your chances of getting breast cancer. So if you are someone who say has a 50% chance of getting breast cancer in your life, then a positive mammogram gives you a much much higher likelihood, because it effectively updates your estimate that you began with of your likelihood of getting the disease. And so what we probably end up with in any of these tests is a way of stratifying populations based on their genetic risk of getting different diseases. And it's only within each of those cohorts of relative risk that we can consider the importance or usefulness of a screening test like a liquid biopsy, because it's utility to each person depends upon the extent to which that person is already at risk of the disease you're surveilling. Yeah, the other thing I add to that is the way we think about this problem clinically is if I give you a piece of Swiss cheese and I said, how many pencils could you drop through here, it's a lot. But what if I puT4 pieces of Swiss cheese on top of each other and rearrange them in such a way that one and only one hole could accept the pencil. And so where I see the real application of the liquid biopsy is as follows. So let's use them aography example. So mammograms are good for some things and bad for some things and let's ignore cost. Because I think once you layer cost into this it becomes way too complicated a problem so it's highly relevant. But as a physician, I'm trying to solve the problem of the patient not society. That's my cop out. So then it becomes a question of is the radiation significant and the radiation mammography is trivial. MBI of course, which is a more elaborate type of mammogram has very high radiation, but we almost never do that anymore. So now we've taken away physical harm and we've decided to just discount cost. Well, mammography is good for seeing calcified lesions, but it's not good for seeing non calcified lesions. Conversely, MRI won't pick up a calcified lesion, but if you're using something called diffusion weighted imaging, it's infinitely better for picking up pretty much everything else. So then thEQuestion becomes what happens if you layer the mammogram with the DWIMRI with the liquid biopsy? Those are three pieces of Swiss cheese. And then the fourth layer would be the Bayesian piece, which is what is the woman's probabilistic likelihood of breast cancer based on her family history, known mutations and known mutations of unknown clinical significance, which was basically the types of mutations we have. And now all of a sudden you've got a much smarter way to think about it. So my only take on this one is, if and when the liquid biopsies become viable, I don't think they should ever be leading candidates. I think they should only be used as confirmation. So once you do X, Y, and Z, you then come back so for example, if you do, you know, you go and get a whole body MRI and there's a little shadow in the pancreas. Well, what's the next step there? That's a big step. Are we going to submit that patient to an ERCP or a biopsy of that? That's the real deal. Well, I think you're right to some degree, but I would push back to lead with it. You still push it. I would back against the a priori assumption that we wouldn't lead with it because that does really hinge on sensitivity and specificity. You know, IMean, if we have 99% specific sensitive and 100% specific liquid biopsies over what time frame though. That's see, see, I think that that's the challenge with the liquid biopsy is your right. IMean, technically there's no test that can have 100% specificity, 100% sensitivity. That's sort of like having a rock receive rock or any characteristic curve that's a square. No such thing exists. What I think is you take something where you can, can you generate a liquid biopsy that has 100% sensitivity, even if specificity is only 95% which a lot of people think is great, but 95% No, I actually think you want the inverse. I think you never want false negatives. In other words, you want 100% specificity. You never want it. Yeah, yeah, sorry. IMiss about you. You never want to have negative predictive value to be 100%. You never want someone who has cancer to be told they don't have cancer. You can tolerate some people who don't have cancer being told that they do. That's right. The other dimension here, IMean, I know we put costs aside, but you can't really because thEQuestion is, what are the relative costs of these different surveillance measures. If liquid biopsies are trivially inexpensive, which is the goal, say this glimpse test, you know, I'm forget all the health economics of it. If just the cost of doing it might be five or $10 or $20 or something. If the sensitivity and specificity are both high enough, then of course you would rather use them as a universal screen and then follow up with much more expensive interventions. Yeah, and with things like fecal occult blood testing or fecal DNA as a precursor to colonoscopy, it makes tons of sense because we have a pretty well understood pathway for the tumor. Again, not having an answer to this dilemma. My big concern with everybody shows up in Willie Nellie gets a liquid biopsy that shows you've got pancreatic cancer is what do you do next? Well, that's thEQuestion of sensitivity. Yeah, so you go and you get the MRI and the MRI shows nothing. To me, that's a great outcome. That's the best outcome is the MRI shows nothing. And if the test is vetted and you're positive and you can be confident that that was not a false positive, but rather it's a preclinical tumor, then you're in a pathway of what's the righteous path of surveillance going forward. And equally important if not more important is what steps can the patient take in that moment to ward this thing off to aid their immune system. Is that something as quote unquote simple as you got a sleep more, give your immune system a boost, figure out ways to destress yourself, which of course is pretty hard, given that I just told you a pancreatic cancer. But you know what IMean, like, that's that's the art of how to think about using these things, which I look forward to being able to think about these problems. I think what we're getting at is a really interesting framework, though, that is almost certainly going to become standard, which is the utility of the genomics and family history, which is, you know, genomics tells part of that story, but it doesn't tell you what happened with your ancestors. It's a family history remains incredibly important, but you'll start when a baby's born with a whole genome and a family history, and that will generate for you the prior probabilities of different diseases being the diseases that afflict that person in the rest of their life. Those prior probabilities will in a personalized way determine the utility of a wide array of low-cost screening tools that we're going to have at our disposal. And we'll also lead you to make personalized estimates of the sensitivity or rather the diagnostic power of those tests for that person, which to the Bayesian point is different for every person. This is a fundamentally different way than how we think about using diagnostics today. There's one detail of it that I don't have enough knowledge about, but you've made me interested in in your Swiss cheese metaphor, which is what from a probabilities and statistics standpoint is the right way to think about that Swiss cheese metaphor. Does adding tests on top of each other, how do you mathematically combine the sensitivity and specificity of the different tests? And can you even do so without running clinical trials on the combined usage of the tests to have some ground truth to reference them against. My intuition is directionally you can do it, but you will not have a number. In other words, you can't say that mammography plus DWIMRI plus liquid biopsy will have this sensitivity in this specificity calculated from the three pairs that you layered on. But I think philosophically what you're trying to do is arbitrage each strength and weakness of different screening tools. I think that's right. It's a conceptual model more than it is a theoretical and precise 100% where it gets interesting though is in the math because that's what you make it. Very counterintuitive. So if you think about the example that I'm citing from Pearls book, the sensitivity of the 73% test says that if you have breast cancer, there is a 73% chance. This test is positive. Much harder probability is what is the chance that you have breast cancer if this test is positive? These are two different conditional probabilities and the shocking result is that if the test says you are positive, you have less than a 1% chance of having breast cancer. So what's counterintuitive is if we thought, oh, we have a 1 test that's 73% sensitive. We have 1 test that's 90% sensitive. We have 1 test that's 85% sensitive. You would assume that if you layer the three pieces of Swiss cheese, the possibility that if you are positive on two of those three and you have the disease is quite high. It may turn out though that it's not very high. The thing I was cautioned people against is you never want to talk sensitivity without remembering the specificity and vice versa. So in our little primer that we use with our patients, we use two extreme and very glib examples. If IMail a letter at random to a thousand women and tell them all that they have breast cancer, I have 100% sensitivity. I have zero percent specificity, but I have 100% sensitivity. Because let's just assume three of those women have breast cancer. We told them all they have breast cancer. Never mind the fact that not. Never mind the fact that 997 of them don't have breast cancer and I incorrectly told them they do. But you can have 100% sensitivity and you're still it's a dog shit test. If the specificity is really low and similarly you can send a thousand letters out to women at random and say you absolutely don't have breast cancer and you will say that with 100% specificity. Now what's cool about and this may be true of incumbent diagnostics as well, but what's kind of cool in the liquid biopsy companies I'm looking at and I'm you're exposing my lack of statistical knowledge is that. Because the test is effectively a computer analysis of data, you can manually trade off between sensitivity and specificity. And that's like a PSA. Where do you decide the cutoff is? So for the liquid biopsies, whatever everyone is doing is they're saying we have to have 100% specificity. We can't tell anyone who has the disease that they don't have it. That's the way it should be. I think that that's so what you know if you picture one of those and maybe we'll link to this and show notes so people know what we're talking about when we talk about a receiver operating characteristic curve. But that's you picture pulling to the upper left tightening that curve getting it as close to an area under the curve of one. And that was the thing I could never get those on co block eyes to understand was they couldn't understand. They thought of this exclusively as a binary yes no and it's like no no no there's no thing is yes no. You could say PSA is prostate cancer if it's higher than one. And you will catch every single person who had prostate cancer and a million people who don't conversely you can make the cutoff 20. And you'll miss a million people with prostate cancer but you'll be guaranteed that everyone who you say has prostate cancer has prostate cancer. That's fissitious and not even true but directionally that's the problem that you face and I like thEQuestion you posed the a which which I've never thought of which is could you take my sort of hand waving Swiss cheese approach and mathematically map it out without doing the clinical trial. And that also goes beyond my pay grade I would have to consult with the statistician you could certainly do it retrospectively. The way that these tests are developed is that a researcher gets lots of tissue and blood samples from patients and they know which of those are coming from cancer patients or not. And then they build a set of assays and analytics pipeline that look at the samples and try to class them correctly. And so you could certainly run multiple of those types of tests on the same samples from the same patients if you had large enough sample volumes and you could develop these tests in a layered manner. I don't think that the statistics would hold if you developed them separately from one another. But that effectively is a controlled experiment that I'm describing. Yeah if you did it as a biased and unbiased sample so you'd have to buy for Kate the sample. Do all of your learning on the biased piece and then only verified on the unbiased piece. That's correct. And that's how they had the data. You know that's how they develop these is they they teach an algorithm essentially what the differences are between healthy and disease. And then they feed it new samples and they ask whether those new samples can be classed algorithmically into either of the buckets. I don't know the liquid biopsies space is so interesting to me. I really you know I tell my patients that I think this is the single area that will most influence our care. Hopefully in the next five years is right now like you know we're learning a lot about cardiovascular disease. We are still learning especially in the inflammatory side of that disease. We're not learning a hell of a lot around the light but proteins that you know we're just trying to educate people to actually know what's true and what's not true. But where we're learning geometrically is around inflammation and potentially with these two clinical trials that were published this year or one that was published this year one that was halted likely the the method of trexate study was halted early likely because of a positive effect. And that won't be announced until the fall. But that's two really interesting proof of concept so the anti-IL one study and then the method trexate study. We're making no change in life of proteins you're improving cardiovascular outcomes. In my mind the next frontier on cardiovascular is what can we do to strengthen the endothelial resilience because if you have a strong endothelium and muted inflammatory response and you can control light the proteins. You're taking the only inevitable disease our species has ever faced and knocking it at the honest heels. But cancer man like we're no better at curing cancer today and we were 40 years ago with five exceptions. Well cancer like aging seems to be an enormously resilient set of processes and you know biology and evolution have been pretty thrifty. So the mechanisms as you know of many cancers are mechanisms that are used in early fetal development by the body. So these are tools that our organism has for developing in the first place and unfortunately they run some risk of getting reactivated later in life and doing crazy stuff that's contrary to our interests. And so this trade off between the apparatus that we've been given to become healthy and mature and the processes that ultimately are undoing. It seems quite difficult to overcome. And the whole process is a less obvious one although the sort of endothelial damage that is at its core and the function of the immune system in the processes that ultimately degrade that juncture are also used. IMean the immune system seems to be at the core of much of this that you know if you do view at the school is just ultimately as a sort of auto inflammatory disease. Then you can think of it as a trade off against the immune system. Yeah. Just like allergies. Right. Yeah exactly. And you know we I'm getting allergy shots right now which funny enough I guess have always been referred to as immunotherapy before it was high. But you know IMean I would still rather have to get allergy shots than be susceptible to almost certain death if I didn't have this immune system. Do you have any anti-flectic reactions or your allergies? Thankfully no. And thankfully I haven't had any anti-flectic reactions to the immunotherapy. Yeah. Which is still which is still which doctor science. One of the things Sean Parker's working on is allergy and it's one of the things that led him into immunotherapy because he has horrible allergies. And so has always been fascinated by the immune system. And when he perceived that there was a crossover between his allergies and cancer biology he got obsessed with the idea that immunotherapy was going to be the root. But allergies themselves as mundane as they are still can't be addressed in a particularly rigorous or precise way. So precision medicine for tree pollen allergies is still beyond the frontiers of current medicine. Although the work that doctor may do who is the you know the largest sort of recipient of the work that Sean's doing up at Stanford. IMean she is amazing and the work that they are doing. IMean I've sent multiple patients there carries always very kind and takes my referrals. IMean I have seen before my own eyes people who once would have died from peanut dust and they can eat peanuts again through this sensitization. So it's yeah I sometimes wonder if Sean gets enough credit for the amazing stuff he's done both in terms of funding cancer research. But also this incredible center at Stanford that you know little by little we're seeing you know Mount Sinai is doing this in New York. Chock is doing it in Philly. IMean other centers are still are taking this research forward and I don't know. IMean I think for people out there listening to this who have children or who themselves have an athletic reactions. I am way more optimistic about this than I was four years ago. Well and this is you know comes back to the earlier point about the future's already here. Yeah, now how do you make that accessible to everybody and how do. Things that make sense and have been proven in a sense become standard of care. Unfortunately in the United States and this is something that I discovered very slowly. It's not as if there's one arbiter of standard of care. You've got all these different medical societies that govern physicians and standards in clinical guidelines in every specialty area. You're a doctor of care conferences and they're board of directors and the payers sometimes respect their clinical guidelines and the government sometimes respect their clinical guidelines. So one of the things that in terms of human systems we should absolutely put more energy into is. So once something like Dr. Nathu's work is sort of definitive science, do we rapidly make sure that it becomes standard for every patient, everywhere. And right now it has to go through this long cascade of human minds and bureaucratic organizations, which is an enormous detriment to patients. And it's something that has nothing to do with science, it just has to do with people. And it's the sort of thing that physicians should care much more about as a community. It's the sort of thing that people like I think at Tual Goanday rightly are always reminding us to think more about, you know, it's very easy to get drawn into the science and technology frontiers. And I think that's a very important thing to do with the research that we could make such an enormous impact with just the simple changes in our own behavior. D.A. I know I could sit here and have this discussion for another two hours, but I want to be respectful of your time and you've been super gracious to open up your home this morning. Where can people learn more about you? I know you've got a huge following on Twitter so they can obviously see you there. It's D.A. Wallach, that's D.A. W.A. L. A. C. H. And I have a website, which is equally simple, D.A. Wallach.com. And I'm on Instagram, also D.A. Wallach. I tend not to do that much social media these days, but I still occasionally post pictures. And I'm very easy to reach to. So I presume that in your audience there is a mixture of crazy people, geniuses and smart, nice people who think their geniuses but are not. And I'm particularly interested in meeting the geniuses. So, anyone listening, please put yourself in the bucket of crazy genius or smart not genius. Correct. Get to, can you reach out to D.A. If you're smart not genius, but do have an interesting novel idea that itself could be deemed genius. I'm also interested. That's great. Do you still perform? Not regularly. The most recent performance I did was after a dinner party, when I was embarrassingly asked to play a song on someone's piano and their living room, and got peer-pressured into doing it. But most of the time I don't perform because I don't have a great way of performing. If someone was going to buy just one piece of music, would it be your most recent album? What would you recommend? I think so. I would recommend my most recent album, which came out in the audition. October of three years ago. Yeah. Yeah. It was like, was 2016 it came out. Was it 15? It may have been 16. You're not good with dates. You told us. I think it was 2006. I was thinking the other day that it felt like it was a year ago. And then when I sort of realized it was three years ago, I thought, oh, shit. I should probably finish some of these songs. I've been writing. You know, because I can't go like a decade between it. I don't have the axle-rows credibility to wait that long between albums. All right. So time machine it is, which I believe came out in 2016, but I could be wrong. Of course, like a fool, I bought all your stuff on iTunes. So I overpaid for it. I could have just been on Spotify. If you're not listening to it much, IMade out like a banded on that. So thank you. No, I tend to, when I listen to music, I just listen, I'm like a big repeater. Right. It drives everyone around me. See, you've got that OCD focus. Yeah. Yeah. I could go, I can go five songs on repeat for an entire five hour flight. Amazing. Yeah. Usually is that one. Right. I don't know if IMentioned bottom before. You did. Yeah. I wouldn't have let you get this front of conversation. If you hadn't at least mentioned John bottom. What's cool about both bottom and Elven Jones is that they both play behind the beat. They're always kind of catching up with the song. And when you play behind the beat, it sounds cool. I don't know why, but just like you can recognize cool if someone dresses cool or is cool, playing behind the beat sounds cool. I, to this day, listen to good times bad times at least once every couple of days. And I think to myself, how is it possible that this was the first song on the first Zeppelin album? And Bonham's opening riff. It's like incredible. And I think to myself, what would it have been like to have heard that for the first time on vinyl as like a new sound? I, I just, IMean, I would have worn that record out. Well, and they had a level of mystery too. I don't know if you know this, but they were never on the album covers. Pictures of them. So people would go to the concert to figure out what they looked like. Yeah. So this, I do somewhat regret not having been, oh, yeah. I've been around in a time where there was that level of magic around who is making some music you heard. IMean, it must have been even crazier with wax cylinders and stuff like this. People famously thought when they heard the phonograph that they needed to pull the curtain back and see the source of the audio there. Because it sounded so realistic. Now, if you hear a primitive wax cylinder recording, it's like shocking that anyone could have thought that was in the room. Because it's so scratchy and simplified. But the magic's happening in people's brains. So they just couldn't piece together how that was coming out of the speaker if it wasn't there. Do you ever listen to vinyl anymore? Yeah, I love vinyl. And vinyl's great. Vinyl's a peak technology in music reproduction. So you get a level of accuracy with digital music that you don't get with vinyl. But analog media are pretty cool. Yeah, godly. And last question, just because we're bringing it back to music. If you go back in time and see three or four concerts, actual pick the date, pick the band, pick the venue that you just otherwise wouldn't have been able to have seen because you weren't old enough or whatever. What do you think they'd be? Well, I would have liked to see, I saw Prince one time. And it was the most virtuosic live performance I've ever seen. So IMight devote two of those concerts to Prince or something. People say Chuck Berry was pretty awesome live and pretty unhinged. I bet, you know, I don't love early rock and roll and I don't love blues. But some of those early rock folks, you know, if you had never seen it before, probably would have been incredibly shocking. So I would have liked to see that. And watching the documentary on Nina Simone that I saw a few years ago, I concluded that she must have been one of the greatest live performers ever. She just virtue us a live performer. So I would have liked to see her. It's like one of my favorite games to play. In the time machine. Oh yeah. All right, the A, well thank you so much. Hey, it's pleasure. It was all in speeder. You can find all of this information more at PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash podcast. There you'll find the show notes, readings, and links related to this episode. You can also find my blog and the nerds of Fari at PeterOTiaMD.com. What's the nerds of Fari you ask? Just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more. Maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-lame once a week email, where I'll update you on what I've been up to, the most interesting papers I've read, and all things related to longevity, science, performance, sleep, etc. On social, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook, all with the ID, PeterOTiaMD. But usually Twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. Now for the obligatory disclaimer, this podcast is for general informational purposes only, does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice, and note no Dr. Patient Relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk. The content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnoses or treat. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have, and should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures. The company's I invest in and or advise, please visit, PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: #07 – Deep Dive： Lp(a) — what every doctor, and the 10-20% of the population at risk, needs to know [OHQiU68Ad7s].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of the most successful top-performing individuals in the world, and this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way, to help you live a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. In this podcast, I'm going to be discussing LP Little A. Little while ago, we put up a littlEQuestionnaire on Twitter that said, if I'm going to do a solo podcast, interviewed by Bob, what topic would you want to hear? We put up two options. The first was LP Little A. The second was hormone replacement therapy for post-menopausal women. Survey ran for about a day, and the results were unambiguous. 80% of you wanted to hear about LP Little A. Though many of you did want to hear about HRT, and we will absolutely get to that. On this podcast, we structured it as an interview. Originally, I thought I would just do it as a quote unquote lecture, but I realized that would just be way too boring, and it would be more fun to play patty cakes with Bob and have him interview me. That's what we did. Bob put together an interview, and he just asked me a bunch of questions about LP Little A. We're going to talk about what the heck it is, why you should care, why it's problematic, like the protein, what some of the potential treatment options are, and what's on the horizon. I got to admit, this is a bit of a technical podcast, but I also know that this is kind of a technical loving audience. So don't be discouraged. I also think this is one of the podcasts where you really have to be able to look at the show notes. I find some of this stuff really complicated myself, and I find a picture is sometimes worth a thousand words. So especially when I get into stuff like cringle repeats and cringle four subsection two zone five, that kind of stuff, you've just got to be looking at a picture to understand. So if you can't be able to look at something while you're listening to it, that's fine, but maybe go back after the fact and look at it or look first and then listen something like that. The show notes here will be very helpful and hopefully this answer is a lot of thEQuestions that people have been asking me over the past year about LP Little A. And again, if this format is helpful, let us know because we're really happy to kind of do one of these every couple of months where we just put up a general topic and Bob grills me on it. So without further delay, here's the discussion with Bob Kaplan on LP Little A. Hey Bob, Peter, how are you? I'm doing well. I noticed you have a coffee there. Of course. What number is that today? Seven? At least. Yeah. I've watched four. Well, seven doubles. Probably seven double espresso's. That's true. Yeah, that's impressive. It's a low day. So this is the first of what I suspect and assume we might do more of where we through a question out to people and said pick one, have a vote. I don't know. We gave him a day or so. And the choice was, do you want to know about LP Little A? Or do you want to know about hormone replacement therapy in post-medipausal women, which by the way has a more politically correct name now that I can't remember? Peter Kron modulating therapies for women in menopause or something. I don't know. I was going to go with golden years or something. Something to that effect. The point is HRT versus this. And it was about 80, 20 in favor of LP Little A, which kind of bums me out because actually really wanted to talk about HRT. But next time we throw HRT in, we're going to put it up against something like Bachi Ball. And hopefully HRT comes out ahead and we can talk about it. I think you have been accumulating a bunch of questions that people have also started sending in about LP Little A. And I think that's what we're going to talk about. Absolutely. So a lot of questions are around what is LP Little A. And I thought in a what are to explain that. Maybe we might need a quick primer on lipoproteins to kick things off. Do you know anyone who can do that? I think I'm looking at them. Oh, okay. I was afraid you're going to say that. Starting from the basics, if you go to your doctor and you get a cholesterol blood test, they're going to probably show you a couple of numbers. A total cholesterol LDL cholesterol. And if you're really lucky, they'll put bad next to it. HGL cholesterol. And if you're extra special, they'll put good next to it. Triglycerides and non HGL cholesterol. That is a standard lipid panel. Those numbers are largely unhelpful. But more importantly, they're largely misunderstood. So when people look at LDL and think it's bad cholesterol, that immediately tells you that they're missing what the L and the D and the L stand for, the LDL stands for low density lipoprotein. And admittedly, if you don't have a background in biochemistry or something, you might not understand in looking at that, that implies that it's a macro structure. So cholesterol, which is the principal molecule that is carried by these lipoproteins, is something that is made by the body. So every cell in the body makes cholesterol. And most cells in the body make enough cholesterol to meet their own needs at the cellular level. And the single and most important need of cholesterol we have is cellular membranes. So cell membranes must be fluid. They must be able to move. They must be able to facilitate the attachment of one cell to another. They must be able to hold trensporters across their membranes and things like that. And of course, cholesterol makes up the bulk of those membranes. So in addition, you turn cholesterol when I say you refer to a two certain organs, like the adrenal glands, the ovaries, the testes, turn cholesterol into hormones that are either sex hormones, glucocorticoids, gonadotropans, these things. So if for no other reason than just being able to have cells that work and have hormones cholesterol is pretty important. Because we're not going to get too far into that. The point I want to make is that you can't traffic or move around cholesterol in the blood stream because blood approximates water. And so the things that move freely in the blood have to be things that are what we call hydrophilic or things that would be soluble in water. So something like glucose can move around the blood stream very easily. And cholesterol cannot. And therefore it needs to be packaged in something that is itself water soluble. And that something is a lipoprotein. And the two dominant lipoproteins that are found in the blood stream are the high-density lipoprotein and the low-density lipoprotein. And their names are referring to their densities in a type of assay called a gel electrophoresis, which has to do with how far these things move on an ion gradient. Other lipoproteins that don't stick around that long. So VLDL, very low-density lipoprotein and IDL or intermediate-density lipoprotein, which is almost non-existent. It has such a short half-life. And the longer residents of the LDL is probably what explains its average density. And that's why LDL is considered the most average genetic particle after LP LLA, which we're going to talk about today. So when you're looking at your blood test, what you're seeing is the cholesterol concentration within the various particles. So when it says total cholesterol, it says, well, if you break apart the HDL particle and the LDL particle and the VLDL particle and if you can find it the ideal particle, how much total cholesterol do you have. And that's a number, 200 milligrams per desoliter. OK, when it says LDL C is 120 milligrams per desoliter. That means if you break apart the LDL cholesterol, that's the concentration of cholesterol contained within them, et cetera. Now, in the past we've talked about the importance of knowing the number of particles, you have, and how that is a more accurate predictor of your atherosclerotic risk. And so the LDLP, which is similar to the APOB in terms of its predictive power, which is the number of particles. And the reason you can use APOB is a surrogate for that is that each LDL particle has an APOB, which is an APO-like protein that wraps around this spherical lipoprotein. It's APOB 100 specifically. So by counting those, since each LDL has one and only one APOB, you can quantify the number of LDL particles. And again, we care about that because it tracks more with risk. The VLDL, the ideal, the LDL, I'll have the APOB 100. The HDL does not. The HDL has something called APOA1. It's a different lipoprotein. And it probably explains in large part why HDL is not atherogenic. And LDL is atherogenic. The pathogenesis of atherosclerosis is one that's predicated on. And we should probably attach and a link to this, the post on heart disease where I go through this in great, great, and gory detail, the process by which the light lip proteins get through the endothelial space between cells, which is actually not that hard to do. And LDL particle is somewhere between 20, 21, 22 nanometers. It's probably not an order of magnitude, but several multiples of that is the space between the endothelial cells. So it's the size of the LDL particle really doesn't determine the ease with which it gets through the cell or not. Or between the cells, what's much more important is, because most of the LDL that gets into the sub-endothelial space gets right back out. It doesn't cause any trouble. One of the trouble comes is when they get retained and when they get oxidized. And when they kick off an inflammatory response. So it is certainly the case theoretically that you could have a very high LDL, but by hooker by crook, if your LDL particles don't get retained in the sub-endothelial space and don't kick off an inflammatory cascade, you're not going to suffer the effects that you otherwise would. But all things equal, we would love to see a lower LDL particle number because the process by which those particles enter the space seems relatively stochastic. So in a few minutes, that's kind of the overview of these light deprotemies. Okay, so I think one of the reasons why we've had so much interest in LDL is a New York Times article by Onohado Connor. I think it was January this year that was entitled a heart risk factor, even doctors know a little about. And he tells a story of Bob Harper, who was one of the biggest loser, OGs. I think it was him and Jillian, or the two treners. And so Bob had a heart attack at a gym at age 52. And according to his annual checkups, he always checked out very healthy. And as it turned out, according to the article, Bob has, quote, perilously high levels and, quote, availability of the little anus blood. I think that was, I don't think it was ever measured prior to his heart attack. So I think this article was an introduction to this particle for many people who read it. Not only that, it's reported that a small percentage of physicians actually know about it. So kind of going back to the original question, what is L.P. Little A? Well, in full disclosure, Onohado is a really good friend of mine. And I know he'd been working on that story for about two years actually. I guess I'll take a little bit of credit for getting him interested in APOA and L.P. Little A. And Onohado, because he's just such a curious dude, was sort of like blown away at this. He's like, wait, wait, wait a minute. Tell me about, you know, we walk through everything that we're about to talk about today. And he just couldn't believe that something that was so ubiquitous, probably somewhere between one and five and one in ten people walking around with this elevation. And of course, it's a long tail to the right distribution. So where you define the cutoff as perilously high is a function of how many people will be perilously high. But he just couldn't believe it. And then I introduced him to many of my mentors and he did his own research. And the result of that was a story that I thought was excellent because I can't count the number of patients that sent it to me saying, oh my God, this is that thing you're always talking about. Yeah, so what is this thing? So we talked about the LDL particle number. So it's this spherical thing. Call it 20 nanometers in diameter. And it has a outer spherical structure that is made of lipid cholesterol, phospholipid. Inside it has a core that consists of cholesterol, ester. So this is none. This is like the cholesterol without its bulky side chain and the triglyceride. And on the outside, as IMentioned, it has this one apolipoprotein called apo b100. So we'll just refer to that from now on as the garden variety LDL. Now a subset of these and it's mostly, as we'll probably discuss genetically determined, an inherited and a co-dominant fashion. A subset of these have something else attached to that apo b. And it's attached covalently. So that means that it's not an ionic bond. It's an actual, in other words, it's a much stronger bond. It's a disulfide bond, which in amino acids and in biochemistry tends to be a pretty strong bond. So the apo b has this disulfide bond that attaches it to a totally different bipoprotein and it's called apo little a. And this lipoprotein is made in the liver. And it has a property that it resembles another molecule in the body called plasminogen. Now I suspect that everything about to say is going to not make that much sense until you look at the pictures. This is one of those things where a picture says a thousand words. So what we'll probably do is, and that defeats the purpose of a podcast. I realize because people want to listen to this, but they don't want to have to miss it. Like the picture, but I think this is one of those things where it's worth looking up the picture. But this apo lipoprotein a has a repeated folding structure. These domains are referred to as cringle domains. So we're sort of lost in a nomenclature of apo little a and cringle potato chip folds. And all this stuff and it's just like it's super complicated. But these repeating structures are organized by cringle domains. And there are five of them. Plasminogen that is has five of them. apo a does not have the cringle one, the cringle two, the cringle three. It does have a cringle four that very much resembles plasminogen. And it has the exact same cringle five that comes from the plasminogen. So to distill that again, apo a looks like plasminogen in that it has cringle domain five and a cringle domain four that is similar. But it's the cringle domain four that has 10 sub segments. So you have cringle four one, cringle four two, cringle four three, although you have to cringle four nine and cringle four 10. And if that doesn't have your look at me and you're laughing, it's like it's hard to believe we're talking about it. If this little d-tail, but the cringle four two is where you see the greatest variability. And you can have a cringle four two with just a couple of folds in it. You could have a cringle four two with 40 segments that are repeating. And that determines the mass of LP little A and that's going to become, I wouldn't be telling the story if it weren't for some reason in anticipation of talking about something else. And with the plasminogen and the cringles in the homology, in other words, how similar are they? You're basically saying that if you were to look up, like if you were to look at the structures of both of those, you could very easily confuse one for the other. They look very similar. It probably depends on the similarity during the cringle four because the cringle four tends to dominate it. So I don't want to give an answer that could be incorrect because I suspect it depends on the individual. I think there are some individuals whose ApoA looks more like plasminogen. Because everyone's plasminogen looks the same, but the ApoA is where we see the difference. So we're really dealing with two things, which is how many of your LDLs have those ApoA's attached to them? And then what do your ApoA's look like? And the what they look like is basically what do your cringle segmenT4 subsegment twos look like? Now it turns out that between those two factors, the one that probably matters most, is the number of your LDL particles that also have this covalent bond to the Apo Little A. In other words, it's probably the number of the LDLs that serve the Apo Little A particles bound to the LDL particles through the ApoB or the number of Lp Little A's that matters more than the mass of the Lp Little A. So on that note, I was thinking about ApoB and that there's one ApoB per LDL. And then with ApoA, there's one ApoA per Lp Little A, but not necessarily not every Lp Lp L, but it's for every ApoA is on an LDL. Every ApoA is on an LDL, but not every LDL has an ApoA. And that's the difference between individuals when you look out a population is the how many of their LDLs are rolling around with ApoA's. Now, I don't think we'll get into it today, but if there's ever an appetite to go ultra deep on Lp Little A, we could probably talk about the relationship between ApoE and ApoA. So it turns out that as people may know, you have three different variants of ApoE, you have ApoE2, ApoE3, ApoE4, of course they combine in all six combinations that I'm sure everybody's familiar with. But as you move from the two to the three to the four, you see Lp Little A go up. You see ApoB go up and you see triglyceride go down and this is a pattern that has been demonstrated over and over and over again. And what's interesting is why that's happening with respect to the ApoA, but I get I think that's that's probably more the senior's course rather than the freshman course. Yeah, on the note of the freshman course, just looking at it and thinking, so for we're asking what is Lp Little A? And if you're to look at how it's spelled out, it's capital L lowercase P, parenthetical, lowercase A, and close parentheses. And it's basically saying it's a lipoprotein with an ApoA attached to it. Yeah, and if you were going to come up with an equivalency, you'd do like three little parallel lines as an equal line and say that's equal to LdL, hyphen, little A or little ApoA. It would be like the long hand way to write that. I don't know that anybody's ever written it that way in the literature, but that's just another way to think about it. Okay, so piggybacking on that, can you explain the difference between Lp Little A mass, then there's Lp Little A cholesterol, and then there's the Lp Little A particle content. And then as you mentioned, there's the cringle domains, the number of cringles could also be called the different ApoA isophorms. Can wEQuantify those? How are those measured? Yeah, I believe the first way this was quantified, and again, this will be the type of stuff that I think would be really fun to explore with a guy like Sam Tamikas, who's probably the world's expert on this topic, and we should definitely make sure we get Sam on the show. I believe Lp Little A mass was the first way that this was quantified, and whether it was the first or not, I don't know, but what I can certainly say is it's by far the most ubiquitous. I'm sure that 19 out of 20 times when a patient is having their Lp Little A checked, it is the mass that is being checked. Certainly, if a patient comes to me and they've been at least fortunate enough to have had their Lp Little A checked, it's a mass. I almost never see the cholesterol checked anymore. I think there used to be a company I believe called Athra Tech that did the test. I think they got bot, or at least that ASA got bot by VAP, and now VAP does it, but I'll explain later why I don't think that's such a great test. And then of course, there's the Lp Little A particle number, which is just the counting of it. So the Lp Little A mass is directionally a reasonable test, but it's not a great test. And the reason is it's measuring for particles that carry ApoA, it's measuring the mass of everything, which is the ApoA. The ApoB, the phospholipids, the cholesterol, the triglycerides, the dogs, the cats, whatever. It's measuring the mass of the entire structure. Now, the larger the cringle section 4 subsection 2, the more that mass is dominated by ApoA, but you can see very quickly how you could be misled. You could take two people that have the exact same Lp Little A mass, but if one of them has a very long segment 4 subsection 2 repeat binding domain. Guess what? He's going to have a much fewer particle number, or more to the point, the person that has the smaller segment 4 subsection 2 is going to actually have more particles. And so those people are not at equal risk. It turns out that the guy that's got more particles is at higher risk. But when a patient shows up and their Lp Little A mass is really, really low, like less than 5 milligrams per deciliter, the likelihood that their Lp Little A particle number is very high is really, really low. And back in the olden days and by the olden days IMean like 4 years ago before Lp Little A particle number was measured, I used to actually look at both. I'd look at Lp Little A mass and Lp Little A cholesterol, acknowledging that neither was perfect, but basically coming up with a 2 by 2, which was if both were high, I knew you had a ton of particles, case closed. If both were low, we were off to the races and high-fiving. And then when one was high, one was low, we would just sort of follow up and test for reasons that we'll probably discuss later around things that could actually change Lp Little A as you marched down the field. But luckily most patients were either double positive or double negative and therefore you had a pretty good sense of where their risk was. You then asked about Lp Little A cholesterol. So that basically is an allegous to measuring the cholesterol content of an LDL particle number. Except here it's measuring the the cholesterol concentration of an Lp Little A particle number. And that again, in isolation is not very helpful. I am not an expert in clinical chemistry, but I've spoken with people who are and it turns out there are some other technical issues with that test that renders it not entirely helpful and also misleading in its own way under certain circumstances. And it's for that reason that I really prefer looking at the Lp little A particle number, which even though it's reported in an animal per liter to my knowledge is not actually measured via NMR, the way LDLP and HDLP were pioneered by light-bus science. It's a different assay, but nevertheless it is counting the apo little A's that are attached to little apo B's. And so you're getting a number of those. And for that test we like to see people less than 50 NAMOL per liter. When people are sort of 52 a hundred, I put them in kind of a gray area when people are over a hundred or certainly over 125 NAMOL per liter. That's when I start to get worried because I often get asked this question. The highest number I've ever seen on a patient is about 650 to 700 NAMOL per liter. And I've got a few patients that walk around it 400, 500 NAMOL per liter. So the Lp little A cholesterol, it sounds a lot like when we're measuring LDLC. So Lp little if you're measuring Lp little A cholesterol, you're measuring the amount of cholesterol that's carried within the Lp little A particles. And similarly with LDLC you're measuring the amount of cholesterol that's carried within the LDL particle. Similarly you would rather know the LDL particle. Yeah, and this is actually what makes it so problematic. It's even worse than the discordance between LDL, P and LDLC because at least when you're dealing with LDL you know the molecular weight. You don't know the molecular weight of LDL. This is actually the point I forgot that I wanted to make a woman ago. I remember once having a patient come to me with everything but the LDL Lp little A P. And I remember thinking, well, I used to be a smart little organic chemistry whipper snapper, I should be able to convert this from milligrams per death's a liter into an animal per liter. And of course anyone listening to this who knows more about chemistry than me will remember that all you need to know is like apricotos number and the molecular weight and you're ready to go. But of course you don't know the molecular weight. That's the problem. Because the APOA is don't look the same. The whole calculation goes to hell in a hand basket. You can't actually calculate the molecular. You don't know the molecular weight because of that cringle sub-segment, the cringle 4 segment 2. Because it's got such variability. It's not like you can say the molecular weight of sodium is x or the molecular weight of testosterone is y. So with the APOA and how it comes in different isophorms, can you measure the APOA? Yes, but it would be for a given individual. That's the point. Yes, you could absolutely measure the molecular weight of an APOA, but it would be like yours and mine would probably be different. So therefore, at least to my knowledge and again, I don't want to speak out a turn because I'm sure someone listening this is going to go, no, no, you know I'll head this is being done. But to my knowledge is not something that's done clinically. Whether it will be or not, again, that's probably a great question for someone like Tom Dasepring or Sam to make us or one of those guys. But I think that today the best test we have is the LP little APOA particle number. And there's a proxy for it, but I'm guessing we'll talk about that later, which is you can also measure the amount of oxidized phospholipid. If you normalize that for APOB, you're getting almost a one to one mapping of that, because there's another interesting little, it's not a trivia point, because trivia tends to be irrelevant. This is actually quite relevant. APO, little A, has lots of lysine, the amino sublicing and lysine really binds oxidized moieties. Now APOB does not contain much lysine at all, and therefore APOB is not particularly effective oxidized moiety scavenger. But APOA is. And so if you think about your rolling around as an LDL, now you got a tail thrown on you, which is called an APOA, right? You got your little disulfide bridge, it attaches to APOB, you got your APOA tail. Only you can see what my hands are doing right now. That's a great idea. This is awesome. We're going to have the worst smile. Yeah. IMean, the pictures are definitely worth a thousand words. As you can see, the the cringle domains, and if you have a longer, you can see like longer tails and shorter tails. Yes, we all make sense. And then once you've got your tail in place, now you start to fill that tail up with all these oxidized phospholipids, you can start to measure. If you measure those phospholipids, normalized for APOB, you're getting a pretty good proxy. Also of that. And by the way, this may actually explain, and this is one of thEQuestions like, you know, when we get Sam on the show, this is one of thEQuestions I want to ask him is just taking a step back from all of this. Sometimes you clinically know when a person has an elevated L.P. little A before you take any blood out of them. These are the patients who don't seem to fit the classic picture of someone with premature heart disease in the family. Nobody's overweight. Nobody's diabetic. Nobody's smoking. Or even if they are, the disease seems to come prematurely. It seems to come out of nowhere. They also tend to, you know, if you ask enough, you might even see that somebody has aortic stenosis. And you just know the answer before you get there, especially if you have their family tree and you can trace it and you can realize that whatever is happening here is coming through dominantly. Is that something, it's a premature cardiovascular disease? Is that a clinical term? Is there like a cut off when you call it? Yeah, IMean, I think loosely we would say someone who's having a major adverse cardiac event before 60 would be premature. Of course, I have a different definition of that. I would think of major adverse cardiac event both before 80 is premature. But I think someone who's having any major adverse cardiac event in May before the age of 60, I think anybody would consider that premature. So what I've never been able to figure out is, you know, that patient of mine that had like an LDL, an LP little A of 650, family history is not outrageous. You know, when people get heart disease, they get it in their 70s. The patient of mine who has the 500, I've tested this patient's family. I know where it came from, I know which parent it came from and the burden of disease is modest. So there is something else going on here. And it's just like the case with, we know that LDLP alone is not the issue. We know that it's just one factor. And similarly, not all LP little A's must be created equal. And so thEQuestion I'd want to get into with the next part on this is, does it have to do with the lysine binding domains, the affinity for these oxidized moieties? Is there some feature of one person's versus another? Is that lens to a more aggressive oxidation within the sub-emithial space or greater retention or something like that? I think that gets into why do we have LP little A. So what would be the evolutionary basis? What's the function of LP little A? Like it can't just be some hell particle that's just trying to kill us? IMean, in theory, it could because it kills us through basically three mechanisms that don't tend to kill you young. So if you were taking a purely evolutionary standpoint, I think sometimes bad things track, but it turns out that even like APOE 4, which in today's environment doesn't seem particularly protective, APOE 4 was quite protective against parasitic infections in the CNS. And hell up until a few years ago, that would have been a pretty good thing to have. Of course, now that we can live long enough, that upside isn't worth the downside of an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease. So LP little A clearly does two things, but are separate. And I think we could argue at least theoretically that it would have provided a benefit evolutionary. The first is, if you go back to what we talked about, you have this great homology to plasma anogen. And plasma anogen being a clotting factor means that people with elevated LP little A tend to have what's called hypercoagulability. So they have an ability to form blood clots better than someone who doesn't. Now, in today's environment, that's not an advantage because most of us are not in an environment where bleeding to death is a major concern. But you can imagine 50,000 years ago, bleeding to death would actually be a significant concern. And so I think these people would have had a trauma advantage, you know, with respect to, and I'm sure you could probably pose many benefits during childbirth. You know, when I think about what I saw in the OBGYN rounds, how many times was a woman bleeding so sufficiently that she required blood clotting products? It's not unheard of. And so you think about the benefits this could have had all the way from birth, the, you know, the brilliant matured right up until, you know, getting scratched by an animal or whatever. The second benefit is more of a speculation, I think, but it's probably that going back to those lysine binding domains that if you're in a relatively low oxidative environment and you're LP little A's know where to go when they're done, which is to the liver and where not to go, which is the coronary arteries in the eordic valve. There are actually amazing scavengers. So I'm sure somebody out there's got better data on this or has data period because I'm obviously speculating, but you could make the case that being able to have more particles that can scavenge more of these oxidized phospholibids and oxidized moieties and take them back to the liver, which is the ultimate place of clearance for the LP little A, which is a totally safe place to take these things, that would pose an advantage. And it would be the case today that maybe we're in a higher inflammatory environment and maybe we've gone too far. In other words, maybe we're overwhelming the system's ability to clear it. And on top of that, we may have other risk factors, hypertension, hyper-insulinemia, other drivers of inflammation that are now giving these LP little A's another place to go, which is, yeah, you're ultimately going to end up at the liver, but like 6% of you are going to get stuck in the sub-endothelial space and wreak havoc. And on top of that, you're doing a way worse job than the LDLP because the LDLP when it gets there is bad enough, but the LP little A is now dragging all that oxidized crap in there with it. So the next question is what is the problem with elevated LP little A or what are the problems with LP little A elevated? So basically, they fit into sort of three categories. The first being enhanced attherosclerosis. The second, I don't know which by magnitude would pose a bigger threat, but probably aortic stenosis given the severity and then the third being enhanced, venous thrombosis. So what does those things mean? So so basically, more attherosclerosis, more aortic stenosis, I believe about two thirds of the cases of aortic stenosis are explained by elevated LP little A. So you have four valves in the heart and one of them is called the aortic valve. That's the valve that separates the left ventricle from the systemic system. So the proximal aorta. So that valve is under more pressure than the other three valves by a long shot because it's the one that's directly in front of the most powerful chamber of the heart. That valve has three leaflets. It's a tri leaflet valve and it seems that LP little A has a particular affinity for going there and inducing bone-forming proteins to create calcifications. And when that valve loses its suppleness and it becomes calcified, you get basically a blockage of that valve called the stenosis. And so this condition of aortic stenosis is very problematic. One of the earlier signs in the blood that somebody has aortic stenosis would be signs of swelling or enlargement or dilation of the heart. And there are blood markers like brain-naturedic peptide, BNP or pro-NTBNP that are actually used quite frequently in ERs to assess patients very quickly for cardiomyopathy or cardiac failure. And so that's one of those things that we like to look at. And if I see a patient with LP little A, I'm always screening them for aortic stenosis out of the gate. I don't care if they're 30 years old. IMean, many of our patients are in their 30s and 40s. But if they have an elevated LP little A, we're doing echo at a minimum and preferably cardiac MRI, which is much more accurate, to both look at the morphology of the aortic valve and get a very accurate gradient of pressure. And then sometimes you'll get patients, I have a patient who has a bypassed aortic valve, which is going to be eaten by itself. That's predisposed to aortic stenosis. And he also has a very elevated LP little A, about 250 or 300. So even though he's only in his 30s, he gets a cardiac MRI annually and he's already showing a pressured gradient. So, you know, I've explained to him that he is going to need an intervention at some point in his life. But the good news is we're going to do it long before he experiences any stren on his heart muscle. And the good news again for patients today is this stuff's going to be done interventionally and not via open heart surgery as it once was. On the atherosclerosis side, I think the Mendelian randomizations, the GWAS and the Epidemiology, all televary similar story, I suspect that it's both its ability. It's probably an all of the above when it comes to why. Meaning it's, are these particles more likely to enter the seven video space? I don't know why that would be the case. Are they more likely to be retained? Probably because they have that whole big cringle oxidized moiety thing there. Are they more likely to kick off an inflammatory response? Very likely because of what they're dragging in with them. And then on top of that, to have the pro- thrombotic component, I suspect is what's driving the increase in the risk of atherosclerosis. But in truth, we don't have definitive proof that LP little A is as a more atherogenic particle. And you and I were talking about this the other day that there is this paper that actually was looking at patients with post MIs and even suggesting that, well, everybody who has an MIs has a rise in LP little A. And we'll probably get to that later why we think that might be the case. But thEQuestion posed as, well, maybe LP little A is the result of atherosclerosis and not the cause of it. I don't agree with that because many post MIs patients don't have an elevated LP little A. And I think a better explanation for that is that LP little A also acts as an acute phase reactant rising with inflammatory responses. But probably not until the anti-sensalago nucleotide trials complete, will we actually know the answer to this question? Because really without a clinical trial, you can't actually infer cause and effect the way we can with other aspects of atherosclerosis like the LDL particle or inflammation, where we have elegant prospective clinical trials that create a relationship between cause and effect. The last thing that I guess IMentioned was the thromboembolism. So I used to have a practice of putting everybody within elevated APO, LP little A on a baby aspirin just to combat the effect. It turns out that that was probably an oversimplified approach and that there's only a subset of people for whom aspirin counteracts the effect. So unfortunately, this is still one of those things where I don't think we have a great answer. I do take DVT prophylaxis, so deep vein thrombocies prophylaxis and prevention. I do take it more seriously in the LP little A patients and there are certain strategies you can take around flying. There's actually a commercially available product called flight tabs, which you can buy on Amazon. I was, remember when we did the research on this? I was blown away that you could buy these things on Amazon because they're actually quite potent. But I do recommend that people with elevated LP little A if they're on really long flights and again, I'm not recommending that for people who are listening cause I can't, but it's really recommend to my patients to a subset of them that we're particularly worried about that we look at either pharmacologic agents or even an OTC agent like that as a way to reduce the risk of these types of events. So do we know how much elevated LP little A is associated with these increased risks? If we're looking at the epidemiology, what are the associated risks with cardiovascular disease? So with the Yordics to Noces, the hazard ratios are anywhere from 2 to 4 depending on the studies and I think they probably median ends up being roughly 2 and a half. With VTE, with the Venus Thrombo Emboism, I think the hazard ratio is about 3x. And again, it's important to put this in perspective. We've talked about absolute versus relative risk. So when you talk about a 3x risk of something that occurs like 1% of the time, that means you're going from a 1% absolute risk to a 3% absolute risk. So in other words, it doesn't mean like if you're listening to this and you have an elevated LP little A, you need to call an ambulance to drive you home because you're afraid you're going to have a pulmonary embolism. And similarly, a hazard ratio of 2 and a half, 3, even 4 on a Yordics to Noces. As I said, it probably explains about 2-3rds of the total volume of a Yordics to Noces, but it doesn't mean that every patient who's got this is going to get it. I think in the case of that one patient of mine, his buy-cuspid valve is just a setup to make things worse because he's now got a double whammy on that. And when it comes to atherosclerosis, basically you see odds ratios of about 2 to 4 depending on the amount. So it's, it looks like a pretty good dose response where it sort of below about 30 or 40 milligrams per desoliter because unfortunately all of these studies are done with LP little A mass and not particle number and I can't really convert that, but we believe that that's probably about 50. That's probably, you're going to get comparable in the 50 to 75, nanomole per liter is this sort of safe zone where it's relatively flat and then it starts to uptick pretty swiftly. So by the time you're at call it 200 milligrams per desoliter, you're at about a 60% increase. Now, if you stop from moving and think about that, what should you be more afraid of? A three X hazard ratio for VTE or a 1.6 hazard ratio for atherosclerosis or a 2.5 X hazard ratio on aortic stenosis. This is like the advanced clinical epidemiology question, right? I think the answer is the 1.6 on atherosclerosis is by far the most disconcerting because atherosclerosis is infinitely more prevalent. So a 60% increase in risk on something that is going to kill a third of people is a big effing problem. Whereas a 3% risk on something that's going to you know, ding 1% of people, yeah, we'll manage it, but that's not what we stay up late thinking about. And even for that particular individual that has that risk profile, that if they look at their absolute risks, that probably bumps up their absolute risk the most with cardiovascular disease. Yeah, we're screening for aortic stenosis, not because I necessarily think it's even, you know, at the population or societal level cost effective, but at the individual level, we're not going to let that kind of stuff slide. But if you were to think about this at the population level, the thing we have to be most concerned of is somewhere between 1 and 5 and 1 and 10 people, and in some cultures it's even higher, and Southeast Asians it's even higher, are walking around with these little time bombs, and to the point of Anahad story, I'm still shocked at how many doctors don't understand this. Now look, if you're a radiologist, great dermatologist, that's okay. I don't think you need to know this. But if you sit anywhere on the front lines of medicine, if you're a family physician, if you're a GYN even, because for many women, their GYNs become their PCPs, the primary care physicians. If you are anywhere in the crosshairs of taking care of a patient where you have some input into how they lower their risk of cardiovascular disease, and you don't understand most of what we're talking about on this podcast, I worry that you're missing an opportunity to help patients. Okay, so another question that came in, I think you touched upon it very quickly, is what is the prevalence of elevated LP little A? Probably what is elevated LP little A? How is that determined? Well, to my knowledge, everything that's done on this that's published is based on the LP little A mass, not the particle number. But the US levels define normal as less than 30 milligrams per deciliter. The European Atherosclerotic Society defines normal as less than 50 milligrams per deciliter. And I believe both the UK and Germany consider anything over 60 sufficient for state covered A for recess. A for recess is a type of treatment where a patient has a very large IV put in one arm typically about a 14 gauge and blood is taken out, run through a machine that spins at a certain frequency to generate a separation of the plasma and you can basically fractionate the plasma and identify something that you want to remove. So back when I was at an IH, I used to volunteer for a for recess every four weeks to donate lymphocytes. And then they basically put everything back that once they strip out the piece they want. But you can actually do a for recess and remove the apolittle A. The problem is the frequency with which you have to do it is staggering because the half-life of these particles is a matter of days. So these patients would undergo a for recess potentially twice a week. So that's obviously a very difficult way to be so we got into it a little bit there. How is abnormal LP little A treated or dealt with? So you just got into the A for recess. Other therapies currently available. So A for recess is that's something that we just really never resort to or very rarely resort to. And then certainly now that PCS can't even inhibitors are on the market, I think that A for recess is becoming probably less and less utilized. Historically the agent for treatment has been niacin. A niacin's got kind of a checkered history because it's known to lower APOB. So you take niacin, your LDL goes down. And this is a super contentious topic in lipid circles. But thEQuestion is does niacin save lives? And depending on how you look at the trial data the answer is maybe or no. It's like a wonder drug theoretically right at lower LDL. It HDL goes up. LP little A might go down. Yep. So on paper it looks at least up to that point. It looks great. Right. That's exactly right. It does three things that we historically know when they happen. Good things should happen. LDL particle and cholesterol. APOB all go down. HDL cholesterol goes up. Although I would argue that that's not a good thing. I think we have a pretty good sense of why raising HDL cholesterol in organically meaning pharmacologically is not going to be good. And it lowers LDL pylidolai by probably a third. So see it's up inhibitors? Yeah exactly. It's times the charm. I think we're waiting for number five. Yeah. Yeah. But it turns out that in the trial that basically doomed niacin the trial probably wasn't designed that well. In that they were giving niacin to patients who were already on a max dose statin and looking for the HDL increase to see if that was adding benefit. And so you basically get lipidologists in two camps. And actually it's not. It's quite evenly split at least in my narrow sampling of smart lipidologists where you get some who say niacin should never be used. And then you get others who say look it's probably not a great drug. But if you have a patient who can't take anything else it's still a good drug. And I know lots of lipidologists who are still putting LP LL A patients on niacin. Even though there are no data to suggest that that will save their lives. But I got to be honest with you. I'm not convinced that that's an extraly a bad thing. I generally don't. I now move to the third thing which is the PCS can 9 inhibitor. But I guess before I do that I should explain statins because everybody is probably saying where to statins fit into this. And it turns out statins don't clear LP LL A which is kind of counterintuitive if you know how statins work. So statins work via two mechanisms what we call sort of the direct and indirect mechanism. So the direct mechanism is that they inhibit HMG coA reductase which is an enzyme that catalyzes one of the early steps if not the first step I believe of cholesterol synthesis. So if you're making less cholesterol you would have less cholesterol there would be less cholesterol the carry around you could require fewer lipoproteins. But that's not really the main way it works. The main way it works is that the liver in response to the statin upregulates something called SREBP2. And when that thing gets upregulated it puts more LDL receptors on the surface of the liver. So this SREBP2, which I'll just abbreviate for short is called the sterile regulatory element binding protein. It basically says hey the liver is getting less cholesterol and it wants more cholesterol so I'm going to put more of these LDL receptors on my surface to pull more in. Now I didn't know this until recently but one of the other things that SREBP2 does is it actually produces more PCSK9. Now PCSK9 is a protein that degrades LDL receptors. So it's actually a bit of a check in a balance. So you have more LDL clearance because of more LDL receptors but you also speed up the rate at which those LDL receptors are degraded. So the statin is causing these two indirect effects but the net tends to be an enhanced clearance of the LDL particle, the APOB particle and therefore a lowering of the LDL cholesterol. But it doesn't lower LP little A and if you're listening to this and you remember what we talked about at the outset you're probably thinking that doesn't make sense LP little A is just an LDL with an APOA on it. Why wouldn't the LDL receptor clear it? Because if the LDL receptor clears it, it should also go down. I asked Tom Dasebring about this because I really interesting paper came out a few weeks ago that actually tried to explain this and like all good papers it ended up leaving morEQuestions than answers. The best explanation that I understood from Tom was that LP little A will get cleared by LDL receptors eventually but it's just the last in line. So after the LDL is cleared and the VLDL is cleared yeah then you might get to the LP little A. But the problem is you never get there. So maybe in theory if you increase LDL receptor expression enough or if you could knock out PCSK9 and offset the second piece of what the statin is doing the statin would work and it turns out that that is largely what this paper showed and what we've always known which is when you combine a PCSK inhibitor with a statin you actually do get a reduction of LP little A whereas statin by itself is anywhere from no reduction to in some studies and actual increase in LP little A and PCSK9 alone also lowers LP little A. So to be clear PCSK9 inhibitors are not FDA approved for the use of lowering LP little A but those of us who prescribe these drugs both for patients with other indications and with LP little A generally acknowledged that we're seeing about a 30% reduction in LP little A sometimes as high as a 50% reduction in LP little A when patients are taking PCSK9 inhibitors with or without statins and that also probably speaks to the fact that we know that LP little A is cleared by different receptors. So it's primary receptor is probably LRP2 but it's also probably cleared somewhat by VLDL receptors and even something called SRB1 although I'm not sure of that and frankly I don't know that anybody is so that what the PCSK9 inhibitor is doing is it's inhibiting PCSK9 and therefore inhibiting the protein that degrades not just the LDL receptor but these other receptors that clear LP little A interesting. Sure. Yeah. I was just thinking about something on statins. So oftentimes I'll read in the papers just to back up for a second too. I often read in the papers LP little A the words mysterious unknown like in some ways we're in our infancy and understanding this but I think in one of those papers Samika's looked at the effect of statins and not only just statins in general but different statins the Torvastatin, Pravastatin, Petivastatin live a low it resubestatin and Simvestatin. I think maybe that covers all the statins. If I'm just looking at his data the LP little A actually looks like it's trening up on statins not only that the oxidized phospholipids to APOB are also going up. Is there any explanation as to why the thing is to be elevated? Yeah because the APOB is probably going down. It's probably that you're lowering the the nominator. Got it. That's my guess. What's clearly acknowledged is that when you give a patient with elevated LP little AAStatin which we do absolutely it's not to lower the LP little A it's to lower the LDL so actually I'm glad you brought this up because I didn't I sort of missed the punchline in all the detail. At least one of the punchlines is how do we treat patients with elevated LP little A? Well we're probably not going to give them for recess if they can't afford to buy a PCS canine inhibitor because it's certainly not going to be approved. You have only one other choice which is to actually have two other choices but I'll get to one in a moment. It's it rarely works but it works occasionally but your real issue is you have to give them a statin because you now have a new LDL targets. Am I LDL target when I say LDL I'm always referring to LDLP? My LDLP target is the 20th percent dollar lower for every patient but how much lower you go than that is a function of other risk factors. So are we talking about secondary prevention? What's the family history? Are they insulin resistant? You know all these other factors but a patient who's at got an elevated LP little A immediately falls into the category of all things equal they're at the 10th percent dollar lower and so you will often need a statin to get them they're not not always. I have some patients who don't need a statin to get their LP little their LDLP down to the 10th percentile but they're the exception and not the rule so that's where I don't want to I don't want people to get the impression that if you have an LDLP little you shouldn't be taking a statin. No it's quite the opposite you probably should be taking a statin but just understand that the statin is there to control APOB and not LP little A. Okay and I don't know if we have enough ammo to cover this but hormone therapy estrogen I think has been shown to lower LP little A. I didn't know that actually. This is an up-to-date which is a nice service that compiles a lot of this information almost like a review systematic review and they have a section on lip reporting little A and cardiovascular disease and lip it lowering and one of the things that they noted was estrogen replacement therapy reduces LP little A levels by up to 50 percent and they have a couple references there and effect it was somewhat mitigated by concomitant, pregesterone therapy and some reports. I don't know if that's a women's health initiative so we're probably dealing with different variables but not the Peppy trial. However the clinical role for hormone replacement therapy isn't certain and it does not recommend it for cardiovascular disease risk reduction so if that HRT topic wasn't compelling enough to go over I think there's another reason another just wrinkle the throw in there. Yeah I'd like to understand that better that strikes me as a bit too good to be true frankly because certainly there are IMean if that's true that's one it's suggested might only be it so I guess thEQuestion I would want to know is does that imply that women who go through menopause wouldn't they see an increase in LP little A all things equal if they did not receive HRT that belief so yeah I'm going to go look at the LP little A levels of my patients who have gone through menopause while under my care but nothing jumps out at me. There was one other thing we we didn't talk about which is what's on the front lines here in terms of really interesting stuff which is these things called ASOs which is really the first treatment that is designed specifically to lower LP little A so the ASO stands for anti-sense all you go nucleotide so these are molecules that disrupt protein synthesis so I can't remember exactly where they ask I think they act after the messenger RNA between messenger RNA and trenslational RNA but maybe they act between DNA and messenger RNA I should know this I'm sure there's like I'm sure that's a very well known obvious fact that I'm just forgetting but the point is they disrupt the synthesis of APOA which is occurring in the liver so this is a drug that goes right to the heart of LP little A and I didn't say this earlier but it's worth pointing this out when you go through my whole ringer role on why do statins probably not decrease LP little A it doesn't appear that anything that's going to lower LP little A is going to do it on the catabolism side meaning the breakdown side it appears to be on the synthesis side the making side and so while the monoclonal antibody is like the PCSK9s also increase degradation they reduce the synthesis they're actually reducing the synthesis of APO little A and the liver as well so these anti-sense all I go nucleotides go right to the heart of that and they directly stop the synthesis of APO little A and therefore you have your garden variety LDLs these drugs have have been shown to have safety and efficacy so they have concluded phase one and phase two trials and they are slowly enrolling in phase three trials I think three years ago I said they'd be done in five years three years later I think will be done in five years consistent yeah the frequency distribution figure that will include somewhere it shows effective anti-sense all-ego nucleotides it says around 70% up to 99% so could potentially wipe out virtually wipe out LP little A yeah no even somebody who's got an LP little A of 200 can be normalized I'm a little area of wiping out something entirely it's certainly suggested if you have this ASO you can test a hypothesis in terms of LP little A lowering therapy for sure well that's what I was referring to at the outset which was until this trial is done I don't think we can definitively know the answer of what is the true risk how do you quantify the true risk of LP little AI think we got through a lot of the major questions this is awesome we like didn't have to go for four hours there's a bonus question we're in the bonus round others some other stuff we can talk about too as well I think getting into the oxidized fossil lipids how that works in the LP PLA too we could get into but one of the things that I was thinking about is that with lipoproteins with LDL with HDL even triglycerides like you have some tools in your arsenal just in terms of let's call them behavioral modifications or things like that if you challenge somebody or somebody said I need to lower my triglycerides in like in 30 days or else you could probably do that through diet absolutely IMean triglycerides by far the most sensitive thing in the blood as far as lipoprotein lipid related amolicules to dietary intervention yeah in theory it sounds like you can play around with a lot of the lipoproteins actually a lot of the markers by our markers but it seems like with LP little A doesn't seem like it can be modified all that much by lifestyle is that right or is it correct thinking no that's absolutely correct and probably the reason for that is as we just learned from the PCSK9 statin comparisons directionally speaking there are two things that are driving LP little A how much you make and how much you clear but the game seems to be one and lost on the how much you make front the how much you clear seems to be a second order thing now when you look at LDLP just a contrast it never mind triglycerides when you look at LDLP you go back to four things that determine the number of those particles three of them have to do with how much you carry one of them has to do with how much you clear so three about the cargo one about the port how many triglycerides do have how much cholesterol do you synthesize how much esterified cholesterol or nonesterephide cholesterol rather do you reabsorb in the after it passes through the biliary system in the inner site and then what's your LDL receptor profile look like primarily in the liver but also in the gut now we just established you can clearly lower triglycerides through nutrition so you got somebody walking around with the triglyceride of 200 and an LDLP of 1600 and you do nothing but lower their triglycerides to 50 while I can't predict what their reduction is going to be it's likely going to go down and so that's a lifestyle intervention and that clearly does things and it turns out that we know that diet is also going to lower or raise certainly it has an impact on LDLC that is known but it also can have an effect on LDLP through cholesterol synthesis and absorption now I think that that I think the the relationship there is much less clearly understood I've speculated about what what I see occurring there seems to be a subset of people who when they consume high amounts of saturated fat see a really significant increase in cholesterol synthesis I think Tom Dasebring has written a really eloquent piece on this so if we can find it if it's publicly available we should link to it because I think it's a great piece on the hypothesis around why certain people in the presence of high saturated fat just start making much more cholesterol and then of course the contentious topic is doesn't matter right we know the answer to that question but that's a point I was among them at one point I think it's you get an NMR and it gives you your LDLP count is it in nanomoles and it actually reminded me of a fletch and Gillette collecting rent I believe and he picks up one of Gillette's letters and he says oh a letter from the Oakwood Potency Clinic we're sorry to inform you we can't process sperm counts as low as yours so in the case of this NMR I get the test back and you you probably know the number maybe it's like 2500 or the upper cut office 3,53500 and it has a one of those awesome greater than signs it's great than 3,500 so we're sorry our machines can't process LDL particles is high as you and I think during the time I was doing an experiment we're as eating a lot of my calories were coming from saturated fat it was probably a supposedly a well formulated ketogenic diet but a coconut oil maybe some of us coconut oil but are etc but it was heavily loaded with saturated fat but I would love to read that article and because it's one of those things it's gone around the circles is it good is it bad but it is definitely something that's seen I think yeah IMean given how amazing we've made progress on this and how we've barely been out for an hour and we're almost done IMean I'm happy to expand on this just based on my observations because I'm sure someone's gonna end up asking anyway I've probably seen this now it doesn't times where either someone comes to me already on a ketogenic diet or we put them on a ketogenic diet and they develop this this change in their lipids now there are some people who will argue that it's trensient and it's gonna go away in you know a year or two years or whatever maybe so there are others that argue that it's irrelevant that the increase in the cholesterol synthesis and the LDL cholesterol and the total cholesterol is actually a good thing and there's some reason that they offer for that that I don't quite buy or understand but my view is all things equal until I know better I'm gonna assume at high LDL is probably problematic and more importantly the point is are there ways to reverse the diet and reverse the condition and figure out what was the component within the diet that was doing and was it the total fat was the subset of the fat et cetera and in God all but one of those cases of maybe a dozen when you just replace the saturated fat with mono-unsaturated fat even if they stay consuming a very high fat diet the problem goes away which has not that that's proof of anything but that really suggests to me that in those patients they're getting more saturated fat than they can process because you know I had one the first patient that I ever went through this with my first thought was dude we got to take you off this ketogenic diet man like I'm not we can play keto camp all day long but I'm not that comfortable with these numbers and he was like but you know I'm not going off a ketogenic diet like you know and he had all his reasons for why he you know felt better and performed better and all those things so I said okay well then we could keep you on a ketogenic diet but we got to I want to see what happens if your saturated fat goes from 75 grams a day to 25 grams a day and to do that you're gonna get really familiar and friendly with olives olive oil and macadamian nuts and he's like I don't care you know he was a young guy and he was he'd do anything he was kind of like a robot and so sure enough and like eight weeks of that change his LDLP went from greater than 3500 to you know 1200 same thing I had a lot of guacamole macadamian nuts that replaced the saturated fat and the numbers came down and everything else guiber take H.D.L. triglycerides all that stuff for sort of in the same ballpark as before but that LDLP came down yeah and I got to tell you IMean I'm sure that this will kick up a storm of people with you know very very strong religious like views on oh there's nothing wrong with an LDLP of 3500 and you know again I don't buy it because the other thing I don't buy is a lot of those times you'll see the oxidized LDL go up as well and and and how are we in the middle of it and some knuckle head dressed like rag racing on 79 I don't get that like it's not as grittuited as it was going to be so nice to think we should we should get involved wrap up the engines he likes cars we just need some jack cameras right now so yeah when I see the oxidized LDL and CRP go up as well which I often see with that then I think you know there's something else going on here this isn't just a cholesterol synthesis problem it's an inflammatory problem something is not IMean and look I wasn't that guy IMean I probably ate when I was in ketosis that's probably eating 200 grams a day of saturated fat maybe not quite that much maybe one 50 but I was eating a lot of saturated fat but I didn't have any of those response you know my CRP was really low my Triggs were not exist in my LDL particle number was probably around the 50th percentile you know 12 to 1300 animal per leader like I just didn't have any of those findings and again I see a lot of people who don't have those things so I don't know why some people have these paradoxical reactions but I also don't think it's safe to ignore them just because insulin levels have gone down and going back to oxidized LDL if you saw oxidized LDL going up my new be understanding of this is that oxidized LDL is in a sense L P little A so that L P little A well that's when it's oxidized phospholipid yeah so the L P little A picks up the oxidized phospholipids frame the lipoprotein from the LDL yep and then that L P little A particle itself is now carrying the oxidized phospholipids but that's not a oxidized LDL no the ox LDL assay is different from the ox PL assay the ox LDL assay works independent of how many apoAs you have okay I like to see that number below 40 again I think the lab likes to see it below 60 but I like to see that along with the L P P L A 2 which you alluded to earlier these are really local markers of inflammation and those are important because if you see a patient with an elevated C reactive protein should you be concerned about it IMean yes probably but thEQuestion is is it cardiac specific or not you can't really tell so that's why looking at fibernogen and C reactive protein and homocysteine and L P P L A 2 and oxidized LDL help you get a better picture of if there's inflammation how much of this do we think is going on locally at a vascular level you know versus some place else this is you know you see this all the time and people who have food insensitivities and things like that with respect to the fibernogen is CRP yeah it's a well probably throwing those figures you just mentioned that the L P PLA 2 and L P little A and then ox then there's another thing called it's the ox that is phospholipids over the apoB and in that paper it's a 2007 paper and I think Samica says the last author on it as well he's all over the place they show the hazard ratios and it's a J curve so that the very the lowest they call the sex style so they have they partitioned into six different groups on the lowest if you look at the hazard ratio the hazard ratios about two so the risk doubles if you have very low L P little A does he explain why he thinks that's happening I'm not I wonder if it's an artifact of apob being higher possibly the denominator going up which shrinks the total number I'll have to look at that and there are any other L P little A questions that came through the inner webs not through the inner webs well then I think we can bring to a close our inaugural chapter one chapter one vote on what you want to hear about any final words Bob it's interesting I knew about L P little A a little bit prior to Bonnaud's article in January and after doing some digging there's there's some other thoughts about this stuff that I'm sure we'll get into down the road but it's that proverb I think this seemed to lab quotes it says he says it's a Venetian proverb it says the further from the shore the deeper the water and so the more you dig into this the more you learn the less you know in a sense it's you sort of expose yourself to a lot of unknowns so it's absolutely fascinating and I think it it also gets to how most physicians don't even know about this stuff and you alluded to it and one of our conversations previously that there's this lag in terms of the medical knowledge and what's the accepted wisdom and the guidelines and things like that so I think L P little A is one of those cases that's just it's fascinating and it's the more you learn the less you know but the more you want to learn yeah and we're really as you pointed out earlier in our infancy of this thing yeah if we were just gonna put numbers to it I think five years ago I had 50% understanding like one unit of understanding to two units of perceived total volume of content today I'm at 10% understanding 10 units of understanding to 100 units of perceived total content so has my knowledge gone up in five years yeah it's gone up tenfold the problem is my appreciation for how much information is out there on this topic has gone up 50 folds so my relative insight has actually gone down fivefold what is that it sounds like the done in Kruger effect a little bit it's that when you know like just like the surface level that's when you're the most confident you think you know everything and then as you learn more it's like that done in Kruger it's like a you and then your confidence in your knowledge goes down hey welcome to the 24 hour news cycle cable TV and Twitter man I don't know if that's done in your Kruger but it's on the left side everybody's very confident well in summary I'd say the following if you're listening to this as a patient you should demand that you're LP little AB now and it's non-negotiable especially if you're a family history of a thosocratic disease if you're physician and this is your first exposure to it I hope that we've invited you to learn more and I hope that we've provided you with enough information that you're sufficiently curious and and we'll certainly make a point to link to this some of the what we think are more relevant things worth noting I think abouT3 days ago a nice CD 10 code was actually just issued for elevated LP little A that's a pretty big deal that's like one of the signs that it's not some little nerds only thing once you once you get your iCD 9 code issued or iCD 10 rather and if you are neither a patient nor a physician I don't know what you are and therefore this podcast probably is not for you you can find all of this information and more at peteratiamed.com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode you can also find my blog and the nerds of barri at peteratiamed.com what's a nerds of barriu ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-lame once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science, performance, sleep, etc. on social you can find me on twitter, instagram and facebook all with the id, peteratiamed but usually twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. Now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional healthcare services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk. The content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnoses or treat. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures. The companies I invest in and or advise please visit peteratiamed.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: #08 – Tom Bilyeu： nutrition, fasting, meditation, mindset, immortality, and fulfillment [82jm5CA9PyQ].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Peter Atia Drive. I'm your host, Peter Atia. The drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance, health, longevity, critical thinking, along with a few other obsessions along the way. I've spent the last several years working with some of the most successful top-performing individuals in the world, and this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you live a higher quality, more fulfilling life. If you enjoy this podcast, you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at PeterAtiaMD.com. In this episode, I interview my friend Tom Billew. Tom is the co-founder of Quest Nutrition. Many of you have undoubtedly heard of this. They make obviously quest bars and a number of other products, but I think quest bars are sort of what put them on the map and keeps them on the map. Tom is one of three co-founders, and I know two of the threEQuite well, including Tom. He's also the host of something called Impact Theory, which we spent quite a bit of time talking about. I knew a lot less about Impact Theory and his work there than I knew about Quest. His mission in creating this was to create this sort of idea of what he calls an empowering media-based platform for accelerating mission-based businesses. Tom is incredibly driven, and I think that comes across in this discussion. I've sometimes been accused of being a little too hyper, but when I'm around Tom, I actually sort of feel like I'm on Quay Ludes or something given how much he's just sort of salivating. And just so passionately jumping out of his seat to basically tell you about something that is generally really interesting and really, really helpful. He's just a completely driven mission guy. I learned a lot about Tom on this episode that I didn't know. I've known Tom for probably five years, maybe six years, but one thing I didn't know was that in the history of Quest, he basically interviewed virtually every person that was hired. And this is a behemoth company. And I'm not just saying that he was interviewing people who were applying for jobs in the C-suite. IMean, if you were applying for a job on the production line, Tom wanted to interview you, and he would always ask people the same sorts of questions. And there was onEQuestion in particular that he asked everybody I was actually kind of surprised by the answer. That in this sense, his time at Quest became a little bit of a laboratory for what he ended up doing later on and what he's doing today and where I think he's going. So in this episode, we're going to talk a lot about Tom's history with dieting and how he changed his views on fat and fasting. And he had quite a radical trensformation there. His Quest for immortality, which if you've ever heard me talk on this subject, I'm not convinced that that's desirable or plausible. But I certainly love hearing about others talk about it. His background and what led to the co-founding of Quest probably one of my favorite stories because it really speaks to following your bliss versus following the dollars, which I think many great entrepreneurs will tell you is their secret. What he describes is a growth versus fixed mindset. I think this is a really important concept. And I think it is worth paying attention to that. Why he would interview everyone. He talked to or hired at Quest. And again, I was surprised by that. That was a completely new fact. We talk about why he started impact theory and we talk about what fulfillment means to Tom. Now you'll be able to find a lot more information about Tom and some of the things that we talk about on the show inside the show notes, which will be at Peter at tiamed.com forward slash podcast. So without further delay, here is my discussion with my friend Tom Billy. Tom, yes. Thank you so much for inviting me to your lovely place. My pleasure, man. I wanted to get you on my show forever. So I know I feel like a real kind of jerk because you've been asking me for so long and I've been saying, yep, you up. And then I pulled the bait and switch and got you on the line. But good. I promise you if you still want me, I'm going to do it in a heartbeat. It would be amazing. Well, just before we started, IMet your wife for the very first time, which I'm shocked by. I still can't believe we've known each other this long and you've never met my wife. And that's what prompted me to remember that it was about five years ago. That Dom, Dagestino, and I came up to meet with, I think at the time, just you and Ron, well, the first meeting I think was even with just Ron. I remember coming back and he was like, oh, we're into fat now. And I was like, that just seems crazy. Because at the point, I was truly, truly rabbit starvation and had had massive success with it. And I did that because I was legitimately fat phobic. I was one of those dumbasses that was like, what's fat? Do you know what? Obviously it makes you fat. But that was me like, I already had a nutrition company at that point. That's the crazy part. So when I came back and I remember where I was and he was like, oh, yeah, we met with this guy, Peter Retilla, Dom Dagestino, and they really made me believe in fat. And I just thought, whoa, like, what a strenge new world I've walked into. And then it ended up changing my life. It's interesting because I've heard Ron say that many times. I've never heard you say what you just said. But I've seen video clips of Ron talking about this. And I can't believe that the meeting that Dom and I had with you guys could have had such an impact on a company that was already on quite a trajectory. Yeah. When you seek out disconfirming evidence, like when you actually want to know how you're wrong and you meet somebody that is really a smart and be just so well educated on a particular topic, it's like a fireworks moment. You long for those things. Because it's like, look, my sub optimal life has gotten me this far. Like I've already achieved all of this, living like a fool in some way that I'm as of yet unaware of. If I can become aware of that thing and then make different choices, then can my life be different. The reason that it had such a big effect is because that's how we look at the world. It's like, I want to know how I'm wrong. I want to know in what ways I'm suboptimal. And so you guys coming in and making such a compelling case for fat, I ended up trying it really soon after you guys came because the thing for me and I'm actually super curious to get your beat on where this is still. But at the time, you guys are saying, look, there might be some anti cancer properties. And so I am obsessed with, I don't know if we've ever talked about this, I'm obsessed legitimately with living forever. And what's the Woody on quote, I want to live forever by not dying. Not by having my works to go on. So I really, truly want to live forever. That's something that's captured my imagination since I was a little kid. So when you guys were talking about anti cancer properties, I said, all right, I got to give this a shot. And I did it and I hated it in ways you can't imagine I was doing a four to one. I was in therapeutic range. So my what ketone bodies were north of three and my glucose levels were like, low 60s if I remember right. And I felt so sick, like it was crazy. And I was warned, hey, there's the same called the keto flu. So when it was happening, I was like, well, hey, I found it. And I just thought, I just need to get through, you know, I forget how long I was staying therapeutic. But like, let's call it five days. I'm going to stay in the therapeutic range for five days. It's total misery, but like I can gut it out. And IMade it through and I was like, I'm never doing that again. It was so miserable. But in that time, I went from chronic risk pain. I'd been icing my wrists up to two times a day every day for 15 years. And I had like these little burn patches on my wrist from where the ice touch because I was just icing so frequently. It was crazy. And I was like to just get through the day. But I had lost all this weight dude. So I was 230 pounds. I go on a rabbit starvation diet, which all defined as ultra high protein, probably north of 80% of my calories were protein. And then just as little fat and as little carbohydrate as I could possibly intake. So I was doing basically a lot of steamed chicken breast with nothing but salt on it. And that was it. And I would eat basically, I don't know. I was probably, I would oscillate between 1200 and 1500 calories a day. And I did this for roughly two years. And I went from 230 to about 170 and lost 60 pounds. And it was pure insanity. And I looked so good dude. I was shredded best optical shape of my life. And I just wanted to stare at my abs a day. It was amazing. So I'm walking into this whole fat thing with that, right? Like 50 cents said I came into the game humble. Can't nobody tell me shit now. It's like when I got lean, I was like, I've got this figured out. Like there's nothing left. And I just, I thought I had a dialed in. I knew what to do and never once did it occur to me that that was making my wrist 10 times worse. And so when you guys came in and said hey, and to cancer properties, I do it. I hate it. But in the middle of all that, I realize my wrists don't feel better. They feel perfect. And I remember coming into work going, this is the worst experience of my life. It is so unpleasurable to be in therapeutic range katosis, not knowing how to supplement. But guys, it is like a drug like effect on my wrist. I'm never, this is crazy. And it's just eating. So I said I'm never taking fat out of my diet again. I was like there clearly was something to sell membranes, anti-inflammatory. Like there were all kinds of things about the importance of fat that I just wasn't appreciating. And now I'm experiencing it. So from that moment, whatever that was back in 2013, I've been now some variation of high fat low carb or true ketogenic. And when you were at 230, that was a relatively fit 230. I was working out hard. I was strong as an ox. I would have had no stamina. I wasn't doing any cardio. It was purely about strength. So it wouldn't be something that would impress me today. And when I see pictures of myself back then, I'm like a little grossed out because it's like, I got so my opically focused on getting bigger that I didn't realize how much of it was fat. And really went through a bit of bigger rexia during that phase. Where it was literally, if I saw food, I ate it. I just never wanted to miss out on like anything conceivably anabolic. I was all about it. And then I put a similar amount of obsession to losing the fat. And so then I lost a ton of muscle. And so wasn't nearly as strong anymore. But I looked awesome. So I went from thinking only about strength, to thinking only about aesthetics. And now I think about performance. And it's just changed everything. So you said something a second ago, which is pretty interesting and I opposed to you a thought experiment. So you said you want to live forever. Now what if I said to you, Tom, it is your lucky day because once in my life, I get to bestow on one individual immortality. And I offered it to you here right now. Would you take it? Yes, without question. All right. Now, you have kids? No. But you're married. I am the lovely wife. Yep. You have wonderful friends. Definitely. And they're all going to die. That's right. Would you still want to live forever knowing that everyone you know is going to die? And that to me is such a psychological trap that you of all people. You have kids. So if I granted you your children, not your spouse, just your kids. Would you want to do it? It's a very interesting question because so the short answer is I don't know the answer. I'm not convinced it's achievable. So I don't put a lot of time in thinking about something that I don't think is achievable. Though, maybe you'll talk me into thinking it is achievable. I take a little bit of a job, see an approach on this, which is there is something reasonable about death in that it's just closing the loop on the carbon cycle and it forces a little bit of urgency. There's a sense of you have to get something done. Now that said, I hate the thought of saying goodbye to life. IMean, I hate the thought of, so I'm 45. Let's assume I've got 50 more years left on this planet. I know how fast the last 31 by, like I remember being 15, like it was yesterday. And I know that the next 30 and the next 40 will feel quicker because they will occupy a smaller percentage of my relative timeline. So I realize that very soon I will die. So when I think of it that way, I think God, I just won one more year, one more year, one more year, but do I really want it to be a mortality? Would I ever want to bury my children when they were old? Now you won't want to bury your children, right? So that, and this is the legacy, fallacy trap for me. So people talk a lot about legacy. So I've decided not to have kids, right? So people are like, oh my God, but what about when you're older and on your deathbed, you're going to work so much when you think I wish I'd spent my time differently. And the answer is, of course, of course, every time you change your phase in life, your point of reference is now that phase. And so on your deathbed, you will instinctively see your life completely differently. But my thing is, why do you live your life the way that you did? Because in that phase of your life, that was the only way to live that made sense. So even if you're acting at a fear, you're in the middle of the fear, so the fear makes sense. So everything that you're doing has a logical movement to it. And so to live your life out of sync with where you're at in that moment, to try to hit a target, which is to feel good on your deathbed, to me is crazy. Because what that presupposes is that all along your experience of life was awesome because you were living for that moment on your deathbed. My thing is, optimize for the moment you're in now. I'll optimize for my deathbed when I'm on my deathbed. And I will try to do all the things that make being on a deathbed as acceptable as possible. Or maybe even as beautiful as possible to suddenly recognize the imminent death that is upon me and the trensience becomes the beautiful thing that I railed against for so long. But I know that I will have the frame of mind to find the beauty in it. I won't spend a lot of time lashing myself for all the alcohol I wish I had done that differently or now with this frame of mind. I can see things so clearly. I should have had kids, but right now in this moment, I fucking love my life. And so this morning after two hours of sleep, I couldn't fall back asleep because I'm so fucking excited to get up and keep working on a project. Now I forced myself to go to bed because I knew that after two hours midday I'm just going to crash. But that's the level of excitement I have for the things that I'm doing that I call work. So if you can build that into your life, then you're going to be okay. Here's how I think of kids. I want kids, dude. I really want kids. Would you take one of mine? If they're amazing, absolutely. I don't know. Somebody tells me you've raised them well, so you've gone past a lot of the hard stuff. I would. The only thing I want more than I want kids is to not have kids. So it isn't one is undesirable and the other desirable. It is that they are two very desirable things and by a slim margin one wins up. So what I think people need to focus on is construct your life around things, give you energy and feel you would joy. Look at deep sense of fulfillment. That's why I think a lot of people actually made the right decision to have kids. Kids to me from the outside seem like pretty instant biological fulfillment. You have a kid and there's a feeling that you get about having that child. You just can't manufacture any other way. And that's beautiful. And for people that either just want that kind of fulfillment or don't find fulfillment in anything else, kids seem like a really good plan. For me, I just found that I could build fulfillment into doing other things and it was incredibly gratifying. And I had big brother for a long time and that informed a lot of my decisions about the realities of the day-to-day of having a kid. It's amazing, but it's such a time consuming endeavor. Yeah, sometimes I realize I don't remember what it was like not to have kids. I think it's great when people like you can articulate that, hey, like not everybody has to do this thing. It's interesting that it's almost something people have to opt out of instead of opt into. It's sort of like become a default thing. If you don't have kids, like people are looking at you like why don't you have kids? But I think I understand what you're saying for sure. Now going back to the other question about immortality. So you obviously have a great sense of urgency and purpose about what you do. And again, I don't want to spend too much time on theoretical fun questions, but do you worry that if you knew you could live forever? Some of that urgency would go away, not even a little bit. So there's a book I read. Dude read this book. It's called Einstein's Dreams. And in that book, it's a bunch of short stories that explore the nature of time. And one of the explorations is a planet where everyone lives forever. And the world just breaks into two camps naturally. You've got people that do nothing because there's always time to do it tomorrow. There is no sense of urgency whatsoever. And then you have this other camp of people that do everything. Because they know I can actually stack all of these passions on each other. And that's sequentially one by one. I can get extraordinary. It everything I've ever wanted to be extraordinary about. And when I read this as like a 12 year old, I was like, oh my God, that is so me. Like I knew to the like visceral core of my being that that's how I would be given that opportunity. And then I was given that opportunity at least in the financial sphere of, you know, hey, what would I do if I never had to work again and what would my life look like? But I would be one of those people that just, you know, buy a Sniyle and retire a sip my ties or what I really go hard. And to me, the answer was so evident. Like when I finally had the money, the resources to do whatever I wanted, knowing I would never have to work again ever even if I lived for 200 years. I started moving faster because now I could do more of the things that I wanted to. I could delegate more. I could solve some problems just by throwing money at it. And so did I earn that state of being, which I like to think I earn all of the things about myself that I value, but maybe I didn't earn it. And maybe that's why it 12. It resonated so hard with me was just, I'm not one of those guys that's like, oh man, I don't know what I want from life and there's nothing I'm passionate about. Like there's so many things I'm passionate about, let alone just really interested in, let alone fascinated by. So for me, the battle is eternally, I don't have enough time. Encountering things that you really love doing, that really, really truly, you're just excited and it doesn't matter. Like I'll give you an example. So impact through in my new company, we're a narrative company. We tell stories. And one of the stories that we're about to put out to comic book, I'm so into writing this book into telling this story. And the world cup is on. And the team that I support because America didn't qualify is England. They were playing today. The game's going, everybody here is having a great time. And I stepped out to go work on the comic. And so I'm choosing between these two things, both, which film me with joy and passion and was so much fun. And I thought this is a good sign. When the thing that's technically work that is moving me towards a business objective is so much fun that I actually, I'll find myself like pulling away from this truly just a celebration and a game to go work on that thing. So structuring my life around things like that, make it very easy for me to say, definitively, if I could live forever, I would live forever. Now, it wasn't always rosy, right? IMean, I think I've heard a little bit about how Quest got started and what you guys were doing before and how you guys all knew each other. But what were you doing beforEQuest and what brought you, you, Ron and Mike together? Yeah, it depends on how far back you go. So I went to USC Film School. I was studying film. That was going to be my stick. And I cheated all the way through high school. I believe that was smart, but I didn't really have anything to back that up. My own mother, when I left for college, she finally admitted this years later, when I left for college, she just quietly assumed I was going to fail because I didn't show any signs of like being the guy. I promised myself, and I went to college, I would never cheat again. Because I thought this, I'm studying now, but I actually care about. I'm taking on tens of thousands of dollars of debt. It just doesn't make sense to cheat. So literally, as an incoming freshman, I said, A, RF, sinker swim. I'm going to do all my own work and it's just going to be what it's going to be because I need to actually learn this. And so go there. My SITs are a 990. I took a twice, so like you can imagine, I'm like barely getting into school. The film school wanted a 1300. I didn't have it. I go to the admissions committee. I'm like, what do I need to do to get in? They say, look, SIT just tells us how you're supposed to do in school. So if you apply as an incoming junior, we're just going to look at your trenscripts. And we don't care about your SIT. So at that, okay, cool. For the next two years, I have to get good grades. So I didn't date. I didn't drink. I didn't party nothing, man. Dude, all I did was work. And I got extraordinary grades. And I think probably about the time that I applied for film school again, I had a four point now. IMean, it's just absolutely murdering it. Remember, no cheating, nothing, just all me fucking hard ass work. And I get into film school and I start crushing it. And I'm doing great. And I'm like, oh my God, I'm the man. Like, I am so talented. This is crazy. And my dad's telling me I'm talented. Like, and I get to film school and I'm just proving it. Everyone's like, you're never going to get into film school. I got in. And only four people in your entire class get to direct a senior thesis film. And I was chosen. And I was like, dude, this is my life. I'm going to graduate with a three picture deal. I'm going to be the next deal, where this is insane. Like, it's all working exactly as I planned. And then my senior thesis film, I fucked up so badly that I stole the master because it was that embarrassing. And people were cutting clips of my film together into like these joke reels to make fun of it, to make fun of me. And it was emotionally devastating because I realized the truth. I'm not saying this to be humble. The truth was I didn't have talent. And that film made it abundantly clear. I didn't know what I was doing as in way over my head and finally this film was just elaborate enough to expose that I actually didn't know how to tell a story. And that was crushing because I had a fixed mindset. So I believe that you're either naturally talented or you're not. To me, you feel making was like, seeing, either you can see me or you can't. And all the trening in the world is only going to refine whatever talent you already have. So I was like, wow, well, I guess this is it. I'm not talented. I crash and burn. I am now flirting with depression. And I've graduated. My parents aren't helping me financially. I'm taking remedial jobs. And it's just like, and I, it was the period of my life, I call the King of remedial jobs period where I would only interview for jobs that I thought I would be smarter than the person interviewing me because I needed to feel smart. And I just believe my talent intelligence were fixed traits and life is about making the most of them. So I never wanted to be in a situation that made me feel badly about myself. And so that puts you in stupid places. So IMake college graduate selling video games retail. That was my life. And then I got a phone call on somebody who's like, hey, should come teach filmmaking. We need some people that help. And I went and taught and through teaching. And I'm truncating the story. But there's a lot of stuff ring in this part that I'm skipping over. But I end up teaching filmmaking and realize, whoa, I'm actually able to help make their films better. And if I can help them make their films better, why can't I learn and make my own films better. And so that became the seeds that would ultimately grow into a growth mindset. But at the time, and it had those words, I had some Tony Robbins. I was clinging into that for dear life. And the thing that really changed my life was, I don't know if you remember this. This would have been back in like 99 people really debating brain plasticity. And one side was like, it's total bullshit. Your brain done, capped out 12 or 13 somewhere around there, it starts a pruning process after that. You're not going to learn anything major. Now, I was like, oh, God, that would be dire. And then the other side was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, science is coming out. Guys, I'm telling you, the brain is plastic. You learn anything at any age. And I said, all right, I'm going to make a decision. I choose to believe that the camp that's saying that you can change is right. And so I started reading and reading and reading about the brain very racially to try to understand how it could change what I needed to do, what the process of getting better at something, what the neurological process of that was, like what are synaptic connections, how does the myelination process work. So and all of that stuff filled me with so much excitement that I could change. So, okay, I suck today. I don't have to suck tomorrow. I can just pour myself into this and get better and push and work. And so that's what I started doing right about that time. I encountered these two bodybuilder, meathead guys. And of course, immediately write them off as like, bodybuilders are done. And then they open their mouths. And I was like, Jesus, these guys are smart, man. And they were like, look, we're starting a new technology company and we need a copywriter. And I was like, well, you know, hey, that sounds amazing. Because their pitch to me was dude, look, you're coming to the film industry with your hand out. You need to get rich, control the resources, and then you can make films the way you want to make. And I'm, you know, whatever, 23, 24. And so I'm like, that sounds amazing. Let's do that. And so they thought it would take about 18 months. I was going to go help them build this technology company. They were going to sell it. And then I would have the money I needed to make films. And of course, it doesn't play out that way. And I go into first an amazing period where I'm learning to be an entrepreneur in a startup environment. In an ultra-grueling like, hey, don't be a fucking idiot. Get it done, kind of move faster or like that kind of doggy dog environment. But I ended up thriving in that and really getting strong, which is I needed to toughen up. I'm just going to be really honest. And it was exactly what I needed at exactly the right time. I believed I could change and grow. And IMet guys that helped me to a high-ass standard and push themselves and wanted to grow and get better. And they knew a lot about business. And so they just brought me into this pressure cooker environment and made a very similar offer to dozens of people. And they said, look, this is a startup. You know, any job in the company you want, you just have to become the right person for the job. Now for me, it was all about fighting to become a filmmaker. I just needed that money. So I went hard, hard, and just fought and clawed my way up. And ultimately was the only one's less standing. And what did that company do specifically? Awareness technologies made data loss prevention software. So if you had a company and this is all timing, right? So this is the early 2000s. So it was like, you have a company and you wereger employees are taking hip-a-data out because you're healthcare or you're worried that they're taking customer data out because the credit cards are still sort of the wild-wild west at this point. And people could just pop in a USB and take it out or they could email it out. So we made software that would allow you to say, okay, if it has this type of information credit card data, whatever, flag it and don't let the attachment leave, not via USB port, not via email or whatever. And I assume you're talking about Ron and Mike. This is just a idea. So you guys exit this company when? So that we started wrapping up around 2009. So in 2010, we launched Quest 2009, we bring on a new CEO who bought the company. And it was sort of a staggered exit. So he and I, the new CEO and I didn't see IDI. He didn't think I was very good at marketing and I thought he just didn't understand marketing. So I said, look, I'm going to go start our next company, which we actually offered him a percentage of vision because we didn't want him to sweat us working on it in the background. And he turned it down. Whoops. And so he goes on this firing binge, fires a bunch of people. And I said, you know, I think there's one more person we need to fire. And he's like, who's that? And I said, me. And he was like, okay, why? And I said, I don't, we don't see IDI. You think marketing is spreadsheets? I think it's storytelling. So we've got this new company that we told you about and I want to go be the first full-time employee. And so I was respectful and phased myself out and made sure that they were standing. But he agreed to let me go and let me add my contract. Mike and Ron stayed behind on contract for, again, it was staggered. But for a year, I was operationally on my own building the company up. And that's how I exited that. And then they finally exited. It was like a year later for I think Ron came first and then another six months in Mike was there. What was the input is for starting quest? What age were you guys scratching? So I can only speak for myself on this one. And I'll say that when we were building awareness technologies in the beginning, it was learning so much about being an entrepreneur, it was insanely empowering. And it was just giving to me, giving to me, giving to me. And then I sort of was hating what I was doing so much that whatever knowledge I was gaining, I was still being eroded. And I used to tell my wife, it's shipping away at me. Like I'm just not having fun. Like this is so miserable. And so it was taking more energy than it was giving. So it was getting drained every day. I never wanted to talk to my wife about what I did. So I'd come home and she'd be like, what we up to today. And I'm like, I don't want to talk about it. Like I just didn't want to think about it anymore. It was just soul sucking because I didn't care about the product. There was no us in the product. Like we were just trying to make something we used to joke. It was a company that was born to be sold in the slavery. Like we just wanted to get rid of it. Like from the jump. It was never something that we believed in. We actually did VC pitches where we said, don't worry, you guys can get rid of us. We don't care. We don't have an ego about this. This and I quote, this company was meant to be sold in the slavery. We actually said those words multiple times, not realizing to a VC. That makes you sound like an asshole who just wants to get out of the company. I'm not going to trust you with my money wisely. So so just couldn't get it for a long time. Couldn't get any money raised. So anyway, it's robbing for me. And I'm by this point, they've given me 10% ownership in the company. The companies were like 22 million at a tight. So I'm like, I'm a multIMillionaire on paper. And I'm just like, I'm so unhappy. I'm living the cliche of money camp. I happiness. So I go to my wife and I said, look, I know I promise that I would make you rich. And I'm going to, but I'm going to need to go backwards for a minute. So we can go forward. And I said, I need to do something that makes me feel alive. Like I just can't keep doing this. It's so miserable. And so she was like, yeah, I haven't seen you this unhappy in a long time. Like do whatever you need to do. So I went in and quit. And now when the story, it sounds kind of cool because of how it ends up working out. But at the time, I was ashamed because I was like, I just can't do this anymore. I'm so unhappy. And I had told them anything within my code of ethics, I will do to build this company period. And I realized it's just not true. Like when it's stealing my life from me, it wasn't worth it anymore. So I went in and I said, guys, here's your equity back. I'm not going to cross the finish line. I don't want to get anything for this. You could sell the company tomorrow for a billion dollars. You will never hear from me of sound mind and body. I am walking away from this. And I'm leaving you in the lurch. And that's exactly how it feels to me. And so they were stunned and taken it back. And I drove home. And I'm literally pulling into the driveway. I'm on the phone with my wife. I did it the hard part. The two guys who I love, they are my brothers. And I just said, I'm leaving. And the phone rings and it's them. And I'm like, hold on a second. Let me take this. And I click over and they're like, come out to dinner with us. I go out to dinner and they're like, look, you caught us by surprise. The reality is we could do this without you. But we don't want to. And that let me connect to something other than the money. Up until that point, it had just been like, we're doing this for the money. For the money, for the money, I'm going to make money. I'm going to get rich. I'm going to go make movies. And then it was the thing I really care about in this. I care about the brotherhood. I care about the camaraderie. I want to build something of value. I want to build something I'm passionate about. And so I'd already done the hard part. I'd already quit. So I was like, if you guys want to work with me, then it would have to be fundamentally different. It would have to be a different company. We'd have to be building something we care about. Something we're passionate about. Something that the mother Teresa Quotter, at least it's attributed to her. No one will act for the money. But people will act for the one. So I was like, I can show up every day thinking about my mom and my sister who are morbidly obese. I far too soon, if we can't solve this problem. Because Ron was like a nutritional freak at this point. And he was just into it and he'd help me trensform my physique. This is like in the middle of me losing all the weight. And I think I got it figured out. And I thought, whoa, with what he knows about human metabolism and nutrition and my passion for marketing. And I've got this whole new vision that's going to leverage this thing that's is now called social media. But wasn't called that back then. And I just saw this vision. I can your boy Tim Ferris, who I read his book and he introduced me to Kevin Kelly's notion of a thousand true fans. So I became obsessed with this notion of a thousand true fans. I'm going to find a thousand true fans and I stop reading email. Thank you again, Tim, the T Ferris for that one. I haven't read email in any meaningful way since that book. And so I was like, I'm going to go off. I'm going to market this way. I pulled Mike and Ron into a conference where my game this whole pitch. It's easier just to explain the way I'd say it now. These weren't the words I was using back then because we didn't have these words. But guys, look, social media is going to change everything. It's going to allow people to build community. All it is is a megaphone. If you give people a reason to say something good, they'll say something good. And if you give them a reason to say something bad, they will say something bad. But if we can build a company around value creation about building community, not trying to hawk product, actually bring these people together, help them because most of them want to lose weight, help them lose weight, make the missianavar company to end metabolic disease. Like all of the sudden, we can really do something. People will know who we are as people. I was obsessed with that. I was like, I want to be me today. I would say I want to be authentic. Back then, I was just like, I want our personalities to shine through. I want people to know who we are. Company shouldn't be nameless, faceless organizations. This should be real people and you should really feel them in the copy on the website. In the content that they put out. And I know how to tell stories. Let us tell stories to these guys. So we started building just totally different infrastructure than any company out there. We made our own content studio. We were creating all of our own content. We were essentially telling stories. What does the brand mean? What should it mean to you? And that ended up because we were so early in the game of social media, we just exploded. Yeah, it's kind of amazing. And I remember the first time we met, which I guess would have been 2013. So you guys were certainly you would see a quest bar here and there in a store. But nothing like you do today, of course. But I really remember you explaining this at the time. And me sort of not getting it, which was, and I don't even remember back then, like, what were your main social media channels? Was it mostly Facebook? Was Instagram around? I don't even remember. Didn't even exist. I remember that came out. Wow. So this was all through Facebook. All through Facebook a little bit of Twitter. And then probably your two Instagram started to be a thing. And then we started putting more and more resources and then Instagram exploded. And Instagram really carried a lot away in the fitness community because it's so visual. So that was a huge win for us. When did you realize that this thing could work? This thing being quest? Well I knew it could work from the jump for what I wanted, which was I wanted to love what I was doing every day. I wanted to feel like I was sort of going to battle a righteous battle with my two brothers who I cared deeply about and thought they had just amazing skills that would just be incredibly valuable in what we were doing. And I felt ready as a marketer. I felt like I understood something that nobody else understood. I felt that we could move fast. And I felt that we could serve our customer well. And that was it. And I believed because we always talked, we were a food company. We didn't look at it as a supplement company or a bar company. We were a food company. And we were going to end metabolic disease. We wanted to make meaningful contributions to the world of how food is made, source, process, understood, eaten like all of it. And even just looking at the kinds of imagery we were putting out there. We went so against veins and chains. So the body building industry up until that point was literally guys with massive muscles, huge veins wearing chains. And that was everywhere, everywhere had that image. And we thought, oh man, we're going to focus on food. I became obsessed with this certain color blue, which I thought was appealed to men, appealed to women. It was like this beautiful optimistic, creative color. I did all this research on what blue means to people on how it hits the retina. And literally it became like a natural stress point because it was hard to get the right color. But then it becomes this iconic color, the whole industry starts copying it. It was bananas. But like going contrary, like I heard, I don't remember where I heard this, but they said, if you really want to be successful, you have to be a contrarian and you have to be right. And we were a contrarian and we were right. And so because of that, it just everything went nuts. And so looking at everything differently and building a company that we were excited about in a new way, taking care of customers, it was just yeah, it was crazy. And you've been now doing impact theory for two years? Just under, yeah. So talking about that trensition and tell me a little bit about what impact theory is. IMean, I think I have some idea, but my guess is I'm probably missing a few of the details and also the understanding of when you decided, hey, it's time to go do this other thing full time because this was obviously a passion for you always. Yeah. So to understand impact theory, you have to understand Rashan Jackson. And when I was in college and desperately trying to get good grades, I had a teacher offer extra credit to go tutor in her city kids. And so I said yes. And they, of course, give you the most problematic kids you can imagine. So they gave me this young, probably drug and alcohol impacted hyperactive kid who was hyperactive on the level I'd never seen. The kid was bouncing up the walls all over the place was crazy. And my job was to get him to do his homework. And so for the first hour, he would cry and scream and freak out and run around and get him fights and just go nuts. And then when I would say, all right, hours up, I got to go. Then he would become so sweet and sloppy and he would cry and just beg me to stay and help him. And so like a sucker, I would stay. So he'd give me for two hours. And so around like week four, week five, I realized this kid's trolling me. Like he knows, he gets an extra hour. If he ignores me for the first hour and then a sweet and sweetness and light, the second hour. So as starts getting really annoying for me because I've got so much work to do. And on week six, you're supposed to tell him, hey, I'm only coming for two more weeks because it's a night week program. So weeks six, I tell this kid, only coming for two more weeks just so you know, and he flipped out. He went to see nuclear is eight at this point. And just just goes bananas. And he was really small because he was on Riddlein or something and so stunned and discross. So he's just tiny, tiny for his age. And he went up and just slug this kid who was like, no joke three times the size. I just never seen like pent up rage like that. And I was like, wow, I finally get him under control. I get him back and I'm like, is this because I said I was only coming for two more weeks? And he says through sobbing hysterical tears. Yes. So I said, look, because now I'm fed up with the whole just like drama routine. And I said, if and only if you do your homework, the moment I get here as long as I live in Los Angeles, I will keep coming and helping you with your homework. And so we agreed and that turned into an eight and a half year relationship. And I ended up becoming far more than just a tutor and he becomes an integral part of my life. And I his and I didn't know it at the time. But he was being abused at home and he ends up getting taken away by the police. And he makes me the guardian of the court. And I have to help him through the court system and into foster care. IMean, like that's how intertwined our lives became. And then I'm young and poor at this point and they move him farther and farther away. And I never really felt like I was able to help him because I was so young and stupid. And the only thing I really knew how to do was to show him that there's a life he never sees. So I would take him to see movies and Beverly Hills because I was like movies cost the same. But I can at least take him to a beautiful neighborhood. That left a really lasting mark on me and my personality and it planted a seed. And then flash forward 10, 15 years later, I'm at Quest. I now 1,400 employees and about 1,000 of them grew up hard just like this kid Rishan. And I realize I have an opportunity to help make their lives better. But how? And so we start thinking of the same called Quest University. And it was meant to be making protein bars as your tuition. But really learn the things you need to learn to go and have a better life. And so I write the 25 bullet points, which are the 25 things I had to do to my mind to go from laying on my un furnished apartment floor. Flirting with depression, not knowing how I was going to do anything with my life. You only totally had a control hopeless and lost to building a billion dollar brand. I knew exactly what I had to do. The changes and beliefs, the thought patterns, everything that I had to do. And so I started giving that to people and trying to help them. And people would come to me and like these are thugs dude. Like tattoos up the neck, tear drop tattoos, grown men coming to me in tears. You care more about my success and my own mother. I have hope in my future for the first time ever. Like people moving up, one guy comes off the line and ends up working in our tech department. Because I showed him how to like learn tech on the side. IMean, just crazy. So many stories like that, absolutely extraordinary. And I was like, when I'm at my most honest, I love helping with the body. But when I'm at my most honest, helping with the mind is what I'm meant to do. And so I thought we're doing all of this for the employees. Let's create a show. We'll call it insidEQuest. And I'll interview because what I feared and I remember when I did it, I said, my big fear in writing these 25 things down. They hung in the wall. It was like a whole thing. My fear in writing them down is that you'll memorize them, but you won't live by them. And so I wanted to bring other successful people in that I knew just because they're universal laws of success. I knew would say roughly the same thing over and over and over. And these guys, it's okay. It's not just that. It's all these people that are saying the same thing. And so that became really important. And so I'm pouring myself into making that great in an effort to really do something amazing for the employees. And then at this time, we end up having just the incredible financial windfall at a personal level that we'd all fantasized about since the day we got to business. And I realized all of the sudden, you know, we're in a very fortunate position where the three of us have the financial wherewithal, we don't always have to agree on everything. We don't always have to move in the same direction. The company would be very stable now without me. They didn't necessarily, they being run a mic, didn't necessarily have my level of excitement for doing the mind. And our consumer base was asking, why the hell's the protein bar guy talking about mindset? So it was a total brand disconnect. And I looked at him thought, given enough years, I can get people to change the way that they think about this brand. But are my partners going to want to share in that horrific cost as I shift the brand to fit what I want to do. And it didn't seem like a fair thing to drag them through. So, you know, I said, look, this is something that is important enough to me that I have to do it in my life. So we agreed to part ways at that point and build things the way that we see fit. And so I took the studio that we had built inside of Quest and spun it out into a standalone company that's now in Pack Theory. We create both what I call non-fiction content, stuff like this, interview shows, and then fiction content. So we've got our first comic book coming out that we helped to turn into film or TV. So how much of what you learned in film school figures into what you do today? A lot a lot. So film school is psychology with and put the camera here for best results. Once you understand that, that your job is really to take the audience on an emotional and ideological ride that at the end they're entertained, but at least from my perspective, also enriched and look, most films don't worry about the second part. That's an obsession of mine. But when I think about the things that really shape my life, it's the stories I tell myself about myself and it's the stories that I identify with and make the dominant metaphors in my life. Joseph Campbell said, if you want to change the world, change the metaphor. So I've lofty visions of what can be impacted through art. I heard a quote the other day though, that is very sobering and definitely keeps me thinking about ways to really impact people. And he said, if you want 300 years of Shakespeare has not stopped genocide, then what hope does art really have. And I think that's a fair point. But I think that we're living through a time today where you can marry the non-fiction, the direct, the explanatory, with the metaphorical. Because I think the big problem is that the belief in the metaphors dropped out in Joseph Campbell, again, talks about this and says, part of the reason that you get these stunted adolescence is because there's no ritual driven by belief that the ritual has deep meaning. So people aren't different from childhood to adulthood without those trensitional rituals. And same with divorce. And he said, I think a big part of the divorce rate is that people don't have these trensitional rituals. And so I took that really seriously. And when I got married, I went through a ritualistic scarification because I wanted to be a different man the day before my wedding than the day after. And I can't tell you how many times that's really like reminded me going through something painful that was difficult made me think of myself as different and begin telling myself a different story that I'm married now. So say more about that. What did you do exactly? When I put it into normal terms, it won't sound as cool, but I got a tattoo. Now for me, tattoos were not something I wanted. I don't like tattoos. I have a thing for tattoos. I have exactly one and that was the one that I got as a ritualist, ex-carification. I was definitely afraid of needles at the time. Definitely afraid. So for me, it was facing my biggest fear, doing something that was painful with this thing that held some sort of mythical element of terror in my life. I think of you an idea. I was one of those guys that when I had injections in my wrist at one point, I almost fainted. And I wasn't even looking because the thought of a needle penetrating my skin freaked me out that much. So that's where I was when I got the tattoo. It was the scariest thing I could think of within the realm of reality. I didn't go swimming with great white sharks. Okay, that obviously would be far more terrifying. But within the plausible realm of this isn't potentially dangerous, it was the worst thing I could think of. And so doing that, having to face that fear, having to do that, ended up being really important for me trensitioning out of being single to being married. I've heard you talk before about money. And it's something that I've certainly asked a number of my patients, one of the privileges of medicine, I think there are several. But one of them I think is that you form relationships with people where you can ask very intimatEQuestions. And sometimes they're not just about their health, it's about their happiness. And even though my patient population is quite small, given the affluence of some of my patients, I've had interesting discussions with people about how wealth does and doesn't impact their lives. So I guess even though you're not my patient, I'll ask you basically the same sort of question, which is, did you feel different the day after your liquidity event? No. And that's the weirdest part. Here's exactly what it was from me. And I think this is near universal. When I looked when I was poor and all through my childhood, I looked at people that had money and I had adoration for them. It just seemed so cool. And I thought that in some way, they were better than me or certainly in a better place than me and that made them in some ways better, certainly more desirable to be like that. And so looking at them, you meet them with a bit of reverence. And so in the back of your mind somewhere is this notion that when I get money, I will have that adoration for myself. And I will have that sense of reverence for myself. And you think that somehow, like all the insecurities that you have will be washed out by that reverence and adoration. And it's not. And you realize that you feel exactly the same the next day. And the easiest way I can explain it is to say that it's like losing your virginity. Before I lost mine, I legitimately thought like colors would be brighter. I would just be somehow a fundamentally different person. And then I had sex and was like, oh, that was rad. I loved it, but I'm not a different person. And that was exactly how I felt with the money. It was rad, dude. Money is better than people think. It's more powerful than people think to be certain. But it's not at all what people have been told. It's not going to impact how you feel about yourself. It is merely going to extend your capabilities. You will suddenly be able to facilitate things you wouldn't be able to facilitate money is essentially inert. Right? There's a bit of heat energy to a dollar bill that you could release by burning it. But short of that, the money in and of itself is inert. But it can facilitate things. Now, if you have a clear vision of what you want to facilitate and it's a problem that can be addressed with money, suddenly money becomes insanely powerful. And if you really want to think about how powerful money is, think about how much of your own life is determined by what you get paid to do. Now imagine controlling that money and you realize that you're able to aim incredibly intelligent, capable people at problems you want solved. It's not even necessarily the problem they want solved. So that gets really, really interesting. And then if you can help them fall in love with what they're doing, if you can give them a supportive environment, if you can make sure they know that we're all equals here. We have different roles, but we're all equally important that their voice is desired, that they're there because you want to hear from them. Then it's like, holy hell, I know I only get their attention because I'm willing to pay them. But now that I have their attention, I can create this ecosystem, this environment for them to thrive in, we can do some pretty extraordinary things. It seems like one's motivation around money can change because certainly I'm guessing when you were young or when you were, let's say right out of college, right? You're sort of at a low point. It sounds like we didn't go too much into it, although that's the kind of stuff I enjoy talking about. It's the pain and the humiliation of that experience. And at that moment, my guess is you would have thought, give me a bunch of money and my problems go away. And maybe I'm wrong, but I don't get the sense that at that moment you would have realized that that wasn't true and at best that money would have given you the opportunity to go back and do what you loved. That it was your own hands. Those are different things, right? Very. Yeah, yeah. Unfortunately, back then I was chasing money all out because I thought it would solve all of my problems. And I thought it would make me cool as hell. I just thought it would be so cool, dude. I thought I'm going to be the man. I want to fast car. I want to Lamborghini. Like I want the every blingy thing that you can imagine. I wanted it all. And I fantasized about it. Whenever I thought about money, the only thing I thought about was what it could buy me. That was it. And how cool people were going to think I was. How cool I would think myself. Yeah, that was the nature of money to me. Who do you consider a role model in people who have taken great wealth and put it to Max Momen fact Elon Musk? No question. He's probably, I really want to think about this. He's probably one of the few people that legitimately makes me feel badly about myself. And like makes me sweat when I think about like, oh, could I really do that? Like I like to think I can do anything Peter. But woof, spinning that many plates at one time. Eikes. I don't know that I process raw data fast enough. That's the gods on his truth. And so let's consider one of those things which is SpaceX. Yeah. You used to be an engineer. So I'm pretty impressed by the kilo to dollar ratio of payload. Sometimes I still can't believe it's happened. IMean, what they've done. Have you ever been to C.O. launch? No. Have you? I have not. I have a couple of friends who have. I'd love to. Yeah. I've really cool videos out there. Yeah. Seeing the videos, the videos are amazing. Have you taken off the landing? And you've seen the videos where like you have to wear the correct headphones to be able to actually know. Oh, yeah. There's a guy on YouTube. Maybe we can find it for the show notes. But there's a really cool video where you can actually hear, you just get an amazing auditory experience basically. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, yeah. I've actually not that recent. I feel like it was in the lasT3 or four months. Yeah. Pretty impressive. Yeah. I think I talked about how space X could be a trillion dollar company, which is pretty interesting. I don't know that, you know, it's funny when I went to college, I wanted to be an aerospace engineer. So I'm obviously pretty interested in that stuff. But, and this is going to sound like a complete sort of poo poo on the whole thing. But, I'm so much more interested in like what's happening on earth and what's happening in space. And I don't know when that trensition took place. But as interesting as I think that stuff is intellectually, I just think emotionally, I feel much more curious about what's happening right in front of me. And I'm also equally amazed at things that we don't know that are so close. Like, you know, because I used to spend so much time swimming, I'm kind of amazed by the ocean, which is like, you know, if you think about it, and it's deepest point, it might be what? 12, 14 kilometers deep. That's a trivial distance. You could walk that in and after and in. But when going straight down, that's a depths of unknowns. Like we can't even fathom. Two types of organisms that don't even require sunlight. That kind of stuff. So by selecting Elon as your example, it's sort of like saying, look, there are lots of incredibly wealthy people, Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, many of these folks who have, you know, and people who are less well known like John Arnold, who through philanthropy have done remarkable things. But Elon has done it through building companies that are kind of paradigm shifting. IMean, that's an overused term, but I think it's safe to say that for his stuff. So what is the paradigm you want to change? I want to make sure that no human being on the planet fails to encounter an empowering mindset. That's what I'm all about. And so meeting kids in the inner cities and I'll tell you a story. So I used to interview everybody. If you got a job at Quest, I interviewed you. Whether you were the EVP of global sales or you were the janitor, you interviewed with me. And so that meant that I went through a phase where all I was interviewing was people working for the production line, which naturally draws people from lower income brackets. And I started asking just because I wanted to really understand like what motivates you. Because my thing was I never wanted to hire somebody into a parasitic relationship where I was going to get their time. And essentially gives them very little money when you really think about it and exchange for that time. And so I thought, wow, they're going to spend 50% of their waking hours with me. And I'm going to give them not enough money. And I didn't feel good about that relationship. Now you can't build the business just by throwing money at everybody. So what else could I do to add value to people's lives? So it was like one thing, I can hire people who there is a secondary thing that they can learn from us. And then they can go on and do that thing. So they can build their skills set up the example I gave earlier of the Katie wanted to learn technology, awesome, came in, busted ass, made a lot of protein bars. Also, we helped him get a job in tech within our own company. And then goes on to start his own tech company. It was crazy. So I was looking for people like that. I wanted to know what's that next thing? I know that you don't want to spend the rest of your life working a protein bar line. So what's the next thing that you want? And if I really believe that I can help you get there, then our selfish desires are aligned. We can work together to make something amazing happen. And I would rather have you for three or four years. And you believe that I'm making your life better every day than to have you for 20 years. And you hate every bit of it. The way that those two people will work is so dramatically different. Just to be clear, part of your motivation is also selfish. It's like I'm going to get way more out of you in four years on a per unit basis, a productivity basis than 20 years where you're going to stay here forever, but you're not happy. And then part of it is sort of altruistic. Yeah, I'll even say it's all selfish. So I don't think selfish is necessarily a bad thing. I just think that we all live life from our perspective or motivated by certain things. I like to see other people win. I'm wired for it. So I remember when I was like six or seven in an Easter egg hunt, I pretended not to see some Easter eggs because I knew winning meant a lot more to my sister than it did to me. So I pretended not to see them. She found them and she won and she was very happy. So that's just me. I just like to see people that I care about happy and having a good time. So that's part of it. I'm wired for that. So I know that I'm going to be stoked if I see that they're having a good time. And then I want to build a big company. Make a whole lot of money. And the only way I can do that is by convincing extraordinary people to come work for me. And then make it a great environment where they don't want to leave. So yeah, I don't mind people saying that it's entirely selfish. Fine. If it's good for people, I'm okay with that. This became your lab. IMean, I didn't realize this. You interviewed every person you hired. So I've interviewed north of 1500 people, which doesn't sound like a lot when you think of all the things you do 1500 times. Until you go to interview 1500 people and you realize Jesus, this is a lot of people. So yeah, years of my life were spent interviewing. We were growing back then. What did you learn from that process that surprised you the most? Yeah, this is a punch line to thEQuestion that you actually asked in wanting to find out what is your real desire? I started doing this magic geniEQuestion. So you can ask for anything that you want, anything at all, got to be something self or so can't be the cure cancer or bring somebody back from the dead and you can't ask for more wishes. So what do you wish for? And I wanted to just get like that truest thing that they really want. And Peter, two a person, remember, I interviewed hundreds of people, two a person, they all said the exact same thing. What are the odds that like, let's just say that that particular question I asked 300 people? What are the odds that every single one of them without exception will give you the same answer? Well, if you're not leading them or asking thEQuestion to each of them at a point in the discussion that was equivalent. So you're priming them. I would say the answer is the probability is incredibly low. Okay. So I'm leading them just enough that we narrow the world down for sure. Otherwise this really would be like a magic trick because almost to a person this was less universal but almost to a person the first answer was I want a job which I know is bullshit. They're saying that because they are there for an interview. So I would say, okay, I get that a lot of people give that to me is their first answer. So this is now me leading them and I say, why do you want the job and they would say for money? Okay, rad. So is it fair to say you would ask the manager, Jeannie, for money? Yes. So none of this is weird to me. The weird part is when I say give me a number and every single one of them every single one I never once got a variation gave me the same number and the number was a billion dollars. A billion dollars. Peter, what the fuck are you going to do with a million dollars? You can't buy a house in LA for a million dollars. Let alone be set up for a life. It's a magic Jeannie. Now I've thought about the magic JeanniEQuestion a lot and if you're asking for money you've already wasted your ask but fair enough like I spend a lot of time thinking about the magic Jeannie but the fact that they all asked for a million dollars was crazy to me. And the first time I heard it I thought, well, that's weird. The fifth time I thought, man, how is it possible? Five people have said the same thing. Around number 10 I actually thought my team was fucking with me and that they had started telling them ahead of time to do it just to like mess with me. By the time we got to 25 I realized something about humanity that you only dream is big as you think and you only think is big is what you see. So if what you see around you is that everyone's wishing and thinking about a million dollars because that seems like an impossibly large amount of money you never go my dream and life is the Terraform Mars. You never think that big. You're stuck at a million dollars. It would never occur to you that you can Terraform Mars because your thinking is so limited by what you've seen. And I thought, whoa, if I could just give them my mindset overnight because I'm interviewing people that are smarter than me and I'll define smart as the ability to process raw data quickly. Okay. Does that seem like a reasonable definition? It seems like one component but I don't know the definition of smart. I would certainly include that in it but let's grant that that's the definition we use for the moment. So I would come across people that blew me away. They could just think faster than me. They could see all the different permutations of a given problem and come up with a solution that was well thought out more intricate than I could. And so I thought, okay, well, my success isn't predicated on intelligence. It's definitely partly hard work but I work hard because I have a certain belief in a mindset that I can that my efforts will be rewarded. So I started thinking, okay, humans lead with belief. It's because I believe that I can get better at something that I'll pour myself into it but they don't believe that they're going to get that results so they don't. They don't believe that they could ever get $100 million dollars. A billion dollars, $100 billion a trillion. That's not real to them. So even though we're talking to a magic genie, they don't think that big. So it was crazy. Push them and really ride them. They'll work their way up to 10 million. But nobody ever goes a billion a trillion. There's done. So I was like, wow, I became obsessed with how do I codified my mindset, what I've done over the last at that point, like 12 years of just trening myself to think a certain way, how do I impart that to people? And that is still my obsession. So that's what I'm hoping can be done through story. And when you read Home of Deus and Sapiens, it just really understanding how narrative is so massively influential and that the dominant narratives that we use are all religious. And then you look at how I think the bottom is falling out in terms of belief in a lot of their religions for a lot of people. And you just go, okay, well, what's the ultimate punchline when people no longer have a metaphor that they put any weight in, they have no belief in, then it really becomes a documentary. And my life is what my life is. I know it because I see it. That scared me because now if you can only envision what you're living, you can't even turn to the Bible to see extraordinary acts. You can't thEQuran, the whatever, to a movie, something to have some vision of something that's bigger than what you've done. And I thought could we use storytelling to give people a way to think in the way that the matrix gave me a way to think. And so that became the obsession. It's funny. I was thinking about it. But what would I ask for in the geniEQuestion? And it's so interesting that I wouldn't think to ask for money, which is not to say that I wouldn't love to have more money because of the reasons we described. It would be amazing to be able to amplify the things I want to do, the first thing that jumps to my mind is like the type of laboratory I'd want to have. And how I hate the fact that all of the best scientists that I interview for my book and for the podcast and just folks from my friends, IMean, they spend 50% of their time fundraising. And I imagine a world where like you could create like a true institute where you're going after high risk trenslational problems with infinite resources. So let me tell you, if the genie would give me the dollars, I'd be happy to take them. But I actually think the first thing that comes to my mind would be some form of fulfillment. Because at least money, you sort of know it can be got. But fulfillment strikes me as one of the hardest things to find. Again, maybe I'm biased by what I see clinically, which is people who have more money than they could ever spend. I've actually had one patient say to me, it's almost impossible to spend more than $600 million in your lifetime. That was the number. I remember that was like, you know, anything over 600 million is just a waste. Like you can't possibly spend it. That is a failure of imagination. I assure you. IMean, look at the Elon Musk. Come on. Like even just to pour 600 extra million into each one of his three companies, he could be well, I think this person was saying through like expenditure on, you know, like, willingly stuff. But interestingly fulfillment seems to be something that's missing. I certainly don't think I know fully what it means. I think I've had moments where I've experienced it. But it's interesting if it's a real magic genie, can you imagine what that would feel like? Yes. Can I give you my secret formula? It's a fulfillment. I would love to hear it. So one fulfillment is a neurochemical state. So there's no possibility of a flatline. So there's no way you're just going to have it forever. I think that it ebsom flows with the movements of a day. But having said that, I think that fulfillment comes from becoming someone that you're proud of building a skill set that was incredibly hard to build. That serves not only yourself, but other people. So you're doing the hard things. You're not doing things that would be deeply pleasurable and in building your identity around not doing things that are pleasurable in order to become extraordinary in order to serve other people. I think that's the name of fulfillment. When I think about the times where I feel just fucking awesome, it is because I did something really hard while other people were playing. It made me more powerful in the way that I define it, which I can't believe powers become a dirty word. Power to me is close your eyes, imagine a world, a better world. The world you want to create, open your eyes and have the ability to manifest that. That's power. So Mother Teresa had power. She was able to do things. That is what leads to fulfillment. That's what the Greeks called technique. It's not enough to go to a little superdicision, right? That should. That's pleasurable. It feels good. But it isn't fulfillment. Because you didn't earn any special ability to do that. Now fulfillment is the guy that worked at Toyota that came into the soup kitchen and said, I'm going to improve their efficiency. So more people get fed. He increased their output by like 40 or 400% on how to foreign it. But it was like massive. And I thought that's fulfillment. He worked his ass off. I'm sure there were a ton of days at Toyota, where he was like, what am I doing? Why am I doing this? But he gained the set of skills. It was insanely powerful. He put them to use in soup kitchen. Now that feels good. That's fulfillment. So getting people to a place where they can learn that the cool stories are the stories that while you're in it suck. When I heard your story, a swimming around Catalina Island, that sounded like actual madness to me. When I heard that you swam from Catalina back to the mainland, that sounded crazy. And the same thing with doing the one in Hawaii. I was like, these are my greatest fears. Open waters, my greatest fear. And I thought, but that's why he gets to feel good about himself because he did those things. It's in the hard stuff. It's not the easy stuff. That is interesting. I certainly agree that it's very hard to be fulfilled if you are not in the service of someone else at some point. In other words, I think obviously you have to be in service of many things and others being only one of them in service. For many people, I think that might be part of the relational joy that they experience in having kids is for a great period of time. You are in service of those kids. In fact, sometimes it seems like you're in service of them too much. And you don't get a break from that. But you don't have to have kids to obviously be in service of another person. Yeah, I don't know. I really find this question of fulfillment and true relational joy to be interesting. And we're in sort of a weird time, right? Because I was talking to a friend of mine who's a psychiatrist, I actually hope to have him on the podcast at some point because this is a discussion that it's probably going to be a controversial discussion, but I think it's an important one, which is, is that there any evolutionary basis for suicide? So that's question one. And thEQuestion two is, do we believe that we are seeing on an age-adjusted mortality adjusted basis? Are we seeing suicide at a greater extent today than we were before? Or is it just that we are paying more attention to it now or is less? But I do wonder, is there any part of civilization that contributes to society? And my intuition says yes, that's about the extent to which my knowledge would go on this topic. I want to talk about this with somebody who really thinks broadly about this because something that is so against our DNA, like our DNA is pretty geared towards survival. If you think about it, maybe at the risk of oversimplifying what pain could be so great that it could override, arguably the single most primitive drive that our species would have. And so I think the prevalence of suicide is such that virtually no person I know's life hasn't been touched by it, which tells you how ubiquitous it is. And it's sort of, you know, you alluded to depression. IMean, I just think when people really are honest with themselves, like if they haven't thought of killing themselves, they've certainly thought life isn't that much fun. And that's kind of a sobering thought. I've become obsessed with this topic. I'm unfortunately not the person you're looking for that has like the real deep knowledge, but I will say this, I'm not the right person to take any advice from on this topic, but follow my logic. I think that there's something terrifying happening with the microbiome. And I think that the potential effects of the microbiome being one of the massive contributory factors in what feels like, and again, I don't know, is it just we're paying attention to it more maybe. But man, it feels epidemic right now. It's crazy. You had Anthony Burdain, Ann Kate Spade, killed themselves in the same week. IMean, it's like we can just accept money doesn't solve the problem. Fame doesn't solve the problem. And so I just started thinking, okay, well, what are we going through right now? Now, I am particularly obsessed with the microbiome because what happened to my wife? How much I can't remember how much you and I've talked about this? No, no, I don't think I know anyone else. So three years ago, we are on our way to Vegas. Pact, the bags baby, I'm on my way. And my wife goes, I'm not feeling well. I feel funny. And I was like, what does that mean? She's like, I don't know. I just don't feel right. And then an hour later, she's like, gosh, I'm feeling kind of nauseous. I think I need to go home. And I was like, whoa, so she leaves and then she calls me from the parking lot crying. And she's like, I just projectile vomited everywhere. And I was like, oh, baby, like, wow, this crazy. Like, I can't remember the last time that she threw up. So I was like, all right, we'll go home. I'll come down. I'll deal with that. Don't worry, just go. She goes home. And I think, okay, stomach bug, bad timing, bummer, but it didn't go away. And it became, she wasn't vomiting anymore, but she couldn't hold on to food. And I was like, oh, this skin is a little scary. And it's one of those where, like, how many people does diarrhea kill? You know, so I was like, really getting paranoid. And just nonstop, nonstop, nonstop. Everything she ate, nothing like would stay. And I was like, whoa, this skin really scary. And so we have her microbiome tested. And they're like, you basically don't have a microbiome. They're like, it's been so decimated by overuse of antibiotics. It's my wife used to get chronic chest infections. And so she took antibiotics just in the time that I knew her probably, I don't know, 12 times. So and who knows how many before that? So IMean, she just absolutely murdered it. And then, of course, the scents are into, she wasn't clinically depressed. She was getting real close and just really, really struggling emotionally, struggling physically, unable to like maintain a physique, like just, it was crazy. And so in building it back up and seeing how complicated it is, seeing how much it affects in neurochemistry, knowing that what 95% of serotonin is stored in the gut, IMean, it's crazy. So it just started being this whole thing of like, whoa, I think this is wildly underappreciated. We started doing a lot of microbiome testing at Quest and it was just like, man, people's microbiomes, the diversity is just absolutely atrocious. It's pretty crazy. So whenever I hear something that has to do with neurochemistry, I immediately go to. This is a microbiome problem. So what's changing it then? So in her case, antibiotics might have played a role massively restricted eating. So we both had really restrictive diets. So remember the whole rabbit starvation, she was doing the same thing. So just overrestriction, over sanitizing hands, over washing hands, like, never getting anything that's dirty. Yeah, IMean, just making literally every mistake that you can make with your microbiome. That would suggest, because again, the microbiome in that situation would be a facilitator of an environmental issue, right? The environmental change is being nutrition, overuse of antibiotics, sanitation, things like that. I also wonder if there are sort of psychological, emotional cues in the environment that exacerbate this problem. Wouldn't you be in nice stress? IMean, I hate that word because it's such a sort of loaded term, but I wonder if people feel more alone today than they felt a couple hundred years ago. One of the things you talked about earlier that you were very passionate about was, even though you didn't use the word, was kind of your tribe. It's funny. People ask me if I'm ever talking about my trening in medicine, they're like, residency sounded really horrible because you know, you worked about 110 to 115 hours a week. You probably slept about, I remember I slept about 28 hours a week, so it was pretty miserable. And it's really funny. I look back at it as one of the fondest five year periods of my life. And it's despite all of those things, of course, not because of all those things, but part of it was just a camaraderie. IMean, just brotherhood and some sisterhood, right? IMean, there was just amazing male and female residents that you were in the trenches with. And it was a shared sense of purpose, a shared sense of mastery, a shared sense of suffering, but I wonder if outside of places like the military and residency and startup companies, which are places where you see a lot of that camaraderie, are we losing that more broadly? And was that something we were wired to experience? That's really interesting. And another thing that really interests me is the way that culture stacks. So if you had ex amount of expectation on your shoulder to succeed, then you give that to your kids, plus some, and then they give that to their kids, plus some. And when I think like how much my parents drug me around, and that seemed crazy, but then I see how much parents dragged their kids around. Now, that's one of the reasons I don't have kids. I was like, if that's the expectation, I'm not prepared to be a chauffeur. So it just gets crazy the amount, like the level of sort of, and look, I'm a freak for efficiency. But the level of like clinical efficiency that people work into their lives, where there is no more play. Like one thing I will tell you that my wife and I are really good about with each other is reminding ourselves not to lose playfulness. Because look, when I came into business, I needed to toughen up. I needed to get harder. That's just true, my personality. And so as I did that and became more powerful, more self-assured. Like it was amazing. But I started to harden. Everything about me was just harder. My wife would be telling a story and I'd be like, get to the punch line, which is a terrible thing to do in your marriage, by the way. And she was like, you just got in harder. You need to be playful. Like loose and up, you used to be goofy. So yeah, it's interesting. Like how much of that stuff is as we shape each other and we shape the society. And we talk about things like terraforming Mars, but then all of a sudden like fuck, you've got to give your life over to terraforming Mars. Like if you want to be the next Elon Musk, he set the bar so high that it's like where is that breaking point where there's, there's no more natural off switch. You've got your phone all the time. There's no natural break where it's like, well, there's no electricity. So when I'm in the cave, like there's nothing left to do or it's the weekend. There are no phones. There is no email. So everybody's gone home. So there's no work to be done. So there were all these natural sort of kill points that, I don't know, exist anymore. And look, I'm the biggest violator of all. I love to work. My problem is people apply this stuff when they don't even love it that much. And so now they're just working around the clock at something that drains them, that get scary fast. What routines are rituals? Do you have around protecting yourself to maintain a creative environment? Do you have forced downtime or forced time away from work? I'm guessing exercise is still very important. Do you mean what sort of routines do you enact to make sure you can function at your best longitudinally? Well, the make sure that I function at my best, I optimize cognitively. So my diet is like thing number one. I don't fuck around with my diet. My diet is on point. And I work out five days a week and that is hugely important. I hate it. Absolutely hate the gym, but it's critically important to strength, longevity, and cognitive optimization. Why do you hate the gym? It hurts. Is the honest answer? That's part one. Part two is dude. Remember the whole thing I want to live forever because there's so many things I want to do that I love that every minute I'm in the gym is a minute I'm not doing something that I would really intrinsically love. Like in and of itself, the moment is fun. In the gym, I love the result. I love being able to say I do hard things. But in the moment, it's just pain. It's lactic acid building up. It's heavy weights. It's the disappointment of not being able to lift away. You've been trying to get. It's like everything about it is meeting my limitations. Even if it's just the limitation of I can only do so many reps in a given set for a given weight. It's like I literally failed to do this thing. So the act of being in the gym for me is a nathema to the things that I love. It's ugly. It's not even beautiful. So it's like iron and weight. Oh God. I'm always surprised that I have to explain that to people. Do you enjoy the gym? Me? Yeah. I do. I wife loves the gym. You're both crazy to me. Whatever in Dwarf and Russia getting, I'm not getting. It is everything about it in the moment is unpleasurable. It's interesting. I wonder why I enjoy it. I guess we all get the things that are easy for us. And for me, fortunately exercise comes easily in terms of it really requires no discipline. Now sometimes it's a bit of a challenge as far as time management. And sometimes I don't feel like exercising. But it's always for the reason you just described, which is I've really got this other thing to do and it's really pressing. But let's be fair. If you said to me Peter, I'd like you to go swim the Cat Lane in the channel next year. That I have no desire to do again. I have no desire to spend what probably amounted to 20, 24 hours a week in the ocean swimming. As part of the trening. IMean that I don't have a desire to do. But I really do enjoy dead lifting. Which is not to say it's not unpleasant. And it's not to say that it also makes me upset when I can't do it. So I certainly understand all of those things. So I have this thing where part of my stick-in-longed cavity is rule number one is don't get hurt. So it's like exercise matters, but don't be an idiot. And so one of the things I've been fortunate to develop over the years with the help of a lot of great physical therapists, treners and such is a really good sense of the cues that tell you something's not right that day. So I'm getting pretty good at knowing when my glutes are not firing. And when I'm dumping the weight into my sacchariliac joint or into my lumbar spine. And so even to this day, about one out of every five times I go to deadlift, I abort. Really? Yep. That's smart. So I'll go, you know, I warm up bar 135, 135, 125, 275, 315 is always the warm up. And if on the way up that ladder, I don't feel perfect. Like perfect. All glute basically doing the work. Nothing loading into my lower back. If I don't feel that, we're done. And honestly, I think at least out of, yeah, probably one every five sessions, we just abort. And that pisses me off. IMean, truthfully, I get really pissed for like another couple hours. I'm like, I can't believe I didn't get the deadlift. I got away to hold week to try this again, blah, blah, blah. And I have the same rule with squatting. You got to can it if you can't do it. But now go back to nutrition. Tell me about what is dialed in for you. So I'm on just whole foods whenever humanly possible. So I try to vary my sources. So I'll have a wide variety of vegetables, constituting a very diverse color array. I eat a lot of eggs. I have a lot of fat in my diet primarily from olives and olive oil. Those are the big fat. And then I do eat a fair amount of red meat. That would be, I guess, philosophically, some people believe it to be a higher person than a generic meat. I'll say this. I'm not the right person to take advice on it, but I have no fears about that. I get a lot of my fat from that as well. And then, yeah, that's it. Whole food, cycle between beef, chicken, some lamb, a little bit of pork. And just try to keep it, quote unquote, clen, high fat low carb. And I never cheat. Not never, but wow, it's rare. Twice a year, maybe. And then it's not like some debatrous day. It's like, omel. What do you do as far as meal timing fasting things like that? Yes, so I also do a lot of fasting. So I do a lot of intermittent fasting, but then also at least once a year, I'll do a five day fast. And that's water only. It's not like a Ramadan style. Water only fast fast fast for five days. That's been big. What do you feel when you do the five day water only fast? Anger, a lot of hatred. Now, the big thing, to be fair, what I love about fasting is that it's hard as hell. And I know that I'm going to stick with it. So there's like so much just like juice that comes from that. But the reality is the first two days are easy. By day three, the problem is mostly boredom. And what I've realized is I get a lot of dopamine hits from no, oh, I'm going to eat. Like, here comes this meal. I love this meal. It's going to be awesome. And there's none of that. So your day doesn't have those like excitement markers in it. So for me, the big problem is, and then also by day four, I do start slowing down. Even though I'm fully keto adapted, I'm posting awesome numbers. I'll get into the threes when I'm doing a five day fast. So it's like my machinearies there, I usually do a cycle of keto leading up to a fast. I'm already primed to burn fat. So it's not that. It's just I do feel less energetic. So and I don't know if I just am not a great fat burner or if I'm able to, I don't use the key tones as a fish. I don't know. But by day four, I'm like, yeah, I'm 20% off my normal, like I go go. Now, it's not like anybody around me notices. I just know that it take, I have to push my energy out more. It's not just naturally there for me. How does your body composition change in that five days? I'll lose fat for sure. How much weight do you lose in the sky? I've never weighed myself. I know better because I can get super myopically focused on the scale. I'm going to guess call it like three to four pounds probably. That's it. That's interesting. I lose more than that just doing a five day FMD. Really? Like the 750 calories a day, it's a thousand the first day and then 750 for four days. Yeah, I can lose. Now that said, it depends on the nutritional state I enter. So if I come in relatively carb fed, yeah, I'll lose 10 pounds in five days. But of course, much of that is water. So each gram of glycogen is carrying around four grams of water. So as you, if you take your glycogen store is down to 50% of baseline, you think about how much glycogen that is, plus how much water it is, plus the plasma. And then it's a reduction. It's interesting. IMean, I think it probably speaks to the fact that you're entering at a pretty lean state. If you're only losing three or four pounds in a five day fast. Yeah, and I don't do. I never carb live ever. Unless it's like Christmas and I have a snack or dessert or something there. But you know, it's so interesting. People assume because of all of the time I've spent in ketosis and all of this stuff. I've written about it that I don't like carbs, but it's like it'd be hard to find a person who likes carbs more than me. I've never really met a carb, I just freaking love them. I can eat plain white rice. I could eat a bathtub full of plain white rice. Wow. I just, I was gonna challenge you because I love me some carbs, but yeah, I'm not gonna eat plain white rice. You're gonna be, I hand the crown, and then when you do IF, how often are you doing that? If I'm in a ketogenic cycle, I do IF the entire time. So let's say I do one week protein, one week keto. That's pretty typical for me, so I just bounce back and forth because I find if I do too many consecutive weeks where I'm actually posting ketones in my blood, then I do start to notice the softening of my muscles, and so I just don't feel as hard. So I tend not to stay ketogenic for long, but I'll bounce back and forth. So you're saying you'll go a week of ketosis, which is obviously restrictive in carbohydrate and protein. Correct. And then on your protein week, do you mean you're adding both carb and protein back in? They're mostly just protein. And so on your on protein week, how many grams a day of protein are you getting? Ooh, I spent a while since I counted now, I just tier by my blood and how I feel I probably throw in, I'll add from what I'm normally doing, I'll add 40 grams of protein. It's about right. That's really interesting because that's not that much. So let's say in ketosis, you're walking around that 100 grams, you'd go up to 140. Correct. Which would be enough to knock you out, and do you reduce your fat intake during the off-week sort of unintentionally, yeah, when I'm high protein. It'll come down just because the calories are being replaced with protein. Okay, so yeah, what I'd asked you was, where does your IF fit into that? Are you IFing during the ketone week, but not the non-ketone. Correct. Correct. Because I find it so easy to intermittent fast when I'm ketogenic and I find it a little more distracting, I always do, like I never eat in less than a 12 hour window. So, but I don't consider that intermittent fasting. I only consider intermittent fasting if I go all the way to 16 hours without food. My average day, even when I don't consider it, IF, I eat my last meal at 6, and then I eat my first meal at 8. That's typical for me, so what's that? 14 hours? So my typical day is a 14 hour gap. And then, how deliberate are you about to sleep? Very, I'm a psycho about sleep. So I'm in bed, by 9 PM, every night, like it's a religion. Mind it through Friday on Saturday, I'm a little looser. But yeah, I get to bed, I don't use an alarm, I sleep as much as I need, I wake up when I wake up, it is what it is. And I have been doing that now for like 16 years. So that's critical. Do being tired is a unique form of misery. You are worse at everything you do. And so for somebody who's trying to optimize cognitively, like I'm trying to get as much done as humanly possible, if I don't get sleep, then I'm just slower. So I'm like, I was better off spending the time sleeping and then just being more efficient with the time that I was awake. That's a hard thing to explain to some people because certainly theoretically what you describe makes sense. But I think a lot of people say, look at the end of the day, if you're going to give me four more hours to work and I'll sleep four hours instead of eight, how can that be worse? There was a study that was done at the University of Chicago a couple of years ago. It's a pretty good study. Very small study, but it was very well controlled study. They took a group of healthy volunteers and did Uglysy McKinslan clamps on them, which is, of course, the gold standard for measuring glucose disposal. So they did the study. They did the Uglysy McK camp and then they restricted their sleep to four hours and night for 14 consecutive days. So basically they did for two weeks what we did in residency for five years. And then they controlled what they were eating during that experiment. So the resultum about the described was not simply the result of that they ate more during that time. But when they repeated the Uglysy McK clamps, their glucose disposal had fallen by 50% so they became about twice as insulin resistant with getting four hours of sleep a night for just two weeks. Whoa. This is but one study. There are other studies that have looked at other elements of this. And I sort of assumed that the extra fatness I got in residency was just due to my dietary deterioration. But I now believe that it was also in large part due to the lack of sleep. The other thing is it's very difficult to consolidate memory with sleep deprivation. The hippocampus is very sensitive to this. And of course that's where we consolidate memory. So I'm kind of amazed at the gaps I have in my memory from that period of my life. Yeah, when you said that that you look back on it as one of the best periods of your life, how do you remember it? Like when I get that fat fatigue and the funny thing is I'm the same with film school. It's the same thing. It just no sleep due to this ridiculous. And at the end of that, like the bonding is intense because you're all going through this hard thing. You're having to help each other. You're all exhausted, but you find the way through it's amazing. And then in the end I was like, Jesus, there are just patches where I'm like, I don't remember man, because you're so tired. It's crazy. So do you meditate? Do you have a practice or a spirituality? It's interesting. You think of meditation as spiritual. So IMeditate like a fiend. It totally changed my life. And I don't know where I would have been in my more stressful years without it. I'm so grateful. And for a long time, because I'm a fool, I didn't meditate and didn't want to. Didn't want to hear about it. It sounded so feminine. Like, I was a guy really needed to toughen up, which is weird. This came up like three times in this. And so, yeah, I just resisted it. And then IMet NaviSeal and they marked a vine. I don't know if you've heard of him. Amazing dude. And he was like stopping in Jackass meditate. And so I went and watched his videos. I thought, all right, if it's, you know, NaviSeal, tough guy, let me give this a shot. And I was like, whoa, once I understood, it's taking me out of the sympathetic nervous system into the parasympathetic and that diaphragm breathing actually causes that trigger to happen, that it's mechanistic. I was like, okay, all of a sudden I get this. This isn't woo woo woo. This is like some hard biology and allowed me to really begin to tren down. Because I am incredibly anxious by nature. And when I was in business and constantly out of my element and learning and I was always behind, I developed just massive anxiety. And so I defined a way to like figure that shit out. And so meditation has been just inhumanly helpful. So now if I'm like about to go on stage or something, guaranteed if they're like doing the announcement, I am meditating. Dive her and breathing, getting into a nice calm state. Like, it is crazy to me how well it works. And now like, I'm an evangelical for this. I want to bite the microphones so people will listen. If they have not tried meditation, like it is such a game changer, such a game changer. Because it gets rid of what I call the background radiation. Like all that just sort of residual stress. Now, you're sure what you're stressed about. You just feel uneasy, something, something's looming. And so meditating even on my worst day, I can get to absolute zero where I am totally stress and anxiety free. Just from breathing. It's crazy. Mindfulness component to that. In other words, are you doing a breath meditation where while you are breathing, you are focusing on a component of the breath? Or is it more a concentration thing where you have like, you know, sort of a mantra in the background? All breath. 100% I don't remember who said this. It might have been Sam Harris, but it might have been somebody else. And I reflected on it and realized it's, it's very interesting and it's quite true that if you ever consider a negatively valence demotion. So the reason I throw in the word valence is because some people get all bent out of shape when you say an emotion is positive versus negative. So just so no one gets bent out of shape. I'll just say negative versus positively valenced. None of them are really rooted in the present. So depression, sadness, anxiety, fear. When you think of all of the negatively valence demotions, they are virtually all rooted in the past or in anticipation of the future. And I think it was the realization of that and the desire to sort of drown out some of those things that got me very interested in mindfulness meditation, which was this notion of being as present as possible. And I even took it to really interesting depths of, I don't think Sam made this point, but somebody made this point, which was even pain, physical pain that we endure is actually more about the anticipation of worsening pain or progression of that pain or non-saccession of that pain than it is the actual moment. And I was like, that can't be right. So Josh is my body worker. So one day Josh is working on me and there's this one move he does on me that is quite literally upsetting. That's when he gets into my serratus and my sub-scapularis. And it's unbearable on many levels. Definitely there's some nerve impingement going on when he's getting in there. He's probably like yanking on some of the hairs on my arm pit or something. And the whole thing is unbearable. And one day when he was doing it, I was like, all right, try the exercise. Focus on your breath and focus on the pain at exactly that moment, but don't think about how much it's going to hurt in two more minutes. Just think about it in that moment. And I was totally amazed by that experience. And it was like a very interesting tool that I have since continued to experiment with any time I find myself in extreme pain, especially pain that sort of lasts for a long period of time. And it definitely makes me understand that there are probably people out there who can have total mind control over pain. Speak of mind control. I remember the first time you came over for dinner. You guys came all the way down from LA down at San Diego, we all had dinner. And I remember you talking about mind control. You were like, I want you to come and work for Quest. You're like, just have mind control over you. And some shit like that. You were like, yeah, yeah, yeah. So how do you think about that? Have you refined your thinking around mind control? Yeah, I think that really comes down to energy output. I think that you really can. It's almost distressing how much you can move people in a direction. You want them moved if you're willing to put in the time and the energy. But you really have to play a super long game. And oftentimes, not worry about what's their best interest. And that just doesn't not suit my personality. So I found that far better to think about who are the people that are resonant with what I'm doing. Right? Here's what I'm doing. Put it out there. Tell people get them excited. Show them my excitement. Let them understand my vision where I'm trying to go. And then go, OK, of these 20 people that I would love to do something with who's the one that steps forward and says, I want to do that with you. That to me is far more interesting. So I used to say, and this is what you're thinking about on a long enough timeline, I can get anyone to do anything. And I just don't even think about it like that anymore. Even if that's true, and maybe it is, if you give me 100 years, maybe nobody can resist, my wily charms. But it just stops being interesting. It's like, I want to do stuff with people that want to do it. I want to do it with people that are excited about it. And so yeah, I take a really different approach now. And my thing now is about sharing the vision. Here's what I'm trying to do. Embodied the excitement, because I know how infectious it is neurologically. I know that we really do share energies. And if you're around somebody and you're amped up, like they're going to pick up on that, they're going to get more energetic. And I just know that people like to be around people that make them feel more alive. They make them feel better about themselves that feel energized. So finding people like that, and then I am just really not a fan of having to be a raw raw leader. Like, I want to play my part in the creation of whatever we're creating as well. So I would much rather do that. Like, create the environment, create the enthusiasm, show people we're trying to do this, and it matters. And you're going to be able to get that fulfillment that we talked about. It's going to be hard as hell, but we're going to be able to do it. Like, I want to create that environment and then go and fight too. So that's far more interesting than having to type JedIMind tricks and shit and like, trying to really understand what you want and make sure I'm setting things up so that you're getting that. I'm always just thinking about you, man, far better to say, this is the environment. This is what we're doing who wants in. But I'm sad that you never came to work for Quest. I did really want that bad. I did. Yeah. I know people are listening to this podcast right now because they believe in you. But I'm just saying that belief is well placed. You are one of the most intriguing human beings. I have ever met the way your mind works. I almost stopped you earlier because you were saying something so fucking interesting that I was like, just the way you think through a problem captures my imagination. So there are just some people do. I have a total of man crush on your brain. It's amazing. Well, I appreciate that very much Tom. And I can't thank you enough for making the time today. And I really want to apologize for the fact that you're doing this before I'm doing your show. I promise you, I will, if you still want me to be on, I did be honored to be on. And I can't wait to, I don't know how I'm going to top this. I don't know what you'll ask me about that's interesting. But that will be fun. Trust me. We will crush that. I would have you on in a second. So whenever we can make that happen, we'll make it happen. And anybody listening to this that likes themselves and Peter at you will want to hear that interview because I promise I will take this guy to some very interesting places. So where can people learn more about you if they're listening to this and they're new to you? At Tomville you. So my last name is Bill Beism Bravo. I L Y E U. It's across all socials. My primary two are going to be Instagram and YouTube. So yeah, you have a pretty prominent YouTube channel. Don't you? Dude, I'm proud of that damn thing. So YouTube is hard to win at. It is hard to build a meaningful audience. And we've done a really great job. And it's just growing crazy. And by the time people hear this, I'm sure we've crossed 400,000. Wow. I didn't realize it was that big. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's really, really been special. And we just pour our heart and soul into making an awesome show and getting people like you on the show, no BS. I'm just really, really proud of what we've done there. And one of my favorite stories. So I'm walking in Vegas, Casino and a 51 year old black man jumps out in front of me, crying. And he was like, dude, you changed my life. And I thought this is the world we live in now. Like you can make content. Like here's the thing. And I think it goes without saying, I'm not paid to be on the show. I'm on this show because I believe in you. And I believe in what you're going to bring to people. And I think this is going to be special. And I'm so glad that you did it. Because meeting you once randomly changed my life. The fact that you're going to make yourself available through the show to the millions of people that I hope find this is incredible. Like what an insane time that we live where extraordinary people can be rewarded for sharing that kind of stuff? Jesus dude, I know how much you charged to be a concierge client. So like it is crazy. Like it's so amazing. So yeah, I love it. I love what we've done with YouTube. I love them. proud of the show, which is called Impact Theory. Just the people that have come on and share their wisdom is bananas. So, thank you, Tom. Thanks for having me. You can find all of this information and more at PeterOTaMD.com forward slash podcast. There you'll find the show notes, readings, and links related to this episode. You can also find my blog and the nerds of Fari at PeterOTaMD.com. What's a nerds of Fari you ask? Just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more. Maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjectively non-lane once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to, the most interesting papers I've read, and all things related to longevity, science, performance, sleep, etc. On social, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook, all with the ID, PeterOTaMD. But usually Twitter is the best way to reach me to share your questions in comments. Now for the obligatory disclaimer, this podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. And note, no Dr. Patient Relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to the podcast is at the user's own risk. The content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnoses, or treat. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures. The company's I invest in and or advise, please visit PeterOTaMD.com forward slash about.

=== FILE: (1⧸6) The Bridge glute activator [CmbTeoaQZUQ].txt ===

Tips with the part, make sure your heels are in line with your hips. Keep your left heel on the ground with your right leg up. You can lift the hips and pull them straight enough right leg. And then quick check down us to make sure that your hips are level that you're not hiking one up more than the other. Then you're going to slowly lower the right leg down to top the ground just the leg. Keep the hip up. And then this leg, you should feel us in your left glute. You should have any popping or clicking in your back or in your pelvis if you do. You've got to need your arms more. It's two four more ups there. Good lower everything down from everything back up. Make sure that you're at least you line with your hip. The left knee is not going to block the side at all. She's going to all this near glute and hamstring nothing in the back. Very little in the water steps. Four more. Good now hold yourself up. Just lower the hips down only. Just the hips and then lift it back up. So as you lift the hips up, you want to focus like you're pushing the top front of your hips up to the ceiling. Not arching in your lower back. Good floor one. Last two. Now hold at the top lower two inches. Then lift two inches of the hips. Two inches of the hips. Good. I need several. Use that left glute. Six. Four. Three. Two. Good.

=== FILE: (2⧸6)  The ＂Jane Fonda＂ glute med exercise [nDIUbGzha50].txt ===

So, heal and sparring out as possible. So, hips fully extended. They're putting the toe down and put that tension on it. We need an TFL on the side of the wave. So, let's work about not dumping into the long bar spine, easy to accentuate that curvature. But it's gonna easily really hurt. That's that.

=== FILE: (3⧸6)  The ＂Star fish＂ glute med finisher [lIAhLYDPDuE].txt ===

Good, let's say hips up make sure that the right elbow is right in the right shoulder and gauge the right mid back and the right knees in line with your hip. Abs engage lower the left leg down and up. You're gonna feel this in your left, glute knee, make sure the left leg stays in line with the hip. Three more. Good, then everything comes down. Strong with the trunk as you lift up, don't extend your lower back. And hold at the top two inches down with the left leg two inches up. Three more. Good.

=== FILE: (4⧸6)  Dowel prep lunge, squat [NIVmdifTt5k].txt ===

That was what I was supposed to get my position right so it takes a pretty narrow stance of something like a power slider and if you think about it. If you have aduction, avoiding a knee dogus and trying to get hips back. I sort of aligned the mirror a little bit. Make sure the knees are covered by the toes. I'm not trying to do the deepest squat, I'm just trying to get my can of hips right. Mostly paying attention to the glute fire. My feeling is more than glutes and thEQuads. And then quickly trensition into a lunge. Feel free to point out for all of what I'm doing. Yeah, so his heel is high on the ball amount of his toes. He's getting that maximum, great toe extension. Make sure that his lumbar spine stays neutral so he descends down into his lunge. He's really eccentrically loading the right quarter step and not just collapse into his lower back. So by staying really strong in his trensverse abdominis and seeking straight down, he's maximum of the left quarter up here and extending his thoracic spine instead of just collapse you right into the lower back. Right glute, left quad. Let's get back together.

=== FILE: (5⧸6) The ＂Shark bite＂ [JslSuMuGQUs].txt ===

Okay, sorry to lunch position. If you're just going to bend the right leg down, working on his right glute. Here we have a sub-ruget, starting to make sure that the back is neutral. You don't have any extension in the lower spine. You should be feeling left glute and right quad loading here. So, there's going to come down, reach out for the block, lift the right leg up. So, in this position, make sure the left knee does not go into balladges, or in turn, our rotation should be pointing straight forward. And then the right hip is going to come down a little bit more. Then you're going to cross it and come over into a curtsy. It's going to lean forward, come back up into the standing split position. So, make sure the right hip stays down. Left glute should really be firing. Then right knee's going to pull through. Let's go to the back. Left right back into that perfect lunge position. Back, neutral in the mirror is the side will help you here. Good one more. Lift up left glutes firing. Back's neutral, she sinks down. Perfect. neutral. Sweet back. And then that perfect lunge. Awesome.

=== FILE: (6⧸6) The Shark bite, advanced [4mgkmNmuV1U].txt ===

So this is going to be the more advanced version of the shark bite. So using the right leg back and grab the weight. So first, he's going to find his lunge, sink down into a lunge position, find his left glute, and his right hip flexor and quad. And Peter's going to lean forward, come into his standing split position, make sure the pelvis is aligned. Give me three taps here. And he's going to go over into his<|it|>zi. Back as upright, sink straight down. He's going to go right back into his standing split. Again, three taps right here. Making sure that he's really pushing the left hip back. So I think he has left glute and hamstring. Nothing in the tens behind the knee, pull straight forward. And then right back into that perfect lunge position. So as you move into this second repetition, when you lean forward, come into stance, let you believe that I'm going to make sure the right hip is down with the left, the left hip is slightly pushing back. So the pelvis is long. And then upright position is just to see the down into your cursy. I'm going to engage the trensverse abdominis here, so I can any lower back extension. Pull straight through. Lunge position, back heel higher with the ball line of the toe, sinking straight down. Good. Awesome. One, two, three. Move toward 밝ies her hips.

=== FILE: (AMA 71 Trailer) Building strength and muscle mass： optimize training & nutrition for longevity [q1YQelac2iE].txt ===

If I don't have much time in the gym, I'm only doing compound exercises. For today's AMA, all things related to muscle mass and muscle strength. IMean, the truth of the matter is you always need to be kind of trying to push this. Why should everyone who's listening to this? Care about this topic. A very active individual, lower level of decline, still declining. A population average, quicker level of decline, and a sedentary individual, much quicker level of decline. How would someone implement progressive over mode? Maybe the most obvious way that people would naturally think of which is you can increase the load or the weight. But you can also do it by increasing the reps. Any other aspects of nutrition? Really one of the few supplements that I almost universally recommend. What are some ways that I can start this? In hopes of knocking an injured and doing this for a long time? Act is though you've never done this before. Focus on injury prevention. What does some programming look like for them? And how could they take that information to a gym? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an ask me anything episode of the drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today. I'm Peter at EMD.com. Forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: (AMA 72 Trailer) Fasting： benefits for body composition and disease prevention, & potential risks [xpPx0U0g2Bs].txt ===

People say I want to lose weight, but I've never actually heard somebody say what I really want to do is lose a lot of muscle and stay as fat as possible. All of these things can theoretically imply that fasting can further benefit to health, beyond the equivalent amount of caloric restriction. And if someone is going to do fasting, are there ways that they can potentially save some of that lean mass? If I could go back in time and do anything different, Nick, I would go back to thaT3-year period of time when I was doing all of that insane fasting and I would have done this. Is there any evidence that extended fasting reduces cancer risk in particular? If fasting results in a long-term and sustained reduction in excess body fat or at a capacity, then that would indeed lower the risk of cancer. How does fasting potentially help either prevent or improve symptoms of autoimmune diseases? Intermittent fasting and long-term fasting of up to a week can really reduce systemic inflammation and that could obviously help with any autoimmune disease. Do we have any evidence or knowledge that can fasting can extend lifespan on a whole? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an Ask Me Anything episode of the Drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. I'm a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: (AMA 73 trailer) Preserving brain health, optimizing exercise programming, & improving body comp [ud2DEmXAAMc].txt ===

People with mild hearing loss have about a 90% relative risk of dementia, whereas those with severe hearing loss, it's a 400% increase in the risk of dementia. For today's AMA, set a focus on one topic. We gathered some of the most common questions we're asked on brain health, exercise, body composition. Are there certain exercises that are better for cognition than others? If people are worried about their risk for dementia. I think an individual is always going to be better off doing more modalities than fewer. Next section exercise. If people are doing zone two trening, how much do they need to avoid going into a higher zone? I never paid attention to whether I dipped in and out of it. I talk a lot to professional cyclists, and it's the same. So why do I fixate on it today the way I do? If women, particularly a perimenopausal menopausal women, should be doing zone two trening? Yeah, again, this is one of those weird things where social media has just taken on this idea that women, especially postmenopausal women, should not do zone two. How do you think about advising people on the number of calories they should use if they think they have either a fast or a quote unquote slow metabolism? As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today. I'm Peter at t-a-m-d.com forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: (AMA 74 trailer) Sugar and sugar substitutes： weight control, metabolic effects, & health trade-offs [IckNGWU5nYg].txt ===

If I'm sitting here drinking six mountain dudes a day, would I be better off doing everything the same but moving to six diet mountain dudes a day? Today's topic, everything around sugar and sugar substitutes. Are you better off with an artificial sweetener or a real sugar in a protein product? Is there any truth to the idea refined sugars are important to what more dangerous than natural sugars? Any sugar you're consuming unless you're chewing on the cane or eating the apple, it's refined. Whether I should be using sugar substitutes, swapping them out. Aluluses, a no-brainer for immediate use. I honestly think it's hands down the best alternative. How much does timing matter? There is no better time to consume sugar than after a workout and or during a workout. What do we know about the long term safety and long term use of artificial sweeteneres? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an Ask Me Anything episode of the Drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. From a premium member today, a Peter atiamed.com, forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: (QPS 6 trailer) Peter's takeaways： HRT, skincare, aging, fertility, and life lessons [rcblhTAV1qs].txt ===

This would be the one where I've had the greatest change in my personal behavior. Highlight, things you found really interesting, anything you changed your mind on, how you work with patients. Lazy and Peter don't typically go in the same sense, except when talking about skincare. Actually, we came away with something pretty easy, right? Which is an AM and a PM protocol, males are often the driver of fertility issues. So think thaT3Quarters of men are not even evaluated before fertility issues before proceeding to that is crazy. Rapa is being investigated as a potential drug to extend the fertility years in a woman. So if it's slowing the aging process of the human, is there a chance it's slowing the aging process of the egg? The estrogen drop during menopause is a major accelerator, a facial bone and fat loss. And that women should really be talking about HRT early. The point can't be overstated that the role it plays in skin health and bone health. Nobody should ever die of ASCBD, like full stop note note chance. If you were walking around with an APOB of 30 and normal blood pressure and you weren't smoking, IMean, it's almost impossible to die of a heart attack truthfully. Honestly, I think a good life is what makes a good death. Anybody who's listening to this still has something that they can do about it. Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an Ask Me Anything episode of the Drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com. Forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: (Video 1⧸7) Introduction to neck, upper back, shoulders (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [FjRorW4n8Rg].txt ===

Hi everyone, welcome to the neck upper back and shoulder curriculum created by myself and Peter Atia. We decided to start with the shoulders neck and upper back because so many people that we take care of experience injuries here and I think part of it stems from an artifact of evolution. So most people are pretty aware that their hip is a very stable, ball and socket joint. We're pretty fortunate in that we through our evolution learn to stand up and in the process basically traded stability for flexibility. So in exchange for being able to throw a spear we had to give up a lot of stability here. So the first thing to keep in mind when you think about your shoulder is this joint doesn't behave like a typical ball and socket joint. And Jesse will explain a little bit about what the gleanoid faucet does and how the humorous is stabilized there. But the point to remember is you have a series of muscles that are doing a lot of the work that would be done by a typical socket elsewhere in the body. The second thing to keep in mind is if it weren't enough that we figured out a way to stand up and the chuck spears we've now in the last few years done something even more unnatural for which evolution hasn't given us enough time to catch up, which is we have now learned to do this. So we hunch over, we type, we look at screens, we look down and that is something we just haven't had any time to cope with. And so we see a typical set of injuries where the posterior chain, the muscles in the back, tend to be locked long. Also tend to be very weak and as that happens you trensmit that weakness to other muscles. Now we're going to focus on four different specific aspects of the upper back and neck and shoulder. The first is just the range of motion of the neck. The neck is extremely mobile if you don't use it, you lose it. So we're going to work on not only increasing range but making sure that that neck and head can stay centered over the body so you're not getting all that upper trap and neck pain. The next one we're going to focus on is the actual glenoid fossa. This is an extremely mobile and shallow joint unlike the hip which is a deep and strong structural joint. So with the glenoid fossa we're not going to do a lot of overhead pressing but we will strengthen it in the overhead range. And the reason we're going to strengthen the overhead range is we also want to focus on the AC joint. This is where the shoulder most becomes impenetched around the acromion roof and the AC joint is responsible for allowing pivot and rotation in flexion and extension but most importantly it's the last stabilizer and overhead reach. So this is actually one of the first things that starts to degenerate. So working that AC process and strengthening it in that end range is going to help your pain in the front part of the shoulder. And the last thing in the most important area we're going to work on is something called the scapula. The scapula is your shoulder blade that's free floats, it doesn't have any attachments and it basically glides along the rib cage. Now the scapula is innovated by many muscles, the trapezius, rhomboids, pech minor, shoulder rotator cuff. And basically if any of those other muscles around it are impenetched or asymmetrical, the scapula is not going to move well. And that's important because the scapula is actually what saves the shoulder blade as the conduit of force. So the scapula is responsible for trensferring force into the trunk and the trunk trensfers force into the scapula. So if you have a nice rhythm where the scapula is moving in rhythm with your shoulder blade, all the force of daily living and exercise is going to be trensferred into that scapula, into that core versus into that shoulder. When you look at athletes who really have to use their shoulders, swimmers would come to mind, incredible scapula flexibility. People often talk about the amount of reach that a great swimmer like Michael Phelps can generate in the scapula. This is the reason why it's to be able to catch water high and pull without loading the shoulder you have to be able to use the scapula. So whether or not you're a swimmer, just in our pretty convinced you're going to get a lot of value out of these movements in the sequence.

=== FILE: (Video 2⧸7) Tissue preparation： neck, upper back, shoulders (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [XZOrnznGzH4].txt ===

So this first exercise is going to relax the nervous system and allow our body to be more receptive to all the work we're going to do today. With Peter I'm going to do some deep breathing here. The crux of deep breathing is your breathing out longer than your breathing in to relax the nervous system. And we always remember we want to breathe through the diaphragm, filling the belly with air. It's not about how much air you can get, it's how much air you can fill into the stomach here. You're also using a diaper here but you can use a foam roller and what this is doing is relaxing the erectors and it's giving Peter something to relax into to be a little more mindful of his body through the breathing. So we're going to do a count of five count inhale, five count hold and ten count exhale. It's three breaths a minute, not very easy to do. It's a real challenge but if you get this right and this becomes comfortable it's going to really set you up for success for everything else we do. So I'm going to have Peter put his hands on a stomach and I'll take him through the count. You'll do this about nine times for abouT3 minutes but we'll just show you one for the purpose of time. All right. So we'll start with inhale for one, two, three, four, five hold, two, three, four, five, exhale, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. I cube Peter to breathe in through the nose and then breathe out through almost a whisper or a forced kind of a whistle because it's going to slow down the exhale so it doesn't lose all his breath at one time. So that's how you'll start our nervous system soft tissue sequence. We've already gone over this in the movement preparation sequence from the previous series but now we just want to show you again because it's something you can't skip when you're dealing with the upper back and shoulders. So this move is going to be that thoracic spine roll. Peter's going to put his hands wherever he prefers arms back, arms straight. Key points here again are just to make sure to roll the mid back to upper back and also not over extends his lower back but get his extension from right under those scapular wings, his shoulder blades and the thoracic spine. Once he's done that for about 30 to 45 seconds, he'll roll over to his side and get the serratus anterior and lat and the key principle here is to make sure he opens the hand here to pin and stretch and just go all the way down to his lat pretty deep and then back up always with breathing. So if you don't like to do here perhaps because I'm not that tough is I like to let my legs and my arms take some of the weight. I find if I try to put as much weight as possible on my serratus I'm getting bruised. Now we're going to work the pectoralis major and we're going to use this supernova ball here. This is a pretty low density one. You can also use a lacrosse ball if you want to be a hero but I think you'll find that slightly larger, lighter, less dense objects will feel a little bit better on this one. I love this one because you can pin and stretch the shoulder and the motions you want to use it so it's extremely functional for the functionality of that shoulder girdle. So I'm going to have Peter placed the ball right basically in the just outside the armpit of the peck and relax his chin and head on his hand here and I'm going to have him just reach forward. Now when he reaches he's going to separate his shoulder blade from his body, retract his shoulder blade in and then bring the arm down to a 90 degree angle. Reach up again, retracting. So again your pin and stretching here at the same time as you're giving some soft tissue love to those overworked pecks. The other thing I want you to do is make sure you do a few reps where you're reaching out to the side and that's going to focus even more on the peck. Again letting the scapula come out, letting the shoulder blade come in. Now we're going to work on neck range of motion. Basically you're carrying an eight poundboling ball on your neck all day long so you want it to be a centered over your body as possible. So I'm going to take you through a few different stretches here and what I want you to pay attention to is to make sure to not hold these stretches for too long because your ligaments will take over. These are at most eight second holds and then you move on. Maybe abouT4 reps on each side is plenty just loosening up the body and the shoulders around the neck. So first move I'm going to have Peter do are just some simple shoulder rolls forward. And then backward. And the key here is he's just keeping a nice relaxed neck cervical spine here keeping whatever extension he has neutral right there. The next move is going to be a chin to chest drop where I'm just going to have him keep his teeth together and drop his chin as far as he can. This is the most important one for not holding longer than eight seconds because this is a decent amount of flexion on the discs. But again if you don't use this range of motion you'll lose it. So you'll feel a nice stretch through the traps. The next two are going to be for the levator scapula and the actual upper traps which often get very tight on people. So those of you wondering what the levator scapula is which is not only a good crossword puzzle word. You want to point that out on him? Sure. Yeah. So it basically elevates the shoulder right here and it goes just diagonal along there and it's the main muscle that's keeping your scapula raised up and elevated. So to hit that one I want to look over this way and then take kind of a diagonal 45 down chin over collarbone clavicle and you'll watch the stren here you'll see right. So one. And to increase this stretch also I'm going to have Peter clasp his hands behind his back that's going to pull the traps in tension and he's going to feel even a deeper stretch. And then back to a neutral position. Focus on the traps and that's just a simple lateral flexion here and this one you're going to really feel almost a burning go through the traps here. But again the more you can pin your shoulders back and down the more you'll feel that stretch. For the last and most important exercise to counteract technology and keep the head centered over the body we're going to have Peter do some chin tucks with extension. Now the first move you'll do is actually glide your chin forward and then you'll bring the chin back, staying in that same plane and you'll create a fat chin here which is okay because it's going to relax all the muscles in the traps and it's going to really turn on those stabilizers right behind the neck. Once Peter makes that fat chin he's going to look up but only look as high as he can without actually losing that fat chin because all this is the incorrect way. If I have him go all the way up he's going to start to really torque the spine there. So he's going to keep those muscles turned on, glide back, look up, keeping that fat chin breathing, glide forward, glide back, great strength thinner and an amazing counteraction to all the technology that we're with too. Also I find this one of this stretches where it's really difficult for me to breathe through my mouth so you gotta remember to breathe while you're doing this but note that for most of you it's going to be more comfortable to just breathe in and out through your nose.

=== FILE: (Video 3⧸7) Dynamic stabilizaation： neck, upper back, shoulders (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [q2I1I_qH0jE].txt ===

Now we'll move on to part two dynamic stabilization in our series. So this exercise is going to strengthen the cervical extension and all of the supporting muscles around the neck to really make sure you can stay with your head centered over your body. So I'm going to have Peter, stand nice and tall, put his hands behind his head, glide his chin forward, and then glide his chin back into that chin pack. He's putting some isometric tension here into his hands, breathing, holding for eight seconds, feeling these muscles strengthen here, the ligaments relax, and all of this is going to actually turn into putty in his upper traps. It's going to glide forward again, create some isometric tension, chin back. Another variation is you can use a towel here and hold it behind your head if you want, but this is just the simplest way to do it. Always with breath. In this next exercise, I want you to pay particular attention to the cues I give to Peter and how I position his body. I see people doing this incorrectly all the time and the difference between doing this the right way and the wrong way is going to make all the difference to the health of your shoulder in the long term. This is called the 1990. Now you can see that we've placed a towel under Peter's head here and that's to protect his head from flexing down and creating any tightness within that. In that next cervical spine. I'm going to have him rotate his right arm as far as he can behind him and touch the ground and Peter's doing a great job here. He's reaching high and lying with his forehead. I see all the time people reaching down here, internally rotating the shoulder and not actually getting the opening of the shoulder that we're looking for. So reaching for the forehead is key here. The other thing he's done is you'll notice he's moved his eyes with his hand. So you want to look where you're going because cervical rotation and thoracic spine rotation go hand in hand. So always move that neck move those eyes. Another important key here is that he's not over rotating his lower back. His rotation is coming from his upper back. In fact, if I put my hand here, Peter's hip, you'll notice he's not putting any pressure into me at all. So he's able to fully rotate and separate rotation from his upper body to rotation from his lumbar spine, which we don't want. You don't want to torque and wrench that lower back. Fight the urge to separate the knees because that will give you artificial rotation through the lower back. Really squeeze and keep those knees tight through the whole movement. Now here's a great cheat. If you can't quite reach the floor because the last thing you want is to be reaching and struggling and reaching because that's not going to relax anything in your body or open up any flexibility. So we're going to put this block under Peter's knees. And now you're a little bit elevated through the hip. So you're going to be able to rotate all the way because you're already a little bit rotated in that hip. It's going to feel a lot easier. If that still doesn't do the trick, I would just get whatever you have in the house, stacks and books rotate again and press into that stack. The key here is you can't be just hanging out in space or it's not going to work. Always breathing again. The last thing I want to show you is that if you have a partner or a buddy, you can actually open up the ribs and the serratus and the spiral line. So I'm going to have Peter reach. And I'm going to lock his hip here and I'm going to help him rotate through the ribs and you feel a great stretch there. The best stretch ever because I'm actually open up the entire spiral complex that's impinging this movement and then I'll help him rotate back. Now we're going to mobilize the internal rotation of the shoulder while protecting the lower back from moving. I'm going to have Peter get on all force. He's going to rock back here where his hips are almost touching his ankles there. What this does is it posteriorly tilts the pelvis so it locks in a position. I'll have him walk his hands a little bit higher actually. You can see it's really important that his chest and shoulders are higher than his hip. Internally rotate the right arm behind his back. Now you're going to want to crank this on your own and see how high you can get and be a hero. But the higher you get, the more you'll start to impinge that shoulder. So only go to where you can keep that extension of the shoulder blade and not let it tilt forward. And then I'm going to have Peter lead again with his eyes just like in the last exercise pull his shoulder back squeeze that shoulder blade. Take a breath and then go back down. He's going to reach. Make sure he kept his hips low and his chest high lead with his eyes squeeze the shoulder blade. He's doing a great job of keeping that shoulder open and now you'll be able to put on your backpack without tearing your shoulder. Now we're moving on to the all important thoracic extension without cervical extension or flexion. So a nice neutral neck. I love this exercise and the reason I love it is because you're getting some nice thoracic spine extension and mobility. But the arms are bent so you're not impinging the AC joint by having a arm straight. So if you actually have any kind of shoulder problems with the AC joint right here. You can do this safely and still get some nice extension of your upper back. So I'm going to have Peter put his elbows on this slot here. If you're in a gym you can use a bench. You can use a couch at home. Whatever you have to put your elbows on so your head is floating off. So if you've done a cat cow pose in yoga you'll be familiar with this. We're going to have Peter actually going to extension. This is the cat park. But the key here is that he's not overextending his lower back or low bar spine. His hinge point is in his mid thoracic right here. He's going to take a breath. Then come up, pro-track the shoulder blades a little bit and then go back down into that extension. Focus in on getting the hinge from here and you might not go that far. Don't create any false movement from here. It's fine to be a small movement and in time you'll increase that range of motion. Now if we want to take this to the next level and you have pretty open shoulders and a scap and scapula you can actually put your hands behind you and cross them. And this will further stretch those lats and you can even press into where your hinge point is. So now you have a little bit of feedback of where you're hinging from. Peter's also doing a nice job of keeping his neck neutral. He's not over flexing his chin. He's just keeping it nice and relaxed. Key point here is to not let the chin flex forward. You want to keep it centered over the body as you extend and flex that thoracic spine. This next exercise is a fantastic compliment to the external rotation strengthener we did before. We're going to take that shoulder through the entire range of motion overhead. Normally I like to do this with a really wide dowel to start and over the course of my workout because I usually do this in between sets of other exercises like squats or deadlifts. With progressive sets my grip will come narrower and narrower. But for the purpose of this we're just going to use a broomstick. It's actually a little narrower than I would like to start but I think it gives you a chance to see the rotation. A couple of cues I think about what I'm doing this and just point them out in detail as I'm doing it. One is try to have a very relaxed grip. The second is I want to be slightly cupped inside and just see I think we'll be able to point that out probably a little bit better when we go to a side angle. But I'll show you what this looks like from the front. So again, given that I'm limited by this broomstick I'm going to grab it as wide as I possibly can. I'm kind of a neutral stance. You can see I'm not standing bull upright. I have this cupped position which again will be more evident from the side. And with a very relaxed grip I'm taking this thing up and around. And nowhere in there am I feeling any impingement in the AC joint. Nothing in this position hurts. In fact this just feels like a wonderful movement. So if you're doing this and it hurts you need to be going wider. Let's take a look at what this looks like from the side and then Jesse will call out what he's cueing me to do. First of all that cup Peter talked about is in a great position here. It's almost the same activity you get in a really deep dead bug exercise where that trensverse abdominis is fired up. Making sure that extension doesn't come from the Lumbar spine. But with this cup also you'll notice Peter stays neutral here and doesn't flex forward like he just did because if you cup too much you're going to have to work really hard to overcome that flexion of the up or back there. So we're going to cup at the lower Lumbar spine nice and neutral here. I'll have him reach up. Watch this moment here very important. His shoulder stays open the whole time. How do you know that you're basically doing this in a two-challenge way and that your arms are too close that you'll find this basically imping forward. We'll show Peter to a really close once you can see this would be too close right here. He'll do a lot of things and move around and you can see that shoulder come forward just a bit there and he can't even make it here without probably bending forward or changing just the wrong position. You'll know when it's wrong. So start wide, go slow, open up the extension all around that gleno-humorled joint. To finish up the sequence and prepare us for loading, this is a great exercise to strengthen all the extensors we worked already. We're using a stability ball for it because you can actually articulate the spine versus if you were on the floor you'd be stuck in a fixed plane. So this is going to actually let Peter move through his the facet joints of the spine. So we're going to have Peter lay down here. He's nice and relaxed with his neck. He's slightly over the ball with his chest and the reason I'm doing that is because when he's slightly over the ball he has the lift slightly with his chest versus if the ball was all the way into his chest he could just be very relaxed here. So again you're slightly hanging over the edge here. The first move he's going to make is forget his arms this way into a W position. Now we're starting with the W because this is the least provocative on the shoulder complex and everyone will be able to do this move. The biggest cue here is just making sure we're maintaining a 90 degree angle and again pinching that pencil between his shoulder blades here. The next move he's going to make is bringing his arms out into a T and then retracting again. You could see that he's fighting gravity here. So really he's working very very hard and this is close to loading. So that's why we put this at the end because it's probably the most work you'll do and this whole sequence for actually strengthen and stabilizing this movement. The next is he's going to reach into a Y here with his arms forward. The third hardest of the exercises. And now he's really working on that extension overhead again fighting gravity making sure he's moving from his mid back not his traps are next so the shoulders are staying down. And the last move is straight into an eye. This is the hardest and most provocative because the AC joint is working really hard to stabilize here. But it's also the best of them all in terms of getting the most range of motion out of the entire shoulder girdle. Now a lot of the exercises we talk about including this one can be done and should be done on a nearly daily basis or certainly any time you're about to exercise. But this exercise in particular I find really important to incorporate at higher volume into workouts when I'm going through phases where I just feel like I don't have this stability or strength in my shoulder. So during periods of my life when I've been coming back from shoulder injuries, this is exactly the time of workout I would do without a load by the way. I'm just using the weight of my arms and hands to do this as actually you know say 10 sets of this throughout a workout. So in the way we're doing it here where you might just progress through it once or twice, great way to prepare for load is about to do in the next sequence. But also don't forget that these are the kinds of exercises that you can do it a little bit more volume to actually increase the strength of the shoulder.

=== FILE: (Video 4⧸7) Loaded movements： neck, upper back, shoulders (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [V9pc82gupX0].txt ===

So now we're in the third and final sequence of our upper back and neck health and prep. What I love about this phase is we're actually getting to load the joint. So what I see a lot of times is people will stretch and leave it at that. First is when you actually load and put pressure on the joint it's much more likely to stay in that position. So you've got to challenge it now with load with weight or you'll just go back to your old patterns. The first exercise in the loading sequence is a wide row. I'm going to have Peter take the handles and create a little tension with his hands. Now you'll notice the downward angle here of the cable. That's so that the traps don't engage because when it's that downward angle it's more likely to keep his shoulders depressed and actually work the scapula and wrongboids in this area. Now all the time I see people wide row incorrectly. There's a lot of rows and all of them are good. You could do a close row. But when you do the close row you don't actually open up the joint and the rhomboids don't fire. It's mostly by-seps. So we're going to keep the row wide and elbows up so we can really focus on getting that rhomboid squeeze here and actually strengthen all those extensors that we work so hard to open up. All the time I see people try to get that last bit of row by turning their biceps in. So now you're really just doing a bicep curl and you're sathing all the strength and energy out of what you're trying to work which is that upper mid back. So always row keeping that 90 degree angle forward again. Pro traction, scapula, retraction, shoulder blades, rowing, really focusing on that pinch into the rhomboids. Also Peter's doing a fantastic job of keeping his head neutral. Often we want a row and as we get to the end the head will come forward. Make sure you really police yourself and stay back and neutral. Try to row in the posture you want to create. Now we're going to go into a hanging sequence where we're going to go through a few different variations of moves. But the idea here is to get the shoulder is open as possible and stabilize it all through the scapula and rotator cuff. Bringing everything we've done together and a great stability move for the shoulders. So I'm going to have Peter reach up and he's actually in a pretty close. The wider, the more provocative on the shoulder. So I want your basically thumb to be just outside of your shoulder blade pretty close and tight in here. Now the first move is going to be a dead hang. I say a dead hang but it doesn't mean that you're just totally flopping and letting your joints totally relax. So I'm going to ask Peter to just pull his shoulders down a little bit. So basically he's engaging that scapula right here. So now he's nice and tight here. Normally I would like it if we had a slightly longer height here so he could truly hang but this will do for our purposes. So that's it. Just hanging with his head straight pulling his shoulder blades down. I would start with as little as 15 seconds if you haven't done this before but you really want to work up to I'd say at least 45 seconds to a minute to really be moving on to the next phase. It takes a long time to establish this facial structure and you don't want to go too fast here. So start easy. Take your time progressing with this move. Now we're going to have him activate his trunk and this is a fantastic activator to basically make sure that he's getting that extension and hanging but he's not popping out as ribs and arching his back. So he's going to engage everything here and his deep trensverse abdominis. Scoop his feet forward and now he really has to work very hard in that scapula to core stabilization. Remember we said that the scapula's job is to trensmit weight into the core. So now I'm firing the core with this scoop and I'm firing up the scapula. Can you be strengthening for this complex? One point out here as IMentioned in the intro I have a torn labor mini shoulder and a lot of times I feel very vulnerable in a fully extended position. I've gone through phases of my life where it's very difficult to do a dead hang pull-up. But by doing this exercise which I always do before I go into my pull-ups I feel completely protected and in fact I feel a little out of sync if I try to do a pull-up without going through this exact sequence and the importance of being able to activate this trensverse phascia when I'm in this position while protecting my shoulder while basically using a scapula to take the load off that joint and I just can't be overstated. So here as a guy with two torn laborum dead hanging. And let me also say that Peter's doing a great job activating his core but this exercise does decompress the back so the only time I wouldn't do this exercise is between heavy lifting because you don't want to tell the spine to decompress and then to compress with heavy weights. So do this anytime during your workout it's always a good time to hang hanging is the new planking but don't do it when you're doing a heavy hinge compression of the spine. This is the third and hardest of the hanging sequence so I really want to make sure that you can hang for at least a minute passively or in that hollow position before you even attempt this exercise. Start slow just 5 to 10 reps then build up to even 30 if you can handle it. The beauty of this exercise is that it puts each scapula in shoulder blade on an island so if you have any asymmetries and grips strength in time it'll start to balance out that asymmetry because one arm takes the load. So now we'll have Peter rocked back and forth making sure that when he trensfers the energy from one arm to the other he's pulling the shoulder blade down on the hand that's gripping and then he'll trensfer the other way pull that shoulder blade down it to the socket and trensfer energy. He's just trying to get a little bit of lift here. A variation would be just starting this where you just kind of be light on your hand versus actually lifting it. So I'll have him actually stay with his hands on it and just practice gently trensfer an energy pulling each shoulder down into the socket. Once you develop the coordination to trensfer energy back and forth and feel comfortable bringing that shoulder blade down now you can actually lift the feet up and do this in real time. Paying close attention to really gripping, pulling that shoulder down, trying to get a little height with that opposite hand. Now we're going to show you a farmers carry sequence which is really important for the health and stability of that shoulder in its socket. What it does is it not only strengthens the joint socket in the scapula around it but it also strengthens your grip and we know that grip and shoulder health are interrelated. There's a reason why our grip gives up and pull ups because it's actually protecting our shoulder socket from something it can't stabilize. With any carry especially when your hands are down you want to use a weight that you can't buy a set curl because if you can do that you'll start to bend the bicep a little bit to take the torque off your shoulder. You've got to make sure to keep those arms really straight, pack your chin into extension with a straight strong cervical spine. This is another one where you want to move in the posture you're trying to create for yourself. So the first of the four carries is a farmers carry. I'm going to demonstrate this as Jesse explains how to do it correctly. I like to do these with one arm at a time because you have to fight all the lateral force of the old leaks versus doing a double carry. We're not really activating the sidewall of the trunk. I like to use double carry because I can cheat and lift more weight. So we're going to use the single carry and Peter's going to pick it up. Now, if you can't stand correctly in this position you can't walk. Peter's doing a great job of keeping a nice straight right side and where he's not flexing the oblique in. So I'll show kind of an incorrect way. We're going to flex the other cheek I see are people jut there hip out to decide to bring the center of gravity over the kettlebell. Nope, we're going to stay nice and tall shoulders back chin back. You're going to always see a little bit of space here. I also like to pretend I'm almost holding two kettlebells because that's going to turn on the other side and just walk at a medium pace. We're walking a little bit slow just because we're confined with space but feel free to walk at your natural cadence. You want to go pretty much until your grip comes out. I'd even queue Peter to be a little higher with his neck. It's really easy to let that neck flex forward here. Let's walk back. Tall neck. You can also pick a line on the floor that you're going to want to follow. Too often I'll see people kind of walk sideways. Laterally it's not easy to stand your center of gravity but that's the challenge to walk that straight line. The next carry is a front load carry which is incredible for not letting that shoulder internally rotate and teaching it to stay stable in external rotation. So I'm going to have Peter again pick up a pretty heavy kettlebell but one he can handle. He's a beast and he's going to keep a really nice, strong, straight wrist. You notice there's contact right on the side of the arm. I'm even going to have him rotate his arm a little bit in to form a little bit of a cradle and you can see his shoulder blade is in retraction here and it's not tilting forward. Same idea here. Take a walk. Stay long on that right side and this is a tough move. It's going to throw you off balance. You're breathing, you're keeping your chin tall and you're not letting that right side collapse. Not letting that right hip jut out to the side. Staying as tall as possible. The next carry we're going to do is probably my favorite for grip strength and trensferring that grip strength energy into the scapula and shoulder joint. It's a bottoms-up kettlebell walk. So you'll notice that we're using a slightly lighter kettlebell because what Peter's actually going to do is tip the kettlebell up so it's upside down and hold it just from the handle working against all of that lateral rotation of the kettlebell. He chocked up because this isn't the best kettlebell for this. It has a vinyl coating which is a little bit slippery so I recommend doing a real metal one with some traction or you can use some chalk if you have it handy like Peter always does. Never leave home without chalk or dirt. So getting a good grip before he starts, keeping that shoulder blade retracted and back, keeping that head back, great challenge for your grip to rotate or cuff strength. Nice job here. When you do this with your watch hand, take your watch off because one foul up can cost you a watch. The last of our farmers' carry sequence is going to be done with an overhead press. But before we do that I just want to mention that any of these exercises can actually be done stationary. You still get a great benefit just from holding the posture but you definitely get a little bit of a short, better shoulder challenge when you're walking and moving with that unstable hip and trying to balance through those different planes of motion. Now you'll notice in this exercise Peter's going to use a slightly lighter kettlebell again when we had it side loaded or when we had it here close to our body I don't mind to wait being a little heavier but when it's above the head in a kind of provocative position especially for that AC joint I prefer it to be a little bit lighter. So another key here is as Peter's going to bring it over his head he's going to make sure to support and press with his opposite hand because I don't want a lot of work to be done with such a heavy weight pressing overhead but once it's locked in he can release that hand. You'll notice that as the force is compressing him downward he's actually fighting that by pushing his shoulder blade a little bit up. In the pull-up I had him pull his shoulder blade down because that the force was taking him up. So now he's slightly pressing up into that scapula, shin back, right into that shoulder socket, walking a nice straight line. Really easy for people to bring that shoulder forward and in fact if you can't touch the wall in that diagnostic exercise we did if you can't bring your hands up and touch a wall and that wall angel we did for the test you have no business doing this exercise. You have to make sure you can really open your shoulder all the way because if it's forward at all it's going to really stress that a cromule roof and make if you signs of impingement. So only the best shoulder movers should attempt this one. You know these days I don't really even do overhead pressing much anymore because the repetitive stren of the press seems to put much more pressure unnecessarily on my shoulder. So the just the end I were doing a shoulder workout we would spend much more time emphasizing actually strengthening the deltoids which can be done without overhead pressing and then using this in a static overhead way to generate this stability. Now we're going to bring everything together with a loaded twisting sequence. The beauty of this exercise is it's practical core to scapula, strength, and action. The other thing it is is that it's a shifting exercise. So too often we're working the shoulders in this front loaded lifting plane but now we're going to get an opportunity to shift with a weight and stabilize that shift. So I'm going to have Peter take the weight, put it just below his knee, keep it a nice tall back with his hips out. He's going to rotate his foot toward me and punch the kettlebell up at a 45 degree angle with arm straight and hold it for a beat. Then bring it back down. You'll notice Peter hinges with a tall spine. This is just like doing your classic hip hinge deadlift squats where you don't want to let this lower back flex. Turn and power from the hip and foot and punch the weight again. You'll notice Peter is an overroating here. You want to stay pretty much just outside your knees here any further and you might start to rotate from the lower back. All the rotation happens with the hip. I also like to say shine the beacon of light with your belly button. So your belly button should always be moving here. Imagine shining it all over the place. That's going to ensure you're not rotating from your back and it's coming from the hips.

=== FILE: (Video 5⧸7) Extra content： Diagnostic test for shoulder (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [hXtW8bgm4hs].txt ===

This is an important diagnostic test that I learned probably about 10 years ago when I was rehabbing from an early shoulder injury. When I actually, one of the ones I alluded to in the intro. The purpose of this exercise is really to get a sense of how flexible your scapula are. So you start by sitting your butt as close as you can get it to the wall and you put your hands out about 90 degrees. Now the goal here is to do what Jesse's going to walk me through in a second but keeping the entire voiler surface of the arm meaning the back surface of the hand forearm and upper arm always on the wall. And what I'm going to try to do is get my arms as high as possible but without separating from the wall. So Jesse's going to walk me through this and you'll get a sense of what we're trying to do. So the less provocative or less challenging position will actually be a wider wall angel or a wider wall reach because it's mostly the peck that's stretching and you're not involving the the lat and serratus as much, right, or at least muscles under the armpit. So I'm going to have Peter just push out into a nice wide y. Now Peter has incredible great shoulder mobility. You may find that to keep that surface down you might have to be here and that's fine. The key is to not struggle to go through the range you can go through and breathe through this. It's not a forced exercise. The wall is being accepted by your arms versus you pushing them into it with all your might. The more you struggle the harder it is. So as you go, you'll be able to reach all the way up because you'll have enough length and that serratus and lat to fully touch the wall with arm straight. But again, this is a very advanced position. I would recommend reaching down a little bit of a y reaching down again and seeing if you can start your work your arms closer and closer. Great diagnostic to see if the whole shoulder girdle is working properly.

=== FILE: (Video 6⧸7) Extra content： rotator cuff (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [cIjKtVc4J0Q].txt ===

So let's move on to an exercise that Jesse and I like a lot to strengthen the rotator cuff. Now, as we alluded to at the outset, evolutionarily we made an enormous leap by trading stability for flexibility in the shoulder. And the price we've paid for that is that we don't have the stability here that we have say in our hip. And so the shoulder is really stabilized by not a true ball and socket, but rather by these four muscles that make up the rotator cuff. The muscles are Terry's minor, infraspinatus, superspinatus, and sub-scapularis. Now, anyone who's been through rehab for a shoulder injury is probably really familiar with the types of exercises that you can do. Typically done as a series of four. An exercise where you move against tension this way, move against tension this way, and move against tension this way. In my experience having done all of these for many periods of time, I actually prefer one simple exercise that I'm going to show you now. And the reason is any time I find we're using bands, the resistance is very non-linear. And so I can never really find a perfect sweet spot where I'm using a reasonable amount of weight through the entire range of motion. So this simple exercise which I'll show you in Jesse will walk us through. First of all, it's done with a very lightweight. I will typically start at maybe 10 to 12 pounds and really never go higher than about 17 and a half or 20 pounds. And I'm trying to get a maximum range of motion, and I'm obviously trying to recruit anything but this very strong set of muscles that you want to rely on. The beauty of this exercise for me is that Peter is pinning his elbow against his knee. You'll notice that a lot of the band work that people do around the rotator cuff. The elbow is flailing all about. This really creates a fixed axis point and allows us to focus on the infraspinatus, which is a rotator cuff that's locked long on most people because our shoulder is pulled forward. And infraspinatus is an external rotator of the shoulder. So giving this a little love and a little shortening goes a long way to shoulder health. So you'll see, he'll come up, keeping that elbow pressed against the knee, coming down to his full range of motion, focus in on really accessing that rotator cuff. You can see he's shaking. This is a great example of stability of the shoulder and the rotator cuff. Great exercise for maintaining shoulder health. Well, this is a reasonable position to do this exercise, and it's actually not my preferred position. Given the choice, I'd like to be sitting on a bench and have the knee that I'm using to support my elbow up on a dumbbell rack, that seems to at least for me, put me in the perfect position to get the maximal range of motion without anything that's taking my attention off what I'm doing.

=== FILE: (Video 7⧸7) Extra content： Scapular health (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [v5xnJArYWjM].txt ===

This next move is a fantastic compliment to the broomstick exercise we just showed you. In this move you're going through similar ranges of motion in an overhead sequence, but you're getting traction from a resistance band and you're also getting to move your scapula in a rhythm along with your shoulder joint and we talked about the scapula being such an important structure that should slide along the ribs to support the shoulder and you're getting most of the rotations and movements in the scapula within this exercise. Now I like to do this as one continuous movement to save time, but just for the purpose of this video we'll break it up into some different motions so you can see the benefit of each different scapula or elevation or depression. So what we'll start with is Peter's going to take this band, put it over his head and he's going to create a little traction by pulling his hands into a y. Just a light bit of traction you don't want to be strening too much here. I'm going to have him elevate his shoulders so his shoulders go to his ears and then pull his shoulders down into scapula depression and then we have him open his palms and bring the band behind his neck. Really almost trying to rotate the palms downward to get that external rotation and then he'll come up again with that traction. Elevate, depress, turn the palms up, he's doing a great job keeping his neck neutral lining up over his body. And now on the next move I'll have Peter actually pin the cable into his upper back with his arm straight. Now just this is a fantastic stretch. The band is set just below his shoulder blades as you can see here. If it's too high it's going to actually hit his neck and I don't want a lot of people writing about they got snapped in the neck from this one. So he's going to make sure it stays right on those wings right here. He's going to bring his arms forward. Pro-tracked his shoulders forward with his palms down. Retract squeezing that scapula, almost trying to pinch a pencil here between his shoulder blades. Bring the arms back with the palms up behind him. Again opening the hands, staying in this plane. When you do this you're going to want to go down to this plane to get further but again you're just bringing the shoulder down and forward. You want to stay right in line with that upper back here and then he'll come forward. Pro-tracked again. Retract. We're teaching the scapula how to protect the shoulder here. Retract. Bring the palms back. Big peck stretch for all those people who love to do pushups and whale on the chest. Also stretching the AC joint here. So notice as we're going from the scapula retraction and forward position into the peck stretch we're rotating from palms down to palms up. And then here you go back to palm down. So many of the shoulder injuries we see because the scapula isn't doing its job protecting the capsule of the shoulder. This is the one exercise we're really focused on that scapula movement to protect the shoulder in the long term.

=== FILE: 3 of my favorite grip exercises [f9KoML0DAKU].txt ===

So two of my favorite exercises for grip strength. This is the first one where you take a hex down and you just do what's called farmers carry with it. So you grab these things, pull the chalk definitely helps to keep your grip on the runner. And then basically, if you walk around with these things, and what you're doing is increasing time, but you hold it in weight. So usually once I can get to 45 to 60 seconds of walking around, it's time to go up and wake. So you might even almost start with 15 pounds. This is about 22 and a half and I can hold this for over a minute. So you do about one or five pounds for 30 or 40 seconds and then just keep going. And I superset this basically in between most exercises. So IMight get 10 sets of these carriers throughout the workout. Okay. Okay. One more bonus grip exercise I love is called a ghee pull up. So you put a towel here up over the pull up rack. And you can do this like either single or crossing the nose of the other area. And then you're going to pull up, but you're holding an towel. So popular due to exercise has the term ghee pull up. But you can see this is basically going to be a grip for taking exercise. Now, one thing that I'll just do, one of this to the other way, always really tug on the towel before you get up there. I kind of towel split on the floor and that doesn't pleasant. So there you have it, ghee pull up. Okay. The next one of that love and I also went to superset is to take a kettle valve in for carry. And then so I'm going to walk in with this thing in inverted carry. So again, really amazing grip exercise. You're also obviously getting a little bit of shoulder work here. Obviously a little bit of stability in a trensfer sauce because you can't be able to stabilize an asymmetric movement. But for me, this is primarily another great grip exercise. And so, typically, do about a 30 to 40 second block. Come down, switch it up and go this way. I never do this side by side because when these things do, slip, you want to have a free hand to catch it. I've also sometimes do a heavier carry and not walk. So it's easier to just stand and static. So when I go to a heavier weight, I'll just do a static hold for 30 seconds. Alright, so that's the second one.

=== FILE: 317 ‒ Reforming medicine： uncovering blind spots, challenging the norm, and embracing innovation [Dzz_tO4Gu3A].txt ===

The father of modern medicine, Dr. Claude Bernard, he had said, in science more than in any other discipline, you have to recognize that we bring biases to any question. And you have to actively suspend those biases as you take in new information, so you have impeccable objectivity. And it's a lesson for everyone today. Unfortunately, I think we're going the other direction in science right now. We've got policing of misinformation. We've got this sort of culture of obedience in medical school that goes right down to your first day of medical school. So I'm optimistic on the future of healthcare because enough people now are sort of anti-central authority, anti-corporate, and there arEQuestioning things they didn't before, but this culture of just get in line and do what you're told, is still a powerful force. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Hey, Marty. Thanks for coming in. Good to be with you, Peter. Great to see you again as always. So you've got a new book out, Blind Spots. And this is a book, I guess. I certainly remember talking about with you as it was kind of in the works. We've had many dinners together when some of these topics have come up. Do I take, can I take like 5% credit for the inclusion of HRT in this book? Now you get 99% credit for that. That was incredible. And I saw a late edition, right? To the book. That was that tipped me off to do my own sort of investigative journalism. So I tracked down the people that made that initial announcement, saying it caused breast cancer. And I pinned them down and I went over the stats with them hard. And finally got them to confess that it did not. So thanks for tipping me off there and helping me shape the book. So the book is a great read and it goes through a number of situations that all kind of have this theme in common, which is an idea comes up. The idea is a bit shaky in terms of lack of evidence, which in and of itself is not really a problem. That really is the way medicine and science have to work. They have to start with ideas that we may or may not have great evidence for. But what sort of goes wrong? Why is there a book about this instead of a bunch of case studies of how everything has gone really well? So there's a science to group think. And that's really what's going on a lot of times. It's the bandwagon effect. It's not just in medicine. It's in business. It's in politics. It's in relationships. People are dead set on an idea, not because they're convinced of it, but because they simply heard it first. And there was a psychologist named Leon Festinger, who since passed away, but had written a tremendous amount of material on this idea of cognitive dissidents. He really carved this entire discipline out inside of psychology. And the idea is that the brain doesn't like to be uncomfortable with conflicting ideas. It likes to settle and be lazy with one thought. And so it's often the first thing you hear. And so if something comes along that challenges, your deeply held views or just what you've happened to her before, there's this internal conflict. So what the body does is it will reframe the new information to make it fit what you already believe, or it'll dismiss it completely, kind of the modern-day cancel culture. And so this happens in day-to-day life. It happens in humaninteractions. And it happens in medicine too. We get this sort of herd mentality. But the important thing is science is that the purpose of science is to challenge deeply held assumptions. And so that's something that I follow as a threat in so many areas of modern-day health recommendations in this book. And it will come back to this because I think one of the take-home from this is not just the stories, but what a person can do going forward. But I would also have to say that, and maybe this is, frankly, just a hard thing to hear, both is the author of the book, but as a person listening, which is, how does it individual, like a normal person navigate this? Right? Like, I'll use myself as an example. Not because I think I'm normal. I think I have at my disposal access to more information. I have a research team that can help me answer questions. And yet, if I was to challenge every idea out there that I held sacred, I'm not sure I'd get anything done. So what's the balance in your mind between your doctor tells you something? Kind of makes sense, like on first, it seems logical, at least plausible. But technically, you haven't done the thinking on it. How do you not allow yourself to become a crazy, conspiracy theorist who doesn't trust anything and throws out what's 80% good in the pursuit of throwing out the 20% that's trash? How does one navigate that? Right. How do you shift through that? It's, there are extremes on both sides. And you see the pendulum swing, like with childbirth. You know, there's this over medicalization of ordinary life. And then this swing back to avoid all doctors and hospitals and deliver it home with nobody. And that's a dangerous proposition. And so you see that frequently in the history of modern medicine. And for the everyday consumer out there, I think the flag should go up when something is put out there as a health recommendation with such absolutism as science, evidence-based. When really there's nothing to point to. That should be a flag for everyday folks. We don't want to create hysteria. We need people to trust doctors. I need my patients to trust me a lot of times, but asking questions should be part of the process. And I think there are times when we are very slow as a medical community to implement scientific evidence. And it's okay to educate the public on it. There's a non-operative protocol for appendicitis. Yeah, it's one of the things I wanted to talk about with you. Okay, you wanted to mention briefly now, so. Sure. Yeah. You can talk about how you and I learned to treat appendicitis. And what is appendicitis for us for us for maybe to fix a sense of this? Yeah, so inflammation of the appendix and infection sets in that sort of tight junctions break down and bacteria from the colon will creep in there. And in fact, the appendix it becomes inflamed gets into the blood system and late stages. And to give sense that people are sensitive, IMean, what's the lifetime prevalence of this and prior to any treatment? So 200 years ago, what was the mortality from acute appendicitis? It was over 60% Walter Reed, a famous physician himself died of appendicitis, the hospital and D.C.s named after him. So it was a common cause of death. And the lifetime prevalence was not that small. It was like seven percent. IMean, not it was five, but you're probably in that range. And so. Think about that, right? There's a one in 18 to one in 20 chance. You'd get an infection of your appendix and a 60% chance that if you got it, it would kill you. Yeah, IMean, it was, it still is one of the most common operations performed in American hospitals. And we have learned as a reflex as surgeons. You were at Johns Hopkins. You did this many times. We may have been in the operating room. We did many together. And so as a reflex, you learned to take out the appendix. You do it swiftly. You do it with lapar scope as of the last 30 years or so. And. That pre-med students are, you know, know this. This is like we will take the interns through the case. This is a reflex. We don't even think about it in the hospital. So it's been one of these easy things like diagnosed treat, diagnosed treat. Diagnosis used to be tricky because it can present a lot of ways. Now the cascans just points out the bull's eye and you go to work. You call the team, mobilize high five each other after the case, talk to the family. It's a quick, great case for a surgeon and a surgical trenee. Well, then a study came out showing that you don't need to operate. And a short course of antibiotics is 67% effective in patients that don't that come in with a appendicitis. If the appendix is not ruptured or there's no little stone, we'll be called a fecalith in the appendix. Which is the vast majority of people don't have rupture or a fecalith. So here is a discovery that really shook up the whole field of modern surgery. So just make sure folks are following us. The study said, look, if you're in the majority of cases of appendicitis, it's not yet ruptured and it doesn't have an obvious mechanical cause. You can instead of taking a person to the operating room, which is low risk, but not zero risk. You're still subjecting a person to general anesthesia. That's right. Plus there's the cost associated with surgery. You're saying that you can get 60 to 70% the same outcome if you give them any antibiotic. And if they don't respond to any antibiotic, then you'll take a third of those people otherwise back to surgery. Yes, exactly. And of those that do not, of those who respond well to the antibiotics, it's something like high 80% will respond to the initial course of antibiotics. A small fraction, maybe 12% will come back with recurrence symptoms in the first month and say, hey, I got that pain back and then you go to surgery with them. So the total cure though is about two thirds. Two thirds. Okay. And you don't get behind the eight ball. It's not like, oh, they know, well, we washed it within a, we gave a short course of antibiotics, washed it. And now it's so far along, we can't do anything in the patient as far worse. They've done the long term follow up. So and it's not just, you know, you made a good point about the cost and the other thing. But the patient doesn't have to go undergo an incision, anesthesia, risk of infection, risk of hernia, all the minor risk that they're present. The carbon footprint of the hospital, the amount of waste produced, the nursing staffing resources. IMean, the weight list at a hospital every night in every hospital in America has cases that are waiting to go. And typically there's an appendix or two on that list. And sometimes these are operations that are going to be done in the middle of the night anyway. Yeah, we've got a nursing staffing crisis, you know. So there's so many implications to appropriately implementing this research. So I was talking to one of my colleagues because I I'd offer this to a kid who came in to see me. He had, it was, I was really in a dilemma, because I had redness study. It was convinced of it. And I thought this is at least something to offer patients. Nobody else was really offering it at the time. The study had been a couple months out. So I had it this guy come in about 19 years old. Perfect candidate. No rupture, no fecalith. Early appendicitis, young healthy guy. They're already getting antibiotics when they come in and get diagnosed in the emergency department anyway. So usually it's just running at a little bit longer. And I offer him the surgery versus no surgery. He tells me he has a wedding the next morning in Boston, which he has to fly to of his sister. And I'm thinking, oh my god, what gets him to the wedding faster? Just taking him to the operating room right now, which case he might get there in a wheelchair. I don't, you know, he should be able to leave the hospital in the morning and get a flight. He might lip around. He'll be in some discomfort. Or do I do the antibiotic protocol? So I just offered him both. And I told him what I don't know, which is I think the most important part of being a doctor is understanding the unknowns and dealing with uncertainty. And guess what he chose between surgery and no surgery. No surgery. No surgery. Yeah, of course. Yeah, do you want to go on to the knife or not? You know, it doesn't matter. Of course he chooses no surgery. So he goes to the wedding the next day, dances up a storm and I become so convinced that this may be revolutionary. And I tell one of my colleagues about it and he says, I don't buy it. I still live you've read that randomized controlled trial. It's published in like our top journal and he says, I need to see two randomized controlled trials. So I'm like, okay, you know, they've been doing this in Europe a lot longer than we've heard about it in the US. So a second randomized controlled trial comes out like a year later. I show it to him and he says, I need to see three randomized controlled trials. And then believe it or not, a third one came out. I think it was like six months later, long term follow up. The initial study was repeated in children's other studies came out that were non randomized. And I showed it to him and he says, I just think you're better with it out. And I'm thinking it would be unethical to do any more research. Like this is one of the big this is the cognitive dissidence that Leon Festinger was describing. Leon Festinger embedded himself into a cult to prove his theory correct. A cult that met in Chicago believed that aliens were going to pick them up because there was going to be a great flood. On a certain day, a certain time and he read about this in the paper that they were assembling to be picked up by this spaceship. And he realized this is the real world example of my theory of cognitive dissidence. Why we cling to what we hope believed first and we're not open-minded to be objective. So the thing he wants to test is when the aliens don't come to rescue the people that were the firm believers, how many will say, oh my god, how stupid was anything this, versus what will be the set of stories that get spun to explain why they're belief was still right? Sounds like you, you somehow knew that the aliens did not come and pick them up. I was able to make the leap of faith that the aliens indeed did not come. So they didn't come that night and he was there in the room with all the cult members. And somebody says at 1205 because the pickup was supposed to happen at noon and they had removed their belts and metals for the flight and everything. Somebody says, oh the other clock is wrong, it's really 1155 and everyone gets excited and there's this denial and denial through the night and then in the morning basically it, you know, it did was obvious it did not come true and they did not abandon their views, they dug in deeper. Those who had a little belief, they thought this is not and they just left but there was a physician that Festinger spent time with and he writes about it and is book called When Prophecy Fails where the doctor said, it just openly won. So almost in a Freudian way said, you know, I just have so much vested in this now at this point. My job, my family, my friends, everybody knows I'm so into this, I have to hold on and Festinger watched and plain view what we all experience in a subconscious way and that is this resistance to new ideas and you see it in politics and business and everything else and it was really amazing. It's a theory that's now well accepted as kind of dissonance and it's tied closely to effort reporting effort, justification, that's the concept and psychology and that is, hey, I'm Vest, I've spent all this energy on it, it must be good or just fired or and we do that with our surgical residency, fraternity, hazing, it fosters this cycle of abuse and in the examples by I think their name was Aaron and Mills where the two psychologists right after Festinger around that time and they took college students and they said, hey, we're going to have you do this task, we're going to pay you for the task, you take little pegs and you put him in. The most tedious point thing you can design and they paid them half of them 20 bucks and the other half $1 to do it for an hour which groups said they enjoyed doing the task more. The group, beginning to pay the dollar. The group beginning to pay the dollar because they had to justify and they did another experiment where they said, hey, we're going to have a sex talk and you have to take an entrence exam and there were three groups that took the entrence exam. One, they had an entrence exam that was incredibly difficult, they didn't give them the results, they just said, okay, you know, you passed. The other had a moderate exam and the other one had no exam. Then they had the talk and it was the most boring, disappointing, let down you could possibly. They basically said, yeah, bees get together and multiply and they're just kind of like, what, you know, this is what we tried hard to get in for this class and then they asked them, did you enjoy the class? It was designed to drive you nuts board and the guess which groups said they enjoyed it the most. The one with the hardest test. The one with the hardest test. And this plays out in our lives every day. Now that I've read these studies and have written about them, I think about this in our research meetings when new ideas get suggested when people ask me if we should do it a certain way. You know, we've got these traditions and dogmas and medicine that can take on a life of their own. So let's talk a little bit about peanut allergies. Probably everybody listening is no strenger to a peanut allergy. In fact, there's, I don't know what the prevalence is, perhaps you do, but it's quite prevalence. So there's again, the probability that someone listening to this doesn't either have a peanut allergy or know somebody with one is probably close to zero. So let's talk a little bit about this. Has it always been this way? And if not, when did this, when did this become an epidemic? Well, it really is an epidemic and it's tragic and people can go into severe antiflexus just being neuropenate without even ingesting the peanut. In 1999, Mount Sinai did a study and estimated the prevalence to be about half of one percent and the vast majority were very mild. And it's there many theories as to why that might have crept up from zero generations prior. But the American Academy of Pediatrics decided to address this problem by issuing the recommendation. Now, they didn't know what to recommend. They honestly literally had no idea what to recommend. I went back and interviewed some of the individuals who made that recommendation. It was a strong recommendation. Even if it wasn't made with such absolutism, it was interpreted as the law of the land. And the recommendation was for all children, zero through three to avoid all peanut products, including the little peanut butter moms would put into food and infancy. And pregnant mothers and lactate mothers should also avoid 100 percent peanut abstinence. And what happened immediately after that recommendation in the year 2000 is peanut allergy rates in the United States began to sore. And we saw a new type of allergy which is the severe antifelactic reaction, the ultra allergy where if someone used the same ice cream scooper as in the pistachio, even though they had rinsed it, that kid could end up in the emergency room. When we saw emergency room visits, skyrocket. So the medical establishment deletes, I'll say, not the rank and file doctors that think independently. And the rank and file doctors knew they just made this up. And some were had immunology backgrounds and knew this doesn't fit with immunology. And immunology, you need to be exposed to things early in life to be immune tolerance, something called oral and immune tolerance. Parents had known it as the dirt theory, sometimes you around cats and dogs. Yeah, develop a robust immune system that helps your life. Bubble kids end up getting really, really sick later on. There's a pediatrician named Gideon Lack who's an allergist who was one of these enlightened guys early on. And he said he noticed kids that had, I think it was like iron or metal in their teeth for dental work were less likely to get a reaction to ear piercing later in life. And so he had done research in immune tolerance and knew this concept if you're exposed to something you're less likely. Well a bunch of pediatricians to test this recommendation tried to speak up. They were basically silenced or sideline. And this recommendation took on a life of his own. Parents were told for their kids, remember one, two, three at age one, you can introduce milk at age two, eggs and age three. Finally, you can introduce some peanut products. So it became known as the one, two, three. It took on a life of its own. It became dogma. As the peanut algae rates soared, the medical establishment said, what's going on here? We're telling people what to do. They're not listening. We need to double down. We need to get people to comply. We have non-compliant parents out there. If we can only get everyone to comply with this, we can defeat this epidemic. If you can dear little echoes here of modern-day correlations. So this doubling down took place. And the more they double down, the worse it got to the point where now there's an estimate of the one-eight, one-and-eight teen kids has a peanut algae. But the severe peanut algae is at the real issue now. It's banned in a lot of schools, about 20% of schools in America. I've banned all peanut products altogether. And the more you ban the less exposure, the more immune sensitization, because now you have to think about the one-and-eight teen kid with an allergy. So it became a self-licking ice cream cone. It was like, you know, more abstinence, more abstinence what are you doing. And the parents who were like, no, I'm going to introduce peanut butter as my grandmother did. And for generations, when there were no peanut allergies, they were seen as anti-science. They were ridiculed. Schools would address these parents sometimes. I have two medical students, or well graduate students doing research in my research center at Johns Hopkins from Africa, once from Cameroon and once from Zimbabwe. And they came to fly over to the research meeting in their first days. And they were like, what is it with the peanut allergies here? Like, they're announcing it on the plane to be WI. They're these all these products are like contains no trenites. And they're like, what have they've never seen this before in my life? And like, some student invited one of them to dinner at his house, because he was a new student from Africa. And he goes, oh, would you like to come over for dinner sometime? And he goes, yeah, sure, do you have any peanut or other allergies? And he's like, Marty, what the hell is with this peanut obsession here? We have no peanut allergies in Africa. And I was like, wow, faith. Have you ever heard of a peanut? These are public health graduate students. No, we have no peanut allergies in Zimbabwe. Then I would call relatives that I have back in Egypt, same thing. I've never heard of a peanut allergies except for there was an X-pat living here in Cairo, hit a peanut allergy. And you realize this is a unique American epidemic that was created. But there must have been some index cases that caused the hysteria. Yeah. So that incidence from outside, I suggest half one percent. It might have been microbiome related, we think. But the peanut abstinence just through lighter fluid into this fire. And it really resulted in where we are today. So where is the American Academy of Pediatrics today on their recommendations? So here's the thing, the study got done eventually 15 years into the recommendation. That doctor Gideon Lack, IMentioned in London, published a study in the New England Journal of Medicine with 640 kids doing a randomized control trial to early peanut butter exposure in infancy for five, six months. Not as they're sold diet. He's go pro-bent breastfeeding, right? And whole peanuts have a choking risk. So IMean the smart way. Yeah. And then some peanut abstinence in peanut introduction in infancy. Fast forward a couple of years, radically eightfold different rates in peanut allergies and spher allergies. Published in the New England Journal of 15 years. Why didn't the American Academy of Pediatrics? And so what year was that study published? 2015. Okay. Then of course, full difference. So we're talking about that's almost like a significant as smoking, giving lung cancer versus not. Like smoking versus not smoking and lung cancer was about a tenfold difference. Yeah. One of the biggest odds ratios you see in research. Yeah. And then of course, the, you know, the beer crats at Nye Add and NIH from the National Institute of Allergy and infecses. They fought two years later. They get around and putting a position paper and all this stuff. So, 17 years. But do we also understand how much, how much is that position paper reverse the behavior in parents? Because when it comes to kids that are born today, do we know that the amount of peanut abstinence going on is virtually gone now? I think it's unknown. But it's a great point you raise. Why not reverse the recommendation now that the science is clear with the same vigor at which you put it out initially? Why not show some humility? Why not what if the leaders got out there and called CBS mornings and other morning shows and said, hey, we got something terribly wrong. We really need to correct the record on this. You didn't see that. Yeah, that's to me on my soapbox. That's really the beef I have with DHRT. Stuff is the absolute, IMean, mega foam of, you know, fear that was promulgated through estrogen hysteria in 2001. And even though if you read the fine print today, many of those people have walked back those recommendations of estrogen avoidance. But again, it's not only is it too little too late, you've got a generation of women, literally a generation of women over 20 million women who have been deprived of HRT. But even women that are available eligible to take HRT today, they're still confused because the same megaphone that was used to say estrogen will give you breast cancer is not being used to correct course. So there's an enormous asymmetry in these information campaigns. And one little piece I know you've done a great job covering HRT. But one of the guys in that committee. So in the investigative journalism, I did around the HRT dogma. Before the announcement, there was a committee meeting where they were hoodwaint. And the 40 investigators were basically told, hey, throw out the agenda. We've got some breaking news on this study causes breast cancer. We have already submitted the journal. It's coming out. And a bunch of guys there are like, what the, this is not how we do research, right? One of them Bob Langer, who I interviewed, had said in a shouting match with the lead investigator. He said, look, if you put something out there as sensitive as breast cancers caused by HRT, if you, you will never be able to put that genie back in the bottle. And that's exactly what happened. And sure enough that guy had confessed to me that it did not cause the renewing increase in breast cancer deaths, you know, maybe with a gun to his head when we were in it, you know, I was doing the interview with him. Yeah, not a single increase in breast cancer deaths. I believe in that was at the time of publication. That was again demonstrated nine years later. And again, demonstrated 20 years later on the follow-up of the same cohort. I can't tell you, Marty, how many times I get asked this question. It is, it is probably the single most prevalent topic of discussion I have in a public setting, like get a dinner or, you know, something like that. So it's amazing how much incorrect information still exists out there. It's amazing. There's probably no modern day medical intervention that has improved the health of a population as much as HRT for postment of positive. But it's not just HRT. The medical establishment got opioids wrong for 35 years. They got heart stance wrong for 15 years. They got the low fat diet wrong for how many 60 plus years. They got peanut allergies wrong for 17 years. Where's the apology? Where's the humility? Where's the, you know, that's why there's distrust right now. Yeah. And again, this is, this is where I really, really struggle. Because I have friends who are otherwise smart people who have such ridiculous views in terms of like where the pendulum is one the other way. And like they're convinced like you shouldn't microwave your food because microwaves are harmful. And I don't say this to be kind of arrogant. But there's also such a degree of scientific illiteracy that even when I try to explain to one of these friends, what a microwave is. And why a microwave can't be harmful. Like why it, you know, you have to understand what ionizing radiation is. You have to understand what a light, like if if microwaves are harmful, then light is more harmful based on the wavelength. But that's a hard thing to explain to people who don't understand science. You can't see wavelengths, right? So it's, it's, it's, it's difficult. So I think that's what bothers me is we've created kind of a bi-modal distribution, right? Of complete rejection of science and everything that medicine says is wrong. And you should never go to a doctor and anything your doctor says is wrong to complete an utter blind faith. And again, it comes back to my question, which I don't have a great answer to, which is how does a reasonable person maintain skepticism, but you know, not be paralyzed by it and not be pushed so far to either extreme. And I still, I still come away thinking I don't know the answer to this. Yeah, I don't have a satisfying answer either. And I feel for the everyday person out there, friend of mine who will come up to me and says, well, I asked about hormone therapy, but my doctor, whom I love, said, no, it does this. You know, you don't want to create so much skepticism where people are denying a chest tube when they have an suction pneumothorax. Right. So it's like, what is that, Bel, I don't have a satisfying answer, but it is exactly what Leon Festinger was describing. And the father of modern medicine, Dr. Claude Bernard, he had said, in science more than in any other discipline, you have to recognize that we bring biases to any question. And you have to actively suspend those biases as you take in new information, so you have impeccable objectivity. And it's a lesson for everyone today. Unfortunately, I think we're going the other direction in science right now. We've got policing of, you know, misinformation. We've got this sort of culture of obedience and medical school that goes right down to, you know, right down to your first day of medical school. So, you know, I'm optimistic on the future of healthcare because enough people now are sort of anti-central authority, anti-corporate, and they'rEQuestioning things they didn't before, but this culture of just get in line and do it your told is still a powerful force. Yeah, IMean, I'd love to spend some time when we get through a few more of these interesting examples talking about how to, how to at least change medical education. And to me, one of the most important changes I would make if I were medical education saw would be a very dedicated track of statistics and probability theory. And I think this is important for all of science, right? IMean, you, I know you would agree with me, I think, but you know, there are no proofs in science. You know, I've said this many times before, so nothing is 100% certain. So, so science is not a thing, right? It's a process. And what is highly probable today is probably a better way of describing something that we think is true. So, you know, and new information should always be obtaining probability. So, if you think about that framework, right? If people are trened in in in the mathematics of uncertainty, which is what's the statistics and probability theory are, and I feel very fortunate because I was a math major before I went to medicine. So, that kind of came a little more naturally to me to think that way. You could look at, you know, you could look at some index cases of peanut allergies in the 90s, and you could say, well, my hypothesis is this is due to being exposed to peanuts as a child. Now, that turns out to be wrong, but that would be your hypothesis, but you wouldn't cling to that hypothesis with absolute certainty because you would understand that it's a probability distribution, and you might assign it a probability of 50%. And you would say, well, if this is true, how would I test it? I would test it, and then based on information as it's coming in, I'm updating that probabilities. Now, more than 50% or less than 50%. And I know that sounds very mechanical, but I can't really think of another way. IMean, and I know we're going to try not to talk about COVID today because the world's COVID fatigue is rampant, but COVID offered so many lessons in this, right? Which is, hey, did this virus come from a lab or did it come from a wet market? I don't know. I'd say 90% it came from a wet market because we have a precedent of viruses coming out of wet markets. Okay. Well, it's three months later, we have some more information. We found out about this research being done there. Should we update the probability? Okay, maybe it's 80-20 now. Great. That's an update in probability. Six months later, hey, we still haven't found the vector. Okay, maybe it's 50-50 now. But if we thought about it that way, I think it's easier to change your position. Yes. Because you're not wed to a binary outcome, yes or no. You're thinking about it as a probability distribution function, that's right. Which is constantly getting upgraded and updated and improved and it's theoretically converging on what is true as we go. And that's true of everything, right? IMean, like I've lost track of all the other things. Fortunately, I've purged most of them for my brain, but like I've remectin, you know, all of these things. IMean, all of these are reasonable things to have assumed that what became unreasonable was to not go through this process. Both sides, the sides that clung to them and the sides that morally oppose them. So anyway, we should we should probably revisit that. Let's shift gears a little bit and talk about antibiotic use. So this is something that probably doesn't get that much attention. I know Marty, when I was in the hospital, we did talk a lot about this. In particular, we talked a lot about it in the ICU, which was the idea of antibiotic resistance being a real problem. But as a person who lives outside a hospital now, I don't hear much about it. So that makes me think one of a couple scenarios. scenario one is it was greatly exaggerated in the early 2000s when I was a resident because it hasn't materialized resistance resistance. Resistance. It was real and it's still real, but more and more drugs are being developed to keep the bacteria a day. So you know, you might walk through several other machinations, but give us a sense of what this means, what the implications are and what can be done about it. So about a hundred thousand people in the US die a year roughly from resistant bacteria that resistant to the antibiotics we've had. The time period it took for bacteria to develop resistance through their natural evolution was about 23 years when antibiotics were first mass produced in the 1950s and 60s. Then it shrunk down to 14 years and now it's about one year within a year and bacteria will mutate around an antibiotic and it'll be a blank, say, methysl and resistant staff lacoccus. We're now seeing C-Diff, one of those common bacteria, take the life of somebody, you know, every other month or so in the hospital and most hospitals, it's you tend to pick it up in the hospital. Sadly, you look back and you say, oh yeah, they took an anseph for this tiny little thing they didn't need to take the anseph antibiotic for. The about 60% of our patient antibiotics are unnecessary according to several studies and in patient antibiotics, I'm not sure it's much better. I personally have given thousands of unnecessary antibiotics because I've been forced to, well, I say I give them. It's the operations that I do. There's this protocol that you give every single operative patient antibiotic before the incision. Yep, Marty, I don't think I ever cut a person's skin in my life without an antibiotic being unbored except for a certain trauma case where you're literally putting a knife on them the second they walk in the door because they're going to die. But yes, we would, I don't know, we used to give anseph. I don't know if that's the case, right? That's yeah, I don't know why yeah. Okay, so and then again, the reason was, um, there are bacteria on the skin and even though we scrub the skin, you can't get every bacteria out. So we're going to give you an antibiotic that has to be in your system. It's going to be given to you intravenously. And then usually the anesthesiologist will does it in pre-oper before you cut skin so that by the time that incision goes through whatever bacteria are on the edge of that skin aren't going to potentially again. And so again, makes a lot of sense. I never questioned it. Where there, and there must have been studies that demonstrated lower incidents of wound infections, right? I can't imagine something that prevalent was was implemented without an RCT. Was it? The worst studies and the RCTs in major abdominal operations that were done open, your most surgeries done minimally invasive now and people have inappropriately extrapolated those findings to minimally invasive surgery. IMean, have you ever heard of an infection after a laparoscopic in Gurohernia? Maybe like a case report. I've never seen it but isn't that because we're giving them antibiotics potentially? I don't think so, but if because you would see at least some, I don't think it would be 100% effective. You don't see that with abdominal surgery. IMean, it reduces the incidence of infections a little bit. I just don't think there's any mechanism in some of these procedures. I don't think it works only at guest this. Well, for whatever reason, with no data, the research from open abdominal GIC has got extrapolated broadly. And I remember asking, I was actually in practice a little bit before the broad recommendation. I remember asking this guy patched DeLinger who was involved in these recommendations is called like the antibiotics society of America. You know, one of these, there's no these niche meetings. We have the pancreas club, you know, it's like all these meetings. It's more fun than the spleen society, by the way, they're they're boring. And so I remember asking why is it that antibiotic recommendation at the time of incision? For every operation, I've never seen or heard of an infection for these minor procedures. And he said, well, you know, we thought a lot about that on our committee and we decided making it easy to remember to do it for every operation would ensure that the big operations get it. And I thought, well, we may have a blind spot in American medicine. Now it's very obvious to me, based on some research I've been seeing out there that not only could we be breeding resistance, but what are these antibiotics doing to the gut microbiome? And it turns out that a new theory, which has emerged out of the University of Chicago, is suggesting that surgical infections don't come from the skin bacteria crawling in. It comes from the gut. Some sort of weakness in the gut and there may be a trensposition of some bacteria. And they've actually done studies now in mice where they alter their gut microbiome prior to surgery. And they have found that there's some reduction in infection. So there may be sort of probiotics preoperatively that may reduce the risk. This is a big area of ongoing research. There's nothing definitive. We've learned the people should chug a gatorade three to four hours before surgery is mostly for the glucose, but what's it doing to the gut? Are the patient coming in into starvation state and is that doing something to the microbiome? We've had all this dog by in the operating room. You got to wear your hats, like you have a cover your shoes, some places, don't cover your shoes. And then you go overseas as you may have as well. You go to Africa and you realize they're not wearing anything. Not even wearing masks when they're doing surgery. And their infection rate is no different. Really? Yeah. Yeah. And this is surprising to me. Yeah. And you think, well, what is the mask doing? Is it preventing sweat from dripping in? Is it preventing the airborne particles? Because the airborne particles just come out of the side of your mask. Right? So there's still, so there's this University of Chicago research is challenging a lot of deeply held assumptions in an operating room protocol. But one of the things I feel bad about, and I don't do it anymore now is going in for a minor laparoscopic procedure. And a physiologist says, you want me to give Antsaf and I say, no, you can hold off. The average 10 year old in America has taken 11 courses of antibiotics. And the average three year old has taken two and a half courses of antibiotics. We think that zero to three age group is the most, the microbiome is the most sensitive to antibiotics. But antibiotics are like carpet bombing your microbiome, you know, these millions of bacteria that live in a harmony. And this study, I don't know if it's, if I can mention this, but this Mayo Clinic study is our study before I was dying to tell you about this study. Incredible study out of the Mayo Clinic that came out. I think maybe the most significant study of the modern era in that it's shattering our deeply held assumptions about chronic diseases. In the Mayo Clinic researchers took the 14,000 children that live in Olmsted County in the area of Rochester, Minnesota. And they looked at kids who took an antibiotic course in the first two years of life and tracked whether or not they developed asthma, learning disabilities, overweight, obesity, later in childhood. And what they found were these incredible correlations were about 10,000 kids who had taken an antibiotic course and 4,000 who had not and they matched them to the best of their ability statistically. A 20% increase no obesity among kids who had taken an antibiotic in the first two years of life. 21% increase in learning disabilities. These were all this statistically significant findings. 32% increase in attention deficit disorder. In 90% increase in asthma and a 289% increase in celiac. Other studies have shown a correlation between antibiotics early in childhood and ulcerative cladis and Crohn's disease makes sense for changing the microbiome. We may be carpet bombing the microbiome with the dogma that there are no downsides to antibiotic. She got some sniffles. Probably want to help you. But it won't hurt you. Not true. How do we know in this study Marty that the 4,000 kids who were in the control arm that didn't get antibiotics weren't healthier kids, which is why they never needed the antibiotic. And that it wasn't some other factor about the 10,000 who did get the antibiotics either. They were just naturally less healthy kids. There was something about them that was less robust. There were other factors that couldn't be corrected for that actually explains those differences. I love it. That's how a scientific mind should think because there could be confounding variables. For example, maybe it's the infection that they were treating that is the blood to the surgery. So those are all good questions. Now my first while we cannot make conclusions from this study. But this study is an incredible signal that I think we should pay attention to for two reasons. Number one, it's been repeated in a Danish study of about a million children. Number two, there was a dose-dependent relationship. The more courses of antibiotics the child took, the more significant the more significant the higher the odds ratio. So again, worth maybe pausing and explaining to folks how you can increase the probability of a finding being real in an epidemiologic study. So again, it always comes back to this, what's the probability what you just said is causal. Cuzzality is the single most important force in science. Yes. I'm convinced of that. If you don't have causality, you have nothing. It's what makes the universe what it is in my view. So you stayed in a correlation. It's only interesting to us if there's causality. And now thEQuestion is how probable is the causality. And various factors defined by a statistician named Austin Bradford Hill speak to the strength of the association and the probability or likelihood that that association is causal. And you've outlined a couple, right? So one of them is what's the strength of the association period. So if I knew nothing else, the asthma, the 289% celiac celiac. So the fact that that had such a strong hazard ratio that's a hazard ratio of 2.9 versus the others that are like 1.2. You would say, well, just on the basis of strength of association, that one's more likely to be causal. You then stated another factor, which was reproducibility. There's another study that's done the same analysis and it's coming up with the same answers. So that makes it a little more likely to be causal. And then talked about the dose effect. Even within the association, like for example, all of this was sort of figured out during the kind of smoking, cholera epidemics when people were trying to understand causality. And then you would say, well, if smoking is causally related to lung cancer, then theoretically, my correlations should get stronger and stronger. The more cigarettes you smoke. If that's not the case, it becomes very hard to make the case that smoking is causing lung cancer. So you're saying that there was a dose effect. The more antibiotics you took, the more strongly you were having these associations. Yeah, and this is the first formal study I've seen like this on an epidemiologic basis that fits AI hypothesis that to me makes sense. The Sephlosporans had a higher correlation. They're generally considered to be a little more damaging to the microbiome than the Antseths and Petacellins. Is that because they target gram negatives more or anaerobic more or what's the, I'm so far out of my life on anybody. I don't even remember why that would be the case. I don't know, but this is these are, there are other observational data. For example, farmers have used antibiotics to fatten animals for food production for decades. And the world expert on the microbiome, Marty Blazer, who was the chief of medicine at NYU, his daughter developed chronic abdominal diseases. And obesity, they feel terrible because they gave her a bunch of antibiotics in childhood. And they thought there was an association. He started, he's a laboratory scientist. He started doing all these mice experiments. If antibiotics are making animals, more obese, what are they doing to humans? By the way, is another one of the Bradford Hill criteria. Do you have experimental evidence that also supports this, which of course, in the case of human epidemiology, you would look at that at animals? So, of course, someone listening to this might say, well, okay, Marty, but there's got to be some bad luck involved here. IMean, you had, let's go back to the Rochester Minnesota study. You got 4,000 kids who never took an antibiotic. 10,000 kids who did at least a course or two. Well, IMean, those 10,000 kids weren't just given antibiotics for no reason. They must have had ear infections. They must have had tons of light as they must have had appendicitis. They must have had something. Well, what were we supposed to do? Yeah. How do we make that? How do we draw the line between what was medically necessary? Because as unfortunate as those consequences are, they pale in comparison to a life-threatening infection that could have killed a kid. So, how do we decide what the minimum effective dose is? What's absolutely medically necessary versus what is superfluous and potentially just exposing a kid to this complicate. These complications later in life antibiotic save lives. You've seen it and I've seen it right in front of our eyes. They're amazing medications. They ushered in the white coat era of modern medicine. And as I wrote in my book, Marty, it's what took us from medicine. 1.0 to medicine. 2.0. Yes. We died like dogs. Yes. But 250,000 years of human existence. We died like dogs. Yes. And you got an infection. What life expectancy was 38. Mothers and child. Again, it's not the only thing that made the difference. But it was arguably the single most important difference with sanitation and antimicrobial therapy in the trensition from medicine 1.0 to 2.0. That's right. So, we don't want to throw the baby out with the bath water of the baby. This is the nuance, which if people want to sort of a simple dumb message and all or nothing, which is where our echo chambers of media and politics take us in life. And social media, right? You want this all or nothing, absolutism. Antibiotic save lives, but they are also massively abused and overdosed at least 60% in all the studies. And we've seen it. We've seen it. Meaning 40% of antibiotic use is justified. Yeah. And I even questioned that number because they would say that I should be giving antibiotics before my minor procedures. But there's also epidemiologic data over time that look at all these chronic diseases. Now, I know they're multifactorial, especially obesity. But look at all the increases we've seen in these exact diseases that they've seen increase in the antibiotic group. After the broad administration of antibiotics in the 1940s and 50s, in the 60s, you know, it just went up even further, the discoverer of antibiotics. Ali Xander Fleming in 1922, he had warned after he got the Nobel Prize about the massive overuse of antibiotics. He had written in his diary that I found in my research that these mass factories producing penicillin at Bloom away. This was a mold that Bloom into his lab when he left the window open. We don't know if his hammer is lab tech. He says he's unknown. But somebody left the window open in his lab where he was growing staff in an auger gel. And some of that mold landed and formed a circle around the mold where all the bacteria were killed. And he had discovered what's considered to be the greatest discovery of moderate medicine. And so you're right, it took us from being surgeon barbers where we had a Lancet and an axe to do amputations and maybe Dejoxin, which didn't help many people. And that was it. And doctors weren't disrespected, but they were respected like a priest or a barber. And then with the mass production of antibiotics, now we had the power and controlled a substance where only we could give you a magic pill. Doctors began to wear white coats. They had an unquestioned authority. We kept people in the hospital. A little of the support and you're not wearing a white coat today, Marty. I'm not a white coat kind of guy. But, you know, we held babies in the hospital for 10 days routinely. Normal healthy babies. And immediately I was in the hospital for 14 days when I was born. Normal. Yeah. At term. Yeah. I was 14 days. It's crazy. I remember by you could be out of the hospital with an aortic root replacement in half that time. I remember my little sister was born around 1980s. And mom came home from the hospital after delivering her. My brother and I were like, okay, we have a sister. And every day we'd ask, Dad, when is my little sister coming home from the hospital? Well, a doctor has had the release to her yet. She's totally normal, right? She's sitting in there for days and days. You go in there with some big glass window. You know, and they'd be like, there she is. Third row from the back. Six one over. You know, he's his little head of hair. We're apt and some. And you're like, you're looking back on it. This is the medical paternalism. This is that white coat era. This never happened before in history. People stayed in the hospital for two weeks after a cataract. They'd measure their toe diameter. They'd, you know, probe and poke and put babies of the NICU and feed them formula and, you know, the mother would be like, can I see a hold the baby? No, we have to take the baby. Even when I was in as a student, you know, I was in the OB rotations. My first rotation. I'm nervous. IMean, I was shaking thinking about it. They give me the scissors. You know, like, oh, right, section. You know, he's morning. You go in there and all sorts of K. K. I was going, okay, as soon as you see the embellish accord, you got it. And I'm holding this scissors. I want to learn about the process of childbirth, but I've blocked out everything. I've because I have one job, right? And I'm holding these scissors and then this K. Awesome. And then all of a sudden this baby and I can barely see this slippery cord and they're putting clamps on it. Cut it. You know, and I'm like swooping in to cut it and then they take the baby off to the back table. What are we doing? Oh, we have to re-warm the baby. Okay, so they put the baby under this table with the French fraud light and I'm thinking, baby, French. Oh. And baby, the irony baby was getting a warm blood trensfusion from the mother with a pulsating embellic accord which was actively pulsating when you clamped it and told me to cut it. But I don't understand anything, I want to be, and I want to get, I want to get a good grade. And I'm like, Okay, well, um, you know, the mom wants to hold the baby with that B warm enough, you know, no, we have to warm the baby. Turns out the data now on skin to skin time hours of skin to skin. That's the best incubator. There's all kinds of incredible data now on how the baby has more normal blood pressure and heart rate and more normal glucose levels when the baby is held by the mother. And the heart rate and blood pressures, I thought I heard that in the studies and I was like, that makes sense, but I don't get the glucose. Why are the glucose, there's stress one cortisol, right? Of course, yeah, you figured it out quicker than I did. And um, um, I'm kind of like, what are we doing? You know, they're sticking a metal temperature probe in the baby's rectum. And I'm like, what, this is, can't, this is a nice way to welcome a humaninto the world. You know, like, what are we doing? Like the baby's temperature is what the mom's temperature was because the baby just came from mom two seconds ago. Like, what are we doing? And um, they were just like, oh, we have to put it on the sheet and all this probing and poking. And um, then they have to want they wash the baby. It's like you don't now they know they're not to wash the baby for the first 24 hours. So there's kind of a protonized protonaceous coat. And again, sea sections are they've safe lives. But sea sections like antibiotics are also massively overused and it turns out as the head of the microbiome unit at the NIH explained to me when I did the research for this book. She said in a vaginal delivery, the baby's got in utero is sterile. And so it's seeded. The microbiome is seeded from the bacteria and the vaginal canal. And then augmented by bacteria from the clasper from the early breast milk and the skin and the kisses of the grandparents. But when you're born by a sea section, the baby is extracted from a sterile operative field. And what may me see the baby's microbiome are the bacteria that normally live in the hospital. And when she explained it to me that way, I thought my God, you know, it makes sense. So what is the prevalence of sea section today? And how close are we to peak sea section versus what was it 50 years ago? So we're at a, we're about 30% in the United States, private hospitals in Brazil are at 90%. Over season, sometimes even worse. The individual doctor's sea section rate ranges from 12% to we've seen 100%. So we have a big project at Johns Hopkins and through our consortium on the appropriateness of care where we look at practice patterns of physicians. And we basically can profile a physician on their pattern of doing something where there's, there's no need to be a lot of inappropriate overuse. But again, just help me anchor this to some context. 50 years ago, presumably they were not doing elective sea sections. The sea section was done because it was medically necessary. Is that a safe assumption? Yeah, there's definitely more unnecessary sea sections. So what was the prevalence of sea sections? Pick your favorite decade when elective sea section was not done. Was it, is it like a five? Should it be five percent? Should be 10 percent if we're only doing it for medically necessary sea sections? The obese that I've grown to really respect, really trust ethically on, they talk passionately about the overuse of sea sections and they have impeccable judgment. They have sea section rates in the 12 to 15% range. Okay. So we think that that probably is at least in the zip code of what is necessary. And by the way, that let's go back to what we were talking about in the world of medicine, one point, oh, when we live to, you know, we barely got to our 40th birthday's. And infant and maternal mortality were sky high. Every one of those kids that would be getting a necessary sea section, they'd be dying and probably the moms are dying. So this is a huge advance. The fact that we could do this operation. And again, I know that you're not, I know you don't think this way, but I just want to make sure people listening to us don't take away from this sea sections are bad. Sea sections say flies. Yes. IMean, like I would argue sea sections, and he'd bite my hands. I saved more lives than anything that we're doing in medicine today. Correct. Yes. Right. That has doubled human lifespan. That's right. Be able because because when something goes wrong in pregnancy, air in delivery, it doesn't go wrong in hours. It goes wrong in seconds. Right. A fetus doesn't have an enormous physiologic reserve. So when their heart rate starts crashing, like you've got to get that baby out immediately. So what you're basically saying or what I think we want to discuss is, why did we go from a world in which once we had modern medicine at the early part of the 20th century, and we were able to get these 12 to 15% of children born safely viAASea section, how did that go to 50, 60, 70% depending on your series? What was that trensition? Why did that happen? I'm told it's a combination of a consumerist culture. If you think about it, if we're being really honest here, I've talked to a lot of doctors in my life. I think you have too. Being an OB doctor, specializing in labor in delivery is one of the breedar. It is so hard. It brutal lifestyle. Yeah. And so you have somebody who's been pushing in labor. It's now 10 o'clock at night. They're telling you just cut this thing out of me. It may not be netically necessary, but in the sort of fog of the moment, I will tell you that there are OB practices that the ethical OB doctors I've interviewed and talked to tell me about this and it drives him crazy. There are OB practices where you check out from your first prenatal visit and the receptionist when they schedule the next one. It's also scheduled when you're sees actual. Would you like to schedule a pick a date for your C section? No, no informed consent. And people that runs in certain circles, I'd be nice to have it on Graham Mother's birthday and one of us scheduled it. Christmas Eve birthday and we try to schedule the birthday. There are so many factors in Brazil. There's a dogma that it changes. Faginal delivery changes one sexual pleasure. It's unsubstantiated, but it looms large as a dogma and popular society in Brazil. So there are many reasons. And I'm not in this field, but from talking to folks in it, there's a massive, IMean, my cousin I went with heroin. She delivered. She was by herself. And I've of course, I'm highly attuned to this issue. And the OB docs come in and they're looking at something on the rhythm strip and they basically tell her, well, I think that C section might be safer for the baby. Well, even though she didn't want to see section, she of course is reasonable and open-minded. You tell that to any woman in the world, there are a hundred percent going to see what it's doing. And so I think there's a little bit of what we call the Nudge. You know, hey, what about this nonoperative protocol for Penn to cite us? Well, it's a little experimental could be a little dangerous. Oh, well, heck, don't do it. You have bone on bone in your joint. Nothing is going to help except a knee replacement. I'll shed bone on bone. Just go ahead. Right. So we have these nudges in medicine and the kind of well known in every field. Look, I'm probably guilty of them myself. I would bet that if if I were if I were listening to me, if I were outside of me and listening to me, talk to patients, I'm sure there are many times when subconsciously I'm doing the same thing. I'm nudging them towards what I think is the right answer. Even if in cases when maybe my confidence should only be 70 percent instead of 99 percent. Do we have any evidence, Marty, that that tren is reversing, that it's coming back to more of a natural childbirth process in terms of everything from both a vaginal delivery standpoint, but also in terms of how the baby is handled post-operatively. IMean, I know that for all my three kids, they had the instantaneous cord cut. Yes. We were trying to set a world record with how quickly that cord could be cut. We really really smoke that thing. What is the tren on that now? So on that real quick, they've done studies looking at 45 seconds versus 90 seconds of delayed cord clamping and there was a clinical statistically significant benefit to 90 seconds. You're getting stem cells, you're getting benefit in what regard, what was the outcome? I don't remember. This is a Redb's randomized control trial of two timings and I'm told by the obese our respect. You want to cut it after it's done pulsating. Could go two minutes? Now, you were talking about the pendulum swinging to the extreme and people taking hard-line inappropriate positions. One patient told her once, don't you dare cut that before five minutes. And she's like, oh, it's not going to pulsate after two minutes. So we don't want to create extremists here, but the C-section rate has stabilized and I think it's because of awareness out there. I don't think people understand the impact of the microbiome. I don't think people, you know, study just came out in JAMA surgery that children born by C-section had higher rates of colon cancer before age 50. How much higher? I don't remember the odds ratio. JAMA surgery came out in the spring 2024. I think I've got it cited somewhere in the book, but it was a large database study from Sweden. Now again, we cannot make conclusions from that. These are little signals on the data that we're supposed to pay attention to. I do think it's stabilizing. Dr. Will Brune tracks C-section rates for health care organizations and he will say here's the 28 doctors at this hospital. Here's their individual C-section rates as we are pulling from big data. We're not going to grade. Dr. Shen big under scrutiny for 15% versus a 19% but we use these data as a screening tool. If you're over 30% see section rate in your low risk deliveries, which we can do in big data. We can use this of air pre-clampsia and the twins and all. Then that is a screening tool to identify inappropriate concerning patterns that weren't a closer clinical. How prevalent is that type of analysis today? We're the only group doing it that I know of. It's called global appropriateness measures. It's a consortium of physicians that I help start with Dr. Will Brune, GAmeasures.com is a website. Lots of groups that we pay. GAmeasures for global appropriatenessmeasures.com. And so health systems are saying hey, you've got all the commercial data or nearly all the commercial data. You've got 100% of the Medicare data, 100% of the Medicaid data. You can actually pull the C-section rate and low risk deliveries for our doctors. I want to see what they are. And then what they do is they send a report showing doctors where they stand on the bell curve. And when you're out here on the as an outlier, guess what happens when you get a report. We watch in the big data they regress towards the mean. By the way, what's the reimbursement or the economic difference between the C-section and the vaginal birth? 9,000 versus 7,000. I really don't know it's not an economic difference. I don't think there's any financial. IMean given again how brutal how difficult that job is of being an OB, I think it's other factors. And by the way, we're doing this for spine and hardware and fusion rate during Lumbar spine surgery. What's your rate? Shouldn't be over 50% in non- deformity cases? We're doing it for how often it is a hernia fixed on both sides. When somebody comes in with a hernia, it shouldn't be fixed on both sides more than 20% of the time. So we learn the ways in which there's inappropriate practice patterns. And then we profile individual docs for improvement for quality improvement. By the way, what percentage of inginal hernias are repaired with mesh versus the tissue repair? I think they're all fixed with mesh except in the famous shawl dyes clinic. Where IMight go someday, I got a minor hernia if it ever becomes a problem. IMight go there because we've sent many patients to the shawl dyes clinic. Really? Because, and I could be, you know, just out to lunch on this. But one of the things I took away from residency that really stood out to me was how difficult the tissue repair was. Like I just remember technically, I still don't understand the anatomy. But secondly, how much better it was if the tissue was sound. And yet, we didn't do very many tissue repairs. Pretty much everybody had mesh. Anything to say on that? Not really. The mesh is now a so lightweight. They're like a little thin net. That's what I've used. If I could do it as well as the shawl dyes clinic, I'd probably would. I just like the idea of no mesh in there. But, and I'll offer it to patients. Say this is how I do it. If you want to know mesh repair, there's a place. I think it's in Canada. It's in Toronto. Where you're from? Aren't you? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, that's interesting. So basically, if you want to get a tissue repair of an enel hernia, you got to go to the shawl dyes clinic. But you're saying maybe mesh is getting so much less intrusive now that it's there's less downside to doing mesh than they're used to be. Yeah. When we used to operate together, they put these big thick polypropylene meshes in there that I don't understand how you wouldn't feel it. And the idea was to promote scar tissue because it's actually the scarring that is the but now they're lightweight thin like a fish net almost. It's a little bit about ovarian cancer. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe just give folks a little bit of an anatomy of the female reproductive system so that what's an ovarian, what are the little tubes that connect it to the uterus? Give folks a sense of what that anatomy is. Yeah. So this is an incredible area where we're doing some work. Our research team at Johns Hopkins is dedicated to studying the big issues in healthcare that we are not talking about that we should be talking about. Where research is taking off new sciences pointing to things that like hay pay attention and there's not a lot of attention or NIH dollars. And one of those areas is the true origin of ovarian cancer. The ovarian sits draped under the phlobian tube and the end of the phlobian tube has finger-like projections called the fibrier. So we're talking like a millimeter. IMean they're almost really in contact. And so you only explain how this is. Yeah. So it turns out we- What is an ovarian first of all like what does it make, why do women have them, you know, where do the eggs go, all that kind of stuff? So it used to be thought that the only purpose of the ovarian is to produce sex hormones but it's not true. It produces, you know, as we you've talked about with Astrogen's involved in heart health and so many things. But it produces the eggs that then are go down a little circulation through the phlobian tube into the uterus. And doctors have really struggled with ovarian cancer. Really no major progress in modern medicine. You get most of the cases are lethal or present in late stages. There's almost nothing you can do. Very little surgical intervention. There are some cases where it's early enough. But overall the fatality rate is over 50%. And there's a strong association between certain types of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Yeah, there is with the hereditary predisposition. So some people get tested but a big study was just done in the UK looking at screening tests for ovarian cancer. Should we have mass population screening like with using what ultrasound and they've done cat scans and none. We're show shown to improve the outcomes in people and detect to go very cancer. None. Total failure. They abandoned the entire idea of ovarian cancer screening based on this big UK study. So here we are with a cancer with almost no advances. A ton of money is not for lack of funding at the NCI. And what is going wrong here? Well, I love this sort of blind spot of medicine because it shows how when you're certain of something in medicine, you can still benefit from challenging deeply held assumptions. It turns out that there was a recent discovery that ovarian cancer does not come from the ovarian, the most common and lethal type, comes from the philopean tube and that cells float onto the ovarian. So we have taken out millions of healthy ovaries to prevent ovarian cancer during a abdominal surgery, during a hysterectomy. The ovaries will be removed to so-called prevent ovarian cancer. Turns out we were targeting the wrong organ. And so with this new discovery that biologically based on the genetics based on a lot of good research that's emerged from pen, Dr. Drapekin, Guy at Johns Hopkins, one of my colleagues, there's a gynecologic oncologist now. This is her entire career focus is that we have to increase public awareness that this is really not a very cancer of the vast majority of time. It's philopean tube cancer and we can prevent it because the philopean tube serves no function after one of woman childbearing years. It's not like even after menopause. There's very low levels of estrogen that can trick aloud to the ovarian but after woman's done having kids. If they come in and say I want my tubes tied, the new answer at Johns Hopkins is. Take them out. We don't do that anymore. We remove the philopean tubes to massively reduce your 1 in 78 chance of developing ovarian cancer. Yeah, it's that high. 1 in 78. Yeah, I love it that you have that reaction because I had the same reaction. I realized we don't think like that in clinical medicine. Like the pancreas cancer conference once I asked what it this patient was asking what is her lifetime chance of developing pancreatic cancer and I said we have no risk factors and she goes, well what is it? I'm like you mean just for an everyday person and I asked the experts. No one knew. I looked at opposite. I was going to guess one in 20 actually but maybe it's less than that's it that's for all pancreatic cancers. You mean pancreatic adenolethyl cancer? Yes. 167 is. Oh it's not. Okay, I would have guessed even more frequent truthfully. Okay. Yeah, I think it's like a fourth most common lethal GI cancer is something like fifth most common lethal cancer full stop, not GI. Right? So cause of death. Cause of death. Okay. Yeah, cause of death. Right? It goes number one is lung. Mm-hmm. Number two breast and breast and prostate and then colon and then pancreas. And breast is only over pancreas because it's almost almost exclusively women or as pancreas is men and women but it's about 40,000 for both breast and pancreas cancer. Anyways, you know we think about, well if you have and this is what the doc told me in the conference. Well if she has chronic pancreatitis her her relative risk is increased 28%. Okay, well that's that what she's asking. She's asking what what are the chances? But I can Marty, I'm still surprised that Ovarian is as high as 178 and pancreas as 167. So most common GI and cause of death. Yeah, I believe that for sure. Okay, so how widely accepted is it today that Ovarian cancer is a misnomer? Like is that what you're basically saying? Yeah. It's not Ovarian cancer. It's philopiantube cancer. Yeah, now for the vast majority of these cancers. You can have other types of gonadled tumors that are much more benign that arise out of the ovaries. There's many types of cancers in that little region. But the most common, the rank and file, what we call Ovarian cancer, just not come from the ovary. It comes from the phlopiantube. And this is what we previously thought of as Sirius Ovarian cancer. Sirius Adnosis at Carson, oh my yeah. Is a philopiantube cancer? It's a philopiantube cancer. How is that not understood? How is the histology of? IMean I just don't do the cells look the same because IMean pathologists for decades have examined this because when a woman gets Ovarian cancer, she doesn't die from the ovary. She dies from where it spreads to. Right? She's dying from the spread of that cancer to another part of her body. So when they take those cells and they're looking at them under a microscope and they're staining them, why did it takes a long to figure this out? Because of medical group think. And when I interviewed the scientists that were involved in this discovery, the resistance that they encountered was the same old story of the people who challenged the low-fat diet and opioids are not addictive and HRT and all the cellar stuff. It's the same story. They at UCSD, San Diego, a pathologist there wrote a very bold essay in one of the medical journals where he said, I'm telling you that cells were looking at do not look like Ovarian cancers. These are very encancer cells and don't look like Ovarian cells. And he got of course, you know, piled on like the H.P. Laura is caused by you know, causes ulcer die. He just got destroyed. And his courage to step actually led some researchers to say, and then he was another one's, to say, actually we're going to explore this a little bit. And they did a little bit more of an analysis, it was like 15 years ago. And they kind of affirmed him a little bit. They were like, yeah, we are seeing the same thing. They did a series of people who had brak mutations. And then this guy Ronnie Drapekin and Chris, a Kimmer's last name at Brigham and Women's Hospital, they decided, and it was incredible. The Chris had a mentor at Brigham and Women's and he goes, whenever one's laughing an idea at an idea, in science, that's a signal you should look into it. That you should your curiosity should kick in. But let's be clear. And I want to keep coming in fact, if it's maybe 19 out of the 20 things that we laugh at, we should be laughing at. Yes. IMean, this is the thing I just want to make sure we're not giving people a license to a soon that every dumb idea is right because most dumb ideas end up being dumb and wrong. Yeah, we don't want to promote snake oil here on the drive. But we do want to, but it is an interesting. Yes. But but this is the challenge, right? Is this six-year-old noise ratio is still incredibly low? And the examples that are most remarkable, always looked a little foolish at the outset. But I think what we want to do is just make sure that people understand that just having a crazy idea is not sufficient. You have to have a means of it, you know, stating what a hypothesis is determining how to test that hypothesis and above all else having the ability to update your hypothesis based on new emerging information. And because again, most crazy ideas end up being wrong. That's right. Just full stop wrong. Yeah, most ideas end up being wrong. Yes. So, so yeah, it's it's very challenging. Where are we right now in terms of like rolling this insight out into broader oncologic care? So you said at Hopkins, if a woman wants to get a tubal ligation at tying of the phlopian tubes, she is told, will happily take your phlopian tubes out. But if we're going to go in there, we might as well make sure you never get cancer. Massively reduce the risk count. Yeah. Where where else do we see this? How you ubiquitous is the acceptance of this? And is there any uncertainty that remains here? Or is this basically now a fate of complete as far as our understanding of that physiology? There is uncertainty because I think as early as we are in something like this, there always will be, but it is now standard of care in Germany and most of Canada, that when a woman comes in for any abdominal surgery, elective abdominal surgery. So even a lap colisestic if you're being your gallbladder out. Yes, even a lap coli. Most commonly a lap coli, actually, woman comes in because that's more common in women. And they're finished having children. They will be offered to remove the phlopian tubes sparing the ovaries as during the procedure as a concomitant surgery. And the general surgeon does this. So the general surgery, and I'm doing this now in my practice, woman comes in, done having kids, I Rebecca Stone, who is our GYN oncologist who's one of the national insurance. She comes in and does the salping. Yeah, I'm going to be taken out the round leg and then something. Yeah, and tell me what is the probability of taking out the phlopian tube and damaging an ovary such that a woman ultimately needs an uphorectomy as well, which would be a disaster, an absolute disaster for women to lose her ovaries if she's premenopausal and still relying on those for hormones. Yeah, and I think you've touched on a big unknown there, which is the single reason why this is not a broad recommendation for any woman and every day person to come in for gest their phlopian tube removal. It is only offered as a concomitant procedure. They, they'll be so very good at this. They say it's a simple procedure, but here's the issue if you make a broad recommendation for every woman who's done having kids to come in and have this done. What if one in 20 surgeons is going to have a complication rate of 5%. You've canceled out all the public health benefit of reducing a very cancer. So that's why it's for now the recommendation and this is a recommendation that not even all of our surgeons at Hopkins are aware of is that when we're in there doing another elective abdominal procedure in a woman who's finished having children and generally on the younger side not over 67, I think is the average age for a very cancer. So after that, you're benefit diminishes. So in that window, I've done having kids before they're in their mid-60s or so and this is we're just using our best judgment here. That's the group where we're offering now that, hey, I can have you talk with our OBGYN doctors. They can come in and reduce your 1 in 78 chance of her. And Canada, they've done giant studies now and they're showing actually lower rates of a very cancer long term. And so we're waiting for some of that data to come out. But it's pretty wild and the pathologist Dr. Valicus at Johns Hopkins has actually said, Marty, we haven't made progress with chemotherapy on a very cancer. And maybe this is why we may have been targeting the wrong type of organ tissue. So it's pretty interesting. It's an opportunity. It's also an opportunity for people to be aware of this best practice out there. But you know, like the guy who needs to see three randomized controlled trials to do the nonoperative protocol for a pentacidus, it's going to take time. IMean, only at some doctors in the United States outside of GYN are doing this, the American Academy of OBGYN has actually put out a statement recommending women who come in after they've done heavy kids. So there's actually a national guideline on it. But it takes a long time for people to understand, become aware, learn the best practice. I hope it can address the overranging cancer incident. It's in my mind, it's in the bucket of challenging certainty. If you're 100% certain that this cancer must come from the overranging, be open-minded to the fact that, hey, there's some things here that we haven't understood in the past. For example, two obligation has resulted in a lower risk of a very incancer. Interesting. Maybe it's blocking off some of the cells that could have caused cancer in my grade of down. Maybe it's killed off some of the lining. There was, there's an understanding that a very incancer is more likely to spread, more likely to be discovered after it's spread. Well, there's a little gap between the floppy and two in the overranging. So maybe it's disseminates in early stages because of that gap. So there's some interesting things that are now fitting together. Again, I think this speaks to something that we can talk about it at an arms length from any situation and it all makes sense. But now you want to think about how difficult this is to put into practice. Your, your doctor, and this is what you do. You have 99% certainty, which means you're a good doctor because you don't have a 100 percent certainty. Yes. You have 99.9% certainty that this cancer is coming from these overrides. And your, everything that you do in your practice is predicated around that. But now you have to somehow work with a 0.1% probability that everything you believe about this is wrong. Now, again, that's a really low number. That's, that's a 1 and 1,000 delta. How do you not squash that and allow that to remain open and flexible? While you continue to do your best work here and periodically come back to revisit this, assuming you're not even the one who's doing the primary work, but you're just trying to keep update on your practice and your practices and say, well, maybe that's now a 1% chance. Maybe that at some point, you know, if that's a 10% chance, I really need to pay attention. If there's a 10% chance I'm wrong, I really need to pay attention to this. I need to pause. We're not trened to do that. So how, how do we go about thinking about this? If you were, you know, I already said what I would do if I were ZAR of medical education. I don't know enough about medical education today. It's been 25 years for me, but you're closer to it because you're still part of a university system. Is medical education significantly different today when it comes to this? Like, how does a medical education today at Hopkins differ from what it was 25 years ago? Well, one of the most important qualities of a physician is humility, knowing your limits, and having the awareness, the self-awareness that you could be wrong, as you said. And when you are wrong, when it's clear, you might be wrong feeling bad about it and offering the patients, hey, you know, we get this wrong. I thought this is the best way to approach it. One thing I love about Rebecca Stone and so many of the doctors that work with at Hopkins is they don't say you need to have your phloatbeen tubes out. They say we have some data that is suggesting that if we take the phloatbeen tube out, we can reduce your risk of a very cancer significantly. I think the danger in medicine, one of the poisons today is the absolutism that's out there. And when we go through medical school, you're just memorizing and regurgitating, and it's this terrible robotic dogmatic degree still that way. It's still that way. You might even think, say it's worse. So I was talking this morning to Dr. Will Brune who just graduated, you met him, but he in mind I'm working with on the appropriate as work. And he just graduated from Oklahoma University School of Medicine. We were talking about all the useless dumb, remote memorization stuff. He said it was like 50% of his medical education. This bacteria is catalyzed positive, catalyzed negative. It says a branch chain, bacteria. This is a straight chain. It's just it's my numbing, memorizing the names of enzymes. He says was like 20% of his medical education. What are we doing to these kids? They come to us in medical school, bright, creative, altruistic. They want to do good. Social justice is a generational value. And we beat them with the road memorization of these enzymes and stuff. You can look up. We have phones nowadays. You don't have to know the Krebs cycle on demand and the trauma bay. And we do this to this incredible generation. They spit them out seven, eight years later. They're different people. They're robotic. They're sometimes emotionally disconnected. They've learned to reflex as a survival mechanism in order to do what we tell them to do, which is get through the exams. And the thing that kills me and a lot of students they see the tension and they feel it. They hate it. They're fighting it. We do have incredible students that are able to stay normal through the process. But it's a struggle because the culture of medicine says obey. And it's one private company that controls the medical education in every medical school in America. The WMC, a small group of people, get to decide what every doctor learns in their medical education. And these people are dinosaurs. They're forcing kids to memorize the names of all these. And what's the relationship between the AMC and the company that administers the U.S.M. L.E. and the accreditation? Are they linked in some way? Presumably? Yes. Yeah. That is the private organization, WMC. Small group is the entity that also regulates the U.S. M. L.E. to licensee and then they collect a lot of money from these students. It's a private organization. And they are, so I know I was talking to one of the cool things that we get to do is talk to a lot of people out there in America and get a bit of a bird's eye view on things. And I was talking to conference of medical school deans. And later on I had met the dean of medical school in San Antonio University of the Incarnate Word, U.I.W. It's called Great Medical School of San Antonio. And she's like gosh, Marty, you're so right. Why do we have to teach all this wrote memorization and just beat them to regurgitate? I would love, she's told me, to teach self-awareness and understanding uncertainty and focus on applied statistics and the critical praise of research. And the fact that there are nerves that extend to every aspect of the hand without having to name 50 nerves in the hand, you know, and regurgitate on the exact, I would love to have a modern day education. But I can't because the WMC dictates what we teach and we have to teach to a test in our test score pass rate. So is this terrible system and it's connected to the American Board of Medical Specialties, which issues board certification? And recently they've basically said, in order to keep your board certification, you got to pay us $2,300 every two years or so and take a quiz that we give you. And they're out there like making a ton of money off this new thing. Now they're telling hospitals you have to require current board certification unless they pay us, or private company. They're not currently board certified. Imagine your college, do you see a staffer? No, Berkeley. Where'd you go to college? I went to Colton, Canada. Okay, imagine your college college, you're in said, hey, you're degree. You don't have it anymore. You got to pay us every year to keep your degree. That's exactly what the American Board of Medical Specialties is doing. They're private organizations, monopoly. My buddy Will was telling me at Oklahoma University School of Medicine. I probably shouldn't say this, but what the heck? Eight hours on trensgender sensitivity trening, two hours on nutrition. The two hours on nutrition, he said, we're so pathetic. It might have been better to have zero hours. No, HDL is good. You know, it was like the most basic. And I see this awareness among a generation of doctors and students that they know something is missing. That's in right to just be memorizing. There's smart people. That's why you've got a huge number of people. Doctors who are learning from you as you learn, talking about evolving your position. You're out there learning, reading, talking to people. People are learning with you and they're hungry for this kind of honesty with where medicine's going. Maybe we should be talking about more chronic diseases differently. Maybe we should be talking more about treating diabetes with cooking classes than just throwing insulin at people. Maybe we should talk about school lunch programs, not just putting kids on our zempit. Maybe we should talk about sleep medicine when we treat eye blood pressure. Not just throwing anti-hypertensive that people. First line, second line, third line. Maybe we should talk about ice in physical therapy instead of just surgery and opioids when somebody comes in with pain. Food is medicine. The microbiome, general body inflammation. These are the topics that a generation of doctors are starving to talk about. We need more research in them. They want to think differently. Who would fund this research? When I talk about the pillars of medicine, we have nutrition and exercise and sleep and emotional health and then molecules. Let's roughly five things. You could really add a sixth pillar which would be a waste bucket of everything else that may or may not have benefit. Like sauna, cold plunge, red light therapy, falling kind of stuff. One of those buckets is really taught well in medical school. We really do learn in biomedical school. Medical school in residency. You learn about procedures and medications very well. That's what we learn and I think we do learn that quite well. But to your point, we learn nothing about exercise, sleep, nutrition and emotional health and well-being. But part of that, if you're not trying to be as un-synical as possible, at least when it comes to molecules and procedures, the way to study it is straightforward. The interventions are easy. You take this pillar. You don't take this pillar. You take the placebo. And then on top of that, there's a financial engine that supports the use of that which justifies the cost of the studies. But when it comes to doing research on many of these other things, outside of philanthropic and government causes such as the NIH, it's very difficult to get any of that research funded. How would we create a new medicine around something for which it would be so difficult to really gather the right evidence? Or would you argue, look, we already know enough today that we could teach off the current practice? The NIH could not be more broken. They've got these siloed funding centers as you suggested. And on, let's your research falls under kidney, you know, cardiovascular disease. And it's what the old belt belt and suspended as professors there want to fund. It's a legacy system where if the senior guys who've done the research and made a name for themselves on an idea, like it, they throw money your way. I think the disruption is happening right now. Private industry, you're seeing private industry fund research on different probiotics and bacteria you can introduce. We're seeing private industry fund research. They funded our research on price gouging and predatory billing and other big blind spot in medicine. I do think, you know, a lot of our work is not funded by the NIH and people come up and say, my gosh, it makes sense which are saying why don't we have a big study on natural immunity? And we could draw the blood of these people. IMean, how many studies have you put out there? We you said, this study needs to be done. It's not what falls in line with the NIH silos, but it needs to be done. The classic example. A practice right now that is surging in the United States is taking a newborn and cutting the frangulum under their tongue, either routinely, or if it's a foreshort and tongue. Some people believe in routine and other people believe in only in foreshorting and other people believe never should be done. I don't know what the truth is. I've goody and teeth, friends. What is the rationale for doing this? The rationale, the claim, is that it'll improve breastfeeding and lactation rates, that it may help. There's claims out there that it may help with sleep, apnea, with speech impediments. I think they're outrageous claims when it goes that far. These are people who are also cutting the frangulum under the upper inside lit and sometimes the side of the tongue and the frangulum under the tongue as all. Yeah, so there's been babies that don't breastfeed because they're in pain from this. And this practice is taking off like crazy. It's driven a lot in dentistry. It's in that lactation world of lactation consultants could refer you to some, and it's this dogma that has never had any scientific evidence to support the claim. Now, I'm not saying it's being tested. No. I'm not saying it's bad or wrong, but I'm saying this desperately needs a randomized control trial. Desperately, just like the peanut allergy study, just like the antibiotics study, do it in a cohort of a couple hundred randomization, follow-um, take a look, five years, or whatever that study design is needed. Who's going to fund that study? Big pharma? No, fat chance. The NIH, not one of their clinical centers. The American Academy of Pediatrics with their, you know, $1,000 a year membership of all these $130 million in revenue they take in the year. No, no, they haven't. Possibly. No interest. This is the Brbidot triangle of healthcare in the United States and worldwide. We desperately need to fund things where there are ideas, people are doing things, and they're doing them in a black hole with no scientific evidence. We need to do the appropriate study. We could answer the controversy in less than a year. I hate to mention COVID. We saw this during COVID. All those COVID controversies could have been answered in three weeks or a month or two. They could have done the clinical study immediately, done the randomization answer thEQuestion. Instead, they have one went on TV and oh pine about it. It's easier. The NIH controls $80 billion. What are they funding? They were funding this cruel dog experiment at the University of Iowa, trapping these dogs and having these sandflies bite their heads in these cages and concluding in the article that is published. Lushbinius has conspired from dog to dog via sandfly bites. Who gives a shit? This is where our tax dollars are going and we're not funding basic clinical research out there. Why do you think that is? I think it's just, I don't think it's diabolical. I think people get set in their ways. I think it's Leon Festinger's cognitive dissidence. I think people think, oh, this would be interesting. Find out whether or not what's the average diameter of stones on the hamstring? Oh, be interesting. No, it's not interesting. I'm seeing it a lot now with health equity. I think describing disparities in health equity in my personal opinion is not interesting at all. We know there are massive disparities in health equity. Saying, oh, there's also a health disparity in chronic myloginist leukemia according to health. That's not interesting. What's, we've, that's known. What's interesting is what you're doing to reduce disparities in health equity. And yet half of the papers now and I go to these conferences are on differences and so and so by race and socioeconomic set. Yeah, it's been known since the beginning of time, the number one driver of health status overall and the population is the socioeconomic status of that community. So I think it's just, I don't know, intellectual laziness, the old guard. There are fresh ideas in medicine. But when you show up in medicine and you've done this, you show up in the academic world as a resident or you get a peek of it as a student. You have big ideas. Hey, this thing about the microbiome and the rates of this and all fits and maybe chronic diseases have gone up with antibiotics. Whatever the big ideas, you're told, no, no, you need to pick one narrow area and work on an incremental little scientific paper that'll go to the abstract of the Southern surgical society or whatever it is. And that's how the NIH funds their research, little small ideas. We need big ideas. They don't fund that. We need new ideas on cancer. What's the ROI on our cancer funding? Paper at ASCO showed that a vast and increased glial blastomas survival rates by two months. Well, patients want to know what's the cure? Did you cure anyone else that you haven't cured before? If that's the top paper at ASCO, our investment on research has a terrible ROI and I think it's because we're not funding big ideas. We need Ben Franklin thinkers. Ben Franklin intellectually curious starts thinking about ophthalmology, and events by-focals is interested in electricity, events the lightning rod, events a stove called the Pennsylvania stove, which is an amazing invention. IMean, he's a size it true scientists. We don't have Ben Franklin thinkers today in medicine. I think the Niper sod is one thing we don't have them or you think we don't have a vehicle to fund them. We don't have a vehicle to encourage them. I think, and I'm just saying this because I've said this to other people, you're one of those Ben Franklin type thinkers. You think broadly about healthcare. That's what we do on our research team is you're told in med school day one, hey, here's the netter textbook of anatomy, pick an organ. You're going to have to focus on just one, which one do you like? Do you like kidney? Do you like brain, heart? You have to pick one. You're like, well, what if I'm interested in the whole body or the system or the way we deliver care or the way we fund research or approve drugs or what if I'm interested in all of it? What if I'm interested in gun control and violence prevention and I'm interested in trauma and all everything. You're basically told, no, no, stop thinking like that. You got to pick an organ. I went to the gym as a medical student and there was some docs. There were also used the gym and they would ask me every day. What are you going into again? I want to be like, I'm a second year medical student. I don't know. Is that okay? I don't know. I think you can get a specialization and then come around and get off the hamster wheel. There's a lot of these docs now saying, I don't care about my R-view bonus. I want to do something more meaningful and there's starting businesses. 50% of our medical students at Johns Hopkins are getting a second degree with their medical degree. They don't want to live the life that they see with these guys who are like, I goT4 NIH grants and presented 60 papers. IMean, I hit that point where I was like, okay, I've published 300 scientific peer review articles. Nobody's reading them. I don't think I've beyond maybe a couple meaningful contributions. Like, what are we doing? We've got to focus on impact. So everything we do now in our research group focuses on impact. And that's how we got into the science of medical errors, frailty as a condition, predatory billing and price gouging in medicine. You know, 62% of Americans say in our Harvard survey, they don't trust the medical profession to build them fairly and they avoid care or delay it for fear of the bill. So you can now have the cure for pancreas cancer. But that cure is only instead of being a 100% effective. It's only 38% effective because you've lost that connection, right? So rebuilding trust is the hottest topic right now in medical journals essays. So speaking of that in 2020, the New England Journal of Medicine broke with a 200 and 8-year tradition. And it endorsed one of the candidates for presidency, which again, this is the most esteemed journal in all of medicine that for 208 years was decidedly a political and it chose to break that now, regardless of a person's political stripes, why do you think that's a bad idea? I think there is a political narrative and politics. Everyone sticks to the same talking points. But in science, science is based on a civil discourse of different ideas among experts. And so they're directly in conflict. So you know, we, the journal decided to endorse a presidential candidate for the first time. Okay. Other journals have said, here are some issues we're not going to be both sizing. Like, okay, what if you said that about peanut allergies back in the days? What if you said that about people who are suggesting opioids are very addictive? They've seen it. And the New England Journal is the one is the place that published that study that out of, I don't know, 30,000 cases of people taking narcotics. There was only one patient who developed dependence and that became the dogma. And dogma takes on a life of their own, the life of its own. I think the journals are in a bubble. I think just like we need term limits for politicians, just like president should turn over after eight years. Journal editors should not serve terms like monarchs in Europe or African presidents. They're there for life. And it's they're loading these journal editorial boards with their buddies. It's cronyism. Everyone in the field knows it. It's hard to criticize because we all need the journals to publish our research. The New England Journal of Medicine just a couple years ago at a 51 editors had one African American. Now you can only find one African American to serve in the editor. What's going on is it's their buddies from the Brigham and Women's Hospital. And you know, Beth Israel, Deaconess and Mass Jollis, my buddy from, I remember meeting the editor of the New England Journal when he came to visit Hopkins. Jerry Casserra, I think was his name. I don't know why I'm mentioning these names. These guys will probably all send me some hate now. But with that. And I said, oh, I got a chance to meet your predecessor at a conference. We actually had a nice time together. Talk medical. Yes. Oh, yeah. He was my roommate when we were cardiac fellows together. And so you have all these internal medicine doctors who look alike, think alike, their buddies from one institution, from one part of the country, deciding what should go through the gates for the rest of the doctors the world to see. It's changing. Vinay Prasad and John Mandraula and Adam C. Foo and and I and some other started a new newsfeed called sensible medicine. We're publishing our thoughts in real time when we see articles that look flawed when there's a bandwagon effect when we call things out. Yeah, like 100,000 subscribers to this thing now. We're starting a new journal now, which is designed to be objective and it's called the journal of the Academy of Public Health. Jay, about a chariote and Martin Coldorf and I and a bunch of others. So there is this effort now and with social media. But how do you know you won't fall into the same trap of the New England Journal of Medicine, Science and Nature? Again, I want to bring it back to this thing, which is the biggest journals in the world became political in 2020. They made a very concerted conscious decision to weigh in on politics, to endorse presidential candidates. And again, I don't think it matters who they're endorsing. I don't think it matters what party you're in. I'm amazed more people don't look at that and say, oh no, that is awful. That is awful. Yeah. We cannot have science and policy. A politics, I should say, we can't have those things co-mingle. Again, it doesn't matter if they're endorsing your party, you should be just as concerned as if they're endorsing the other party. That's right. There's there's there's an object activity that can't be co-mingled there. And I think as much as I respect Martin and Jay and you, I just, I don't think I have a sense of what the answer is here and why just coming up with the new rogue journal is the answer because I still don't understand systemically what's going on. And you know, anyway, so I don't mean to sound pessimistic. But but I, but I worry that the, I just, you know, all the terms for for kind of the non-conventional thinking world is the goal of that to be a little bit more provocative in the other direction, even if it's deliberately provocative, but I just want to be careful that we don't, you know, we don't, we don't create disagreement for the sake of disagreement. That's right. We are prone to the same bandwagon group think as the jammingling journal editors or a bunch of like-minded friends. We are at risk of that. We have to be constantly aware of it. And we've invited people who disagree in sensible medicine. We love publishing pro-con articles on the same issue, same topic. And you'll see that, you know, if an eye-pursat is wrong, Adam C. Fu is wrong on this topic. And they're sparring in the spirit that we should have in academics. Remember, when Obama first ran for president, he was asked, what is your favorite book? He said team of rivals, how Lincoln brought together all these different opinions. No, don't go to war, do and he wanted them on his cabinet. He wanted to moderate a civil discourse. Well, I think it wasn't just different opinions. Lincoln's cabinet was composed of the people who had attacked him and run against him during the election. Yes. It was, these are the people who have just spent the past six months telling the American public, while Lincoln is an idiot and should never be president. And that's the, that's the team that he assembled his cabinet from. We need to stay humble, avoid celebrity worship in medicine. We do that a lot. It's the culture of how we create these the greatest highest attainable achievement you can have as a physician is to be the chief of a department. And the way that we drew though, Marty, like, there was never a day when I wanted to be the chief of anything. I think you're unique. IMean, in the culture of academics, it dominates, right? Get your NIH grant. Oh, you have a grant, but it's not NIH. Mm, try harder. Maybe you'll get a K award. But what percentage of people who, what percentage of physicians today are academic physicians versus community physicians? Well, it's blurring. IMean, what's an academic center nowadays with the acquisitions and mergers? Yes. IMean, I do have a, if we just define academic is people who have some funding for research and or are involved in the education of students and residents beyond, you know, the, like, I'm not talking about cyanide where like your community surgeon who once in a while has a resident scrub with you. I'm not talking about that. But if we define academic a little bit rigorously, it can't beat more than 10% of physicians would fall into that bucket, right? Probably. Probably. So they in a control a lot of the girls. That's thEQuestion, right? Is what do they control and how much do the community physicians look to them? And I think that just kind of comes back to everything we've been talking about. But ultimately, what matters is what are the community physicians doing? What are the, what are, what are the what are the, what are, what are the, what are the, what are the why courses doing? What are the people who are taking care of the majority of the patients? And let's be clear even if that number is right I'm making it up 90, 10, but directly I'm sure that's in the ballpark, it's not, it's 90 10 and head count. It's not 90, 10 and patient, touch. It's more than that because the academic physician has many other responsibilities that don't involve patient care. So it might be 90, five, five, and other In other words, the majority of people listening to us are going to get the bulk of their medicALCARe from people who are not academic physicians. And therefore the most important thing in delivering exceptionALCARe to the majority of people is making sure that community-based physicians are able to think independently or able to think clearly. And in that regard, I think that, you know, IMean, I think, I just don't know. So again, I don't know that the answer is lies in the hierarchy of the academic institution. I don't know that that is really where the problem is. I don't know where the problem is. But I don't think it's where five to 10 percent of the attention lies. I don't disagree with you. I think, you know, I've got my perspective being in the sort of towers of the ivory tower, the top of Hopkins. It's all about, you know, Fabian Johnson just went to be chair at Wake Forest. He just got this job. Great. Now we're having a big reception form. It's a big deal. It's kind of, you know, what we do, we create chairs to go out there. So I'm an I have a due-have-escute perspective, but every doctor gets trened in an academic medical school in this culture. Every student tends to come through this culture where we tell them it's a privilege to hold a retractor for six hours instead of come and watch me talk to a patient's family afterwards and learn self-awareness and how to be perceptive and empathetic. So I don't have a solution, but you see things where you say, this isn't. We are actually moving more in the direction of everybody getting line than we are in sort of the freedom of the rank and file doctor in America to speak how they would speak creatively. For example, I'll talk to a doctor and say, what do you think about, let's say, hormone replacement therapy, post-mediposa. So I'm saying, wait, you know, I've heard this, but I tend to question that. I know some people are saying this. I'm not sure. That's a good doctor. A doctor who says, no, according to this, you know, US Preventive Service Task Force, you must do this. Okay, you're like reciting a catacysm. That's not the doctor that we want to create, right? And how do you teach humility? John Cameron and I did this thing where we when he operated next door to me, I would pause and I'd say this is a really interesting scenario. Can the scrub nurse run over and or the tech run over and get out of Cameron to take a look at this? Need come in and you'd say, oh, it's really interesting. Marty, in the past, I've done it this way or that way. I know exactly what he's going to say, but I want to model humility to the students and residents in the room. When he gets as maybe one of the most famous surgeons in the world, he gets a situation like that. He calls me and, hey, can the tech run over a grab doctor may carry to come in, take a look, get his thoughts on this? Yeah, and need my thoughts. And if he knows my thoughts anyway, we've worked together for 25 years. I go in there and I say, oh, it's interesting. Gary, so you're going to do it this way. Yeah, that's what we're thinking. Thanks, Marty. He's trying to model humility. And I think that's one way we can teach it, but it's an uphill battle. IMean, the policing right now in modern medicine is at an all-time high. I was gave grand rounds for our OBGYN department at Hopkins. And I went great and it was awesome and they helped me shape some of these ideas and the research that I've worked on and that we discussed. And when I filled out the CME form, you know, there's this. I've coined this ICD-9 diagnosis code called Sendis Your Slides in Advanced Herasements in Drill. Starts off in the hallway with, hey Peter, do you want to, could you, would you be interested in giving us a talk sometime? Yeah, sure. And then the harassment and the email, and we need your fill out these forms and these write four questions for our CME and send us your slides. Now you don't have to have my slides, okay? I'm going to work in Cernyvance from that morning and my talk. All right. Sometimes I've realized the, the kryptonite for send us your slides and herasements in Drill. Is, is, what if you don't use slides? I'm not going to use, that's so bad. Oh, I'm not going to use slides. Oh, well, well, then I guess we don't need Judas send them, but okay. Then we'll show up with a thumb drive. Hey, I got some graphs, so I was going to throw up, is that okay? Oh, yeah, sure. The interview guys at the back. But anyway, I, one of those forms I'd be fill out for this CME continuing medical education required for any time to give granted rounds. Go ahead. You, I hereby agree that everything I say will comply with generally accepted norms and standards recognized by consensus within the medical profession. And I'm looking at this and I'm like, no, what I put out there is I like to cite research that challenges deeply health assumptions. And I'm going to be talking about that. And I'm not going to, you know, sign to some cataclysm here that yes, I will obey and only, you know, say things that are in line with consensus. If you look at our track record in modern, modern medicine, when we use good scientific studies, before we make massive health recommendations, peanut allergies, whatever you, when we have good science, we shine as a profession. When we wing it, when in an elite small group of medical establishment folks decide what the world is going to do based on their own gut feeling or dogma, they have a lousy track record. So what's, let's, let's, let's talk about the thing, what are you most proud of that, that the medical institution in this country? Let's just keep it simple. What do you, what do you think medicine has done the best job of in the last decade? Well, I think you look at cardiac surgicALCARe. I think you look at mine infections and hospitals. IMean, there have been some really big wins here that don't get maybe as much attention as they deserve. What else? Where else are we hitting it out of the park? I'm staticALCARe. I think we've not only now have is the if it mortality rate as good as modern medicine can deliver it, but we've now accepted these, these new best practices of skin to skin time delayed court clamping, encouraging breastfeeding early on reducing c-sections when not necessary. These are, those are in the last 10 years, those best practices. But we're at a pretty good point where the system is humming on a lot of acute care. And there's a video I saw on social media the other day where a guy said, if I get shot, I want to go to a US hospital. We have the best care in the world. If I break a bone, that's where I'm, I'm going to go straight to the hospital. I'm going to go straight to a doctor. But when it comes to telling me, you know, what I should be eating or how to live my life, I don't think I trust modern medicine. If you come in with chronic abdominal pain, sometimes our sophisticated system doesn't know what to do, right? So I think the acute care has been mastered. And I think, you know, I think about the operations I was a part of these laparoscopic wipples and it's a tour de force of science and technology and advancements. And we do something called a trensplant with eyelet cells now for people with chronic pain. So I think good stuff is happening. We have good people. People go in medicine, nursing, every aspect of healthcare, united by one common thing. And that is everybody wants to help other people who are in need. And that's an incredible bond that we have. It's a profession. We should all be proud of it's a heritage. You know, I'm proud of that my dad was a part of and I get to do the things he encouraged me to do little tips, ways to connect with patients. I still think of the time he said, don't ask somebody. Are you taking your medication instead say, you know, some people find it hard to take their medications as prescribed. How are you doing with it? It's far less, you know, head to head. And so it's an incredible profession and teaching these little pearls and gems, citing research, calling out the importance of good scientific methodology. It's still, I think, the best job in the world. Medical centers are still some of the most respected institutions in America, which is why we've called on them to have ethical billing and pricing practices. But we can correct course. And I think all in all, it's an incredible privilege to be a part of the medical profession. I encourage anyone to get into it. You would still encourage someone who's sitting here listening to us, who's in college, who's on the fence about going into tech, going into business, going into law, going into medicine. You'd still give them the nudge to do medicine if it's something they're partially considering. Yes, where else can you put a knife to someone skin within seconds of meeting them just because you're the doctor? People will tell you secrets they've never told their spouse within minutes of meeting you because you're the doctor. And so there's an incredible heritage in the profession. And so I think it's the best job in the world. Now you've got to be okay with memorizing enzyme names over and over again. IMean, hundreds of names of useless molecules that you could look up on Google. That's just part of the old system and people. But you know, I think the bigger issue isn't so much that you have to memorize those names. It's that you're sort of lacking the context and why. IMean, Marty, I still memorize names of complex enzymes and pathways. But the difference is I'm doing it because it's feeding my interest. Yes. Right. It's like I'm reading papers and I'm learning new things and I have to draw diagrams to help my, IMean, I'm doing the same thing I was doing 25 years ago. So I don't, I also don't want to let people suggest that it's not important to have knowledge. Like it is important that I know these things, even if they seem a little bit esoteric. But it's just easier to know it when you understand why when you have a scaffolding around why I, while I can't tell you every step of the Krebs cycle, I still remember in great detail how metabolism works because it really matters to what I do. So I think if anything, I just hope that medical education can major in the major and minor in the minor because while I think it matters that you understand these things, I think it, and I get maybe this is already the case because I'm so far from it. But but if you understand why the Krebs cycle matters and why when the Krebs cycle isn't working, every disease in the body gets worse, like why is it that a person with cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes Alzheimer's disease, why do they have defective Krebs cycle? That's what I want medical students to be understanding and learning. Yes. So anyway. Yes. I don't know where I stand on it truthfully if I do get asked from time to time by young people, hey, you know, would you do it all over again? Of course for me the answer is undoubtedly yes, but but I also realize there are a lot of other exciting fields in the world today that maybe weren't available to me and I don't know. How about surgical residency? You wish to do that part again? You know, yeah, it's interesting knowing what I know today and knowing where I ended up today would I have been better off doing an internal medicine residency? The answer is probably yes. I think it would be more logical. But look, I wouldn't know you. I wouldn't know Ted Sheafer. I wouldn't know a lot of the amazing people that I've gotten to know through my surgical trening. And I think in many ways surgical trening, especially the way we did it so long ago, you know, when you didn't have regulations on work hours and stuff, it was so hard that it really gave me an appreciation for how much easier my life is today and how lucky I have it to, you know, not be woken up every 14 minutes when I sleep and, you know, things like that. I don't know. I'd probably be reluctant to change anything. I think it all worked out okay and I'm really grateful for the folks IMet along the way. And I do hope that someone listening to this who's contemplating medical school, as you said, I agree with you completely. Anybody who chooses to be anywhere within the vicinity of this field, you want to be a nurse, you want to be a radiology tech, you want to be a phlebodomist, you want to be a doctor, the one thing that unites all of those people is they're doing it for the right reasons. You know, the sort of kid in high school went asked what do you want to go into and they say, I don't know, I'm thinking about being a nurse. They're different from their peers. It's a calling really to be a medicine and so we attract these great folks. I think our challenge and the academic towers is how can we keep the focus both on the test technically sophisticated pieces of metabolism so they understand it. At the same time, not lose sight of the overall person. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, you pretty up to preserve the humanity of the field, while harnessing kind of critical thought and and doing it around as I said, kind of this scaffolding of purpose. OnEQuick thing, I discovered classic example of this, the Pima Indians in New Mexico along the Gila River, they had been cut off with their water supply, farmers and ranchers and settlers and so this nation of Indians, all of a sudden, wasn't they weren't able to grow crops and the healthy foods they'd been eating for centuries. So the U.S. government recognizing how they were being depleted of food and the starvation that was happening, they started shipping food. But of course, it wasn't this wasn't Whole Foods stuff, this was spam and potato chips or whatever else. And they started developing massively high rates of obesity, diabetes, quickly ensued, and so you had this population that was massively obese and diabetes. And the NIH decides to swoop in and address this problem by looking for pre-disposing gene for obesity and diabetes and they tested the blood of all these poor Indians and it's like we can't see the forest on the trees. There we've been feeding them shit for decades. That is what's been driving the obesity and diabetes. It's not that they have a gene. They've had spontaneous mutations of the FTO gene that have now produced rampant obesity. Well, Marty, thanks for making time to come by and talk always a pleasure and congrats again on your new book. I'm sure many people are going to get a kick out of it. We barely touched on, I think, a third of the stories that are in it. It's always great to be with you Peter. Good to see you.

=== FILE: 318 - The Meteoric Rise of Tadej Pogačar： From Prodigy to Cycling Legend [m9yjbJJBjHU].txt ===

I've never seen a cyclist who in defeat is so gracious. And it's almost like you don't, it's clear that you're upset, but you demonstrate, IMean, I remember after that stage, like you just thanked your team. You just said, you know, thank God I had a great team around me today or I would have come off the podium. That's remarkable sportsmanship, but how are you able to do that? But it's not the individual sport, it's the team sport. And the guy sacrificed everything to be there in the tour, to help one guy to win the tour. And in this day, we could really see how the guys reacted to me when I dropped and they helped me, they support me emotionally, physically whatever, you know. And yeah, I just, I really felt like I let them down and I was feeling just, yeah, I was devastated. I was upset, angry, but I couldn't change it. Not so, I just went with it. I was feeling down, but yeah, you cannot change nothing. And then, yeah, when we had dinner with the guys, was already better and, you know, they really helped me through that days. Hey, everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Todd, thank you so much for making time. Obviously, you just raised yesterday, you've got a race tomorrow and we're two weeks out from the World Championships. So, to give us any time is amazing. Thank you. No, thanks for having me. You know, a lot of people listening will know everything about you as I do or, you know, they're super fans, but there's also probably a number of people listening who might not appreciate kind of the magnitude of what you've accomplished in a very short period of time. I learned about you in 2019 as the most promising young cyclist that was coming up, but I don't think many people probably myself included expected what happened in 2020 at the Tour de France. What were your expectations going into the tour that year? Yeah, I was not expecting at all to in 2020, it was a COVID year. We had pretty good trenings, not too many races, so not too much to prove now. IMean, 2019 was great through year for me, but then 2020 came and it was like a long period doing nothing and just trening and we went to the Tour with Fabiaro and me as two leaders. And yeah, it turns out in the end I was fighting for podium plays for second place in the last week and I was really happy with that. And then the final time trial came and it turned out to be a table around and yeah, I wanted to remember it. I think still a lot of people don't believe it happened. Well, obviously people at the time of that final time trial said, we haven't seen a race like this since Le Monde and Lauren Finiale in I think it was 89. When he had that come behind, but what stage in 2020 did you realize I'm going to be on the podium? On stage, Colour was I think I was sure I'm going to be second because this was the thEQueen stage and I come behind Royal League just 15 seconds and yeah, the Lopez win that stage on high mountains. So yeah, that was the day I knew that this is it now. But I also think Royal League thought that day that he's going to win. So yeah, you never know. Yes, so going into that last time trial, what was your team telling you in the radio at the time checks or even before the time checks in terms of your Delta per road glitch on a kilometer basis? Yeah, I was in IMean, Royal League was studying behind me. Yeah, and yeah, the time checks were like I think two time checks on on the flat before the final time and I got the times I don't know who was leading the time on on the flat section. I got that time and how much I think I was even behind. And then when the climate came, there were so many people I did not hear a word on in the radio. I just went like we thought I would go and yeah, I just went to the top. Do you feel anything different that day? IMean, did it feel like better than some of the other stages or was it simply a matter of he had deteriorated more than you across 20 days? I think because it was the last hard stage the next day is just songs that they just roll through. IMean, it's still hard days, but if everything goes normal, you're just yesterday's the same. So I think yeah, it was okay, final time trial had just need to be relaxed. I second place, why Jersey, they were preparing white bike for me for next day, for you know, for seven years. I was, it was cool. It was dream field of pressure. I didn't feel nothing, though. So I just, yeah, we were really chilled out and you were the percussive really well because I did recon before with Talon Piper and Mikhabir, we did a lot of work on that. And then when they came, yeah, I was just mad. Everybody was happy around and there was no tension, no stress, nothing. We just roll with it and then it was one of the best days I ever had. Yeah, it's a little hard to believe. Do you remember what your average power was over that time trial? Yeah, IMean, on the flat, I had a power meter and a unit and then on the climb, I had nothing because I wanted to have a 6.8 kilograms bike. So it's like this possible by regulations, but on the flat time, I think I was like doing 380 to 390. So I'm not in crazy on the flat, but yeah, I was just, I guess I was just going fast enough, you know, to be in that range. What was your weight by that point of the tour, were you 60 kilos? I think that year and 2020 I was like, 60, 60, 60, even I think really. Yeah, yeah, I was. What did you weigh this year? This year in the tour, I come to the tour with 64 and a half and then 65 and 65 and a half, you know, like then jumping from around 65. Yeah. Throw the tour. 21 is another amazing year. And in 22 and 23, you have great race, but a couple of stages where it goes wrong. In 22, I guess the first stage where it was a struggle was it 16? Yeah, I call the ground on the ground. Yeah, and telegraph got a little bit down, we had some, almost a lot of stuff. Visited on attacking, constant constant constant. Yeah, where IMade my mistake when I, IMean, yeah, shouldn't follow a wrongly, immediately there on the telegraph, he took already on telegraph, I think, with, yeah, who was, was Tishby Nu and then La Portway, him on the downhill and they just flew down and when we started, Galibier, they just go one by one, you know, I had to respond, I think, eight or nine attacks. And you looked very strong. Yeah, how was that was really good, but I think that was, yeah, yeah, if you do eight, eight sprins, no, that's just, it takes too much and then I try to respond by being stupid now and I try to drop everybody from the wheel on Galibier, but then, yeah, I knew that what one art is also in front and it's checkmate anyway, you know? So yeah, that was just stupid for me. And how much of that, IMean, just from a nutritional standpoint, did you feel depleted? Did you feel like you didn't have enough, did you have a bot, were you, were you short of bottle on that stage or something? I think, I, I, you know, but you did, I think, IMean, the legs. You, you cannot eat enough when you do so much, you know, you do so much power, you do so much attacking, you, yeah, you cannot take more food than you can, no, so I think, yeah, we, we had quite good plant nutrition, everything, but if you do too much with your body, you cannot replace that. When you're trening, do you try to simulate that extent of attacking and recovering? And, IMean, obviously, you can't replicate that fully in a trening session, but... Well, I've always liked, since I was junior, even before I like to, yeah, I, I knew what's gonna be per course like, then find around my home, similar type and then just, do repetitions of one climb like how many times it's gonna be in the race. And now sometimes I still do the same, I just see, for example, here Montreal tomorrow, it's like around four minutes, climb to five minutes and two short ones, so you just try to do as many as possible repetitions in the trening, as well, and trying to simulate the race. What kind of climb do you like the most, what kind of climb do you like the least, in terms of grade and duration? Well, depends on the shape also, but I don't know, I really like around 20 minutes, quite steep, around that. Like 10 to 12 percent or not that steep. Yeah, I would say now that, because we go really fast, and a 7 percent to 8 percent, it's already a lot of drafting, but then what's more than 9 percent, I think, is pretty cool, because there's not much draft, you know, so you can do what you want basically. Do you have many climbs near you that replicate where you can do 20 minutes at 8, 9, 10 percent? No, not really, but like 5 to 10 minutes, yes, like 9 percent, 10 percent. In Slovenia, also just around 10 minutes, it's still points, but 20 minutes, that's not quite rare. And then how much does the heat factor into it and how much are you able to replicate that in trening? Well, I think the heat trening became a thing now in cycling a little bit, especially this year, maybe last 2, 3 years, IMean, we try to pass, like, over heat the body in trening session or in home trener. And because it is a big factor, especially for me, I felt always that I struggle when it's like super hot, but yeah, if you try to tren this and you can be better. Yeah, IMean, I guess I could imagine if you're on a trener at home, it's easy to replicate it, otherwise you just have to find the environment at the elevation altitude. This year, 2024, remarkable year for you, winning the zero, so comfortably, winning the tour quite comfortably. But it seemed to be your strongest year. IMean, people said, well, you know, Jonas crashed early in the season, but the truth of it is, Jonas's time is we're pretty remarkable this year. IMean, he seemed to put out very good numbers, so it seemed to be just as much a function of you riding even better this year than Jonas coming in injured as much as he was. What do you feel that's the case? Jonas had a big injury this year. Yeah, I don't know how exactly his recovery event, because they kept it quitEQuiet, but he was when he once got on the bike, I think he could start immediately trening quite normal now for sure. It's first a little bit, a little bit, but I think it affects on three week stage race, it affects that preparation and yeah, you don't have the capacity to go three weeks, you have the power, like 10 minutes, best power output or five minutes, 20 minutes, you can do one day, but then maybe your body is not used to go another day. So I think that was the case with Jonas this year. He had a great power, he got great numbers, but then maybe he liked this three week, extend, you know, to perform. I feel like every cycling fan just feels that we have this incredible treat where we have both of you as these remarkable cyclists, you're both so young. We're going to have many more years if you guys racing each other. Do you feel you're going to continue to race the tour for many, many more years? IMean, obviously people are saying, look, you know, you could break every record here, you could you could break the five tours, the seven tours, IMean you could do it all, is it your intention to keep riding grand tours and specifically the tour to France? The tour to France is the biggest race of cycling, so yeah, to be to keep being on the top, you need to do tour to France and yeah, I think battling between me and Jonas is pushing each other and always the tour is the test, who is better, no of that year. I think I will keep on riding the tour until I enjoy it. Once I don't enjoy this stress anymore, maybe I hang up the bicycle in Gorash or somewhere. Something seemed different in you this year, you seemed stronger, what changed in your trening between 23 and 24? Well, I didn't change only trening on the bike, I also implement like court trening more and more outside of the bike stuff. I got more into the details of nutrition as well, I'm getting older, so yeah, I'm not so obsessed anymore with just going cake on cake or just seating sheet, no, so yeah a little bit, my little. Is that mean that five years ago you weren't paying much attention to your nutrition and you were kind of shooting as much as you wanted? Yeah, for sure, when you're a kid you can eat what you want and you don't gain that, no, you don't gain too much because you're evolving, you're growing up and yeah, it's just, yeah, when you're a kid you can eat what you want and when you get older, you already see. You're at the age right now because you're going to be 26 and a week. Yeah, do you need to watch your weight in the off season now? IMean, my all year looks more or less the same. I never restrict too much or I never say, okay, I cannot eat cake or I cannot eat chocolate, but all in measurements and when the time is right because if you don't. If you restrict too much and you don't touch chocolate for a month or for six months, then one time you will break and you will go crazy now and I think that's not good relationship with food. So you need to have balance also with the bad food also now and then when comes off season, I don't have the cravings. I'm like, okay, now I go vacation, I have nice food, good food quality food and not crazy amounts, so I don't gain so much weight. What's the heaviest you'll be in the off season? 70? No, like 69. Like maybe 70 after when you wake up after party or something when you're big, big dinner with, I don't know, after a girl they party or something. You just a lot, but that's also a lot of times just waterwaters or something, but around 69 would be maximum maximum. Now, do you have a sense of how many grams of carbohydrate you can drink in an hour when you're trening? IMean drink or it's total amount of carbohydrate. So in drink we have either 30 grams or 60 grams in per bottle, so normally you're not a very strong dilution then. No, I honestly, I like the 30 grams of grams because then I can eat more, but when it's a hard stage it's better having 60 grams in the bottle and then you can eat less. IMean still no because for hard stages you need to get around 120 grams per hour and for easier stages from 60 to 90 is enough. So yeah, basically we aim for that per hour. Was that easy for you to get to or did you have to tren your gut to be able to eat that much? At first it seemed like five years ago, 120 grams per hour, that's impossible, but we do good food with good nutrition. What do you like to eat and drink? Sponsor energy, and with our nutritionists, he designed really good the gels and the drink that it's easy on the gut and since they created this product, I don't have any stomach problems. Five years ago I will always go shit my pants after the stage races or long races and now even eating 120 grams most stomach problems. And do you think that's more because you've gotten used to it? Do you think it's more because your nutritionist has figured out recipe that works for you guys? Yeah, I think it needs to be good ratio between glucose, glucose and all other stuff in the gels. And it needs to be good quality of what's inside. So I know, yeah, you get used to it for sure. When you're trening right now, I don't mean right now. IMean like when you're preparing say for the tour. How do you define your energy systems? You define them more by heart rate, by power, by how you feel, what are you using? I've been trening with hard-drain monitors since I'm, I don't know, 12 years old or even like 10 years old. So I would say I know how my body responds, IMean how my heart rate responds when I'm tired or when I'm good. So yeah, I could go by heart rate only, but it's always good to compare heart rate to two-power, but power meters are not so reliable these days. I would say really. Which one do you guys use SRM? We have Shimana parameters, but yeah, you always need to be careful with the temperature, so the outside, the calibration, everything and sometimes can be off. And you need to be careful about this. I, in my experiences and yeah, the best is to tren on your home roads, but you can also look the speed, the van, how fast you're moving. What kind of van are you able to reach when you're trening? Well, on trening, 7.5% if you go all out, I think it's like 1700 to 1800 to 1. For like 15 minutes, so. Yeah. That's just incredible. Yeah. IMean, people, I know that people listening might not appreciate that. I'm not going to take time to explain what VAM is. If they know what it is, they understand how crazy that is if we don't take and look it up, I'm happy when I hit a thousand by the way. Yeah. But yeah, depends on the gradient, but what I was trying to say is like, you can, you can see using these other metrics. Yeah. You see all these three things, the speed, heart rate and power, and then you see how you feel and in Weads on, are you really in? And how much of your time are you spending at like a low intensity, where do we call it zone two, whether we just call it a row big, how much of your total trening time would be in that zone and not burning matches? Well, I love riding zone two. And yeah, around where I live in Monaco, it's really hard to get big time zone two because it's a lot of climbing and then you have all the down hills you cannot go to camp. So yeah, try to hit really high zone two on the climbs. They are like 20 to 40 minutes long and then you recover and downhill. But when I go home to Slovenia or somewhere else or in Spain when we're trening in Calpe or somewhere, where it's more flat, then I really like to stay five hours in zone two. She's on two. Yeah, and some trenings, I would love to do just zone two and going on stop. What is your heart rate at zone two approximately? When I'm Satiq, it's like 140, 145, when I'm bit more fresh like 158 to 155. And how many watts are you putting out at that heart rate? Like 320 to 340. Again, I know it's just hard for people who are listening to us to understand what that means. 320 to 340 watts for five hours keeping lactate below to keeping heart rate at 140 is really remarkable. That's also another thing not in Monaco on the climbs where I can recover after. I can do, you cannot look zone two and say this is your zone two because you did to 10 minutes. Yeah, because it's too much up down. And if you're doing five hour right, you're zone two after five hours, maybe not be your zone two anymore. So you need to also, you always need to know at what time this zone two will not be your zone two anymore because on the flat, you will not recover and five hours of writing of 320 to 340 for me is also next day. I'm not not writing the bike. So on the when I go on flat for longer, I drop power to 292 to 300. Do you track your heart rate or heart rate variability in the morning? Do you, do those numbers give you any indication of how you're going to tren that day or race? Yeah, I started this in 2020, at first. I was especially in COVID time, lockdown, this mean my girlfriend, we were doing that, but yeah, I did not find it really interesting or helpful. But this year I started using again more to track HRE heart rate in the night and yeah, IMust say that I quite like it now to track it, but yeah, it's not something that you, it can be misleading, it doesn't necessarily take it, it can get in your head a little bit, you don't want it to tell you how you're going to tren that day can be misleading. It's almost better for somebody else to look at it and tell you after. Well, my girlfriend, she had a really good method for a while, especially in races. She don't open in the morning, she opened it after the race, she checked after the race, what was her heart rate variability in the morning, not in the morning. So she would not, if it would be real low, it doesn't. She would be less than then with the mess with race. So how much variation when you do look at your heart rate variability, how much variation do you have between a high day and a low day of HRV? Well, if you really, yeah, on a really good day, I would say my HRV would be, I don't know, 120, 120, maximum some days can pick up to 150. Wow. And then on the lower end, would be also, I don't know, 35 could be that much of a difference. Could be, but is that from drinking alcohol the night before me? Yeah. Okay. But yeah, like on the races in the tour, for example, and zero was quite steady around from 80 to 110 was like average. Wow. Everyday. Yeah, that's that's pretty amazing. And then resting heart rate, do you care at all about that or do you see how much, how much heart rate range do you have? So what's the lowest you're going to be at? And then what is your maximum heart rate now versus five years ago? And the lowest I hit since I'm tracking, I think was 37, but my average I would say in the night, I think 43 42. But someday I could walk up with 48 49 if you're sick or really fatigue maybe even over 50. And the max heart rate, yeah, when I was junior, I could hit 213. Yeah. But was shorter races. Thanks. So now, for example, when you were yesterday, 233. So was still pretty high. So I'm pretty happy about it. How often do you guys test VO2 max? Oh, since it's been a while since I tested the last time we were to max here. Yeah, interesting. And do you do it? Yeah, I'm going to bet it's pretty high. So, and do you do an FTP test out of season just as a way to track it like a true 20 minute test? True 20 minute test also, it's been a while since I've done one. We do, I did this year like fatigue test when you repeat eight minutes of one power. Yeah. And IMean of going higher and higher power and then also all out. And normally we do home trener test in the camp in December. It's long from one hour to one hour 30 depends how you really want how long you want to test to which zone you want to test, but yeah, normally around one hour 20 for me. 10 minutes steps on the home trener and every five minutes you take like that from from the year to check for the zones. And I like to do it also at home with my girlfriend one time I do for her. You see you test each other with test each other and yeah, for people listening your girlfriend is obviously a very competitive professional psych. Yeah, yeah. If you guys have kids one day, they go, oh man, I don't want to put them in second though. Well, that would be a good idea actually because they would probably have a very hard time filling your parents shoes. Yeah, but they should pick up another sport. They couldn't be better even. Okay, changing topics for a second. If we just think abouT3 of the most epic climbs in the two are to France. Well, for me, if I would say, Vauntu, Alptu as Gullibier, but what what what what would be the most epic climbs and what I really want to know is how do they compare and difficulty assuming your equally fresh on all days like same situation. If you have to race up each pick those three if I said Vauntu Gullibier and Alptu as well of those three, Galibis they just. Then I would say when to second and not Alptu is second and then. Vauntu will be the first. I think is the hardest there also because of the nature because they ended the top and stuff like that. When hit can be no and yeah, Alptu is it's hard, but I think it's shorter. Angaly B is the pen. It depends where it is in the state from also this but from Briand's own side is like dragging up in the valley and then when you turn right IMean it's quite high altitude, but yeah it's still quite regular climb from the other side you have telegraph and then small downhill and climbing again, but it's like. These are calls from apps they're all more or less the same. And Galibis called up on it these are almost identical climb so you're used to those and yeah, Alptu is just mythical you have you have we a hundred climbs then. Alptu is for sure. What is the hardest climb you think in the in the modern tour? Well for me personally, Colela was the hardest. I think everybody would agree on that this was my well you had a first guess of day there in 23. Yeah that was what stage 18. Stage 7. Was it thEQueen stage? Yeah it was stage 17. Yeah yeah. But yeah I did twice and yeah first time. Okay I did good but then I felt really tired after it was really exhausting climbing. Yeah last year was with it Lose and then small downhill and 12 to put in what's called this town. Cushvel and this was brutal but yeah. But this is something about you today that is very. It's very interesting. I've never seen a cyclist who in defeat is so so gracious and. It's it's almost like you don't it's clear that you're upset but you're you demonstrate. IMean I remember after that stage like you just thanked your team you just said you know thank God I had a great team around me today or I would have come off the podium. That's that's remarkable sportsmanship but how. How are you able to do that? I if I put myself in your shoes. I would just be so pissed off I wouldn't even want to talk to the media like I would just want to be locked in the trailer you know. Yeah but. It's not it's not the individual sport is the sport and they the guy sacrificed everything to be there in the tour to help one guy to win the tour. And and then in this day we could really see how the guys reacted to me when I when I dropped and they help me. They support me emotionally physically whatever no and. Yeah I just I really felt like I let them down and and I was feeling just yeah I was devastated I was upset. I was upset but I couldn't change it not so bad just went with it. I was feeling down but yeah you cannot change nothing and then yeah when we had dinner with the guys was already better and you know they really helped me through that days. What did you think about after the 23 tour you now come in second twice and. My guess is there were people out there saying hey maybe this guy isn't the next Eddie marks you know and again I'm sure you don't care about that but like whether you're the next Eddie marks are not but. How did you think about that and how did it motivate you over the winter coming into 2024 where you set off on this again very aggressive schedule. To win huge races going into the tour. Yeah it's frustrating was frustrating. Yeah. It was. Yeah I was anxious I was stressed and I was not feeling great last year after the tour but. I evaluate what when wrong what was. What was the mistakes what I can do better and I told went back to the crash from leash and preparation to the tour and everything else. It was a it was a it will love everything and yeah. Psychologically IMean did you have to get some confidence back IMean did you for sure IMean I got some confidence back already on stage 20 when I win. Yep. Three days after that but then I worked on it was like just a small patch on the wound I would say third place but great racing but. I didn't feel enough you know and then. Yeah winning longer day was. Yeah it was really amazing big for me last year and then again for sure people listening who might not understand that there are these five huge classic races. That normally the people who win the tour de France do not win those races and vice versa. This is a totally different sport it's sort of like I don't know the person who wins the marathon winning the 10k IMean even that's not even remotely the right comparison but there's their did like yes they're both on a bike but it's different. Yeah and you've now one three of the five classics. Yeah IMean longer this the closest one that grant to winner can win. The other four is they're really unlikely maybe they're just on the edge but also it's really hard for grant to. Contender to win those races but yeah. Do you want to win you have a very rare day still. Yeah very rare day and a scenario yeah. Sanremo is the one that's gonna send me to Grave I have feeling it's just. You're gonna die trying to win that probably it's I'm getting so close but it's so far and it's it's unbelievable it's. But this is that to be clear this is a goal you want to win all five. IMean I want to win first World Championships yeah Sun Rema and then we can see if there's a space for a bit or not. And not to discount it but the Vuelta. Yeah of course Vuelta my first grant to renew in 2019 it podium was breakthrough for me with three stages. Why jersey and I want to come back and seal the deal with the regers if I sure. Yeah well I think you will. Right. What about the Olympics where does that rank on your goals? Well it's in Los Angeles in four years I really hope for a nice per course. I really want to dip like again climbing per course like was in Tokyo or even harder. So yeah we'll see when they announce it how eager I will be but Olympics in cycling is hard timing. It's right on the floor. You know for other sports in some other sports they tren four years just for Olympics and then this is the peak of the career. And in cycling the peak of your career needs to be to the France every year so it's a bit like no. It's not as high a priority as one of the goals obviously. IMean yeah it's not. Do you watch have you seen any of the Netflix series the two that you know the Netflix has done the two specials and the two have you ever watched them? Yeah I watched the first season I didn't watch the second season I watched the because I was in trening camp and I didn't have anything better to watch but yeah for people like us when we are there no. Yeah it's not so fun to watch. But you know it's fun for me to be able to watch it with my wife or with friends if they're not cycling fans right so they're not going to watch the tour with me and stuff like that. One of the things that people who don't watch cycling and frankly people like me who do still cannot believe is how you guys are able to ride while fans are encroaching the roads. What's the closest call you've had with a fan? Well first the fans are amazing when I was a kid I always wanted that feeling to ride through the group of fans like this and now I enjoyed the most and yeah the closest I've been having. I don't know yeah in cause I lost I was when in 2020 was some close calls which lovinian fan. And yeah but normally you need to watch the flags the flags are really really tricky one because they are waiting in the middle of the road and they move it. The last time and sometimes you know they they move differently the flag and. That's when I'm watching this with my wife she gets so mad at the TV. She's the get out of the way get out of the way. IMean she's screaming at the TV for the fans to move she's so upset. I think they have I think. I think. So I was going to say the opposite because I put try to put myself in a cyclist shoes and I feel like I would subconsciously be holding back a little bit for fear of hitting them. And not that you worried about hitting them but worried about falling because you're going to. Yeah you do sometimes like let off the throttle a little bit especially like if you attack or something and you're in the zone. If you like you're pushing all all the words that you can but then when you see the fans. You don't I don't know you may be let off a little bit but it's still high power I would say but also because. The other sharing is just adrenaline is so high and the noise is. Yeah incredible the noise is so loud and you're just you're just riding and you don't actually lose any momentum and. You just it's crazy it's hard to describe I can't imagine actually it looks like one of the craziest things. I've ever seen and I yeah so. This year in the tour I was very surprised that certain commentators were. Almost expressing disappointment when you were winning stages after you had already secured the yellow jersey. Did any of that make it to you and if so did did you does that does that mean anything to you that people are saying he shouldn't be winning so much. I actually don't see so many people saying he shouldn't mean so much okay the ones that they hate me they will say that but obviously they. Hold something against me no yeah it's normal but like even the people that are neutral and this don't say it in that I should hold back I shouldn't mean so much. It's just the media and the commentators and journalists they like to they like to say these things just. So that's a kind of a. Yeah but I really don't see so much. Yeah I can't trust in this because also for me. In some stages a lot of stages I can't I can't the other day how many stages I win. 12 stages in grand tours this year and I think we control. To win and that I won was seven stages so. It's just a little bit more than half. So it's not so bad. Do you even think about. Equalling or bettering the the mark now of of marks and Cavendish and in tour stage wins. I don't want to think so much ahead. Just. Yeah just because you never know when you're lost in know that's why you also. That's why you take every win. Because if it's there you take it now if you enjoy and you feel good you go for the stage. You win unless it's there some other reason. But yeah IMean 36 or how much? 34 or 36. 35 stages from Cavendish is just crazy and. It's incredible achievement but yeah I don't want to think so much ahead. I want to go from tour to tour and see how I feel and what can I do. If you met Eddie Merck, I assume you have. Yeah I did. IMade him a few times one time more closely but that was. Now already three years ago yeah we met for dinner. That was nice. There's a great book about him called Half Man Half Bike. It's one of my favorite books about cycling and it's kind of the story of his life in career. And it's just amazing. I'm sure you would enjoy it because it gives you an appreciation for how could a guy win all of these races. Like again like what you're doing right you're winning you're winning you know grand tours he's winning the one day classics. And then of course in 1972 to just obliterate the one hour world record record that would stand for 12 years. And even 12 years later when it was broken by Francesca Moser. IMean it was using completely new arrow equipment and stuff whereas Merck did it on a. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. And so you know I've read certainly that Merck has considered you truly the second coming of him. That must mean a lot to you. I don't know I don't know how to how to respond to that but yeah for sure he was. One of the greatest especially at his time this was. He was incredible and how he won the races and yeah IMean I never saw any of his racing but yeah just when you read his Palmaras is just unbelievable and yeah it's something that you can not imagine in this era to achieve so I don't think it's. It's possible to do the same what he did not but it's different cycling. You think that that the one hour record is something you would even entertain in terms of like making the effort for trening for it setting aside time. I was until yeah gonna did it. And then being I think he did also before people. And before that time I would consider it now not so much there there. IMean Ghana was fast really he did incredible. What is the difference between your power when you are climbing so your legs are you know your femurs are not kinked down versus when you're in a time trial position. How much of a how many watts do you lose being in a time trial position for the same period of time? Well I don't know I still trying to figure this one out actually but yeah I have I see that I have on time trial. I have some good days and some bad days I never have more I don't consist I'm not so consistent as on a road bike but when it matters I can push more or less the same numbers on the real. And then I think that the same thing is the same thing. Wow it's coming all along now with via mechanics and wind testings and so many trening so many intervals doing that. Yeah you trying to figure out the best position to be possible to do this power. You mentioned that you did some more strength work in the offseason coming to twenty four as part of the reason why you've seen. Stronger than before which is hard to imagine. Were you doing any strength trening for your legs were you doing any weights? Yeah a little bit weights. IMean I'm still doing the strength trening throughout the season but with less weights. But yeah still legs core glutes. IMean hips and this is for me personally is important. Yeah. Do you not anymore but did you ever use to when you're growing up run or swim or do any other endurance sports? Yeah when we were younger in our team in Lula and in the winter we were running up the mountain and like three four times per week after school. We we had meeting trening meeting and we go this mountain that was closed by and we can we go like two three times up down and that was it. We swim also a few years one time per week for one hour or something. So yeah we tried different sports in the winter and cross country skiing this my favorite. Yeah running on the flat not so much but now I try the last two years I tried to to put running also into off season really. I tried to start in off season and I tried to keep it as long as possible to season but it didn't work out this year. So in your off season what is the most days you'll go without being on a bike at all no stationary bike no outdoors. Especially in off season I don't do it but yeah I don't know we have a team camp in UAE it's like six days but. Yeah last year for example we went with the boys run together in Abu Dhabi two times and playing paddle something so. And then going off to vacation and then on vacation you get bored you go for run or playing paddle or whatever again or swimming and I don't really have. I cannot say that I do two weeks without a bike or without any trening at all but because I really enjoy doing other stuff and other sports so. Yeah maybe three days doing nothing then one day do something and then maybe three days again nothing and you know but then meet November always starting on a bike road bike again. How old were you when you realize you're going to be or where you knew you wanted to be a professional cyclist. My thing when I was a junior so. Yeah six sixteenth sixteenth seventeenth years old when I. When I thought that I have a chance to to be professional to be in the war tour team but then. Yes second year juniors. Why realized that I can definitely be in war tour and then when I come to under 23 then I already signed with UAE team pre contract for 2019 so two years after. Well today I have a million morEQuestions I could ask you but I know you've got a team meeting shortly I want to make sure you get to that on time want to make sure you got a good dinner and have a great race tomorrow and above all else IMean really we're just. You know I think everybody's kind of excited to to see what the world's in a couple of weeks and. Not again not to put pressure on you but just so people understand the significance of that to be able to win. Two grand tours in a year is really unprecedented. If there's a chance to add a world title to that it's kind of unbelievable and and and at the other end of that you know should it not happen this year given that you're you're you're not yet 26 I think most people would take the bet that you're going to have another shot at that. Yeah but the sooner we get it over. The better is there's no more pressure. Yeah I love it. Thank you so much.

=== FILE: 323 - CRISPR and the future of gene editing： scientific advances, genetic therapies, & more [aOl0IDhzLCo].txt ===

Human genome project was completed in early 2000s, and with the human genome having been sequenced, and then also with DNA sequencing technology becoming cheaper and faster. Scientists were able to start a sequence in many, many more genomes. And so they can start to make comparisons between healthy individuals and also people who are affected by specific diseases to see what's different between their genomes. And by doing that comparison, they can identify the differences that may be causal for disease. And so, you know, two-date based on genetic analysis, researchers have probably identified more than 5,000 genealty mutations that have a direct causative role in disease. And so these are called genetic diseases. They are usually affecting a small population of individuals that are not as common as things like cancer or diabetes, or these, what people call complexor or complicated diseases. But nevertheless, these are the ones where we know the exact genetic cause. And so, the tantalizing idea is then, if you know the mutation in the genome, why not just go and fix it? And so that's where gene editing comes in. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Hey, Fong. Thank you so much for detouring your trip and coming through Austin. I've been really looking forward to sitting down with you for, frankly, about a year. So this is a topic that I don't think there's anybody who's heard this podcast, who hasn't heard the term CRISPR. But I think very few people can actually explain it and explain what a powerful tool it is. But I do think that before we get there, it would be really helpful to kind of understand a little bit more about your journey on one hand. And then the journey of gene editing kind of as a parallel. But let's start with with yours. You and I overlap to a little bit because, IMean, not temporarily, but you were at Stanford and you were a postdoc in Carl Desaroth's lab. Well, first of all, thank you for having me beyond his podcast. I've listened to your podcast on and off, especially when I'm running around or exercising and it's always I learned a lot from this year to the podcast. Awesome. Thank you for having me here. So back to Stanford. I was there as a graduate student. I was in the lab for researcher named Carl Desaroth and I was there for five years. That's right, you did your PhD there with Carl. OK, now as you know, Carl, and I were classmates, Carl's been on this podcast. And so maybe folks who either didn't listen to that podcast or who did but have forgotten, give us a kind of a quick summary of the type of work that you and Carl did. Well, I was working with Carl Desaroth with developed a technology called Optogenetics. And it's a way of studying brain cells in the brain how they are connected together and how they mediate memory, mediate different types of physiological function. The way it works is that we took a gene from a green algae. And this is a gene that senses light and converts it into electrical current in a cell. So we can put this gene from the green algae right into the brain cells in the mouse. And we can shine blue light or yellow light and control the brain activity in these mice. So for example, if you wanted to study sleep, you can put this gene into different groups of cells in the brain and stimulate them. And you can find out which ones of these are controlling wifleness or which one are causing the mouse to become more sleepy. So if you do this systematically, one by one from one type of cell to another type of cell, you can gradually start to put together picture of how the brain is wired together and then also what are the different components that govern all sorts of behaviors from sleep and wifleness to thirst and hunger, to memory and even to motivation and happiness. So it was really fun to be as Stanford and working with Carl. Yeah, and to me the thing that always stood out about the technique was just the resolution. It was, I don't know what a great analogy would be, but it was sort of resolution at the level of the word rather than the page. If you were thinking about a book, for example. Right, what is incredible about these algal proteins is that they are very, very fast. So you can control the way the brain cells are able to signal to each other at the action potential level. So action potentials are these individual signals that they're basically like the phonemes of the speech that when neuron speaks with another neuron. And you can control it at every single phone in the level. And that is pretty cool. And since we're going to be talking a lot about gene editing, what was the technique that you guys used to insert those algal genes into the brains? The way that you will put a gene into the brain is usually by using a virus. So this is a virus that exists in nature, but we have engineered it by removing everything that is pathogenic by the virus and replacing those pathogenic genes with the gene that we're trying to put into the brain. So in this case is the gene from the green algae. And by injecting the virus into a brain area that you want to study, the virus will infect all the cells in that region and then make those cells begin to produce this algal protein. So once the neuron starts to carry this algal protein, it becomes light sensitive. So you can turn blue light on it and then be able to stimulate it. Yeah, amazing. What year did you finish here PhD? In 2009. Okay, and then you went to MIT, or did you have the brood? Then I was a Harvard. I was there for about a year. And then I went to MIT and brood after that. Okay, and then your attention there sort of turned. You obviously worked on some on optogenetics, but what else did you sort of pivot into? So as I was working on optogenetics and especially toward end of graduate school, they began to realize that one of the biggest bottlenecks facing optogenetics is our ability to insert the algal gene into a specific place in the genome. And the reason for that is because in order for us to study different types of brain cells, we need to have very precise targeting of different types of brain cells. Brain cells are not just one type. The neuron is not a single type. They are probably hundreds of different types of brain cells. The way that they're defined is based on their molecular property. So each brain cell, even though they all share the same genome, they have different sets of genes that are turned on. So that's why brain cells, the control, pain sensation, versus brain cells that are involved in Parkinson's disease are different. So the way that you would target one or another type of brain cell is by figuring out what are the molecular signatures of that cell. So if you know that gene A is turned on in that brain cell and not in another type of brain cell, then you can insert this algal gene into the region that's controlling gene A. That way it will only get turned on in neuron, that the first type of neuron. And the way to insert this gene into that precise place in the genome required gene editing, and it was really hard to do at the time. And so I thought maybe if I wanted to get after genetics to become even more powerful and useful, we need to make gene editing more easy to use. So by the time I went to Harvard, I began to focus more on trying to figure out how do you more easily be able to modify the genome? Yeah, so this is to me where the story gets so interesting because you stumble across a problem that you're trying to solve because of your passion. You've already alluded to why this is so difficult. And I guess maybe just go back and explain something so that the listener understands, why was it easy to do what you did in Carl's lab, relatively speaking, right? Where you're putting an entire gene into presumably an adnovirus and letting the adnovirus infect the neurons and stick a whole gene in. Why is that a different problem than the one you just described that you started to solve at Harvard? Make sure everybody understands that distinction. The work that I was doing when I was at graduate student with Carl Dysroth is that we were simply trying to insert a gene into brain cells. And when we did that, we weren't as... Meaning you don't get to care where it goes specifically. We can get it into the rough area in the brain but there are many different types of cells there. And so we weren't as precise in our ability to target those cells. And we also developed some tricks to be able to get it into a specific type of cell but that was only limited to mice because we can genetically modify mice and it will take a long time. We'll take a year or two years to be able to make those mice available to engineer them but it wasn't generally applicable. And so especially if you think about how to turn up to genetics into a therapeutic to using a human, we certainly couldn't go and use those trensgenic technologies to make a working in a human brain. So so this was a major problem. OK. So let's keep that story on the side for a moment. And let's tell in parallel another story, a story that started long before you were even in college, when you were young kid. And it stems from an observation that grew out of a discovery in sequences that existed in bacterial DNA. A certain type of repeating structure. They had all these interesting characteristics. So let's go back to the 80s and tell a little bit of that story. And it's all obviously I wouldn't be going through this if it wasn't going to quickly converge with your life change the direction of your life. But let's go back to the 80s. Sure. I was born in the 80s. But what was really interesting that you are pointing out is that back in the 80s, there was a group of Japanese researchers who were just looking at DNA sequences of bacteria. And they were looking at E. coli. And what they found is that within some of the genomes, the DNA sequences of these bacteria, there are these regions that are very repetitive. So just repeat over and over and over again. Normally, genome sequences are not repetitive because they encode genes and different genes. But here, they found that these repeat sequences that are all grouped together. So they're clustered. And they are not tandem repeat. So it's not repeated one next to each other. But they're interspaced by a short fixed length gap. And so it's basically A, B, A, C, A, D, A, E, A, G. And so it just continues to repeat itself. But in this regularity, spaced pattern. And when they first found it, they had no idea what this sequence was all about. And there's something else about those repeating segments that was quite interesting as well, which is in each direction, whichever way you read them, they were the same. So they're called palenjums. DNA is double strended. So there's a pop strend and there's a double strend. There's a bottom strend. And so this is why they look like a double helix so they twist and insert. And what is interesting is that when you read these repeats sequences from the top and you read in the reverse way at a bottom, they're almost the same. So so they're a palenjum. So you had these palenjum clustered repeats that were interspaced. And if you say that in the right way, you get a few letters. C, R, I, S, P, R. Right. CRISPR. So the name CRISPR that term was actually coined then nearly 40 years ago, right? So CRISPR is really a brilliant acronym. And so CR, I, S, P, R stands for exactly how these repeats look. Clustered, regularity, interspaced, short, palenjumic repeat. So CRISPR is really brilliant and is very catchy. But this name wasn't the name that was given to these repeats back in the 80s. In fact, it had many different names. Would that name not come along until the 90s? It didn't come until the early 2000s. Oh, really? OK. OK. So before Francisco, Mohito, he was named Mohito, Kima, was named. Kima, was that name. But there was no way to tell these 20,000. OK. Now, if my reading of the history is accurate, understandably, scientists in the 80s and 90s focused on the repeating segments. Obviously, any good scientist, I think, would look at that and realize this is a very interesting observation. How do we figure out what it is? But the focus was on the repeating segments. What you describe is the A in the A, B, A, C, A, D. When did, and I believe it was Francisco, who was the first to observe? The factually, what's interesting is not the repeating segments. It's the seemingly uninteresting segments in between them that are different. Exactly. So this Christopher repeats. They had this conserved A sequence. And this A, of course, repeats many, many times. So it's the most obvious thing. And usually, when we are looking at things, we look for things that have the strongest signal. So you have 20, 30 repeats of the same sequence. That's the strongest signal there is. But it turns out that is not an interesting part. The interesting part is actually the non-repeating sequences that's interspaced between pairs of these repeats. So Francisco, Francisco Mojica, he's a Spanish researcher. He's been looking at bacteria and looking at their weird sequences for a long time. And what he did back in the early 2000s is that he took these non-repeats sequences and he just searched against viruses in the bacterial world. And a few of them, he found matched virus sequences. And so that was really a breakthrough. Because it started to highlight that maybe these non-repeating sequences are foreign to the bacteria. They came from somewhere else. And somehow bacteria acquired them into these repeat patterns. And that really started to launch the CRISPR revolution. Because that observation and that inference allowed people to start to realize that maybe this has something to do with how bacteria and the viruses are interacting with each other. Yeah, what's interesting when you, again, look at that story is that when he tried to publish that finding, it was rejected by virtually every significant journal out there. They viewed this as either incorrect, uninteresting, whatever. It was ultimately published, although I don't recall the name of the journal that first published that finding. But it was many runs below nature, science, et cetera. The irony of science sometimes. So maybe folks, we can remind them just how the human immune system works. Because just like bacteria, we are also encountering viruses all the time. Viruses do nothing good for us just as they do nothing good for bacteria. Right? You know, we have a pretty negative relationship with viruses. All they want to do is use us as host to replicate their, their genomic material in the process. They tend to make us sick. So obviously when a virus infects a bacteria, it's just using its genetic machine to re-eplicate and it's going to kill the bacteria. So as you said, the bacteria needs a tool to fight back. Now, we do it through the creation of antibodies. But how did this story continue to unfold? What were the bacteria doing? Or what more to the point? What did Francisco realize was happening with this artifact, left behind of viral DNA? In the early days of CRISPR research, there were actually several different converging lines of work. So there's Francisco Mojica who's looking at these repeat sequences within the bacterial genome. But then there are also other researchers who began to zero in on a group of genes. So these are things that are telling the bacteria to make certain types of protein. There are these certain genes that are right next to their repeats. And it took a while for people to begin to associate the genes and the repeat to be together as one single system. But the people who are studying the genes realized that these genes were carrying nucleases. So nucleases are proteins that usually go and cut up either DNA or RNA. And so they initially thought that maybe these genes were involved in DNA repair. So for example, Eugene Kunen, who is a really brilliant bi-informatician, he's been studying these genes. And he really started to zero in on what biologically these genes may be doing. But the linkage with these repeats took a little while longer to get associated. But it was really when the discovery that there are these viral sequences in the repeats. And that there are these genes that are associated with the repeat that are involved in DNA cleavage that started to really put together a framework for thinking that maybe this is a system where these viral sequences are working together with the DNA cleavage proteins to go and recognize viral sequences and try to cleave a virus sequences. And we can put some names on these things so that people can start to see where the thing is going. So you talked about these genes that were near, but at a distance from both the palendromic repeats and the inner-spaced segments that we now realize were copies of viral DNA. And as you said, they coded for proteins or enzymes called nucleases which cut DNA. And similarly, we have helicases, right? So you have certain enzymes that can unwind the DNA so that they can go and cut. And these were referred to as CRISPR-associated proteins, correct? Which is abbreviated as CAS. So was CAS one and CAS two the first that were identified in that regard? That's exactly right. So these genes that are right next to the CRISPR-Ve-P's that are called CAS proteins. Although they probably underwent many, many different green naming over the course of two decades. But eventually, the community researchers were studying CRISPR-P proteins and CRISPR RNA, they came together and started to really curate these different genes. And so CAS one, CAS two, CAS three, CAS four, et cetera. These are things that are kind of number based on part, the order that they would discover. So the most popular protein is, or the most widely used protein now, it's called CAS nine. And this is one of the CAS proteins that are found among array of many, many different CRISPR-P proteins. And so yeah, so these CAS proteins work with the CRISPR RNA. And CRISPR RNA refers to these repeats, which are encoded in DNA, but they are made by bacteria into RNA. And those RNA are called CRISPR RNA. And they don't encode protein. They simply are a short guide sequence that directs the CAS protein to find the target virus sequence. And so CAS protein, CRISPR RNA, they together form a complex that go and provide defense function for the bacteria. And whereas our defense against a virus is going to be making an antibody and or activating another type of immune cell with an antigen receptor on it called the T cell, the defense of the bacteria is simply to cut the genetic material of the virus to kill the virus. Obviously, a much more directed approach. Let's walk through two scenarios. First infection reinfection. And explain the difference between how the bacteria defends itself with special attention to the use of the CRISPR system and the CAS9 enzyme. Sure. So first of all, first infection now. Out of the gate, you're an E. coli. I'm a bacteria phase. You've never seen me before. I've just injected my viral DNA into you. So CRISPR is an adaptive immune system. So this system can evolve with a bacteria to be able to accommodate many, many virus infections. So when the virus, which is called a bacterial phase, first infects the bacteria, it will inject its genetic information into the bacteria. The virus is usually very powerful and very potent. It will probably wipe out most of the bacterial population. But for very small number of cells, maybe one out of a million, the CRISPR system will successfully recognize a piece of the DNA of the virus and begin to insert it into this repeat area in the CRISPR system. And how long a piece is that typically? How many nucleotides in that piece? It's usually 30 letters long. And that is enough for the bacteria to uniquely recognize the virus. So anyway, so during the first infection, in the most bacteria die, very, very small number of them begin to acquire a snippet of the genetic information of this virus. And the insert it into CRISPR system. So those bacteria that survived have now acquired immunity against these viruses. And in the process of surviving, what do they have to rapidly do to fend off that first viral infection? Well, so the bacteria has many different defense systems in addition to CRISPR. So in fact, CRISPR is not the first line of defense. There are other things that are also very powerful technologies now that are restriction in the nucleotides. These are proteins or enzymes that bacteria use. They don't adapt, so they don't evolve. But they recognize fixed letter sequences. And sometimes these will always be activated first and try to fend off the virus. But if it doesn't, there are a host of other defense systems and one of these will eventually work. But unfortunately for the bacterial population, these things don't come in quick enough. And that's why most of the cells die. But the few where these things weren't able to keep out with the virus, that's what allows a CRISPR system to begin to acquire the genetic information. So now let's talk about that subsequent infection. So we've obviously, through a very Darwinian mechanism, selected a subset of the E. coli in this case that indeed are able to not just survive with their first and second line defense against the bacteria phased, but now they've also developed the memory. So to speak, the way we would use the term. So now it's a month later. The same page comes along, infects you. Inserts its genetic material, but now you actually have interspersed between your CRISPR repeats. You actually have the 30 nucleotides that match a sequence within that virus. So now, how do you spring into action to resist this infection? Exactly. So after the first infection, in the way the bacteria has been vaccinated against this virus. So the second time when this virus comes around, it will injects its genetic information into the bacteria. But now the bacteria in the CRISPR repeat area has a signature of this virus. So the repeat area will get turned on and it will start to make CRISPR RNA that carry a 30-based parallel or 20-based parallel guide that's able to recognize the incoming virus. So the CAS protein will bind to these CRISPR RNA. They will go and try to search along all the DNA sequences in the bacteria. When it finds a match in the viruses DNA, it will activate the nucleos and it will cut the DNA. And approximately how many base pairs are in viral DNA? Depends on the virus, they can be small, maybe 10,000 letters, or they can be long, 100,000 or even longer. Which again, just for context, so people understand, we have about 3 billion, right? So we're still talking about tiny, tiny, tiny amounts of DNA. And by the way, does it differ if it's an RNA virus versus a DNA virus as the process identical? It's very similar. So the reinfection tends to make pretty quick work. Because now once the bacteria is able to make the CAS protein, which it can make really quickly, it makes the, in between the CRISPR segment, it makes the RNA segment to guide it and match it. And really that's kind of a CRISPR RNA plus a truncated sort of other version of an RNA that holds the RNA in the CAS protein. Correct? And like we guess we call that whole thing the guide RNA. How quickly can that CAS9 enzyme holding the guide RNA? How quickly in actual time does it go through the entire sequence of viral DNA until it finds its place to land and cleave? That process probably pretty fast. I don't know exactly how quick it is. But also it's important to recognize that in a single bacteria, there are many, many copies of the CAS9, along with the guide RNA. And so that means once the virus comes in, there are many, many copies of CAS9 that are simultaneously in parallel, searching against the virus DNA to see whether or not there's a match. And this is why the system is so powerful, because it's able to, you know, very quickly in a parallel fashion, find the match and then inactivate the virus. With a minute, with a minute. Yeah, and there's something else that is pretty unique about where those cuts take place. When we bring in the viral memory, it always begins with three particular nucleotides. What's the significance of that? Right. So what you're talking about is what CRISPR scientists call Pam sequence, PAM, or proto-spacer, Jason Motiv, just a jargon. What is significant about that is that it is a sequence that is only found in the bacterial viruses genome, but not in the bacteria genome. So when the bacteria acquires a piece of the virus sequence and sticks it into its own genome, onEQuestion is, couldn't the CRISPR system go and recognize the virus's own genome now? The bacteria. Yeah, the bacteria. The bacteria genome. And be able to cut the bacteria. And be able to cut the bacteria. It's going to like, couldn't you turn the weapon on yourself and cut your own DNA and kill yourself? Exactly. Yeah, so how does it avoid this self-targeting or auto-immunity against itself? And this is where the PAM sequence comes in. The PAM sequence is in the viral genome. It's right next to the sequence that is acquired into the CRISPR system, but it itself is not acquired into the bacteria genome. And so what you see in the bacterial genome's CRISPR repeat is just the recognition sequence, but no pen. And so Cas9 requires the PAM to activate recognition, cleavage. And so without the PAM, it doesn't cleave itself, but it's still able to target the virus. So, thank you. Does this bring us more or less up to speed with the state of the art when you turn your attention to how can I create a finer resolution for gene editing for my optogenetics problem? Is this about where the state of the art was? Yeah, so I started to work at MIT and it brought the Institute in 2011. And so when I first started, I went to a scientific presentation, and they were talking about CRISPR. And they mentioned that CRISPR are nucleases, because I was thinking about nucleases and gene editing at a time. When I heard that word, it just kind of got me interested. And so I went down to Wikipedia, and looked at what CRISPR is. And Francis Mojica and Sivay Mojniu and Rodal Berrengu, they had just published the very early studies on the Cas9 system. Back then, it was still called Cas5. It was only later on, it renamed to be Cas9. But there was all these papers that, if you read them, there aren't too many of them. You can piece together an information, and you can get a sense that this is the RNA guided DNA targeting and cleaving enzyme. And at a time, there were other gene editing systems that were being worked on by researchers in the field, something called Zinc Finger, New Cleas, or Talon. And these are systems that use protein to recognize DNA, but not using RNA to recognize DNA. So maybe let's talk a little bit about both of those, because they were the state of the art up until 15 years ago. And I want to understand both how they work, and why they may not have been sufficient for your application. In other words, why are you looking for something beyond two techniques that already existed? Sure. So when I first became interesting gene editing in the sort of late 2000s, there were people already developed in gene editing technologies. In fact, there were multiple iterations of technologies that came around. There's something called Megan New Cleas, which was very, very early. And then what got me excited was a New York Times article. I think it was 2008 or 2009. It talked about a system called Zinc Finger New Cleas. There's a company in California that's called Sanamo Biosciences. And they were already developing Zinc Finger New Cleas for gene therapy to be able to go and edit DNA and treat disease. But Zinc Finger was a really challenging system for scientists to adapt and use, because it required very sophisticated protein engineering. The way it works is that Zinc fingers are protein domains. They're just one glob of protein. Each finger, each Zinc finger, can recognize three letters of DNA. And they occur in nature. So you can find them in naturally occurring DNA binding proteins called trensrofen factors. And they allow trensrofen factors to go and recognize different genes in the genome to modulate their activity. Either turn them on or turn them off, or change how much they are expressing the cell. But how do you get specificity when you are only recognizing three nucleotides? The probability of those three nucleotides showing up seems pretty likely across the genome, right? Right, exactly. So nature has solved this problem by forming Zinc Finger arrays. So they tether multiple fingers together. And all of them have to hit their target of three nucleotides. Right, that's right. So if you have an array of three fingers, they recognize nine letters. If you have a array of six fingers, and that's 18 letters. So you're going to complicate a genome like our genome with three billion letters, 18 would give us uniqueness. So 18 can allow you to find, or define just a single position. And that's because four to the power of 18 is a big enough number. It's bigger than three billion. Yeah, okay. So let's now talk about the talons. Why, first of all, what is that technique? And why was that not necessarily going to serve your purpose? Right. So the challenge with Zinc Finger is that you have a engineered finger to recognize different combinations three letters. And you have to make sure that when you tether them together to make a Zinc Finger array, they can recognize what you intend to recognize in that multiple three fashion. That turned out to be really cumbersome, and usually it doesn't work very well. So then this other system that you mentioned called trenscription activator like Effector T-A-L-E, nucleosodevalent. So these systems can also from bacteria. They came from a specific pathogenic bacteria called Zincimonus or Rizzi. So it lives on rice plants, and it's a major rice pathogen. The way these proteins work is that they're injected by the bacteria that's trying to colonize the plant into the plant cell. And once you get inside, it homes in to the genome of the plant cell, finds the gene, and then starts to turn it on. When it turns it on, it allows the bacteria to, it allows the plant to become more susceptible to the bacterial colonization. And so it allows the bacteria to be able to more successfully survive on this whole plant. So it's a major pathogenic system. But what is really cool about talents or tales is that they recognize DNA in a very programmable fashion. These proteins, they have repeat domains, justizing fingers that form a ray. But individual domains recognize single DNA letters. And so you can find these tail proteins in the bacteria that have 12 or 16 or even 20 different repeats. And so they can recognize long stretches of 12 or 16 or 18 or 20 DNA letters in the plant genome. Plengino is also large. There are sometimes two, three times the size of our genome. So recognizing long sequences is important for achieving precision. And so that was the tail system. So what is really cool is that all the bones who is a researcher in Germany, and also Adam Bogdanova, who is a researcher in Iowa, and I was at the time. They discovered that there is a specific code for how these tail proteins recognize DNA. It turns out that within each one of these repeats, there are two amino acid letters that correspond with a specific DNA letter that it binds to. And so if you take any tail protein and you just dial in different combinations of these two amino acids in each one of the domain, you can specify what DNA sequence this tail protein is able to recognize. So it turns out to be much more easy to use of then-sing fingers. So were you satisfied with that? Or, IMean, obviously you weren't. You were sitting there looking up Wikipedia for what CRISPR is when you heard about it. So something must have said to you, this is good as the talons aren't as much as they're an improvement over zinc fingers. They're still not good enough. Why was that? Why were they not good enough? So zinc fingers were really hard to use. And one way I tried to engineer it, it was very hard, very difficult, almost impossible for just a single researcher to get something that would recognize the DNA sequence that you're trying to get it recognized. So it was very hard to use. Talons, on the other hand, were easier. But the repetitive nature of these proteins made it quite cumbersome to engineer new proteins to recognize the sequence you're trying to edit. So for example, if you wanted to be able to modify a specific gene, it could take you maybe several weeks, or even a couple of months to be able to successfully make one of these tail proteins. And when you do that, usually a work's been not always. And sometimes it's not very effective. Is that because it's so difficult to predict the folding structure of the protein, even if you know it's sequence? Like why would it take that long? It's long because from a technical perspective, these sequences are just very hard to work with. They are very prone to, because they're very similar to each other, they're prone to recombination. So in order to get a tail to work, you have to, in a very precise way, put every dummy in the correct order, because if you're trying to recognize AGTC, you have to put it together, AGTC, you can have AC, GT, it just wouldn't work. So to put repetitive sequences together, and light them up in exactly the order you want, that is really challenging to do. OK. It's possible, but it's very challenging. So it's very interesting. I think it's worth just sort of taking a step back. IMean, if most people can sort of remember that they were thinking 10 years ago, 12, 15 years ago. And the human genome was sequenced nearly 25 years ago. And the promise of gene therapy was sort of hailed as right around the corner. And yet here we are, a decade, more than a decade, after the sequencing of the human genome, and it doesn't appear that gene therapy through gene editing was any closer than it really was from a practical standpoint, a decade earlier. I think that's a bit of a disconnect for people. I think most people, necessarily aren't in a lab, would be surprised to understand that simply knowing what the sequence of genes are. IMean, hey, we've talked about this a lot in the podcast. We still have no idea what most of these genes do anyway. We have no idea why there are coding segments and the majority of the DNA is non-coding segments. And yet some of these non-coding segments are where mutations exist that result in disease. IMean, all the stuff still a bit of a mystery. But here you're sort of getting at this central, or maybe the most important or jugular question, which is, if a person has a disease, like cystic fibrosis, or sickle selenemia, where we really know in unambiguous terms, where on the DNA, where in the gene this lies, where in the DNA, we know what the substitution is. We know which C was turned into a G or a T. And all we need to be able to do is go in there and fix it. That was something we couldn't do 10 years ago. I think for many people that's quite surprising. And I know that that's not the problem you were trying to solve, but it's obviously the world you've created. So let's talk about the steps down that road. So you figure out what CRISPR is. You bring yourself up to the state of our discussion today. What's the next thing? The next thing is a CRISPR? The next thing that you're starting to know pursue, IMean, how are you now going about solving your problem for your good? Because I'm guessing at this point, you're still sort of, like at what point do you realize you're working on a problem that has a far bigger application than just solving your problem? I think pretty quickly, since I started working on gene editing, because the human genome was, the human genome project was completely early 2000s. And with the human genome having been sequenced, and then also with DNA sequencing technology becoming cheaper and faster, scientists were able to start sequence many, many more genomes. And so they can start to make comparisons between healthy individuals and also people who are affected by specific diseases to see what's different between their genomes. And by doing that comparison, they can identify the differences that may be causal for disease. And so, you know, two-date based on genetic analysis, researchers have probably identified more than 5000 genetic mutations that have a direct causative of a real disease. And so these are called genetic diseases. They are usually affecting a small population of individuals that are not as common as things like cancer or diabetes or these, what people call complex or complicated diseases. But nevertheless, these are the ones where we know they exact genetic cause. And so the tantalizing idea is then, if you know the mutation in the genome, why not just going fix it? And so that's where genetic DNA comes in. And people have since the very beginning been trying to realize this idea. They were trying to work on it using make-and-nucleases. They were trying to solve this using seeing finger nucleases. They were certainly trying to use a talent to also treat diseases this way. But the challenge is that they weren't very efficient. And it was also difficult to apply them to be able to treat the disease with sufficient amount of efficacy. When CRISPR came along, especially with Cas9, it was much easier to be able to design strategies to edit DNA. And that made it much more feasible for many, many groups to really start to work on this idea. So, were you finished with your postdoc and now starting your own lab? Yeah, I had just started my lab at MIT. Okay, so you've got how many PhDs in your lab? I probably had maybe 10 PhD students. Okay, and a couple of postdocs to boot. Yeah. And these people have all come to you presumably because they're interested in optogenetics. Yeah, they were interesting of different things. Okay. Yeah. So at what point do you come back into the lab and say I'm gonna hit pause on the optogenetics problem? I'm gonna kind of go down this CRISPR path for a while. I think when I first started my lab, I was already sort of focused on the gene editing process. I see. And so when students came to me, even though they came to me wanting to work out to genetics, I had to convince them that there's this other problem that is also interesting and maybe we can try to work together and make a difference there. And so I started to try to tell them about CRISPR, tell them about gene editing, all the potential applications. All right, so keep going down the story now. So it's the early 2010s, what are the next steps that you take to develop this technology? So when I started the work, so when I first started my lab, I was working on talents. And then very quickly, I had learned about CRISPR and I started to also sort of get CRISPR projects going in the lab. And we worked on both systems for a while at the same time. We pretty quickly realized that talents were difficult to use because of the cumbersome nature of how to make them. And then because of that, the promise of CRISPR was much more apparent. So maybe I'll give another analogy. So we now have a mobile phone and on a phone there are many different apps that help you book trips, that helps you send messages to your friends and family apps that allow you to take photos. You have a phone and a phone can do everything. You just load the app onto it. With talents or zinc fingers, the analogy would be, you have to build a different device for each one of these functions. So for each change, you have to need a different phone for each app. You just have hardware. Yeah, so for every gene or a target, you have to build a brand new protein to be able to target that gene. And that is very cumbersome and not very effective process. With CRISPR, the promise is that CRISPR is like the smartphone. You can load software onto it to recognize different genes. And the software is the CRISPR RNA. These RNAs are very easy to chemically synthesize. And you can define the gene by reading off the sequence of the gene, which is already completed through the human genome project. So all of that was just a step function improved over the zinc finger and talent technology. So anyway, so we realize that if we can make CRISPR work, not only in a bacteria, but put it into a human cell and get it to recognize things, genes in the human cell, then we can have a much more powerful, and much more democratized gene editing system. So what was the breakthrough that I set a breakthroughs that led to the utility of this? And did it start with, let's just silence a gene first? IMean, let's figure out how to go in and with precision bombing, silence one gene was at the first problem before the, let's actually take a strend of novel DNA and put it in. Right, so CRISPR is a natural nucleus. So in bacteria, it uses the guide RNA to recognize the virus DNA. And then once you recognize it, it will cleave the virus DNA. So make a double strended DNA break. And so that's what we're trying to make happen in the human cell. We try to program Cas9 with a guide RNA to go and recognize the specific gene in a human genome and then we have to cut it. Which is valuable? IMean, there are certain cases where over expression of a gene is pathologic and if we silence a gene, we fix the disease. Exactly. And so there were a lot of studies done on how breaks in a DNA would get repaired. So Maria Jason, Gene Paber, they had studied maybe a couple of decades before that, how DNA repairs would get processed. And so what they found is that when you make a cut in the DNA, so when you make a break, it will activate repair processes in our cell. So in fact, our DNA is getting DNA breaks all the time. And we have a robust process to be able to fix them to improve the mutations. So anyway, so what Maria Jason and Gene Paber found is that if you make a cut in the DNA, that cut will activate one of two different repair processes. The first repair process will glue the DNA together usually correctly, but in a very, very small number of instances, it will introduce a mistake. And that mistake will inactivate the gene. So it will no longer make the protein product that is supposed to make. And this is very useful. If you wanted to inactivate something in the cell, sometimes there are mutations that are deleterious. And if you can inactivate that deleterious mutation, then you can make the cell healthy again. And so that was a very powerful method. The second repair process is called homology-directed repair, HDR. And this relies on a template DNA that carries the sequence they are trying to repair with. And so if you make a cut, and you also provide a template DNA, then the repair process will copy whatever that's on a template into the DNA break site. And this is a more powerful way to be able to change the DNA sequence in the design fashion. Is there a risk when you cut the DNA and it repairs that it repairs in a manner that remains pathologic, even if it's distinct from the path that was already there? It is possible, but the probability is much, much lower. OK. What about kind of the Holy Grail, which is to literally edit a new gene to put something in that didn't exist? What was required to take that leap? Yeah. So there are different ways that you may want to change the DNA sequence. You may want to inactivate something, you may want to delete something, and you may want to insert something. So to do each one of these, you need to have a machinery that will allow you to do that. So the Holy Grail would be to be able to insert a gene into anywhere you want precisely and also very efficiently. And today, that ability is still not quite there yet. We're still working on, and many other groups are working on developing technologies to make that happen with high enough efficiency. We can do it now with very low level, maybe less than a percent, or maybe just single digit percent. But for a big gene that we're trying to put in, we don't have a good way to do that yet. OK. So currently, is it possible to snip DNA anywhere you want with the current technology? Yeah. With CRISPR, we can pretty much target throughout the genome and the M.A. cuts. So what diseases are currently amenable to that type of gene therapy? And we'll put aside the regulatory stuff, which we can talk about. But if we were dealing, if we pretended that humans were laboratory animals, where we could do an experiment and actually do this, what are some of the diseases that we could directly affect in that manner? So there are a lot of genetic diseases where there is a mutation that is pathogenic. Over expression. Well, in this case, over expression, if you want to deactivate it, but some would be under expressive course. Yeah. So these are genes that are usually important for the body, but there's a mutation in it. And that makes the resulting protein, the mutant protein, the deleterious for the patient. And so if you can inactivate these genes, then you can treat these. So for example, there are diseases in the liver, where there are certain proteins that cause embryo doses, and that can lead to serious problems. And so by using CRISPR, you can go in and cleave these genes, inactivate them so that it no longer produce these toxic gene product. Huntington is another example, where there are mutations that are occurring in the gene that makes the gene deleterious. And so if you can go and try to inactivate these deleterious mutations, it may be possible to treat the disease. Is it generally the case that autosomal dominant diseases are an over expression problem, or an expression of something harmful problem, whereas recessive diseases are the opposite, where you tend to not be producing enough or something of that. Is that a, is that a, yeah, it's a really simplistic, but, yeah, if that's a good explanation. So many people are probably familiar with Huntington's, because it is one of the most devastating neurodegenerative diseases imaginable, perhaps second, only two Lou Gehrig's disease or ALS. But unlike ALS, where we don't really know the ideology, we clearly know the ideology of Huntington's disease, which is a gene, right? It's a genetic disease. It's an autosomal dominant gene. And, sadly, it doesn't present until later in life, so many times individuals will pass this gene on prior to the symptoms being manifest, and therefore they go on to suffer the fate of this disease having already passed it on. So what can tell us a little bit about Huntington's disease and why it may or may not be amenable to this type of treatment? So Huntington's disease is caused by mutations in the gene called Huntington, and this is a gene that's expressing the brain. And in mutated form, this gene accrues an expansion of repeat sequences within the gene. And the longer the repeat is, the more deleterious it is for the patient. And so the idea would be to try to shorten these repeats, or maybe if you can reduce the amount of repeat the sequence of the RNA that's expressed, you could also get a cell to be healthier. The challenges are the repeats happen within the coding region of the gene. So the region that is important for making the protein sequence. So in order to make the resulting edit successful, you have to do it very precisely. You cannot delete, you have to delete exactly three letters at a time from the repeat sequence. Otherwise, you will shift the frame. And the gene remind me has how many base pairs? The gene has thousands of base pairs. Okay, so the huge gene. And these repeats can also be several hundred or maybe a thousand repeats long. And so you want to be able to delete them very precisely. So that is one challenge. The other challenge is to be able to deliver the gene editing machine raising to the brain and get to themselves. And there are some virus-based technologies that are coming along, but still we don't have probably the most suitable method yet. So let's talk about delivery a little bit. How do you do this? So we now have this idea, hopefully people can wrap their head around this somewhat challenging idea of what CRISPR is. And maybe we can again just sort of summarize it, right? You have a CRISPR vehicle, right? It would be a Cas9 protein. And you also have a guide RNA that is made up of both the piece that you actually want to put in, wrapped around another sort of tracer piece that holds it firmly in the Cas9 protein. That Cas9 protein, by the way, does it require its own helicase to open it? No, it can do it itself. Beautiful. So it's a one-man shop that runs up the host DNA opening it and waiting to find its match. And it waits and waits and then it finds its match, holds the strends of DNA at the Cas9 and then clip. And obviously, if you then put in something, you can sort of, so how do you actually deliver the Cas9 protein to an individual? Right, so that is really the big challenge. So right now, there are clinical applications of CRISPR for treating different diseases. Diseasing the blood like sickosell disease or disease in the liver, disease in the eye and many other places. And so depending on where you're trying to deliver CRISPR into, there are different technologies that people use. So let's take the, maybe the simplest might be in the blood. OK, so tell people what sickle cell anemia is and why it's amenable to this type of therapy. Right, so sickle cell anemia is caused by a mutation that causes the blood cell to sickle. So they form a sickle form. And so they are not able to sort of, you know, property function and sometimes they can aggregate and then this can cause occlusion in the blood vessel and can cause serious problems. And so these replicials are made by progenitor or stem cells in the body that produce these replicials. And so one idea for treatment. And it's a simple mutation. It's a simple, it's a single point mutation. That changes one amino acid. That's right. One amino acid based on one base pair of chains. Can't remember what it is. It's an alanine to a glycine or something. It's quite trivial. Yeah. Is what leads to all of this bad, this downstream badness you talk about. But now, so current treatment for these patients is blood trensfusions. IMean, it's an awful disease. And these patients experience an unbearable pain. As an aside, some might ask, why does this disease exist? Why didn't Darwin get rid of this? Well, it turns out there's an advantage to having the trait. For malaria. Right. So it turns out that if you have one copy of the sickle gene and the other one is normal, you have normal looking red blood cells. You don't get the disease, but you actually get protection, as you said, from malaria. So that would keep this propagating, particularly in a malaria rich area like Africa. This is why it's much more prevalent in a black population than a white population, because it offered some benefit. But if you have two copies of the gene, you get the sickling. Those are not the people that are passing on their genes historically. They would have perished before reproduction. And also just perished in a great deal of pain. But nevertheless, here we are today. So OK, you have to be able to go into the bone marrow to make this change, because there's no point in doing this if you have to do this every week. You want to do it one and done, right? On the right. Yeah. So one of the promises of gene editing is that it can provide a single treatment that is a cure for the disease. And so in the case of sickle cell, what happens is that the doctor will mobilize the stem cells, the bone marrow cells from the patient, get them to come out and be able to harvest these bone marrow cells. And they don't necessarily do this with a bone marrow as per it, they do it by giving them medications that cause them to secrete more progenitor cells into the plasma. That's right. This is the current zirpractice in the medical field. OK. And so they will get the patient harvest their bone marrow cells. And these cells are going to be sort of modified in the laboratory where researchers will take the RNA, the messenger RNA, for Cas9. So this will allow the cell to produce the Cas9 protein. And they will also take the Gaid RNA. Maybe just tell folks really quickly sorry to interrupt you, fun. But maybe just explain really quickly for people the relationship of doing DNA, RNA, messenger RNA, protein. It's the central dogma. But that way, when you say what you're about to say, they'll know why it works. Yeah. So there are different ways to get a protein to the cell. And the way that proteins are made in the cell is that they're encoded in DNA. And the DNA has to be trenscribed into messenger RNA. And that RNA is then trenslated by the ribosome into the protein. And so if you can put into a cell, either the DNA the gene for Cas9 or the messenger RNA for Cas9 or the protein for Cas9, the cell will eventually have Cas9. Because if you put in the DNA, the cell will start to make mRNA based on it. And then mRNA will get trenslated into the protein. Or if you put in mRNA, But how do you put it in the DNA? Isn't that the whole problem that we're trying to solve? Right. So there are different ways to put these things in. So for DNA, you can just use a virus. If you're working with cells in the petri dish, you can directly elect to operate the DNA into the cell. And this is done by zapping the cell with the electrical current. It will rupture the membrane. When the membrane ruptures, things can be can. So you can't DNA the cell cell. When the cell membrane ruptures, the DNA that's outside the cell will flow into the inside the cell and get into the cell. And this is actually how people treat psychosalt disease. Except they're not putting DNA into the cell. They're putting mRNA. So they incubate these bone marrow stem cells that have the psychosalt mutation in the bath of mRNA for Cas9 and the guide RNA. And the guide RNA. And the separate. These are separate. OK. Separate. And it's amazing that once those cells acquire both the mRNA for Cas9 and the mRNA that is called the RNA. Yeah. It will trenslate into a Cas9 protein. Yes. It doesn't trenslate guide RNA into a protein. It just stays there and they find each other. That's right. And again, it is so remarkable to me that biology, it's so remarkable to me that anything works in this universe. But that's up there is one of those things that kind of just amazing. Well, this is really the result of the biotechnology revolution, the molecular biology discoveries that have really under to repay the biotechnology revolution. And now what is the efficiency of that process? So once you go ahead and put those two bits of very different RNA into the proximity of these bone marrow cells, this can bEQuite efficient. So in the laboratory or in these petri-dish settings, this can be approaching 100%. OK. So now within a very short period of time, you have cut out and also reinserted the, it's just a single base pair. So what are they doing? What's the exact thing you're asking Cas9 to do here? Actually, for a single cell, the treatment that has recently been approved in the last year is actually different. OK. And the way the treatment works is that for sickle cell patients, it's been found that for some individuals who have the sickle cell mutation, if they also carry another mutation, or if they somehow is able to express the fetal version of hemoglobin, then their sickle cell symptoms are much, much less. And so for treating sickle cell patients with geneticity, the therapy actually goes and modifies a different gene, sort of modulates this expression to then allow the fetal hemoglobin gene to turn on. And why is that in easier solution than simply changing the 1 amino acid that's broken in the first place? Because the way it works is that it simply makes a cut. And it doesn't be fire. It doesn't have a change here. That's right. I see. So we're still at the point where in vitro, we're still better off with a cleavage, just a straight cut of the DNA, then even a single base pair switch to fix one amino acid. That latter is a harder problem. The latter is a harder problem, but there's also very good progress on that front. So for example, David Liu developed a methodology. Yeah, also. Yeah. Is a colleague of mine, and he developed a technology called base editing. And base editing allows you to use Cas9. You get rid of the DNA cleaving activity of Cas9. And so it simply goes and binds to the DNA. So you use it as kind of a guidance system to direct a different enzyme, cut of the aminoates, and to be able to go and chemically modify a single base. It's amazing to me, Fung, that that is easier than what we just wish we could do, which is change that C to a G. Take out the C, make it a G. And that will give me the amino acid. I want the fact that we're chemically having to modify it with a Daminase. What do you think is necessary to take this next? Because we've already had, as you described, that a big step function from where we were 10 years ago. What's going to be required for the next step function, for the science fiction to start? Yeah. So I think this really goes back to the vision of genetic medicine. Genetic medicine is very powerful. CRISPR is a part of it. But it is really a two component system. There is the medicine itself, and there's also the delivery technology. So you have the right vehicle for delivery and the right payload to be able to treat the disease in the right cell. And we're limited more on the delivery than they are. So the payload technology has come a long way. No, we now have mRNA. We have Cas9. We have base editing. We have prime editing. We have a lot of different types of editing technology. And even epigenetic editing. But the bottleneck is how do we put these really powerful payloads into the right cells, in the right tissue, in the body? Say those again, what were our tools Cas9 base per editing? Yeah, we have Cas9. We have base editing. We have prime editing. We have different recommended phases. We have epigenetic modifiers that also are based on Cas9. We have mRNA. We have SIRNA. We have a lot of different things that can modulate in modified cells. Yeah, I want to actually come back and talk about the epigenetic modification using Cas9. So it's not a payload problem. It's a delivery problem. And it's also a biological problem. Right, because many diseases will not be amenable to this. So I'm sure everybody thinks, well, Peter, we've heard you say that cancer is a genetic disease. Does that mean that once we solve the delivery problem, we solve cancer? Why is that not necessarily true? And that is because cancer is caused by many different risk mutations in the cell. And so it's difficult to treat cancer by correcting the mutation. Because you really have to be able to correct at a very, very high efficiency. If you have a few cells, a few cancer cells that have not been corrected, those cells will continue to divide and replicate in form tumors and even massacize. And so that is really challenging. But the people are using gene editing in their cancer therapeutic context. What they're doing is that they are using gene editing to engineer immune cells so that the immune cells are more potent and recognizing a killing cancer cells. And this is part of what's called immunotherapy. Everybody's talking about AI. Does AI enable this any better on either side, on the payload side, or on the delivery side? AI is very powerful for protein engineering. In the past few years, there's been amazing breakthrough in the use of AI for predicting protein structures. Each protein is made of a unique sequence of immunosensis. And the unique sequence allows the protein to fold into a specific shape. And one of the holy grail problems for a long time has been how do you take just the letters of a protein and predict what the shape of the protein looks like? And this is something that many may scientists have worked out for a long time, but hasn't been able to come up with a good solution. But it was really in 2021, the use of AI by this group called DeepMind that was able to come up with a solution called AlphaFo2. And AlphaFo2 is an AI-based system that has learned from all of the structures that the protein is that scientists have experimentally determined. And when they solved those structures, there's a huge database at them. And they were able to use AI to look at all of them and learn from that large database to then come up with a prediction system called AlphaFo2. Yeah, IMean, it's amazing to me. Maybe just explain to people again. So let's pick a pick your favorite protein. How many amino acids are in the primary sequence? We can pick the green-fly simplicity from jellyfish. Maybe 300 amino acids. 300. It's a relatively small protein. Yeah. OK. So it has a primary structure, which is like what are the actual amino acids? Right. It has a secondary structure, which is like, well, when does it actually form a helix? When does it form a sheet? It has a tertiary structure, which is kind of like how it starts to bend. And then it has this quaternary structure, which is how the whole thing fits together. It's complicated three-dimensional folds. Exactly. What you said a moment ago is if a scientist wants to make a protein, and they know what it needs to look like, they kind of know what thEQuaternary structure is. Like, I got to get this protein. I got to design a molecule that fits in that receptor. It's almost a trial and error problem to go from the primary sequence to that. You're saying that AI is really good at doing this thing where it knows the relationship between primary sequence and final quaternary structure. Is that just literally linear regression at a level we've never understood it because humans can't do it? But is it basically just solving the world's most complicated linear regression problem? I think at a very fundamental level that is what is happening. But the human brain we can't process so much data, very effective, but you can have these masses, that's where that can really process this. Let's go back to animal models for a moment. You touched briefly on the idea of a trensgenic mouse. And again, people who have listened to this podcast for years are no strenger to the trensgenic mouse. So many amazing breakthroughs in science have come through these. And frankly, just through genetic understanding of mice, making changes to a mouse gene, we recently had Dina Dubal on the podcast. We talked about Clotho to me one of the interesting proteins out there. And of course, we learned the story of how Clotho came about. And it, you know, silencing a gene, found this thing, overexpress the gene, found this thing. Okay, how this CRISPR enabled that today has it changed the ability of people working on totally other problems to get their quicker using laboratory animals. Right, so the trensgenic mouse technology really revolutionized biology. And when the trensgenic mouse technology was developed, the way it worked is that you would start with stem cells for mice. You would modify these stem cells. And you put the stem cells back into a embryo. And then you trensplant the embryo into a mouse so that embryo can develop into a full in developing the feeders and then the newborn as a new mouse. That is a very long process. And the one stem mouse is born, usually that mouse does not have 100% of that genetic modification. So the mouse is called a mosaic. And then you have to take that mouse and breed the mouse again with another mouse and hoping that... That the mosaic part is the one that gets expressed. And you basically try to concentrate the mosaic portion of it. Exactly. So we use this methodology. It can take probably a year or maybe even longer to be able to generate a specific trensgenic mouse. So you used to take a long time to do this. But now with CRISPR technology, what people can do is they can directly inject the gene editing, cast nine, and guide our name into a embryo, into a single cell embryo, and the modified there. So again, this is so brilliant because we can't do this in humans, of course. IMean, we could, but that's a whole ethical discussion we should talk about. But we can directly do this. So we can make a trensgenic mouse in one go. Exactly. So the mouse gestation period is 21 days. So after 21 days you have a trensgenic mouse. What has this done to the field of biomedical research? It has accelerated biomedical research dramatically. So imagine yourself as a graduate student, and usually a PhD will take five years. If it takes you a lot of time, is the road work of trensfecting mice and waiting for, yeah. Yeah. So if you have the way two years to get a mouse, so that you can begin your experiment. That is a long time. So now with CRISPR, or gene editing, you can get a mouse in two, three months. So let's play devil's advocate for a moment. When you did your PhD, you had to slog through the old fashion way. Were there hidden benefits of that? In other words, that it give you more time to read, more time to be curious, more time to fail. Again, it's a tangential discussion, but do you worry that with this remarkable precision tool that budding scientists are missing out on an experience that you and your entire generation and everyone before you had? Or do you think that that's a relatively small price to pay for the pace of development? I'm not too concerned about it. I think if we can accelerate the accumulation of knowledge, the acquisition of data, I think that will really help science move a lot faster. I think in the future, especially with higher throughput technologies, CRISPR, DNA sequencing, and many other things, together, we're going to be accumulating new data for biology at an exponential pace. And we're not only going to be relying on our own ability to analyze data, but we're going to have AI to help us. These large systems that can draw much, much larger regression analysis. And with that, I think biology, discovery, and disease treatment development will really accelerate. I think that's a really exciting future. Now, we've talked a lot about Cas9, but you've also specifically donEQuite a lot with another CRISPR associated protein called Cas13. What's the difference? And how does this potentially impact future work? Sure. CRISPR is a bacterial immune system, and there are many, many different types of CRISPR. And so in nature, bacteria are invaded by DNA viruses, by RNA viruses, all sorts of different viruses. Cas9 protects bacteria against DNA viruses. But then there also needs to be a CRISPR system that protects against RNA viruses. So Cas13 is the RNA analog of Cas9. It uses a guide RNA to recognize the RNA virus and then cleave the RNA genome. And what is really interesting about Cas13 is that unlike Cas9, it not only cleaves the recognize RNA, but once it recognizes a piece of RNA, it also turns on almost a suicidal function. It goes and cleaves any other RNA that's in the bacterial cell. And so in the infection cycle, you can think of this as a altruistic sort of system, when the Cas13 recognizes myself, has been affected by RNA virus, I would have shot myself down, killed itself, and saved the population. So hang on, why is that the case? If we, so why does this cell not choose to do that with the DNA virus? Are RNA viruses necessarily more lethal to bacteria? RNA is usually more abundant. And so usually there are many many, once the RNA gets produced, there are many copies. And so it's difficult to shut out every single copy of RNA. What is what DNA there is usually just one copy of DNA, saving a shut it down. So when a DNA virus infects a bacteria, so again, let's just talk about a very specific bacteria phase latches on the outside of an e-coli, it's going to shoot in the DNA. We've already talked at length about how that works and the role Cas9 plays in that. When a different bacterial phase comes along, you're saying it inserts a lot of RNA. No, so we're just the RNA replicates much quicker. RNA replicates quicker. Okay, so it inserts a small amount of RNA, but remind me why a small amount of RNA will be amplified much quicker than a small amount of DNA is it because it's one step less. It's already made to go in front of the trenslating ribosome. Exactly. Because DNA has to go to RNA to make protein. Makes sense. That go back to make DNA. So you're saying Cas 13 also has a suicide feature. And this suicide feature is actually quite useful for developing diagnostic technologies. And so especially during COVID, we use Cas 13 to develop a way to detect coronavirus RNA. And to provide it a way to have a simple and rapid detection method. So, same more about that. Was that really the first application? That was the first application. One of the first applications. How would that have been done before? And what was the speed and accuracy of it being done in that way? Right. So, so the most widespread method for diagnostic is using PCR. Yes. So it checks for the nucleic acid sequence. But PCR is a laboratory based test. It requires a machine called a PCR machine. Which is complicated to run. And you have to be in a laboratory environment to go through the test. What Cas 13 provided is something that's more similar to an antigen test where you can run it at a point of care or even potentially at home. And it was simply required to take a swab to have the sample. It makes the sample into a buffer. And then Cas 13 would react in that buffer to be able to detect a virus sequence. Then you load it onto a paper strip. It will run. And then you see whether or not a band shows up. Okay. When we think now about gene editing going forward. And again, we've already established that the payload is not the problem. It's the targeting and the delivery. What are the relative advantages and disadvantages of Cas 9 versus Cas 13? And are there other Cas or CRISPR-associated proteins out there that might even be better than both of them? Sure. So, so Cas 9 and Cas 13 both have therapeutic applications. But one of the challenge is that they are large proteins. Cas 9 is 1,300 amino acids long. And Cas 13's are usually around 1,000 amino acids long. So they're fairly large proteins. And how long was Cas 9? 1,300 amino acids. And so in order to get Cas 9 into a cell, you have to be able to fit Cas 9 and the guide RNA into your delivery system. And if you're using viral vectors to deliver, they are usually very compact. And you can barely fit Cas 9. So then the nice thing is what if you have something that's smaller. And so we have also many other groups have worked on trying to discover new proteins that are more compact and more easily packageable. And there are some out there, but sometimes and usually they're not as specific or not as active as Cas 9. And so they're trade-offs to using some of those systems. And we're working on engineering them. And there's a lot of good progress turning those systems into a specific and the comparably active systems as Cas 9. So what would be, if you could wave a magic one, how big a Cas protein would you tolerate such that your Cas protein plus your guide RNA would easily fit into your delivery vehicle? Would you want to be half that size? And be 500 amino acids, do you need to be smaller than that? If you could shrink it down to 1000 base pairs, so 300 amino acids. That would be ideal. But I think that's challenging to do. Yeah, and let's maybe make sure I understand why, right? You're saying, look at the end of the day, I need a protein that has the structural integrity to hold the guide RNA in a place. Make its way down into the nucleus, open up the DNA. So it's basically two enzymes. It's a helicase and nucleicase. That nucleus. And it has to be able to march along the DNA, recognize while holding, you know, it's just, again, it's a mechanical problem if you really stop to think about it just on the smallest level. And then hold, cut, boom, insert eventually. And you're saying at some point, we just about the limits of physics. Like I need a certain amount of amino acids to make that structure. But it sounds to me like you're saying, you don't believe that that exists in protein. In exists in nature, you're not out there looking for a 300 amino acid Cas protein anymore. You're now going to say, let's use AI to help us build one. Well, there are natural forms of proteins that are small and are like Cas9. Oh, okay. In fact, in one of our projects trying to look for a small Cas9, we thought, let's look at the evolutionary origin of where Cas9 came from. And by tracing the evolutionary history of Cas9, we found that there is a very large family of protein called ISCB. That is the ancestral form of Cas9. ISCB is a very small protein. It's only about 450 amino acids. So it's about a third of the size of Cas9. And it does exactly what Cas9 does. It's got a helicase activity. It's got nucleos domains. And it also works with the RNA guide to recognize and cleave the DNA. But what is different between ISCB and Cas9 is that the guide RNA for ISCB is much much larger. So you're using it here and you got a PayPal. Exactly. And an RNA is not as stable, not as robust. It's more prone to degradation. Yeah, you don't want to go any bigger on guide RNA. Right. Yeah. So you need to best of both worlds. You need a Cas associated protein that is small. And you want to be able to keep the guide RNA small. Small. Right. That's a whole detail. Okay. And is it your prediction that that will have to be developed synthetically? I think through engineering. So it's not clear that such a compact system has been developed by a nature. But we can start from the shares Cas9 or ISCB as a scaffold and then begin to engineer. So what kind of race is on for that? Because I can't even fathom the commercial value of that. If there was a new protein called the Cas Alpha or Cas Omega, whatever, the synthetic version that was small enough to now easily deliver payload. This is a trillion dollar product. A lot of people are working on it. I think it's certainly going to be very, very useful. Is the lion's share of this work being done in universities? Or is it being done inside a biotech companies? Is that as in both places now? Yeah. Is this one of the biggest races going on in CRISPR biology today? I'm not sure this is the biggest race. IMean, there are a lot of other capabilities that we want to realize. Okay. For example, how do insert large genes into the genome precisely and efficiently? I think that is just as important for problem. Cas9, even though it's large, we can deliver it to some cells already. And so there's already. In vivo or only in VTVVVV? In vivo? What cells can be delivered in vivo using Cas9 currently? So liver? Okay. Yeah, liver is a place where we can use lippin' and oparticles to deliver Cas9 in guide into. You know, the co-wave vaccine is made using MRNA and lippin' and oparticle. And so it's a very similar approach where you formulate these lippis with the Cas9 and MRNA and guide RNA. And what is it about the liver that makes it amenable to a lippin' and oparticle? Lippin' there's a lot of lippin' recycling happening in the liver. And so we have a lippin' and oparticle. They get bound by these recycling proteins and they get taken up. Interesting. And this is, does it matter the manner in which it's given, intravenous, intramuscular, does it do all lipid nanoparticles and up there provided they're not ingested orally and presumably digested? A lot of it goes to liver. Yeah. Yeah. Because liver also, it's one of areas in our body that fills your out of the toxins. Yeah. And so everything gets trapped there. So in other words, if you were thinking about one of the rare inborn diseases of metabolism, these are the really rare diseases where children are born without a particular enzyme that allows them to be their metabolizes of a certain protein or glucose even for that matter. Do we think that we're on the cusp of being able to use, I don't want to suggest that Cas9 is primitive, but in the context of our discussion, we've realized it has some limitations. But do we think that the CRISPR Cas9 system is already good enough and sufficient to cure some of those diseases? For some of them, potentially, it will depend on a mutation whether or not we can use Cas9 or base-editing or primatiting to be able to fix the mutation. You have to figure out the payload problem. Right. And yeah. Yep. Okay. But if you're in the liver and it can be addressed by targeting a pathocytes in the liver, then the delivery problem is already sort of addressable. Okay. What about genetic diseases of the eye? That's also a place that's easy to reach. And you don't require systemic administration. What are the genetic conditions of the eye that might be amenable to this treatment as it stands today? Yeah. There are different eye diseases that are affected by single gene mutations. For example, LCA-10 is one of the eye diseases that there's already been a clinical CRISPR strategy being developed for. The way that these diseases in the eye are treated is by designing Cas9 and a guide RNA to be able to sort of knock out the gene that is causing degenerative conditions in the eye. And using a viral vector to deliver the Cas9 gene and also the guide RNA into a peculiarity into the patient. And so once the virus gets into the cells in the eye, they will make Cas9 and make the guide RNA. And then that will carry out the modification. So in that sense, it's a bit of the old meets the new, right? You're taking the oldest trick in the book that was the original original gene therapy, vehicle, the virus, and you're combining it with a far smarter payload, which is Cas9 and Guard guide RNA. Right. How are those where are those where do these stand in clinical trials right now? So the liver and the eye, which would obviously be the, you know, leading edge of this. Yeah. So the eye is the first place where in the US, a gene therapy was developed and approved. And so this is a draw called Lax Turner. And Lax Turner puts a gene into the eye to be able to treat the disease called LCA2. And so basically the virus provides a gene that is missing in the cells in the eye. And that is able to allow the patients to regain some licens of the ability. And so that was the first gene therapy. And these are patients that are completely blind without it. That's right. And then how much light sensitivity do they get once this gene is inserted? They get some so that they can kind of move around in the room with large obstacles. Wow. Yeah. And this is all done just through a single injection in the eye. A single injection. Wow. What are other ocular targets? So LCA10 is another one. That is being developed by Edith Hoss Medicine. And the way this disease is sort of developed is that there is a mutation that causes degeneration in the eye. And the idea is to use Cas9. Use the same viral vithur system to deliver into the eye. And have Cas9 inactivate this mutant gene so that it can slow down or stop degeneration. So LCA2 you have to put an active gene in that was missing. LCA was at 9, 12, 10. You have to deactivate a gene. That's right. Okay. And how where is that in clinical trials? What phases is that in? So it was through phase one too. I think there was there was the efficacy in phase two. There was some efficacy. What's the phenotype of this patient without gene therapy? Is it total blindness? Is it also blindness or deteriorating vision? So blind by what age? How do you 30s? Okay. Wow. Yeah. And then what did the phase two find how much I say where they were able to restore? They found that there's something to prove me of vision. But I think it was in Izobas as they had a four. Okay. Why do you think that is? Why do you think that these therapies are not fully restoring vision? In the case of the LCA, too, is it because by the time you treat these people, the neuroplasticity part of it has lost its window of development. In other words, is the problem that if you treat these people late in life, the part of the brain that receives the visual signal isn't developed or is it literally that we're just not fixing this in the right. Okay. You know, the red light doesn't regenerate. And so you have to be able to deal with, it's a vis-a-raided degenerating. You have to deal with what is what is left in the red. And so what you can restore is really kept by whatever that's already left there. And plus there's also any efficiencies in the delivery systems. You're not restoring 100% of the cells. And if you're layering on gene editing on top of it, which also has some sort of less than 100% efficiency, when you multiply that all together, that's why you're not getting sort of full restoration. So what would have to be true to fully restore vision in those patients? What set of things would have to be true therapeutically? I think it's only very hard to fully restore vision. So if you really want to fully restore vision, you probably have to regenerate the red light. So you have to replenish cells that are missing. Could that be done epigenetically? What do we know about the epigenome of the retina in the adult versus the infant? And do we know that if we could simultaneously, or even in two treatments, correct the genetic defect, but then return the epigenome to the milieu of embryogenesis, or early life, could that fix the problem? Could potentially work, although this is not my expertise, so I don't know all the processes involved there. But if you can recapitulate development in the eye, and allow cells to sort of redevelop the retina as it was developing in trened development, then potentially you can regenerate the eye. On the side of the liver, what has been the success rate of the Cas9 delivery system there? Or the lipid nanoparticle delivering the Cas9 payload to be more exact? The liver is quite robust. You can part of you get 80% in the liver. And that's sufficient to correct certainly any under expression, right? Right, right. In the liver, there's also an interesting development where scientists are trying to target a gene called PCSK9 to be the treat cardiovascular disease. And the idea there is, so they're going to use a lipid nanoparticle to put into, you're going to put in a new PCSK9 gene that's inactive, or you're just going to deliver a vehicle that paralyzes PCSK9. Yeah, the strategy is to paralyze PCSK9, so that you can inactive a PCSK9 and then reduce cholesterol. Any idea how much a treatment like that would cost? I don't know. I think initially it may be tens of thousand dollars. Well, to be honest, that would be really cheap because the drug that inhibits PCSK9 inhibitor and there were three of them out there. You know, these are when they came out, they were $15,000 a year drug. Now they're $6,000 a year drugs. And yeah, so call it $10,000 a year as the current drug costs. So you're saying that $50,000 or maybe that much more. Again, still relatively inexpensive compared to the whole thing to a lifetime of therapy. But are they trying, IMean, is there any particular reason it costs that much? If you actually just look at the drug and don't try to bake in the cost of the last 10 years of developing it? And if a company to launch, if a company today came along and said, I'm interested in developing a drug that one and done treats PCSK9 and lowers LDL cholesterol. And definitely how much would it actually cost to make that drug under GMP conditions at scale? Yeah, I don't know the exact cost of good, but it's probably much lower than that. But in order to get to that, we need to get the processes developed. And so I think over time, we're definitely going to be able to get down the cost. You know, MR, large scale MR and a production, large scale formulation of nanoparticles. I think those are the processes that people are making really good progress on. So what is driving the cost right now? What is making it expensive today? I think there are a lot of factors, including development cost and also the fact that these drugs is the first time developing these modalities of drugs. And so the manufacturing processes are new to get developed. And and what specifically is it? Is it that we're now? IMean, presumably we're just making synthetic cast nine and cast 13 all day long, right? In the laboratory at laboratory scale, I bet, but I'm not sure you're not. Right. Okay. Well, IMean, so you make your own cast nine and cast 13 in your lab. We do. Okay. Yeah, we do. You can also buy it from commercial companies, but the scale is usually for laboratory use. If you think about Amales is 10 grams, a human can be in a 40 kilograms. So so that that's, you know, a thousand times larger in body weight. So you need a thousand times more material. And I think it's developing the process to scale that to that level, to be the treat human beings. And that is where the expensive process is. Is there any foundational roadblock to doing this? Or is it simply just more like, you know, if we think about again, like, is there a Moore's law aspect to this where it's just going to get significantly cheaper over time in the same way that trensistors just get significantly cheaper over time? I'm not an expert on this, but but I think there would definitely be efficiency from scale. Is it my way processes from making these RNAs is getting much better? Sure, it is improving. So all those things, I think, they will compound and that will result in significant cost reduction. How much do you follow slash pay attention to sort of the regulation of gene editing? I know that gosh, sometime in the last six, seven years, there was a very controversial case in China with a scientist who had, it seems somewhat nefariously from my reading of the story, edited the embryos of kids to render them on the surface. This sounds like a great idea, but rendered immune to HIV and I believe one of their parents was HIV positive. This was an IVF case, but it turned out that there was an enormous amount of backlash from the scientific and medical community because I guess one, he did it without the full consent of the medical community and also the belief that you actually didn't, the risk of trensmission of HIV was quite low to the child in the first place. Can you say more about that case in particular and then also what the current state of the genetic manipulation is from a sort of ethical legal standpoint? Right, so this was back in 2018. So there was a couple who wanted to have children. The father was HIV positive and so they wanted to make sure that their children are not in fact the way HIV. And so scientists made a mutation in the embryos that is called CCR5. And the CCR5 mutation is an actually a cream mutation in the human population. Single digit percent of individuals carried this mutation and these individuals are naturally immune to HIV infection because they don't have this genetic gene mutation. Right, they don't have this specific protein on a surface to allow HIV to bind and insert a cell. And so the scientists edited the embryo human embryo to remove this CCR5 gene. But it turned out that that edit wasn't complete. Like earlier with the homozyacism, so the result of his edit was actually two girls who were muzyaks for the CCR5 mutation. And so anyway, so the editing happened and embryos were implanted in the mother and carried to turn. And so two baby girls were born. And when the genetics of these baby girls were analyzed, it turned out that they were hiding muzyaks, suggesting that editing wasn't very efficient. And the edit was done at how many cells in theory was it one? I don't know exactly how many cells, but very early on, plus post-ferralization. But to have guaranteed no muzyacism, would this edit, would you need to do this edit at a single cell? And then proliferate only that cell, discard the rest of the blastocytes. Right, that you think that's the way to do it. And do we know what this person did? I don't know exactly how much of the technical details were released. Okay, so these girls are born muzyac, but what's their phenotype? Where they're spec to CCR5? So they are, so some of their immune cells have CCR5 and some don't. So that means that they can be affected by HIV for those cells that RCC are positive. But it probably means that they'll never die of AIDS because they will always maintain a population of T cells that are not susceptible. Mean, they'll not be able to get. They could be HIV infected, but they'll never have a T cell level that falls so low that they're maybe, yeah, their CD4 count gets below whatever the threshold is for AIDS. Right. Okay, but the world really responded harshly to this, correct? Correct, that's right. Okay, so what was the, what was the fallout for this scientist? So the, the reason that there was a huge backlash is because there really wasn't any, there's no medical need to do this. Right, yeah. That's right, it's not justified. Yeah. And so, so, so the scientific and also medical community were were really sort of, they, everyone voiced their concern about this ethical issue that that just occurred. And I think the scientist was put under house arrest for a while. And, and this incident also really motivated much more sort of ethical discussions around genetic there was, I think it was such a before, but it really sort of focused the issue. And there were multiple working groups that were established, multinational working groups between the different national economies US China, UK, as well as the WHO had several working groups. And I think in the US there is legal regulation that prevents a germline modification, but it's certainly not the case internationally. And so, what do you think is being worked on outside of the US in places where there's no regulation with respect to germline mutation? So for example, are people trying to basically say, look, we're going to get rid of APOE for isiform and make it APOE 3 or 2 isiform? IMean, what is the extent or ambition of people? Are we going to delete LPA genes so that there's no LPA little AFEN. It's time to make a case that a lot of these things would you need directionally improve human health? What are people working on? And then let's talk a little bit about the ethics. Yeah, I don't know what is happening internationally because there isn't people are not publicizing their work. But I think what is no is that there is international consensus that we don't want to do these types of embryo germline editing right now. Even for things where it really matters. So the APOE 4 and the LPA don't, you don't have to do that. But what about Huntington's? What about inbornaires of metabolism where children are going to probably die during infancy? System fibrosis. Things from which we have no viable treatments. Is the international consensus still that this type of gene editing will not be pursued? I think there's a lot of discussion going on. So it's certainly not a settled issue. But what I think scientists have all come to terms with is that the technology still needs much more validation and development before is ready for application in this germline editing setting. The efficiency, the specificity, both in YouTube be optimized further in order for for there to be any chance of a germline therapy having the intended effect. Yeah. And how much of that do you think is the main reason for the hesitation here? Versus the slippery slope argument which says yes of course those applications are absolutely worth pursuing. But if we do that how far are we from doing APOE 4 which may be a little bit gray. And then what about identifying genes that are frankly not remotely related to lifespan or medical necessity but instead relate to kind of the stuff that people talk about in science fiction. Hey, this is a gene that might make my kid a little bit taller. This is a gene that relates to intelligence or some other physical characteristic that is completely irrelevant to their health. IMean, which is it more about this is dangerous? We don't know how to do it or even if we figure this out, we don't want to open up a Pandora's box. I think this is very much the debate that's happening right now. There are patient groups who are advocates for using this using gene editing in a germline setting to treat disease. Assuming the technology is safe and efficacious then we should do it because it will alleviate suffering. So there is that argument. There are also people arguing the slippery slope argument which is if we allow for X and Y then eventually we're going to be getting into uncharted territories with designer babies and so forth. So that is very much the debate that's happening. And I think while that debate is happening I think it's important to recognize that science is also progressing other fronts. There are likely advances in science that will achieve the same outcome without having to edit the genes. And so all those things are think are a competition with each other in the ethical debate. And that's why this is such a complicated issue. You're one of three or four people on the planet who not only know more about this technology but have been personally responsible for it. As such I can't imagine you get to sit quietly during these debates even though you're not an ethicist or a philosopher. Sure people want to understand what you think. So how do you think about this? Not from a technical standpoint which will continue to talk about in a minute but from an ethical standpoint where do you think the line should be drawn in what we as a scientific or medical community permit with respect to gene editing in the germline which is obviously the area where I guess we should have made that point a little more clear the outset. We're talking about making an edit that will persist in perpetuity. Yeah I've thought about this issue a lot and I think the things that are are very easy to agree on is that if there is obvious and an important medical benefit. So especially for environmental errors and metabolism or other non genetic mutations if the technology is there I think is something that is definitely doable and I think it's okay to to improve the lives of those patients. Is that a mainstream view or do you think that there is still a lot in the establishment who have not come around to that yet because of this slippery slope argument? There are certainly people who have not come around to that. Okay and I think we're making decisions like that when making a medical decision like that it's also important to consider what other alternative methods there may be. For example pre-implantation genetic testing is another method where you might be the screen out embryos that have those mutation. Which for IVF we certainly can obviously for IVF all of those diseases can be checked. So then it gets to maybe a more complicated question which is is there a role for genetic engineering within well within in utero for example? Yeah or is that just so technically challenging that it's much easier to focus on just the IVF side of things? So certainly on the disease treatment, managing age and age disorder IVF I think that that is probably the most likely application further down the road. There are some obstacles to solve. While we don't really understand biology enough so if you wanted to make your kid 30 IQ points smarter nobody knows how to do that. We don't really know how to do that and so the biology needs to catch up. But I do think that I society can use a develop if the science is there and the technology is also there I think people will opt to do that and of course you consider whether or not they're other. Sorry meaning let's just assume and by the way I think this is personally you know fun. My view is I think these problems are way harder than people think. I think these polygenic nuanced traits like intelligence, athletic performance, resilience, happiness, all of those things I think are infinitely more complicated than we believe and probably just as environmental as they are genetic. So even if you give somebody the right genetic template if they're not in the right environmental surrounding they won't necessarily even develop the way you hope. Absolutely. And you you might give somebody 30 more IQ points. It doesn't trenslate to a person being demonstrably more intelligent if they aren't in the right environment. So that's my prediction is that that stuff is way way way harder and the biology is it's more complicated than anybody on the than any lay person is thinking about. And also another thing is in the biology has a lot of compensation. You might make some mutations that make the person smarter but that could also increase cancer risk or impair athletic capability. Or you know make a person live shorter. Those complicated trade-offs are things that I think people maybe don't fully appreciate. Yeah for me it's I don't know. I think there's a reason I'm not an ethicist because I tend to think about things quite. Things seem much more obvious to me sometimes which means I'm probably not a nuanced enough thinker on these on these regards but you know when it comes to a disease that's going to kill you with no other treatment it seems like a no brainer genetic editing and genetic engineering should absolutely be considered a part of the equation. At the other end of the spectrum when it things when we're talking about things that are truly superfluous like intelligence, high athletic performance, eye color, any sort of trait those seem clearly like a horrible reason not for the ethical reasons like what does that say about disparity forget all that. It's the reasons you just said we have no idea how complicated the system is. If you're going to take a huge risk there has to be a huge payoff and the asymmetry of that strikes me as too much. And then there's the gray area and I guess I'm a gray area I do feel a bit nuanced right which is should we just get rid of LPA genes well maybe but then to your point we have anti-sensaligone nucleotide inhibitors that are just around the corner that effectively will get rid of LPA little A. They shut the gene off. Right. So why would we risk trying to eradicate this from the population when we can just give you a drug that does the same thing with fewer side effects and less permanence. Right exactly or or you can do it not in the germ line but but just the indisomality cells. Yeah. And that that could also be beneficial. And then there's yet the other area which is look at something like autism. Autism is genetic disease despite what many people will have you believe. But the heritability of autism is so high that we we know it's largely a genetic disease but very polygenic, very subject to other things. And do we really want to get rid of it? I don't know. IMean certainly when you see a child that's devastated biotism who's nonverbal you know who's harming themselves it would be a very logical thing to say but when you start to move further from that end to the spectrum towards the end of the spectrum where people arEQuite functional with autism you might say well I don't know it actually comes with some benefits as well and and do we want to create a homogeneous society where everybody is the same? This to me is a bit. And this to me is a bit more to the sophistication. Yeah. Yeah. Right whether it be moved. Because that diversity is important. Yeah. For for the human race as a whole that diversity is you know what what will allow the human race to be resilient in the long run. So I want to talk a little bit about kind of yours your story going back. So you you grew up in China. You came to the middle of the country right where did you grow up? Yeah I grew up in Iowa so IMoved to the Moin Iowa when I was 11 years old. What brought your parents here? My mother came to the US first. She was an exchange scholar in computer science and she she had a chance to visit one of the schools in Iowa and she saw that the educational system in Iowa was much more hands on as opposed to joe memorization and and because of that she thought I would maybe benefit more from that type of instruction. So she decided to stay in the US and and and integrate here. And when did you start to become aware of your your your your your intellectual abilities for lack of a better term? IMean was it was there was it just with school always so easy for you where you sort of breezing through high school facing every test put in front of you or what was it was I don't think I'm all that smart. I think I've always been interested in science. I've always been very curious. So I think I've just always kind of followed my curiosity to do something that that is enjoyable and fun. I think what is really interesting is I didn't like biology at all when I preferred physics and chemistry and not in math it was more logical. I think things that I can understand and build a mental model for and then build to predict things. Biology was very much enjoyable memorization. So when I first moved to Iowa in 7th grade there was life science in the middle school and I remember it was really about memorizing trees and dissecting frogs and identifying anatomical parts. It wasn't so much sort of based on logic. Yeah. It was string 7th grade that I attended a Saturday in Richmond class. It was a molecular biology. I didn't know what molecular, what biology had to do with molecular things. So I went to it and in that class that's when I started to learn about the advances in modern biology. The teacher was very passionate. He taught us about DNA RNA protein in the central dogma but he also had his due fun experiments like extracting DNA from strawberries and putting an antibiotic resistance gene to a bacteria so that it can survive on an impassaline. And he also at the same time showed us this I call it the documentary but it's actually a Hollywood movie, a Jurassic Park. Because if you put yourself in my shoes at the time where your learning all these molecular biology fundamentals gene splicing all that and then watching Jurassic Park to see all those theories being so tangibly there to make a dinosaur. The movie really felt like a documentary but it was also just so inspiring and exciting. That's about when Jurassic Park came out. It would have been the mid-90s. You were in middle school. It was 94. So anyway, I saw that and I became really interesting in learning more about molecular biology. I also learned about gene therapy and a promise of using molecular biology to build rationality-scient medicine. So that really captivated my imagination. The teacher was amazing. His name is Ed Pelkington and he was the teacher of the enrichment class or did he also have a regular class in the taught in high school or middle school? He was a consultant for the school and he was working with kids who are interested in science and technology. But he remembered that both myself and also a few other students were really captivated by molecular biology. And so by the time I started 10th grade, he came to us and he said, there's this really cool opportunity that you guys may want to take advantage of. The Iowa Methodist Medical Center had just opened the gene therapy lab and they have a volunteer program at the hospital and maybe you can, you guys can apply and specify that you wanted to volunteer in the gene therapy lab and maybe you get to go there. So we applied me and three other kids and we got admitted to the gene therapy lab and they taught us how to do experiments. As you remember, the very first experiment I did where the scientists had me put the gene for a jellyfish protein called green fluorescent protein. This is a protein that makes jellyfish glow and I put this gene into a human cancer cell. Just using an adenovirus. Using just lipid, we dropped it up with a bit of fat and then got absorbed by the cell. And so I did that the afternoon the day before and then the following day I went to the lab and the scientists took me into this dark microscope room where there was a beam of blue light coming out of the microscope. We put the picture there was a cell on it and he told me to look into the eyepiece and I saw a field of green cells that were fluorescently. It looked alien to me. You were in tenth grade. I was in tenth grade and that moment just made me feel so inspired about what we were doing and this idea that we can use our knowledge to then start to engineer rationally new medicine. And from that moment on I thought science is really cool and I want to do more experimental science. Do you ever just reflect on the direction your life took in response to something as seemingly arbitrary as where your parents chose to move your good fortune to be in that enrichment class and then your good fortune to have a very special teacher who not only did this incredible work with you but then stayed as a mentor got you to apply to this program as a sophomore in high school. IMean like you know I'm sure you've heard the arguments for the remarkable set of circumstances that allowed Bill Gates and Paul Allen to be in the right place at the right time from the right high school that had a computer lab that took these people who were naturally quite brilliant but more importantly put them in an environment where they could sort of leapfrog ahead of the time. IMean did you see a parallel there? I think I have a very fortunate and I think there are a couple of things that I I've over time have developed more and more gratefulness and appreciation for. Number one I think is the importance of teachers. I've been very fortunate that throughout my life I've been just you know met with many teachers who care about their students and teacher who really want to find as many opportunities as possible to help their students develop. They really care about nurturing the next generation and I think having that and having experienced that was really a great fortune of mine. The second I think is really about America. I think having been able to immigrate to the US and to go through the American education system where there's really a merit-based system where you can you can work hard and be able to learn and develop and have opportunities, have access opportunities. I think that that is really special about America. So I think education and having a system where in their shares, people who want to develop and work hard I think has been really my right way for sure. Do you think that had you grown up in China? It would have been different not because obviously people in China don't go on to do amazing things. It also produces great scientists but you know just again speaking to the randomness of this beautiful situation with this amazing teacher in this program and all of the things that followed do you think you could have still stumbled onto the direction you would have? Maybe even in a different field I guess what I'm getting at is you're very modest but obviously you're you're very special in what you've done. I wonder if you think you would have done great things regardless or do you think that no sometimes you you have to be in the right place at the right time. I think timing I think fate is important. I think you know there was a lot of opportunity in China too. China from the 1980s out of the way to now has developed exponentially but I don't know where I would have ended up. There were a lot more people in China things were competitive and education systems different. I tend to I like to think her with things and in China it's much more memorization based. So I don't know but but I'm very grateful for having had all of the teachers and opportunities here. What did you study at Harvard for your undergrad? IMajored in chemistry physics. And you did that obviously knowing you were interested in genetics but did you feel that you wanted a greater grounding in the physical sciences because of your ultimate ambitions or why did you choose that as opposed to you know biology or molecular biology? Exactly. I wanted to I knew I wanted to study biology and engineer biological systems but I felt that biology was developing so rapidly and new information was accruing on a sort of weekly basis with new papers and new studies that is probably more beneficial if I study something that's not going to change very much from the time that I enrolled in college to the time I graduate. And so chemistry and physics were much more established fields and it provided a scientific foundation that I think has been very tremendous to be helpful as I continue to work in biology. And at the same time I did work outside of classes in a biological lab where I was you know practicing biological experiments and reading the later literature and I thought that was a nice combination. And when you selected Stanford for your PhD, did you do so because of Carl or was there another reason and then you ultimately after a year or so of class work found your way into Carl's lab? Carl hasn't started at Stanford yet. Okay. And so when I was choosing when I was growing up especially after moving into Iowa I read about people like Steve Jobs and Bill Gates and and all of the you know internet revolution that was happening. And so I had a special feeling about Silicon Valley. I was very intrigued by it and so when I applied to graduate school I thought Stanford being a Silicon Valley would be a really good place to be. And so IMade the decision away. How did you then make the decision to go back to the East Coast for your postdoc back to Harvard MIT area as opposed to stay in the Silicon Valley and pursue your passions there in closer approximation to industry although of course everybody realizes Boston would clearly be not too far behind the Silicon Valley for biotech industry. I think at the time it was probably the most interesting opportunity. So I should mention that Carl Dicerat is a phenomenal mentor. I've learned a tremendous amount from him not only about doing science but also how to just be a good contributing member of the scientific community with sharing information and reagents and the trensfer knowledge to as many people as possible. And he was also a great mentor where he just gave me opportunity to try things. So during graduate school for many months I was working on a biofuel project in Carl's lab. What year was this? This was in 2007, 2008. So it was energy crisis, oil crisis and the biofuel was an important thing. That's what Alex Seravini said for the world. Yeah, it was the same time. Right. 2008. And so around that time I thought this was an interesting problem. So I explored that in Carl's lab and we thought maybe we could even go and do adventure capital and if we had something working out well. But it turned out that around 2008 the financial crisis also hit. And so a lot of those opportunities at that moment seemed to have just vanished. But at that same time I was contacted by someone from the Harvard Society Fellows. And they said we liked your work as a graduate student. Would you be interested in coming to the Society Fellows and just you know, explore science here. So I thought that was interesting. They said we'll give you a stipend and you're not expected to do anything specific. You can just come in, hang out and think about interesting things. So I applied and and and when they're that's where I started to I swore to gene editing technology. So you're you know barely 40 years old. You're one of the most prominent scientists in your field. Do you are you optimistic about the state of science? Are you and I'll point out two things that are negative that you don't need to comment on. So I don't want to put you in hot water. But just sort of there's been a clear attack on meritocracy in the United States. So a lot of the opportunities that that served you well might not have served you well today. They might not have been available to you today for various reasons, including your race. And similarly, I think despite all of the remarkable scientific advances during COVID, there was also a loss of public faith in science during COVID, where some of the lines between science and advocacy got blurred greatly. In addition to a whole bunch of other things. So one of other words, I guess what I'm saying is there are a lot of things today that don't look as promising as they did maybe 10 years ago, vis-a-vis the field and just sort of the state of the art. Despite those things, do you remain as optimistic as ever or do you have concerns? I am an optimist. I think that's the only way to be because if you're not optimistic, then there's only downside when you are like that. But I am optimistic about science. I'm so excited about all of the rapid advances that are happening. Knowledge about biology, about the human body, physiology is accumulating at very rapid pace. Every week, there are interesting and exciting discoveries that are being reported. And our technology, so we're studying biological systems, are also accelerating with sequencing technology development to protein, mass-veg geometry, to gene editing, to new microscopy. That is allowing us to collect new and more rich data cheaper and faster. And then there's AI with the advanced AI and larger computing platforms. We can analyze and learn and build models around those data that are much more powerful, much more predictive and generative that ever before. And that combined with future advances in robotics, where we can have automation of experimentation and maybe even building a close loop system where AI and with humanintervention can design and iterate our experiments rapidly. I think it's going to accelerate science and medicine and human health beyond our imagination. So I think that's really exciting. At the same time, I think we need to continue to motivate people's interests in science. We need to make sure that the best talent are going into science. Do you worry that we've lost the focus on STEM that, IMean, obviously people talk about the heyday of science, right? During the 1960s, when kids growing up saw the space program saw the cold war, the best and the brightest wanted to do science. They wanted to do engineering. Do you feel that slipping away? And if so, what do you think is necessary to bring it back? How do we get the absolute best people into STEM? I think we can do more for sure. I think we need to get kids more excited about science. And I think we need to um, we need the education system to to support kids for our curious and and who have special interests in the science and technical things and to give them opportunities like the ones that I had to to really explore those curiosities of interests. When they're young, they are optimistic and they have energy and if we can nurture that and help them maintain that curiosity and energy, I think that's how we get the best people to continue in science. Yeah, I couldn't agree with you more. And this is not an investment that pays off in a year, right? You've got to be doing this today and then you'll get your pay off in a decade and two decades. And sometimes those investments are really hard for society to make because it's hard to say I got to pay money now for something and I don't get paid back for 10 or 20 years. Those are hard things to accept but um, I hope that people listening to this podcast appreciate certainly in your case. What an enormous value it was for that investment um, you know, in many ways it's a great story of lots of things. It's a story about immigration, it's a story about science education, it's a story about curiosity, it's a story about the American dream. So anyway, I'm really glad we finally got a chance to sit down. It was absolutely worth the wait and I'm excited to follow your undoubted the continued success over the coming decades. Thank you so much for having me here today.

=== FILE: 337- Insulin resistance masterclass： The full body impact of metabolic dysfunction, treatment & more [vYQaLV3Fm00].txt ===

Talk a little bit about what insulin resistance is. Basically, every time you eat a meal, you're going to release insulin. There are many processes that insulin control. So one of the challenges with the term insulin resistance is, as you said, it's a vague term and it's non-specific. The two problems and diabetes. One is, you know, I'm making an ovenslint. The other is your insulin resistance. Type two diabetes. Very bad. You're knocking on death's door. Correct. You're going to go blind. Yep. You're going to have your toes amputated. You're not ever going to have an erection again. And you're going to die of cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or Alzheimer's diseasEQuickly. So people say that Alzheimer's disease is, you know, diabetes type 3. I'm not sure. Brain diabetes. Yes. You are obese when you're four years of age. You're going to be obese when you're at out. And your life expectancy will be significantly shorter. And your quality of life will be significantly reduced. What has changed so much in the last 30 years that has created this epidemic? Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Ralph, thank you so much for coming down to, I guess, up to Austin from San Antonio. Very excited to sit down with you and talk about, you know, potentially one of the most important subject matters in all of health. People who listen to me all the time here and are familiar with me talking about these four horsemen, right, cardiovascular disease, and cerebral vascular disease, cancer, neurodegenerative and dementing diseases. And then there's this fourth horsemen that I talk about. And it's in many ways the squishiest because it's not the one that shows up on the most death certificates. But in many ways, it's the foundational one that is amplifying the risk of all of those causes of death. And I refer to it as, you know, sort of metabolic disease, spanning the spectrum from hyperinsulinemia to insulin resistance to fatty liver disease all the way out to type two diabetes. So given how much I speak about that, it seems very important that we should have a really thorough discussion of that foundational metabolic disease and no one better than you to have that discussion. So let's start a little bit with just kind of telling folks briefly about, you know, what you're doing at UT San Antonio and why you've spent the last almost 40 plus almost 50 years now working on this problem. So for me, I actually have been sort of in this field of metabolic disease for a long time. I think I'm the longest consecutive lead funded 53 years in IDDDK investigator. And I actually started even long before that when I was a medical student at Harvard, I had this fantastic teacher, Professor Kale, who gave us all of the lectures on intermediary metabolism. And I decided, this is what I wanted to do. And I worked at each summer with Professor Kale. And, you know, sometimes in life you meet the right person, the right opportunity to change everything that you do. And basically what I do now, I can tribute the directly to George. And, you know, when I gave the Banting Lecture in 2008, people usually, you know, put a picture of their mother and father and children. And I love my mother and father and children, but I only showed one picture and that was Professor Kale because he's really the person who's ended up sort of directing me to where I am today. You know, people who are listening who are particularly a student might recall, I've referenced a number of Kale's papers, but one of the more interesting studies he did, which it's possible he did while you were even a student there was the 40-day starvation study. You might have not been quite at Harvard yet because this was, if I recall in the mid-60s, maybe 60, 60, 60, seven, where, and it was probably a group of medical students that actually volunteered if not medical students undergrads. And they, they did a water-only fast for 40 days. And the study basically just followed all of the metabolites. What happened to glucose levels, obviously in Slend by the hydroxybutyrodicida acetate. Anyway, it was very fascinating stuff. One of the things that was most interesting to me, and that study was even under a period of such extreme starvation, the brain never gave up its dependency on glucose. So even though ketone bodies began to service the brain by about day seven to ten as the majority of the fuel, even aT3 and four weeks of starvation, glucose was, if my memory serves me correctly, still providing about a third of the brain's energy. Your memory is very good. The brain did switch over to ketone metabolism and believe it or not. I didn't do the 40 day fast, but I was one of the people who fasted for five to seven days. And if you fasted for three days, you could get paid $50. And I thought I was the richest guy in the world from this study. So I can assure you that the physical specimens in this study were phenomenal. What did the 40 day fasting students get? I don't know, but I'm sure he paid them a lot of money. That's a very good order to do that. The interesting thing about that is you realize that we have so much energy stored in the human body who would have thought that you know, your lean type person, you can fast from 40 days, but the real problem is that at some point you start to break down muscle. And then if you start to break down cardiac muscle, then prolonged fasting at that point becomes a problem. But you have a lot of energy stored in fat and you can start for a long time and it will be people easily go for three, four months with all of the reserves that are in the body. Well, let's maybe talk a little bit about what insulin resistance is. We'll get into what causes it, but let's just maybe define for people this term that gets thrown around constantly. And let's you know, explain what it is from a technical standpoint. Yeah. So basically every time you eat a meal and your blood sugar level goes up, you're going to release insulin. And insulin is sort of a master regulator for all biochemical processes in the body. So one of the things that insulin is going to do is going to talk to your muscles. I'm going to say take up glucose and burn that glucose. So what we need to know is in a normal person, one of the issues in insulin, how much of the glucose is taken up by the muscle. And then we could look at someone who is, say, overweight, or you could look at someone who's diabetic. And I actually developed the goals, they're the technique, which is the insulin clamp technique to look at this. So we could take an obese person or a diabetic or a normal person. We raise the insulin and then I'm using muscle as an example. How much glucose is taken up that's supposed to be by the muscle. And then I can compare if you're overweight, compared to the lean person. Well, obese people are very insulin resistant in terms of muscle glucose update. I could look at the diabetic. They're even more insulin resistant. But there are many processes that insulin control. So insulin regulates how much fat is released from your fat cells. And obese people, unfortunately, insulin keeps the fat in your fat cell. But in obese people, insulin doesn't work so well. So instead of keeping the fat in the fat cell, even though your insulin is high, you're breaking down the fat. So you have to look at each individual process that insulin is controlling. And so for that process, we know this is what a normal person should respond like. This is what a diabetic response like in the diabetic is much, much more insulin resistant than not responding. So it's in a certain way, it's a general term because insulin controls so many things. Protein metabolism. insulin is very important in helping you to build protein. So I could infuse insulin and we've done this using carbon label loose in. And we can define how insulin promotes protein metabolism in a normal healthy person. And then I could do the same kind of study in obese person. And we know that the obese people don't respond to the insulin as well in terms of aggregating protein metabolism. So it's kind of a general term. And does that trenslate not just to structural proteins, such as enzymes or cellular structural proteins, but also macro structural proteins such as muscle? Absolutely. So I can look at specific enzymes within the cell. I can look at certain genes within the cell that are turned on or off. Or I can look at muscle in terms of muscle is a bulk. So there are many, as I said, many ways in which you could define insulin resistance. But basically, whatever the particular process you're looking at, you're comparing what would be the normal response in a normal healthy person compared to what might happen in a diabetic person or an obese individual. So one of the challenges with the term insulin resistance is, as you said, it's a vague term and it's non-specific because the actions of insulin are so many. It has an action in the liver. It has an action in the muscles. It has an action with response to glucose. It has an action with response to amino acids. And it has an action with response to fat, both in the liberation of fat, lipolysis and presumably in response to oxidation. Absolutely. And we'll go through all of these. But let's maybe start with how the U.G. Lycemic Clamp test is done. Yeah. And let's assume that I'm a healthy enough individual that we can use me as a proxy. I come into your clinic. What are we going to do? How do you run this test? Yeah. So let me bring you back in time when I was a fellow because at that time that we didn't really have a good measure of insulin sensitivity. So what people would do is you do an oral glucose tolerance test. Yes. And the insulin level would go up. And so then some people would say, I'll look at how much insulin comes out compared to the rise in glucose. And that's a measure of beta cell function. And then someone would just turn it around and say, look, I'm going to see how much the rise in glucose was per insulin. And that's a measure of insulin resistance. And it was very clear to me, well, this is insane. You can't take two variables and then just depending upon how you want to look at them, switch the denominator and numerator. And so I said, we need to develop something that is really more specific. And just to be clear, Ralph, IMean, unfortunately, we as clinicians are not able to do U.G. Lycemic Clamp. Correct. So we are still looking at oral glycemic tolerance tests. We are still giving people you know, oral glucose and sampling glucose and insulin every 30 minutes and trying to impute what we can, which I'd love to come back and talk about interpretation, but carry on with the limitation. We could do that because we actually have been a lot of work and how you interpret that. So what we said is, why don't we develop a serious way? And so we developed the technique where I could take 100 people. And I would infuse insulin initially as a primary dose and then just clamp the insulin level. So I give a prime continuous insulin infusion. I can take 100 people in all 100 people. I can raise your insulin level by 100 micro units per ML. And I can do that for two hours. And now I know that the stimulus, the insulin stimulus, whether you're lean, whether you're obese, or whether you're diabetic, whatever particular process that I want to look at. So maybe I wanted to look at how insulin shut down a paddock glucose production. And actually we were the first people to ever use radio isotopes to trace this and show that in normal people, insulin shut down glucose production by the liver very quickly. But obese people and diabetics were very, very resistant to the insulin. And then we said we wanted to know, look, everybody now has got the same insulin level. How effectively does that insulin stimulate muscle glucose uptake? And again, what we showed, and these actually were the very first unequivocal demonstration that diabetic people tied to were insulin resistant. Before this, there was a lot of controversy, you know, Dr. Reven, who is a sort of the father of insulin resistance. I like to think I'm the son of Dr. Reven. He's a great idol of mine. He really was one of the very first people to insinuate the diabetics were insulin resistant. And with the insulin clamp, we showed this very definitively. And we also know, we use the label glycerol and free fatty acids. And we could show the ability to insulin the shutdown release of lipid from the fat cell was markedly impaired. So three of the major organs, all of this work originally was done by us when I was back at Yale. So let's summarize those again. Yeah. We're talking about this in an insulin sensitive person right out of the gate. insulin is going to shut down hepatic glucose output. Absolutely. So it's going, which again, all of this kind of makes sense if you think through the pathway, our liver is constantly putting glucose into circulation because the muscles can't put glucose into circulation. So something has to feed the brain. Yes. Absolutely. If insulin is high, it suggests glucose is already sufficiently high. So let's not create more glucose toxicity. Let's shut that. The second thing it's going to do is it's going to take that excess glucose and put it in the place where we have the largest capacity of the stored, which is muscle. Absolutely. So point two is we increase muscle uptake of glucose. And then poinT3 you said was it's going to shut down lipolysis. Yes. It's going to shut down the release of triglycerides and or free fatty acids from the adipose tissue. And that's very critical. And we also, when we did these studies, we would put a catheter in the hepatic vein and in a femoral artery and a femoral vein. So we could look at the individual tissues. And what we showed is that when you infuse insulin, say 80% or 90% of the glucose is going to be taken up in muscle. Only 10% is going to be taken up in the adipocyte and stored. And I'm much in the liver. At basically none. Under uglysemic conditions and we were the first to show this conclusively as well, there's no glucose uptake in the liver by insulin. Just explain to people what a uglysemic condition is. Yes. Uglysemic means you're fasting glucose when you wake up in the morning is 80. Now your uglysemic, that means when we do the studies, we keep your fasting glucose of 80. We don't let the glucose change. All we're going to do is raise the insulin. And that means you're giving glucose. Of course because if we didn't give glucose, then your blood sugar level would drop. And then you'd release cortisol. You release epinephrine. Yeah. So I just want to make sure people understand that I was going to come back to that, but I wanted to finish that point. So let's let's make sure we go back to the test because it's very counterintuitive. So I've got a catheter in each arm. I walk in off the street. I've been fasting. My blood sugar is 80 or 90. Whatever milligrams predestilator it is. You are going to have to infuse both insulin and glucose into each of my arms. When the reason is, when you said a moment ago, you're going to steadily increase my insulin and take it to a steady state of 100 IU per million. That's a staggering high insulin level. Not so high. In your eye after a meal would be maybe 60. Or these people very commonly get sure for a healthy person that would never see an insulin level that high. And if you were not simultaneously running glucose into them, you would kill them within minutes. Hopefully not. Yeah, but just to get to the point of I guess they would become so profoundly hypoglycemic that they would cease to exist. And it should be obvious that if you're very sensitive to insulin, I have to infuse a lot of glucose. But the other beauty of it, as I said, when I was a young guy at Yale, there was a physician in New York, Dr. Altrulla. He was the first one to use treated glucose to trace metabolic pathways. And I said, oh, this is astounding. So I actually went to visit Dr. Altrulla and learned how he did it. And so all of the insulin clamps that is that we did, we were the first people who used treated glucose in humans and to show that the ability of insulin to shut down the release of glucose from the liver was markedly impaired. And this is just again, sorry, interrupt, but just to make sure that people are following us, the reason you wanted to use treated glucose there was not to quantify the total amount of glucose disposal. You could do that on mass balance. Yeah, you wanted to determine the ultimate fate of glucose. How much became hepatic glycogen, if any, sounds like the answer is none. How much became muscle glycogen, sounds like you said about 90%. And how much ultimately got converted through the Nova Lipogenesis into out of Poseidor Free fatty acid, sounds like that's about 10% under the U. glycemic condition. Is that correct? Yeah, in general life's correct except in the muscle, remember, some of the glucose is going to be oxidized. So if you look at the glucose once it gets into the cell, one third would go through the glycolytic pathway and be oxidized. Right away. Yes. And the other two thirds would be stored is glycogen. Now, what if the person is, IMean, presumably you're doing this test and a person is sedentary? Yes. So how is the, and the muscle, is it, is muscle that metabolically active at rest? I guess it is. Yes. Yeah. So that's really interesting. Does that mean you're increasing energy expenditure under these conditions? Well, of course, in a certain way you are, but it's not like when you go out and you exercise and you run a mile or two. So, you know, it's a, I would say you are turning on a number of cycles, which are of course, going to increase energy expenditure, your generating ATP. So there is a certain increase in energy expenditure, but if I really want to increase energy expenditure, I get you to go jog five miles. So, yeah. As exercise is really the thing that really increases energy expenditure. And we're off just for a sense of amount. If you're doing this in, say, somebody my size, who's insulin sensitive, how many actual grams of glucose would you be able to get into the person within the hour while, while keeping insulin clamped? Yeah. So I'm going to do it first in terms of rates, the way we express it, and then I'll trenslate that. So it's under basal conditions, you wake up in the morning, and your liver is producing and your tissues are taking up about two milligrams of piquellogram body weight per minute. Okay? Sorry. Say that again. Two. Limer is producing, that's a particle of glucose output. That's a particle of glucose output. Two milligrams piquellogram body weight per minute. And we were the first to actually show this many years ago, and this is humans. It might so very, very different, totally different. And that's why extrapolating from mice to humans can be a problem. What was just reflected on that for a second? This, people who listen as podcaster probably sick of me saying this, but I'm sorry. I just can't stop saying the liver never ceases to amaze me. Right? Like, IMean, it's an unbelievable organ, and again, I come back to this idea. It's the only major organ for which we don't have extra caportial support. Right? Interesting. If you're heart, if you went into Cardio Genic shock, and we felt we could, you know, reverse it in time, we could put an introortic balloon pump in you. We could put an IABP in you. We could we could put a left ventricular advice device in you to to to to stem you over until we get you're other. If your kidneys are destroyed, we can trensiently dialize you. Even if your brain is experiencing swelling, we can, you know, put enough steroids in you were decompress your skull to give you the time to recover and keep you alive otherwise. You go through all the major organs. If your spleen is dinged, take it out. Right? Even if you lost your small bowel, we could at least trensiently keep you alive with, you know, TPN or something like that. None of this is true with the liver. You know, in the old days, they actually used to use pig liver profusion. I know. And that was in the old days. We don't do that anymore. And baboon as well. Yeah. So again, the fact that the liver can titrate this amount is remarkable. So two milligrams per kilogram per minute. So you take an individual who weighs 100 kilograms, you're putting 200 milligrams per minute of glucose into circulation. Then you can multiply that by however many you want to look. So this is a gram every five minutes. Yeah. That's 12 grams of glucose every hour. It's a liver is putting out. But now when I do an insulin clamp, depending on how much I raise the insulin in over the years, we've done a dose response curve and I can come back to this because your fat is exquisitely sensitive to insulin. If I raise the insulin just by 10 microids per ml, the fat stops producing free fatty acids and glycerol. You inhibit lipoluses literally completely. The liver you need to get the insulin up to about 50 micro units per ml to really get it shut down. So in the fact you had to get how high? 10. Rise of 10. And tell me, these people when they come in and healthy, they're at five to 10. Yeah. So I'm going to raise them from five to 10 to maybe 50 or 20. And that's going to in large part shut down lipoluses. Okay. And in fact all of this sort of work was worked that we originally did many many years ago. Now at the level of the liver, you really need to get up to about 50 micro units per ml. So maybe at 10 I'm going to bring you up to 50. And that's in large part going to shut off glucose production by the liver. Now that's critical because you know, you wake up in the morning and your liver is producing glucose. Now if you eat a meal, glucose is coming in from the gastrointestinal tract. You can't have glucose coming in from the liver at the same time. Otherwise you get very hyperglycemic. So when you eat a meal and that insulin comes out, it really needs to shut down a paddock glucose production. Now what's replacing the liver is what's coming from the meal. But then after you absorb all of the meal, the liver needs to turn back on. So understanding how the liver is responding to the insulin is really very important. And then if I want to look at what's going on in the muscle, the reason why we go to 100 micro units per ml, which is it's above physiologic, but it's still within the physiologic range. And you really need to get, if you really want to stimulate muscle glucose uptake completely in a normal healthy person, you'd probably have to get the plasma insulin to about 200 micro units per ml. But in reality, I'm sorry, at 200 what happens? You have now maximize muscle glucose uptake. But in reality, even in an insulin sensitive person, yes. And just to make sure I understand what you're saying, you're saying that if you took an insulin sensitive individual at 100 units of insulin versus 200, you will actually drive more glucose uptake. You haven't saturated the Glute 4 trensporter at 100. Yeah, probably about 25% more uptake is you go from 100 to 200. Wow. And these are all early studies that we did. So when we talk about insulin resistance, that's why I said, you need to know which tissue you're talking about and which metabolic pathway. And if you want to talk about enzymes, you need to talk at what specific enzyme because insulin resistance needs to be related to the tissue you're talking about in the process within the tissue that you're talking about. So insulin resistance is a very important concept, but you all have to be a little bit more specific about what aspect you want to address. So you can have insulin resistance in the fat you can have insulin resistance in the muscle and then something that's now pretty exciting you may have insulin resistance in the brain and the suggestions now. And there are many insulin receptors in the brain, Jesse Roth, you know, very famous diabetes person, you know, maybe 50 or 60 years ago was the first to describe insulin receptors in the brain. And this is an area that's now starting to unfold. It may have some relationship to neurodegenerative disease, Alzheimer's disease, you know, some people say that Alzheimer's disease is diabetes type 3, I'm not sure. Brain diabetes, yes. So the insulin resistance is a very important concept. And unfortunately, I would say let's say we're going to talk about diabetes. Even though there's an ominous octet that I developed that's used everywhere in the world for the pathophysiology of that two diabetes, if we really wanted to take and solidify it and say, what are the two big concepts? insulin resistance would be here and the other hand would be impaired beta cell function, okay? So if you are insulin resistant and your beta cells work well, they know how to read the insulin resistance, they'll make enough insulin, you won't become diabetic. The hyperincinemia can damage you in other ways, but you won't become diabetic. But what happens is if you're insulin resistant, and particularly if you have a genetic predisposition, if your beta cells have to continuously pour out insulin, they start to exhaust. And so insulin resistance is a disaster for someone who has a genetic predisposition is going to bring out the diabetes. insulin resistance, in my opinion, is intimately related to cardiovascular disease. That is why you see a diabetic patient, 10% of them. You walk in, you have diabetes, first time I see you, 10% and 15% of the people already have clinically significant cardiovascular disease. And if you look carefully, virtually 100% of them do. And so, Ralph, do you think that that is a result of the hyperincinemia or the untreated or poorly treated hyperglycemia? All of the above, but more importantly, what we showed, and we were, again, the first people to show this. And the cardiologist, they're kind of human dynamically oriented, they're looking at, you know, vessels, starter, classic, but if you look at the insulin signaling pathway, insulin has got a bind to its receptor, and then there's a signaling pathway. I can tell you all the molecules in there, which I'm not. And then glucose gets trensported in the cell. We were the first people to show in humans that that pathway doesn't work normally. In some will bind to the receptor, it will activate the receptor. But the next molecule, IRS 1, PIT, 3, Kines, all those molecules don't get activated. So glucose doesn't get into the cell, that's diabetes. That's the same pathway activates nitric oxide synthase. And that generates nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is the most potent vasodilator in the human body. It's the most potent anti-athogenic molecule in the human body. So this defect that's in muscle, and it's in cardiac muscle, and it's in skeletal muscle. This all human-dated, I'm talking about not animal data, when you get a defect in that insulin signaling pathway, that's going to cause diabetes, and it's going to promote cardiovascular disease. And that is why you can never separate cardiovascular disease from diabetes. Now, as you point it out rightfully so, I believe that high levels of insulin are also athrogenic. Now, I don't want people saying Dr. DeFranso said you shouldn't be giving insulin the people who needed. Of course, if people need insulin, you need to give them insulin. But our beta cells make 35 units of insulin if you're a type one diabetic in the GANS. What do you mean? So you're going to have your breakfast, you're going to have your lunch, you're going to have your dinner, and 35 units. I thought you meant micro units. Not it. So the third point is that they have 35 units of insulin. So we showed this many years ago, and actually it was that if you would take a type one patient and they were lean, they would only need 35 or 40 units of insulin to get their glucose control. The sum you gave the doses at the right time. But we have a lot of people who are taking 100 units of insulin, both type ones and type do's. So three ex physiologic. Yes. That kind of hyperincinemia, I think there's evidence to support that's athrogenic. But now we have a problem. Can you have the glucose remain high? Yeah, it's a question if do you want to diEQuickly or slowly? But yes, really good drugs. Yes, yes, but if you were only doing this with insulin, it's an awful trade-off. It's you're going to die very quickly from hyperglycemia if you're left untreated. But if we overdue it with insulin to maintain normal glycemia, we're going to kill you slowly. It's a cogma. You're stuck. Yep. You have to treat, but you also know that when you're giving these big doses of insulin, there may be some side effects. This is something Ralph, I don't think that has been necessarily appreciated by the medical community. Absolutely not. Yeah, there has generally been an ethos of when I've talked to patients with type 2 diabetes. What they've been told is I'm told to cover with as much insulin as is necessary to maintain my glucose levels in this range. It means I can eat whatever I want. It's okay if I have all the pasta and bread and sugar in the world because as long as I'm covering it with insulin, I'm okay. And then you find out, wow, you're taking 150 units of insulin a day in all of its forms, the short acting, the long acting, etc. But I didn't actually realize that what we would consider physiologic is 35. IMay have known that at one point in absence for gotten, but that's a great reference. So basically, if there's a person with type 2 diabetes listening to us today, and they're taking 75 units of insulin, that one of the takeaways should be, what do I need to do with my nutrition and other pharmacologic activities plus exercise plus everything that's on my control to maybe get that down to 35 where I would be at a physiologic level. Absolutely. There are things that you already insinuated way loss if you can get people to do it at and then we can add medications in combination with insulin, insulin sensitizers or some drugs to help you lose weight that will also allow you to get that dose of insulin reduced. The other thing we showed in this study, Dr. Del Prado, who's past president of the European Diabetes Association, we took normal healthy lean kids 18, 25 years of age and we gave them, we put them on the clinical research center for three days and we gave them a very, very low dose of insulin infusion and we raised their fasting insulin from eight, which is what a normal person would be to 20, which is really quite low and within 48 to 72 hours, they were as insulin resistant as a type 2 diabetic patient. So hyperinsulinemia induces insulin resistance. This is, why is that the case? So what insulin does is it down regulates the insulin signaling trensduction system. So that insulin binds to its receptor and then it activates Iris, one, and P.I.3 kinase and A.K.D. That system is down regulated by hyperinsulinemia. All of this that I'm telling you about, it's all published, these are all studies that in in in in humans and this also been shown in in in rodent models as as well. So this is another reason why we don't want people to be hyperinsulinemic. You have to explain that to me again, rough, that is mind-boggling to me. I would never, I would never have predicted that. So let me say it back to you because I feel like IMissed it when I was writing something down. You took normal volunteers, who had a fasting insulin of eight. Yep. And they're lean healthy. Okay. And you simply infused insulin in them, presumably with glucose. Oh, yes, of course. On the clinical research center, we can monitor, keep the glucose perfectly constant. We're not letting the glucose change. So person shows up insulin eight glucose is 90. Yep. You do a U.G.C. McClamp where you bring insulin up only to 20. One and a half per one and a half. Much less than B when you eat a meal. Exactly. Not even a post-prandial bump. But now it's constrictively sitting there at 20. Yep. And you've obviously had to bring glucose. You're doing a few glucose to maintain U.G.C. Mea. Correct. Did you say that in four days, 48 to 72 hours, and these people are as insulin resistant as type 2 diabetics. Okay. Again, very, very counterintuitive because if our, if our model is that insulin resistance, which is the hallmark factor contributing to type 2 diabetes in the combination of beta cell fatigue, is driven by lipotoxicity, which we're going to come to. That's an important one. Yes. These people didn't have any of that. No, these people didn't have any of the intramyosolular lipid that we talked about with your colleague. No, Jerry Reven as a predisposing factor. It's the direct effect of insulin down regulating the insulin signaling system and probably other distal metabolic within the cell as well. Okay. So then when you turn the clamp off, let's just say we ran this for 72 hours. We've made them functionally diabetic. Turn the clamps off. How many hours or did you do that? What would you predict? I would predict probably within 24 to 48 hours. They would return to normal because we did this acutely. Now, if we were able to do this for several months, then I would anticipate that the insulin resistance would remain for a long period of time. And remember, when we treat type 1 diabetics, we're always giving the insulin into the periphery. You arrive when you ingest the meal, where does the insulin go? It goes into the portal vein. So the liver is seeing a high level of insulin. That's good. It says stop making glucose. But now, it removes half of the insulin. So how much insulin gets into the periphery? Half of what you secreted. Why? Because we don't want the insulin in the periphery over insulinizing the periphery because we would make the muscle tissue very insulin resistant. So the portal, the pancreas, secreting insulin into the portal circulation, liver sees the insulin good. It's not making glucose, but it also takes up half of the insulin. So less insulin gets enough to nourish the muscle. Okay? Enough to shut down the fat producing free fatty acids, but not enough to hyperinsenize the system. And in a certain way, if you're a diabetic and you are insulin resistant or an obese person and you are insulin resistant and you're a hypersecrating insulin, it's kind of working against you because it's a reverberating system that's making the insulin resistance aggravated. So one of the big things that we've forgotten is that insulin, I told you, there are two problems in diabetes. One is you don't make an ovenslint. The other is your insulin resistant. You need to attack both problems. And the paper that I recently published, which is a perspective in Lancet Diabetes and a chronology, was to bring people back to look, we're focusing on obesity and weight loss and we should. But we need to remember that we still have a genetic cause for the insulin resistance. You go back to 1950, you know, the incident's diabetes was 2%. I've seen even data that says it was 1%. As recent as 1970, it's very low. Yeah. But these people were all lean and they're insulin resistant. So there's a genetic cause of the insulin resistance. And you think Ralph, that the greater genetic effect is on the insulin resistance side or on the beta cell fatigue side. So let's tackle each. Since you started with insulin resistance, let's go there. Yeah. Let's talk about what we know about the genetics of insulin resistance. That's easy. Nothing. Truly nothing. No, I joke. But if you let's say 20 years ago, we got involved in one of the biggest genetics studies called the vagus study, Veterans Administration, Genetic Epidemiologic Study. And we were convinced that we would do a G, we were one of the people to do the first G was studies. That we would define all the genes that are responsible. Well, we were not very successful. Even if you took the subset of people with type 2 diabetes who were lean and you compared them to people who were lean and non-diabetic versus obese and diabetic. A G was was not able to identify a signal in those three cohorts. We identified several and remember there are associations. There. Of course. And they're in non-coding regions. So like the TCF70T2 gene, that we found that. But that had already been described by Dr. Michael Sterns in Antonio many years before. So we repeated with Michael showed. And other people have shown that. So there are a number of associations. And again, if you ask me, how many genes have we truly established that are really important in terms of causing type 2 diabetes, I would say very, very few. I know the genetics people out there probably hate this. And they'll say that we can put together a genetic score. But you know when they talk about a genetic score, it's not that they've causably associated with gene with that. It's an association. It's an association. It's an association. We have a whole different approach that, well, if you want, I can tell you what we're doing that may give some insight. And then people have started to think about rare diseases. That maybe the problem is in one family you have this particular genetic mutation. Another family you have a different genetic mutation, a third family a different genetic mutation. And then when you do the GW study, you got this mixture of individual genes. What about the phenotype? So I've taken care of. I've taken care of a couple of patients with type two diabetes who are very lean. Including one patient whose body fat by Dexa was about 8% so for people listening, that is insanely lean, very lean. So you take an individual who's body fat is 8% and yet they have type two diabetes. The first thing that comes to my mind is a lightendestrophy is this an individual whose adipostissue is the problem. In other words, they're not able to assimilate enough excess nutrient i.e. glucose into the fat cell. And so they're undergoing the toxicity associated with an insufficient reservoir. Is that what could be the causal? Not that I can tell you what's causing the lightendestrophy, but is the lightendestrophy the issue that's driving the diabetes here. The answer to that is it's very clear that lightendestrophy can cause diabetes. This would say a very, very rare and unusual cause, but well established. But that's, but you're saying that's not what would explain 1% of diabetics. That's too. Okay. And Jerry Schumman has that some beautiful work in this area. So it's unequivocal that lightendestrophy, profit people because their fat cells can't take up the fat. It ends up in your myocardium, it has heart disease. That's up in the beta cells. It's the beta cell in the muscle. But that's a very, very, very small percentage. So the basic genetic ideology of the insulin resistance, the number the P.P.R. Yama gene is been associated. There are about 7 or 8 genes. There's a recent study, I think it's in nature genetics by Brown. Were they identified? And again, there are associations. Except that would say the P.P.R. Yama gene that is, it's pretty clear that's a causal. Did Mitchell is R do some of this work? Pardon? Mitchell is R do some of this work. And he's worked in this area. But again, the number of, in my opinion, the long list of folks at this point. Oh, yes. The number of genes that have been described. So one of the, and the other thing people said, well, maybe there are 20 genes involved, each giving a small component. And that's why it's so difficult. Well, all of these hypotheses have been difficult to approve, approve. And the simple fact is, we don't understand the genetic basis. In part, because diabetes, in my opinion, is a very poor phenotype. Diabetes are very heterogeneous disease. So when we talk about diabetes, if that's your phenotype, it's not surprising to me that it's going to be difficult to define genes that are related to diabetes. So what I'm going to tell you about, I don't want to take the credit for this. Okay. So one of the people in my division, Dr. Lou Norton working with Steve Parker at Michigan, I'm involved because I'm doing the insulin clamp studies. We're taking as a phenotype muscle insulin resistance. This is a very, very specific phenotype. Okay. This is not diabetes. The ominous octet, my pathophysiology. That's eight problems. Okay. This is muscle insulin resistance. I'm going to do an insulin clamp now. And then I'm going to do a muscle biopsy before I do the insulin clamp. And I'm going to do a muscle biopsy at the end of the insulin clamp. And what happens? Okay. Well, during the insulin clamp, I know exactly how sensitive are resistant you are to insulin. I've got the most definitive phenotype in the world. No one gets this kind of phenotype. And now what do I see? In enormous amount of chromatin opens up. This is the epigenetic component. Genes in chromatin area, you never ever going to see in the baseless thing. And that's why we think this is hypothesis. Now that why it's been so difficult with all of these GW studies to identify genes that are associated with diabetes. And now we're starting to see diabetic people and non diabetic people. We're starting to see some associations which we think now are causal and we can relate to the insulin resistance with the clamp. So the first paper along these lines. Let's just pause there for a second, we're off. I want to make sure everybody's following what you're saying. You're saying look, one of the challenges of having a disease that isn't perfectly perfectly clearly defined where every single member of the class that has the disease looks exactly the same. With the word for that is heterogeneous. So let's take an example where the disease is very heterogeneous. Sickle cell anemia. Correct. Everybody who has sickle cell anemia from a pathophysiology standpoint is identical. Okay. And guess what? There's a single mutation that defines the disease. So because you have a single gene that defines the disease, one gene mutated produces one change in one base pair that changes one amino acid that changes the property of the hemoglobin molecule and everybody looks the same. But you're saying Peter, it's totally different. With type 2 diabetes, we have some people that are thin, some people that are fat, some people that have lots of insulin resistance in the muscle, some people that don't seem to have much, but it's all in the liver. We're going to go through. I want to hear, I want to make sure we define the octet, the ominous octet. But if that's the case, why would you ever expect to find a simple genetic answer by definition, it's going to be a mess. Absolutely. Yeah. And so if you don't have a very definitive phenotype, it's going to be difficult to find a medication by the way is any physician who approaches a patient with type 2 diabetes as a single entity is going to be providing suboptimALCARe. Yes. And I've been fighting for 20 years to convince people you need to start with combination therapy from the beginning. Finally, 2022, the American Diabetes Association has made a comment. And for the first time, suggests that you should consider starting with combination therapy. We can talk about therapy later. We're going to talk about the therapies in detail. But yes, it's a, you have to take a precision medicine approach to type 2 diabetes, which begins by trying to identify which phenotype your patient is. Before we continue, I just want to make sure that everybody understands it's looped not in in state parker. And they're the, you know, the brain child, you know, of course I'm involved. I understand the disease. We're doing the insulin clamps. We're giving them the phenotype. And they're doing single cell. And it turns out like there are 10, 12 different types of cells within the muscle. So we tend to think the muscle all this a myocite. That's the problem. But it's probably cells also talking to each other, making it even more complex. So we're at an early stage in the development. But we're enthusiastic. We think this is, IMean, we really have not discovered these genes. So we think that epigenetics are important. And this is part of the epigenetic phenomenon. We'll see where it takes us. But we're pretty excited about these findings. Let's go back to the ominous octet. Make sure I have that defined them all our listeners do. Yeah. So in 2008 at the Banting Lecture at the American Diabetes Association, the title of the Banting Lecture was from the Triamberate to the ominous octet. So what was the Triamberate? I got the young investigator award, the Lily Ward from the ADA 1987. So the Triamberate was very simple. The beta cell, it fails. Insan resistance in the muscle. When you ingested a meal, the muscle didn't take up the glucose because you're insulin resistant. And insulin resistance in the liver. When you ate a meal, insulin didn't shut down the liver. So that was the Triamberate. So from the Triamberate to the ominous octet, we needed to add five more players. So who were the new five players? So number four on the list was the fat cell. In a very deserving guy. So the fat cell is your friend initially. You over-eat, you take in excess calories, you store them in the fats on the cat hurts you there. But if you keep expanding those fat cells, the fat cells become very, very resistant to the anti-lippulative effects of insulin. And now you start to pour fat out into the bloodstream. We've shown this as a big interest to very counterintuitive. It counterintuitive. But very, very well, but not in the you have a, not that we should mire ourselves in teelologic things. Do you have a sense of why? Yeah. So the insulin signaling system in multiple early steps, become severely impaired. And when you get insulin resistance in the glucose metabolic pathway, there are changes that alter the cell metabolism. So you become very resistant to insulin's anti-lippulative effect. And so now, if you look at people who are obese or people who have type two diabetes, there are plasma FFA levels are very, very high. And those FFA levels, and this is lipotoxicity, and we've got a long history of studying this. I FFA levels impair insulin secretion. High FFA levels cause insulin resistance in the muscle. High FFA levels cause insulin resistance in the liver. High FFA levels impair the insulin signaling, trensduction system. And in fact, one of my previous fellows who's now back with me here in UT, Dr. Belfort was the first author on this paper showing that just physiologic rises in the plasma FFA literally obliterate the insulin signal trensduction system, which is the first step in glucose metabolism. I always thought that the reason we saw high free fatty acids in people with type two diabetes was not because the fat cells were undergoing more lipoluses. But because the fat cells were themselves becoming resistant to insulin and not able to take up fat. So same net effect, but I was kind of drawing the arrow of causality in the other direction. No, the the arrow is more in the other side. The fat is pouring in fat. Yeah. And you can show that the lipolitic enzymes are all resistant to insulin. They don't we've shown this other position. So these elevated FFA levels are a disaster. So the fat cell initially easier. Because your friend goes to foe. And then you can go to bed. Bed guy. Okay. So that's number four. Number five is the gastrointestinal tract. And of course, I'm sure I talk more about this when we talk about treatment. But when you eat a meal, you release two Inquitin hormones. GLP1 and GIP, a glucone-like peptide one, a glucose dependent insulin trophic polypeptide. Those two Inquitin hormones when you eat a meal account for about 70% of the insulin that's released in response to the meal. So now what is the problem? Is the problem that you don't release enough GLP1 in GIP? Or is it that your beta cell is refractory to the GLP1 in GIP? Well, it's the later. Just so let's say that again. I want to make sure people understand this. And the reason it's important is obviously everybody listening to us right now is very familiar with drugs like semigluitide and trisepotide. But I want people to understand why those drugs were developed. And of course, semigluitides already probably what the third generation of it anyway. So when we go back in time, we'll understand why people try to develop these drugs. But just say that again. So you eat your meal. Yep. GIP, GLP1 are increased. And they come out normally. Yep. That's not the problem. And they're telling the beta cell. Hey, make more insulin. Metis cells deaf, not listening. Is resistant to the GLP1 in GIP? And he should be responding to 70% of his input should come from that cell. 70% of the insulin that's going to come out. Is there any response to that on that GLP1 in GIP? So you can imagine that that's a huge problem at the level of the beta cell in terms of the defect and insulin secretion. And tell me, why is it mechanistically that the beta cell becomes deaf? Yeah. The GLP1 in GIP. I don't know that we know the answer to that. So it's just another horrible piece of this puzzle where everything starts to work against the patient. So this is an area of course intense investigation. But the clinical counterpart of this is you've already mentioned the drugs that are out there. The GLP1 receptor agonist. What I'm doing is I'm giving you a pharmacologic dose of GLP1. And I'm overcoming the resistance at the level of the beta cell. Now there's another component to this that we'll get to. And that's a glucose toxicity. So, and these are studies that were done by Yens' tolls in the group in Denmark that they took people and they infused GIP. We're talking about GIP. And you don't respond to the GIP. These are type two diabetics. And then they intensively treated them with insulin and lower their glucose. And then when they come back with the GIP, you're in a normal amount of insulin. So this is a glucose toxic effect. So you ask me mechanism. So we know that at least for the GIP, the glucose toxicity is impairing the ability of the beta cell to respond to the GIP. But not necessarily GLP1. No, no, and that doesn't correct the GLP1 problem. So there's true resistance still, even though I normalize the glucose in terms of GLP1. So this Inquitant Axis, the gut is a very important endocrine organ. And that's number five in the ominous octet. Number six in the ominous octet is the alpha cell. And sort of the I would say the father of hyperguguinemia, this doctor, Roger Unger, and Dallas. And you know, he was one of the very first people to show the diabetics had very high gluguin levels. And gluguin types. Yeah, gluguin is it drives a pedagluose production. So if your glucose gets too low, your alpha cells will release gluguga. So the alpha cell can sense the glucose. And so if your hypoglycemic, this is an important defense mechanism. You release gluguguin, and that stimulates your liver and the glucose production goes up, a return to glucose to normal. But a diabetic already has a high glucose. We don't want high gluguin levels. So paradoxically, there's very high gluguin levels in the diabetic. And those high gluguin levels are very important contributor to the hepatic insulin resistance, because they're driving the liver to make glucose. And so I just make sure, because I'm embarrassed to say I forget this from biochemistry, is it driving the liver to make glucose out of, for example, glycerol amino acids or the organic, organic pathway in glycogenoluses. But on a more chronic acutely. So if I acutely give you a gluguin on the first thing that happens, you break down glycogen. But very quickly, you get rid of all the glycogen that's in the liver. And so chronically, now, you're running on gluguinia genesis. But gluguin stimulates both pathways. And does it also drive hepatic glucose output? And does it just drive the creation of glucose? No, no, no, in absolute terms. It increases hepatic glucose output as well as gluconeogenesis. Yes. And that's a important reason why you have fasting hyperglycemia. So when you wake up in the morning, yeah, and your blood sugar is 110 milligrams per death. That's the liver. And part of that is because your liver is intrinsically resistant to insulin. Part of it is because the liver is now responding to the gluguin and producing an excess amount of glucose, both through gluconeogenesis and through glycogenoluses. Although I would say the major contributor is the gluconeogenic pathway. Now, that gluconeogenic pathway is also turned on because fat is coming from the fat cell. Remember, I told you the FFA is high. Yes. Glissorals coming from the fats. Yes. So in Jerry, you know, we talked about some of the work that Jerry did. This Jerry's work showing that glissoral coming from the fat cell is an important driver of gluconeogenesis. And then hepatic fatty acylcoa levels are up because you have all this fat pouring in. And that's activating the enzymes, pyruvate cobalt salace that are driving the gluconeogenic pathway. So the metabolic, the actual pathways, I think, are very well worked out. So glucone, alpha cell, bad guy. Okay. And so as the alpha cell over producing glucodon in the state? Yes. Absolutely. And this is really ragerongering dialysis. And again, why is it over producing? Why is it doing something that doesn't make any sense in the context of what's happening? And to certain way, this is also in some resistance because hyperincinemia shuts down, uh, glugoguin. And we have very high fasting insulin levels in the diabetic. Okay. Now, what is it? What's the sensing mechanism within? It's counterintuitive. Usually when things go wrong, they get attenuated, right? Like it makes sense that the beta cell eventually fatigues because that's an attenuation of doing something that it's getting tired of doing. The, the, the alpha cell ramping up is a little less intuitive. You're going to see it gets even worse when we talk about the kidney, which is number seven on the list. All right. Let's go to number seven. Okay. So people don't know, I'm, uh, you know, also board certified in the biology. Uh, so in, in the old days, I trened as a micro punctureist. I used to sit with a microscope. I, I would draw my little pipettes out the night before and then I would put the little micro pipette in the tubules and I collect two be look fluid. And what I was interested in, uh, and this is when I was a, uh, a renal fellow University of Pennsylvania, I was interested in glucose and phosphate trensport. And I published the series and I, I'd say the pretty elegant papers in the JCI, looking at how glucose and what regulated glucose in phosphate trensport. And I knew that there was a molecule called fluorescent that block glucose trensport, uh, in the kidney. And so I took this molecule called fluorescent and it blocks, uh, glucose trensporters. There are two trensporters in the kidney, SGLT2 and SGLT1. SGLT2 takes back 90% of the glucose. If it does its job, SGLT1 takes back the other 10% and then in URI, even though we filter 180 grams of glucose per day, no glucose appears in the urine. But what I showed is that fluorescent it block both SGLT2 and SGLT1. It block glucose trensport, uh, and it also block phosphate trensport. And I showed that glucose in phosphate trensport were called coupled. But when I was doing these studies, even though I was in the phylog, uh, I had previous than my endocrine fellowship at the NIH and Baltimore City hospitals. So I, I had an interest in diabetes and I said, this would be a great way to treat diabetes. So in the old days, you know, we did things for science and I published a series of four papers in the JCI and, uh, I never even thought of the be honest with you of patting this. Okay. And I have a significant other who said to me one day, she said, Ralph, you want the smartest guys I ever met and I said, yeah, I know that and she said, you know, you're probably the stupidest guy ever met. And I said, why? She said, you're going to patting it this drug. And so I actually worked with Bristlemaia's squib and then AstraZeneca and that I've actually led to the, uh, that gli, closing coming to the market. But what we showed and this is human bias, which is the first SGLT2 inhibitor. That's correct. Yes. Brand name on that one. Uh, for C for C. Yeah. And so Can I get flows in was that? Uh, ampigliflozant, uh, and then can't get flows in or to glyphlozant, we have a bunch of them. And they all made other all very good basically do the same thing. But what we showed was the SGLT2 trensporter was markedly upregulated in the kidney. Okay. And uh, the original studies that we do. I'm let's just let's just wrap our heads around this again. This is so counterintuitive. I know. Okay. This does not make any sense. Right. So you take it. Let's I want to just bring it back to people listening. So they understand what we're talking about here. The kidney is this massive filtration. Another remarkable organ. Not, no offense to the nephrologist. Not as remarkable as the liver. But every bit is remarkable in terms of, I think it's more remarkable than the liver guy. So that's okay. All right. So so, so everything that's floating through our plasma is, you know, our, our kidneys, by the way, represent what they take 25% of our cardiac output. Jews. Yeah. So it's massive. This organ weighs 2% of our weight and takes 25% of our cardiac output. Why? Because we have to take everything that is in our circulation and dump it out. Yeah. And then the kidney has to selectively bring back in what's normal. This was explained to me. I still remember in medical school as kind of a brilliant trick of evolution. Evolution was never going to be able to predict every toxic thing we might encounter. And therefore teaching the kidney, how to spot toxic things and get rid of them would have been a failed mission. Rather, it was better to teach the kidney what was absolutely necessary and to discard all other things. So reasonable way. Yep. So it's the take everything out of your drawer and dump it out and only bring back the socks and underwear that you need. Yeah. So glucose, potassium, sodium, you name it, chloride, phosphate. All of these things get dumped along with everything else. Yeah. And then it knows I need this much glucose. I need this much sodium. I need this much potassium. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. So so SGLT2 does the lion's share of this. It takes back 90% of the glucose. And now. So here's a diabetic with a very high glucose. Right. So my point was SGLT2 if it had a brain would say, oh, you have too much glucose to turn it off. Turn it off. How about we just stop reabsorbing all the glucose? It's why you said it's the opposite. I told you earlier, it's going to get worse. It ramps up SGLT2. So as a doctor, I want the kidney to dump the glucose out in the urine. Yeah. But what is the kidney doing? It's doing the opposite. It's holding on to the glucose. And so even as the renal fellow became clear to me, this is such a simple way to treat diabetes. And the fact is, it's so simple. No one thought about it. Okay. The only dumb thing that I did was I didn't pat in it, which I should have done. I probably never have to write another NIH grant for the rest of my life. And then we went on to show. And in fact, this is the first definitive proof of the glucose toxicity hypothesis. So we did all of these studies initially in animals. And this was all published in the JCI. And Luciano Rosetti is one of the fellows at this time. Actually, Jerry Schumman was a fellow on the papers as well. And what we showed was that you could take a different types of diabetic animal models. And you could show that there reabsorbing excessive amounts of glucose. And then if I treated them with flores in, because that's what was available, they simply pee the glucose out in the urine. And now all of a sudden, their beta cell started functioning normally. Muscle insulin sensitivity improved. So of course, that's wonderful if you were a mouse or a rat. So we said, well, what about humans? And so the original studies actually were done. It's kind of an interesting story behind this. But the initial studies were done with double glyphosin. And we showed with just 14 days of treatment with double glyphosin, we markedly lowered the fasting and post-prandial glucose. We improved insulin sensitivity by 35 percent. And we made a major improvement in beta cell function. Now, the beauty of this, SGLT2 inhibitors are only in the kidney. They're not in your muscle, they're not in your beta cell. And the only thing that the SGLT2 inhibitors do, make you put glucose out in the urine. The only change in the plasma was the glucose came down. And now insulin sensitivity improved in muscle and beta cell function improved. And this was the first nine humans, even though the original studies were done in the animals. First, studies to show an improvement in the reality in Cuco, toxicity. What was interesting is that when we started to work on developing this with BMS in AstraZeneca, the company decided, well, we should get some nephrologist in the sea about this story. And they said, look, if you listen to what Dr. DeFranso says, this will be a disaster. They said, why? Because you put glucose in the urine, it will glycosulate the proteins, then you'll cause kidney damage. And they actually held up the development of the SGLT2 inhibitors. And the way we finally convinced them to go ahead was that this is a disease called familial renal glucoseuria. They, from day one of their life, they're being out tremendous amounts of glucose that perfectly normal kidney function. How many grams of glucose can be differentiated basically in the presence of an SGLT2 inhibitor today? Upwards, it kind of depends on what the level you're referring to. But it could be anywhere from 40 to 60 grams up to 120 grams of glucose. And the higher would be in somebody with a higher gradient. Yeah, the higher the glucose. The higher the, yes, because you filter more glucose, then this more glucose to be blocked at the level of the kidney. And these drugs are very, very good. Now, I actually in developing these drugs, as I said, I'm also an aphrologist based on the very Brenner hypothesis. I predicted these drugs would save you kidneys, according to the Brenner hypothesis. And that's all turned out to be correct. These drugs are great for the kidney. What I never, ever envisioned at that these drugs were going to save a heart. That was like that came, IMean. So I want to come back to that because I'm making notes of other things I want to come back to. And so I want to come back to just so you can hear me say it now. And we remember, I want to come back to combined inhibitors, the SGLT2 SGLT1 inhibitor. There's a, I think there's a new drug that's now. So to life, those. Yeah, that it does both. Well, just touch on that. And then I want to also come back to the broader zero protective nature of the SGLT2s as documented by the ITP in mice and then also in the human studies for cardiovascular protection. But let's before we do this. Let's go to finish the omelette. We got to go exactly. Let's go about number eight. The brain. Okay. Okay. So the brain plays a role in the somewhat indirect way. So every day, you know, you have your breakfast, your lunch. I actually eat only once a day. But at some point, you eat a meal. And at some time during the meal, I'll say, okay, I'm hungry. I stop eating. Why do you ever think? Why does that happen? Well, because there are certain hormones that are released or inhibited that tell you, okay, you're saying it's stopped eating. Well, one of the very important ones is GLP1. That same thing that's increasing insulin secretion, your brain has become very resistant to GLP1. When you eat a meal, amyline comes out. It comes out in the one ratio with insulin. Your brain has become resistant to amyline. Your brain is resistant to leptin. So there are a lot of these inorectic molecules that your brain has become resistant to. And these molecules, it's another area of interest of mine, these, they work in the hedonic areas in the brain. So in the putem and the prefrontal cortex, and they tell you to stop eating. And unfortunately, there is, and this is the big unknown is what's going on in the brain. The neuropsychotry is clearly distorted. Not only is the neuropsychotry distorted, one of the big things that we are interested in, Dr. Peter Fox and myself at UT is if you look at the gray matter in these areas, in the areas that are critically important and regulating your appetite, there's shrinkage of the gray matter area. Okay. And in these areas, if you do an insulin clamp, okay, the brain is insensitive to insulin in your eye. In obese people, these areas in the brain with his abnormal mocked increase in glucose uptake. Incredible finding. Who would have thought? I'm sorry. You're saying that these are the few areas in my brain in your brain that are actually default insulin insensitive. Yes. Don't take up glucose. Correct. If I do an insulin clamp. So what is their fuel source? Like a? Well, they are saturated. I'm sorry. In response to insulin, they don't take up more glucose. Oh, okay. Sorry. Because remember, this is from the K-Hill studies. As long as your glucose is about 50, your brain is happy. So this is actually in the evolution of the human being. This is phenomenal. Because in the old days, you may not eat for, you may slaughter one of these beasts that you're not eating for days. You're not eating for days. So your glucose would drop. So if your normal fasting was 80, if it dropped to 40, you're okay because your brain saturated in 40. You got below 40, you're in trouble. So you have a big sort of buffer here. But now if I am few as insulin in your glucose is 80, your brain doesn't take it up more glucose. It's quote insulin insensitive in a certain way. Now, of course, if you take people with mild cognitive impairment, there's been some experiments that I've seen suggest in these people. insulin infusion can trensiently improve glucose uptake. But presumably that's because they're insufficiently getting glucose in the disease state. Yes. This has been postulated. And there's also suggested that there's brain insulin resistance, which is, I'd say an interesting concept and may play some role in this neurocognitive dysfunction Alzheimer's whole kind of different story that's sort of in evolution. But to come back to the ominous octet though, if you overeat what happens, you gain weight. And when you gain weight, you become insulin resistant, severely in some resistant. That's lipo toxicity. Okay. And we've done studies in both directions. I can put an IV and I can infuse an emotion of free fatty acids. And I can show within 20, within four hours, two to four hours. I induce severe insulin resistance in the muscle. In the liver, and I'm marketing impaired based whole function. And then we don't have this drug in the United States. But there's a drug that's available in Europe and I have an I indeed use it's called the sippamox. It inhibits lipoluses. It's like STLT2 inhibitor. The only thing to do is block glucose reabsorption in the kidney. A sippamox all it does is do block lipoluses. It lowers your FFA level. And we've done this. Is it result in any meaningful clinical increase in adiposity or is it so subtle that you don't notice it? Over 12 days, no change in adiposity, huge improvement in insulin sensitivity and muscle. You can show all of these major bias. Why is it not approved in the US? I don't know the company that developed in Europe ever tried to get it approved in the US. I would say, modestly effective in lowering triglycerides. And we have phenofibrates which are much more effective. So that may be the reason all of this drug been around for... But the triglyceride in the FFA are not the same thing. No. But that's the reason why it's approved in Europe. But if you lower the FFA, that's the precursor for triglycerides synthesis. So it has an effect to lower the triglycerides. But the key thing is if you lower the FFA and we did this for 12 days, we did it both obese people in adibetic. You markedly improve insulin sensitivity in the muscle. If using MRI, you can measure muscle fat. It goes down dramatically and correlates with the improvement in insulin sensitivity. We also measured ATP generation because this issue is this clearly mitochondrial dysfunction. If you are diabetic, that's unequivocal. The controversy is the mitochondrial dysfunction causing the insulin resistance or the insulin resistance causing the mitochondrial dysfunction. So in this study that we did when we lowered the FFA and lowered the muscle content, we saw about a 50% improvement in ATP generation, mitochondrial ATP generation. So at least this says that part of the mitochondrial dysfunction is secondary to the lipotoxicity and insulin resistance. But this still remains, I would say, a controversial topic. Clearly, it's mitochondrial dysfunction. If you can improve it, that's going to improve insulin sensitivity. Is there anything that improves mitochondrial function more than aerobic exercise trening? Pile glycosm. The drugs also. I can't get people to use, which is a phenomena. By activating Pepar Gema, it does a lot of good things. One of the important things that it does, it has a huge effect to improve mitochondrial dysfunction. It has direct effects. It also works directly through Pepar Gema to do this. It also binds directly to the mitochondrial pyrovac carrier. That influence is flux through the, through the mitochondrial chain. Why don't people use this drug today? Huge misconceptions. I guess we'll talk about therapy. We'll come back to it. It's a part of my triple therapy regimen. I use a GLP1 receptor agonist. I use Pile glycosm and I use an STLT2 inhibitor. There's a fourth good drug and that's metphorman. You might ask, well, why is metphorman number for amylist the good drug? Since I single-handedly brought metphorman to the United States in 1995. No other antichronolus involved in this. 1995 metphorman was a revolutionary drug. Why? We had insulin and cell phone Ureus. Now we had a drug that really could work. It's still a very good drug. Of course, it's cheap. It's $5 a month in the state of Texas. We have much better drugs. Pile glycosm causes weight gain. Here's the problem. It'll become very obvious. We talk about these paradoxes. The more weight gain, the greater the drop in A1C. The more weight gain, the greater the improvement in insulin sensitivity. And is it fat gain specifically? No. I'll come back to that in a second. It is fat weight gain and I also believe muscle weight gain. The more weight gain, the greater the improvement in beta cell function. The more weight gain, the greater the drop in blood pressure. The more weight you gain, the greater the drop in triglycerides. The more weight you gain, the rise in the higher the rise in H. The L cholesterol. Sounds like terrible drug, right? So here's another one of those paradoxes. So why would we know if you overeat in gain weight? That's a disaster. But with Pile glycosm, the more weight you gain, everything gets better. What Pile glycosm does is it shifts weight around in the body. In my opinion, it's the best drug for treating Nash. No drug is going to be Pile glycosm. Okay? And the pharmaceutical companies, they don't. If you had to go up against Pile glycosm, all these Nash drugs, I don't believe you can be Pile glycosm. What's the brand name for Pile glycosm? Attoes. Okay? So, the, as I said, there's this, no paradox. So why do you gain weight? Pile glycosm. It redistributes fat in the body. It gets it out of the muscle, puts it in subcutaneous tissue. It gets it out of the liver, puts in subcutaneous tissue. It gets it out of your beta cells, puts it in subcutaneous tissue. That's not going to make you gain weight. The richest density of Pile glycosm receptors in the hypothalamus. So when I activate these Pile glycosm receptors in the hypothalamus, you eat. Okay? Makes you hungry. That's got nothing to do with redistributing the fat in the body, except they parallel each other in association. And so you see the weight gain and people say, well, that's bad. But what's really doing the thing is this recycling. Okay? And moving the fat around. The other negative thing about Pile glycosm is it causes fluid retention. Okay? So people have associated fluid retention with heart failure. Now, why do you get fluid retention? Again, this is people do not understand. Pile glycosm, the only thing, the only drug that is a true insulin sensitizer is Pile glycosm. Met form and it's not a true insulin sensitizer. That total misconception. Pile glycosm, that insulin signaling defect that I told you about. Pile glycosm corrects that defect. It's incredible. So we kind of glossed over this Ralph because we're going to spare people the details, but it's probably worth just reminding people. insulin binds to the insulin receptor. Yep. That's outside the cell. Yep. Is that a, that's a, that's a, that's a kinase receptor correct. The three tyrosine molecules. Yep. And they have to be phosphorylated. Yep. And if you, in these are studies, then Ron kind of the people embossed. And you mutate one of those tyrosines. You come a little insulin resistant. You mutate two of them. You become moderately insulin resistant. You mutate three of them. You're severely insulin resistant. insulin binds to the receptor. Yep. Okay. That happens normally in diabetics. We showed that there's no problem there. Then IRS one, insulin receptor substrate one, moves in which is inside the cell, comes up. Yes. Yep. And it, it interacts with the insulin receptor. And it gets, it falls for related on the same three tyrosine molecules. And then you activate P. I. Three kinase, AKT, AS110. We could add some more molecules in here. But this is the insulin signaling pathway. That's the pathway. The earliest defect that you can show in diabetics is in that pathway. Okay. And if I recall, didn't, isn't this where Jerry argued that the intramyicellular lipid was creating the defect in that pathway, the accumulation of intramyicellular lipid? So what Jerry showed very elegantly, okay, is that there are certain lipids. D. G. That is, and it's a specific D. G. They're like several types of D. G. At molecules, which has confused things. So you show, and this is a specific one of the D. G. That activates these eight, eight typical P. K. C. molecules. And that serene phosphorylates the insulin receptor. When you serene phosphorylate the molecules in that pathway, it interacts with them. Okay. And so he's done these very nice elegance that he's both in, in, perform muscle and in the liver showing that this plays a very, very important role in the insulin resistance. This is part of the lipo toxicity. I don't believe that this is the genetic basis, the genetic ideology. This is, you get fat and you start putting fat everywhere. This is very important, critically important. And that was when he gave his banting lecture. And IMight say, I'm delighted that I got to write his letter of nomination for the Banting Lecture. He was incredibly deserving. He's done phenomenal work in this area. But that was his Banting Lecture. And you're right. Very, very, very important mechanism of insulin resistance. And so given that that's both a very important and very common pathway towards insulin resistance, bringing it back to P. Pargamma. P. Pargamma is part of the pathway. It's part of the IRS one P. Pargamma P. I. Three K. Yes. Glute for bringing the glucose in the cell. In other words, if people don't want to get mire down in this, which is totally understandable, insulin hits a receptor, that receptor kicks off a cascade that ultimately results in a little tube, being like a little straw that goes into the cell surface that allows glucose to freely flow in against its in its gradient. But remember that same pathway also activates natural oxide synthase. That's right. Generates nitrogoxide. And that's why we see in patients with insulin resistance, even if glucose is controlled cardiovascular disease is still a very important, very important point. So back to actos. Yeah. So it is. So now what does it do? It activates that signaling pathway. You generate nitrogoxide. Now you vasodilate. That's why the blood pressure drops. When you vasodilate, so I'm in a phrologist, I understand this very clearly. Anytime you end up refuse the kidney, you're a whole lot of salt and mortar. You become a deminist. Okay. And so people associate fluid retention in a demon with heart failure. So we did the definitive study. It's published in diabetes care in 2017. People just don't read. Okay. So we took people who had diabetes and we treated them with paleolidism. And then using NMR, very, very sophisticated techniques. What we showed is pale glittersone. Markidly improved my cardiovascular blood flow. Now these numbers are going to blow your mind away. Markardial insulin sensitivity with pet and flow deoxy glucose improved by 75%. Your heart we showed this before is severely ins and resistant. I came pretty damn close to normalizing it's an insulin sensitivity in your heart. Now since we're doing the insulin clamp with treated glucose, you can track it. 74% improvement in skeletal muscle insulin sense. Exactly the same. If you look at ejection fraction, it went up by 5 to 10%. Not down. It went up. If you look at every measure of diastolic dysfunction, E over E over E prime, LV peak filling pressures, et cetera, cardiology people understand this. The point is whether you're looking at systolic function or that is not function, it all got better. So it's a bit of a maybe not so nuanced thinking about the drug. Yeah. Now the critic would push back and say, okay Ralph, but don't we have better drugs like IMean? No drug that they corrects insulin resistance. That form is not an insulin sense thizer and people keep going back to this. So I brought my form into the US in 1995. I know this I did all the mechanism of action studies. And what we showed was the insulin clamp. The drug absolutely does not improve insulin sensitivity. So let's talk about that form and everybody wants to know if metformin is geo-protective, but let's just remind people. Metformin inhibits complex one of the mitochondria is that electron trensport chain is that given. Yes, and I'd say this is still controversial. And high doses for sure, yes. And the kind of doses you see with giving metformin, I would say somewhat equivocal in my opinion. So is the belief that metformin's efficacy in diabetes is through reducing hepatic glucose output? That is a hundred percent true. Okay. And what's the mechanism by which it reduces hepatic glucose output? Inhibiting the mitochondrial chain and inhibiting gluconeogenesis. Well, for sure it inhibits gluconeogenesis. Okay. Now metformin gets into cells through the organic cat ion trensporter. The organic cat ion trensporter doesn't exist in muscle. It can't possibly be an insulin sense thizer and muscle. You're asking the drug to do something that's impossible. And if you give labelled metformin. Does it get into muscle mitochondria? No, it doesn't get into muscle at all. Why does lactate go up when people are taking metformin? Level of the liver. It's interfering with a robotic metabolism. And so there's a block. And this is very important. I have erroneously always believed that some really happy to be corrected. I love being proved wrong. I have always believed that the reason we saw an increase in fasting lactate, even in healthy people if they took metformin was because of the inhibition of the ECT in skeletal muscle. No, no. And you're saying Peter's all in this not possible. It can't get into skeletal muscle? As absolutely not a single molecule in the world of metformin has ever gotten into any skeletal muscle anywhere. And tell me again why what's the trensporter? The organic cat ion trensporter. That's the trensporter at by which metformin enters cells. It does not exist in skeletal muscle. It does not exist in cardiac muscle. So metformin cannot get into these tissues. It's a huge major misconception. It can, if you have very, very high doses that can occur when you have very low GFR because metformin is excretive by the kidney. If the metformin levels build up, you can get lactate gas doses. That's a very, very rare complication. This is not a reason why you shouldn't be using the metformin. And I'm not saying that metformin is not a good drug. It is a good drug. I don't think it's as good as the other three drugs we talked about. But yes, it does at high doses increase elactate level, all in effect on the liver. And the old drug that caused all the problem was fenformin, and by one eye as well. But it had a powerful effect. Your fenformin was much more powerful. Yes. And that's why people were afraid to bring metformin to the US. And when you say high dose, IMean, is two grams a day of metformin? No, that's the normal dose. That's normal dose. Okay. So metformin has the following going for it. It's free. Yes, it's basically free. Yes, it's free. Absolutely. And it does a pretty good job at reducing hepatic glucose output. And it has no myotoxicity. Correct. Frankly, any toxicity. Yeah, the GI, but you can usually overcome that with a slow ramp up. Yeah. And see, this is the reason why some people thought it's an insulin sensor dizer. 15 to 20% of people have significant GI side effects and they lose weight. And if you look at the studies on average, there's about a three kilogram weight loss with metformin. And when you lose weight, you can improve insulin sensitivity. So I think this is what's confused some of the old literature to make people think that metformin was an insulin sensor dizer. But when we developed metformin, and I did all of the work that went to the FDA, if you look at the New England Journal Medicine article, 1995, they're only two names on the paper, myself and a PhD oncology lady who was the person from Leapha Farm Bersuticals. We did insulin clamps. Many of them. We never could show metformin improvements. And then you said, David, using the gold standard with rayo isotopes. Do you think many people, I feel like I'm asking you this question a lot and it's getting a little old. But do you get the sense that most people are still thinking what I think? Which is that metformin gets into the muscle, metformin's an insulin sensor dizer. And it's an insulin sensor dizer by getting into the muscle and inhibiting complex one. Absolutely. Yeah, okay. People have done pet studies. So you can label metformin and you give it. Okay. And then where do you see? It's all accumulating in the liver. Okay. And the firsT3, four, five, ten minutes. And then what happens? You start to see it accumulating in the kidney. Okay. Why? Because that's where it's excreted. And then wait another five or ten minutes. You see water. Water. Okay. And that's the only place where you see metformin. You never see it in a muscle. Okay. And that's even more graphic demonstration. You know, that metformin is not getting into muscle. And it is definitely not an insulin sensor dizer. Is there a downside to using metformin in combination with the other three drugs of which we know? Nope. The classic study which we'll talk about, which to me should change the entire approach to treating diabetes. It's called the E-DIC study. And in the E-DIC study, what we did is we used triple therapy right from the beginning. And my point of the banting lecture, the ominous octet. If you have eight problems, and I'm sure it's going to be more to be found than I can give you a few more if you want. But if you have eight problems, why in the world do you think one drug is going to correct eight problems? And it could happen in our lifetime. So the point was you need to use drugs in combination. So we said we're going to use what, what we think are the best drugs at the time. So we started with metformin with the Xenotite. And all time GLP one. This is not the kingpin. This is the pre-lear glutite. Yeah, exactly. Because that's what was available. That drug was useless. Wasn't it? No, it's a good drug. Wait, sure. It's not some a glutite. Yeah, it's not that. But you have to start some. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no. Let's pay it. It's due as being the Gen 1 OG version of that drug. Was that which we might not have? We wouldn't have some a glutite or a chisper type. Yes. So it's kind of an old time. And in P.O. Lidso that was the triple therapy. Okay. And then we said every diabetic patient that 315 people in the study, they're having insulin clamps, hyperglycemia clamps, muscle biceps, known in the world can do this study. 315 people follow for six years. Okay. So we said, this is what we believe is the appropriate therapy. And then we said, we'll use the ADA approach. The ADA approach is you start a metformant. Okay. And when you fail, even not explicitly said the next drug that you use this cell phone, you're is. And then the third drug that's added is insulin. And we said that the goal of therapy was an A1C of six and a half. Okay. And that if you're A1C rose above six and a half, either on archipel therapy or on the stepwise treat to fail approach that the ADA says, ADA says, start metformant. You fail. You add cell phone. You're real. You fail. You add insulin. You titrate the insulin basal insulin. So it's up to 60 units. And we said 60 units is really will cap it because you're already a two X physical object. And now you have to now split the dose of insulin. You have to be adding rapid acting insulin. I think this is quite reasonable. Six years later. Okay. 29% of the people with the ADA approach have failed. The A1C is above six and a half. Six years later with our approach, 70% of the people have an A1C that's less than six and a half. Why? insulin clamp. Huge improvement with our therapy. Okay. This is the EDX study. The three-year data published the six-year data we're writing it up. How much improvement in insulin sensitivity with the ADA approach? Zero. Beta cell function. You have almost a normal beta cell. Who are off? Why the disconnect between between what you're seeing in the EDX study and what the ADA is promoting? You have to ask the ADA. What's their answer? If I'm a patient and I'm or if I'm a physician who's treating these patients and I'm saying guys I'm confused. I'm looking at the literature. I'm seeing this. I'm looking at your- I'm by the way, I see this with the AHA and cardiovascular guidance. So I'm not singling out you or your- Yeah. But like, is this simply a question of the pace at which medicine moves is so glacial? That's part of it. Plus, remember, if to do three and a 15 people, follow them for 16 years and do all this stuff we did, it's not equivocal. And why has there not been political pressure? Because the cost of insulin is enormous and more approach is going to be less expensive. They finally said in 2022, this is statement. The ADA approach is not based on pathophysiology. I view myself as a scientist, okay? As well as a clinician. As a good clinician, I taken care of hundreds of thousands of patients and I've done 850 publications. I do clinical research. I work in people. When I do an insulin clamp study and I see an improvement in insulin sensitivity, I do a hyperglycemic clamp and I see in 315 people, your base of function, I don't need 5,000 people. I don't need- I can't do this study in 5,000 people. No one can do this study. But the tools that we're using are so powerful. Look, if I normalize your insulin sensitivity and I give you a normal beta cell and your A1C is less than 6 and a half and it's half of the 315 people, why you not think that's the best therapy. Okay? And now on the other side, I have this metformin-SU insulin and that 71% of the people have failed. There's zero improvement in insulin sensitivity. Zero improvement in beta cell function. Well, you think that's a good regimen. And now above and beyond all that, I didn't do this study. This is the great study. G-R-A-D-E. It's sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. And what the great study said is- and I have to say this is the third study that's shown when I'm going to tell you. Dr. Robert Turner's United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Studies showed this in your 1990. Stephen Kahn showed this in the adopt study in year 2005. And now we have the great study. 2020. I called this the 15-year Revolution. Revelation. We saw what didn't work 1990. Oh, Stephen Kahn did it again. Oh, it didn't work in 2005. And now 2020, and I did it. You know what? All show the same thing. And this was a sequential approach. You had to fail on metformin to get into this study. Okay, so you failed in metformin. Then you entered the study. Then we go single agent. I can, they, they want to know what's the best next drug to add to metformin. I can add a cell for all you're, yeah. A when see went down in year one, up straight. I can add, tell folks how a cell for all your rear works. Yeah, cell for all your rear is our old time drugs. They bind to the cell phone area receptor on the beta cell and the kick out insulin. And they're very good drugs in the first year. And then they burn out the pancreas. And well, they stop working. Yeah, IMean basically, they don't, they kick the can down the road without addressing the pathophysiology. It, that, I like that way. Yes. Then, other drug, DPP for inhibitor. Tell people how those work. So a DPP for inhibitor increases your GLP1 and your GIP level. And, and dodgously, it makes your gastrointestinal cells the K and the L cells that secret the GLP1 and GIP makes them make more GLP1 and GIP. But it, it doesn't increase the GLP1 and GIP enough to really give you a knockout punch. I give you an injection. You all, people are out there, uh, MontGiro or SamogluTide. That's the knockout punch. Okay. When I give you the DPP for inhibitors, they, yeah, they, they do increase the GLP1 and GIP a little bit, but not powerful enough to give you a long lasting effect. So first year, A1C comes down, A1C goes up. Uh, third drug, that, this was very surprising to me. This was LerigluTide. This is one of the earlier GLP1 receptor drugs. Yeah. I thought that was going to work the best. It failed. It worked in the first year and then failed. And then the fourth drug was insulin. And the, the docs just didn't type to ate the insulin enough. So A1C had that and then they failed. So five years later, all four of those regimens added to metphonement failed. Triple therapy, Exendotype, an old time GLP1, PLL, which people don't appreciate. The only true insulin sets thyser and metphonement, six years later, you're 70% of the people have an A1C less than seven. And, and let's just go back. Metphonement is free. The Gen 1, uh, Exendotype. Exendotype. Exendotype. Basically free. It's basically free now. PLL Litison is five dollars a month. Okay. So we have three free drugs that work better. Correct. Now it's interesting. When you talk about today's triple therapy, which is way more efficacious, different to those three drugs are very expensive. Yes. Yes. GLT2 inhibitors are very expensive and the modern day Gen 3, Gen 4, and soon we'll have a Gen 5. Yeah. GLP1, they're very pricey. If they're $1000 a month for the, yeah. Now are they great drugs? So thEQuestion is of course. Yes. But, but I guess thEQuestion is, do they do you need to be on those drugs if your old version of triple therapy? Our old version is incredibly effective. The problem is you can't get people to use PLL Litison. And the reason is the patients are frustrated with the fact that they're retaining water? Uh, no, more that they, they wait game weight. How much weight do they gain typically? How many do they gain? The pens on the dose. Like I don't go to the 45 milligrams, those. So at the end of the year, they may gain two or two and a half kilos at the 15 and 30 milligrams dose. Okay. But there anyone sees control? So you have to explain to people. Here's another incredible thing. So there was a cardiovascular. This is truly incredible. By the way, I'm sorry to interrupt you again. If you give PO plus a modern day G, G, 1, we've done offset the weight. Okay. Oh, you lose all the weight. You go lose with the G, L, and receptor. So if a patient is willing to go down the path of a modern day G, L, P, 1, that's because of that completely eliminate. Absolutely. And he also gets rid of the edema. Yeah. And believe me, there, everyone sees her down in the normal range. You know, if you took my hands. So let me tell you this first thing about PO, L, is on an proactive comeback movement. Yeah. If this. So in the proactive study, this was done long time ago. You have to show cardiovascular safety. 5,238 people to get in the study. You had to have an MI stroke of something bad. Have people on PO, L, is on have to people on placebo. Okay. And the MACE endpoint, major adverse cardiovascular events, which is non-failm i, non-fatal stroke cardiovascular mortality, you have to show the benefit to get approval by the FDA. The MACE endpoint was positive. Okay. And so when I talk to cardiologists, I like to say, what was the one thing in the PO glycosone that predicted that you would not die? They don't know. You know what the one thing that predicted that you wouldn't die? Wait game. Hmm. So I jokingly say, look, you can either be a little fat in alive or you can be lean in dead, which one you're going to pick. I think I go for being a little bit chubby. So again, but now, that's not even a necessary comparison. You don't even need to make that trade off with a modern day GOP, what I'm going to say. And we've done this and we've done this. If you tied my hands behind my back and said, Ralph, you can only pick one drug. I would pick one of the newer GOP ones. They're incredible drugs. Now, but that's not what I'm going to do. Even for a lean diabetic? They're a little bit different story, but the answer is basically yes. Okay. But let me narrow that down a little bit. If I had to pick two drugs, I would pick peeled littison with one of the newer drugs. And for sure, if you had any kind of renal of cardiac disease, I'm going to pick an STLT2 inhibitor. But I would say, although this study will never be done, if you're a newly diagnosed diabetic, you don't have any cardiac symptoms. Why do you think that the STLT2 inhibitor is not doing all of the beneficial things in that newly diagnosed diabetic that it's doing and the people who get into these studies already have cardiac disease. So if you have a cardiac problem, I put you on the STLT2 inhibitor. You're less likely to have MI stroke, et cetera. It's doing good things. It's doing, in my opinion, the exact same good thing and someone who I'm just diagnosing for the first time when I put them on the STLT2 inhibitor. But no one is ever going to do a study. It's impossible. I'm going to take 1,000 people you have to take 5, you probably have to take 20,000 people, newly diagnosed. And then 10,000 going, STLT2 and 10,000 on placebo. I'm going to follow them for 20 years to see who's going to have their heart attack. No one's going to do that study. Are they going to get all kinds of drugs? So no one is going to be able to show. But that's sort of like, yeah, that's never going to happen. But I also don't think it needs to happen in the same way that I agree with you. In the same way that we saw, for example, you know, PCSK9 inhibitors reduced mace in people with secondary prevention. Yeah. Take people who had already suffered mace, put them on a PSPSK9 inhibitor, you secondary prevention reduce subsequent. Well, of course, everybody's using these for primary prevention. Now that's effectively what you're saying. Sure. We already know the STLT2 works for secondary prevention that may never get approval for primary prevention. But it probably justifies it's a way of playing it. Yeah. I agree with you 100%. So just to make sure I'm synthesizing what you're saying, Ralph, if you only get one drug and your price agnostic, GOP1 agnist, if you get to add a second drug, you're going to add PO. If you get a third drug, especially if you care about your heart, STLT2. Yes, STLT2. What's amazing is metformin didn't even make the top three in your list. But it's never for it. But so here's my question. Given that metformin is free, yeah. Should we just be adding it the second we put on the GOP1? I don't have any problem with that. Yep. And also we have to be cognizant of the fact, you know, these new GOP ones, they're what they're supposed to be. Yeah, but they're $1000 a month. Yeah. So, you know, I want to ask you about that. So, so the just again for the listeners, right? The semi-glutides Gen 3 Trezzepotide is Gen 4. Reddit TrueTide is coming out assuming the phase 3 goes according to plan. And Kagee Sema is the new Nova one. Yeah. So here, let's go back to Reddit TrueTry. Yeah. GLP1. Yeah. GIP. And Glucogon. Glucogon. Can you explain that in the context of the octet? Where Glucogon is going up? Yeah. I can. I think. Okay. But it's not proving. All right. Okay. So, remember, I told you that insulin knocks down Glucogon. So, if I give you a GLP1 receptor agonist and I kick out insulin and I get you well insulinized, any negative effect that might be related to Glucogon is going to be updated. Okay. So, that Glucogon effect to drive a paddock glucose production will be totally blunted by the insulin secretory effect. And see, this is the other thing about this is me about these GLP1s. These are the best drugs in the world for losing weight. These are the best drugs in the world for saving your beta cell. People, I told you that when you eat a meal 70% of the insulin that's secreted is coming from the GLP1 and the GIP. People are not talking about this effect on the beta cell. This, I told you, if you want to look at type 2 diabetes, big problems beta cell failure insulin resistance. These GLP1s, they're saving your beta cell. IMean, we forgot about we've come so enamored with the weight loss. And I don't want to downplay that at all because the weight loss and the lipo toxicity, a huge problem is causing the insulin resistance. But people are forgotten how powerful the drugs are on the beta cell. So, when I give you this drug and they work on the beta cell with kick out insulin, any negative thing that GLP1s doing will be totally negated. Now, you may see some good things that GLP1s are doing that we couldn't appreciate before. So, what are the good things? Some people have suggested that the increase is thermogenesis energy expenditure. I don't believe that. There are animal data. I don't believe this in human. I believe that it's exerting an inorectic effect in the central nervous system. That is, I think, yet to be established. Pretty sure there's that is going on now at the Pennington Institute. And maybe also in Orlando where they have these chambers where you can. Yeah, yeah. So, I think we'll get an answer about you know, energy expenditure. I, yeah, I would be surprised if they're going to see a clinically meaningful increase in non-involent energy expenditure. I think it's all appetite. And here's another issue, okay? So, it is very interesting if you look at all these big GLP1s studies, cardiovascular. What's the reduction in cardiovascular events? Almost uniformly 20%. All dudes, ex-enitide, et cetera, Lyrgyl, et new dudes, 20%. Even though the weight loss with the new ones is much greater. I suspect in terms of cardiovascular benefit, there is a cap that once you've lost a certain amount of weight and you've gotten a certain amount of lipo toxicity and all the good things that these drugs are doing, you don't go beyond that. Even though you're losing more weight. And also, if you look at the A1c, you know, yes, Monjaro does drop the A1c a little bit more than Semaglu-Tide, but they're both pretty powerful. Retouritide does a little bit more than the Cardi-Cardi-Sema do a little bit more, but they don't do a lot more. So, I also think there's also going to be a somewhat of a cap on how much you drop the A1c. You know, you get two and a half percent drop. Can you drop iT3? Do you need to drop iT3? So, you're saying if a person shows up with a, let me go up in A1c of nine and a half percent. Yep. This is a person who hasn't come to medical attention soon enough. And I'm going to give you the answer definitively, but I'm a little bit just to ask thEQuestion. You're happy if they only go from nine and a half percent to seven percent. If they only had a two and a half percent drop, you wouldn't try to get them down to six percent. I would and we've done this study. Okay. All-time guys, all right. So, this is called the Cotars Study. So, there's this concept that's out there and again, people don't what's always amazing to me. What drives me as science? If you understand pathophysiology and this in abnormality and you correct the abnormality, things get better. Okay? So, in the Cotars Study, and there are 220 people who are so in the study. To get into the Cotars Study, you had to be poorly controlled and met form in cell following real. So, you had to have failed on this. And the average A1c was about 10. And about a third of these people were symptomatic, meaning they had polyuretholic dips here, they were losing weight. And so, the current concept is, in those people, you would put them on a mixed split insulin regimen. You would get rid of the glucotoxicity, you would get rid of the lipotoxicity, and you get their A1c down to six and a half. And then, now you could put them back on the oral medications or whatever. And now they respond because you got rid of the glucotoxicity in lipotoxicity. We said, well, that may or may not be true. So, we said, well, half of these people are starting with an A1c above 10. We'll go on a mixed split insulin regimen, okay? With a large union of rapid acting insulin. And the other half, I got to go on that old dude, ex-editide, MPO-gletizo, one of the people I like to use, okay? Three years later, the A1c in the group with the mixed split insulin regimen is 7.1%. And we're very good at insulin. Why couldn't we go lower? Because we got into trouble with hypoglycemia, okay? The A1c in the group, treated with ex-editide and PO-litisone is 6.1%. And so, then we said, okay, look, we'll do a subgroup analysis. And so, about one third of the people were, we'll just look at the people who are symptomatic. The starting A1c is 12.2. Three years later, their A1c is 6.1. How long? 6.1? Three years later? 12? Yeah. 12.2 symptomatic. On which combination? He's an Italian PO-gletisone. Without even metformin. Without they'd fail or metformin, they'd get into the study, okay? So, what we're saying? Look, if you have drugs that correct the insulin resistance, that's PO-gletisone. Again, Ralph, this is almost impossible for me to imagine. I can send you all the papers. I'll publish, but I just, I hope every single family medicine internist, everyone who ever takes care of somebody with diabetes is listening. I also do, because you're basically saying, we can take these two old, cheap drugs and take someone from the most brittle type two diabetes. IMean, a hemoglobin A1c of 12, very mad. We're knocking on death's door. Correct. You're going to go blind. Yep. You're going to have your toes amputated. You're not ever going to have an erection again. And you're going to die of cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or Alzheimer's diseasEQuickly. These numbers, I don't have a telly there right from the paper, and it's a lie. It's over 200 people. And in a couple of years, on two old, cheap drugs, you're normal. Yep. And what makes these studies so solid is we have very sophisticated pathophysiologic measurements. No one can do what we do. So the only way back is those patients are going to have to gain a couple of kilograms of, but of course, if you're willing to now spend a bit more money and switch them from Gen 1 to Gen 3 to Gen 4, GLP 1, Agnist and GIP, then all of a sudden you ameliorate that and you get all the benefits. This becomes an on-issue. If it puts costs the side. In fact, if you, I would wonder if you add metformin, you almost cancel out the weight gain a little bit. Because you might get a little bit of the GI improvement and you get the two to three kilos of weight loss there. Minus. These drugs are so powerful and you put them with peel, lit a zone. You don't get the, you lose almost the same amount of weight. They're huge in terms of getting you to lose, lose weight. Which was that study? This is called thEQatar. It was done in Qatar. QA. I think Qatar are the country. The country. I need to give credit to Dr. Muhammad Abdu Ghani, who's been my coworker and all of these studies. My amends on the faculty at UT in our diabetes division. Can we at least assume that the Gulf states are paying attention to this? A the study was done in Qatar. B the Gulf states are disproportionately ravaged by Type II diabetes. Yep. Is it at least being heated there? They are. And I can tell you we have a big program that's going on there as well as in Kuwait. And we actually have a formal cooperative agreement with the Kuwaiti people. So at the Dazman Diabetes Institute, we have trened them. My people have been there, trened them how to do these insulin collapse and sophisticated metabolic studies. And they take here the patients and we're comparing the genetic. So here's another thing that's pretty exciting that we're doing. So again, it's looking for genes that cause diabetes. So you eat a meal. Okay, you eat a meal. Your glucose goes up. That's a great insulin. There's, IMean, no acids in the meal. That's a great insulin. And GLP1 goes up and that's a great insulin. So now, when you eat a meal, there are already three stimuli. And now you're looking for a gene or a set of genes that might be associated with beta cell failure. When you have three stimuli, now that's going to be pretty confusing. So what we said, what maybe what we should do is that we should do a three step hybrid lysemic clamp. So we give you three steps of glucose and we can get beta cell sensitivity to glucose. From the slope, I give you a little rise in glucose and other rise in glucose and other rise in glucose. I see how much CPAPTide comes up. The slope of that curve is that's beta cell sensitivity to glucose. And then the M value is where it hits the axis. And then I can get glucose. But this is just now I'm going to focus on the beta cell. Okay. Because the hyper lysemic clamp is just for beta cell okay. And then after that, now I'm going to give you GLP1 infusion. And I'm going to see how much insulin comes out. And then after that, I'm going to give you an balanced amino acid infusion. I'm going to see how much insulin comes out. So you can sequentially measure the differenT3 different stimuli. And now what we see is different low-side. Some are associated with the effect in glucose. Some are associated with the defect in amino acid. So again, the more you can refine the phenotype, the more likely you are to identify defects that are at the level of the beta cell. Let's go back to the guitar study for a second. How many people were in that study? About 2020. Okay. Big study when you do these insulin clamps, these kind of measurements are not easy to do. That was published one. Let's see. I would say the one and a half year data would probably about 2018. And the three year data I would say 2021-22, something like that. I can send you all the references. Will link to all of these in our show notes for folks. Yeah, just simply phenomenal. Let me ask a question. If you take an individual with type 2 diabetes or insulin resistance and you presumably collecting urinary CPAP type for 24 hours is the best surrogate for insulin, total insulin secretion? No. Well, it's an index. Okay. So if you could quantify total area under the curve of insulin for a person and then you gave them a GLP1 agonist, is total insulin going up or down? The pens. Because you have competing factors going on here. And I'm not trying to be elusive because I don't know. What I'm telling you is actually real. It's what happens. So the drug is going to kick out insulin and CPAP type is going to go up. And now the glucose is going to come down. And then you need less insulin. And then you need less. So depending upon the relationship, okay, when you look at absolute terms, okay, the CPAP that insulin levels actually may be lower. But now when you express how much CPAP type comes up for the rise in glucose, huge increase. Okay. So you always have to have in a something that you compare it to and that's the increment in glucose. And anytime you look at how much insulin comes out or CPAP type, which is another confusing fact, which I'll mention in a second, you always have to relate it to the glucose area. When you do that, a huge increase in beta cell function. Okay. And the other thing you have to be very careful about is you need to be measuring CPAP type not insulin. And because what we've shown is that when, and this is a compensatory mechanism. Maybe just tell folks, I threw out CPAP type as though everybody knew what it is. That's a mistake. Tell people what CPAP type isn't what its relationship is to insulin. Yeah. So when you ingest a meal, you, they're saying precursor that contains both CPAP type and insulin pro-insulin. And so you split off CPAP type and you split off insulin. And they both come out in the one-to-one molaracio. The problem is half of the insulin that comes out is taken up by the liver. So you never see it in the circulating bloodstream. The CPAP type is not taken up by the liver. So everything that comes out you see in the circulation. So when we want to know how much insulin was secreted, we actually don't measure the insulin. We measure the CPAP type. And that's the true measure. Now the other confounding feature here is we show this and this is now been reproduced by many other people is that when you become insulin resistant in diabetic, your beta cells don't secret enough insulin. That's one of the big defects. How do you compensate? You don't destroy the insulin that's secreted. So the degradation of insulin becomes markedly impaired. So you can have a high insulin level either because you secret too much insulin or because you don't destroy the insulin. So measuring the insulin level is not a good measure of beta cell function. If you want to know about insulin secretion, measure the CPAP type and express it per rise in glucose. It gets a little bit more clouded because your beta cell also can recognize how insulin resistant you are. And so it knows, look, if you're this insulin resistant, I need to secret more insulin. If you're a very insulin sensitive like your lean person with normal glucose tolerance, you don't want to secret much insulin or you get high-bolglycemic. How does your beta cell recognize that? Well that's some controversial, I can give you my thoughts about it. But in either case, so measuring beta cell function is not just simply measuring insulin. That's probably bad. Your measuring CPAP that is better. measuring CPAP type, paris and glucose is better. And then for somewhere and other, if you can express this all, per insulin resistance, this is called the disposition index, something that Dr. Stephen Kahn developed with Daniel Port many, many years ago. So simply looking as I said as insulin or trying to do an OGTT and come up and say you know how the beta cell is working, that's not so good. And that's why I say like in the contours study in the EDIC study, we're doing such sophisticated measures of insulin sensitivity and beta cell function. You do 350 people, that's like doing one of these big cardiovascular studies with 5000 people in it. The pathophysiology will always tell you the truth in my opinion. If you know what the problem is and you correct the problem, the A1C is going to get better. A8A does not emphasize pathophysiology, you know? You had geracial men on it. I'm sure Gerrie will tell you exactly the same in I think very simply, you understand what causes a disease and then you can come with the treatment that will make it work. Do you have any concerns with long-term safety or anything other than simply the economics of the GLP ones in this current generation? Again, huge, huge leap forward between Lyra Glutide and Semiclutide. And I've discussed briefly elsewhere on the podcast what the roadmap looks like for how many of these drugs are in the pipeline. Oh yeah. There seems to be no end in sight. We're going to look back at Semiclutide and say God, that thing was pedestrian. That's going to happen. So give us the bear case. What should we be concerned with? What should be at least looking out for it? Yeah. I would say, overall at the present time, I would consider these drugs to bEQuite safe. The major issues, Jeff, they'll go slow because of the GI toxicity. Where is the controversy involved and it's something that I'm involved with myself? When you lose 20 or 30% of your body weight, you lose muscle mass. Okay? Now, I just gave a talk on this to one of the pharmaceutical companies that involved in this area. I'm not going to name the name of the pharmaceutical company. But I started off by saying, look, here is now a study with real data. This is a gastric bypass surgery study, room-wide bypass. And the people lost, I think it was 33% of their body weight. And their lean body mass came down quite significantly. One of the problems is people make your lean body mass and that's not a real measure of muscle mass. In fact, it can be a very bad measure. You should measure muscle mass. But let's assume that the lean body mass largely reflects the reasonable assumption of muscle mass. So muscle mass came down. Okay? So why is that so bad? But how much did it come down? Because if your total body mass came down by 33% buT3Quarters of that mass was fat. Yeah. And only onEQuarter of that was lean. We would consider that acceptable. And this is where the controversy is because no one is really measured muscle mass. That's right. We're doing it. Okay. We will have it definitively. And you're doing that with MR. Yeah. Okay. So it's gold standard. Okay. But now I said, look, in this study, they measured absolute strength. You can do grip strength or leg strength. And absolute strength went down a little bit. Okay? Maybe 25%. With these patients exercising during the period. No, no, no, no, no. No. No. No. No. Then they said, let's express strength as a weight loss. Yeah. Who? By 50%. Per appendicular goes up by 50%. And then they said, how far can they walk? They went from walking 200 yards to two miles. And then say, one of the things is how many times can you get up out of a chair in a certain period of time? And it increased like three or four fold. And they measured your VO2 max. Of course, which is heavily dependent on weight as well. Yeah. It all got better. But in absolute terms, the VO2 max get better, not necessarily. The total VO2, not normalized per kilogram. No. Everything got better. Okay. So I said, so why you guys? That's counterintuitive, by the way. Normally when you lose weight, VO2 max and leaders per minute does not improve because you have less metabolic tissue. But here, for whatever the reasons are maybe all of the fat that's pushing on your lungs. So you can't oxygenate the epocardial fat that's not allowed in the heart to contract. The fat that's in the heart is causing myocardial lipotoxid, which I believe is real. These things are all changing in a positive way. So again, it's a balance. So yeah. So of course, they don't like this. Because if the people in, they had all kinds of psychological questionnaires. Why weren't they happy with these results? Well, because they, now the companies are all looking at developing drugs that will preserve the muscle mass or increase the muscle mass. But basically what I'm saying is that look, there's a huge, it's lean body mass. But we have to say, it's reflecting muscle mass. Everything gets better. The patient feels better. They can walk better. They feel stronger, et cetera, et cetera. Why are you so worried about muscle mass? Like, I look all these gloomy faces because they're all developing mice that inhibitors are and so then the next slide comes up and says, retort. Here's a good thing. Okay. So now, if you lose all of this body weight and you improve insulin sensitivity and muscle, and you improve it in the heart and there are cardiovascular benefits and you correct the improvement in all of the cardiovascular risk factors. Now, even though you lost muscle mass, if you've improved insulin sensitivity, there may be any enormous benefit of seeing the improvement in the muscle insulin sensitivity, even though you've lost muscle mass. And they do have some concerns about these drugs, these amounts that never, that actually may have some negative effects in the heart. And my suggestion is actually, you may find a big improvement in my cart of function from these, how cl- where are myostatin inhibitors in their development, right? Thanks, too. Yeah. And of course, I think we've talked about myostatin before on the podcast. When you inhibit myostatin, you increase the expression of striated muscle, of which cardiac is striated. It was through the event to A and to B system. Do you think that's a more promising pathway than the follow-statin pathway where follow-statin Yes, I do. Increasing, increasing follow-statin inhibits myostatin, but this is a more direct way to go about it. This is a more direct way to do it. So you can either have their antibodies by a group of to myostatin or you can interfere with the signaling receptor itself. And we think that this can still be effective in a fully developed and mature adult. IMean, clearly this would be effective during development. And we see that in the animal. Yeah. Is it how effective is it? Because a lot of the animal work is sort of a character sure stuff. It's knockouts, right? They take myostatin knockouts and they look like bodybuilders. Yeah. But if you take a mature chicken or a mouse that's two years old and you give it a myostatin antibody, how robust is the response? Even more so, let about in human. Yeah, exactly. We don't know the answer to that. So what the phase two studies, obviously the toxicity passed in phase one. Yes, yeah. I'm not concerned. There doesn't seem to be any adverse effect of these drugs or they wouldn't got through phase two. And there are actually some fairly large phase two medication. The indica. Is it a sarcopeneo? I don't know. You know, the FDA, if you have a sarcopeneic disease, there are criteria that the FDA has established. If you want to develop a drug that you have to meet certain criteria, I'm not an expert in this. So I can't tell you exactly what these criteria are. But they're pretty well established. Okay? Now, for these kind of people and I'm going to come back, you asked me about lean people, come back that in a second, because this is really an issue. What? Let's say I put you on a gelp1 receptor against the new loss 25% of your body weight. And I put you on a mice that inhibitor and that prevented the muscle loss didn't increase it, but just prevented it. So relatively. But that would be ridiculous. IMean, if you took a 200 pound individual, whose 30% body fat. So they've got 60 pounds of adipose tissue on them. Yep. If you took 25% of their body weight off, you take them down to 150 pounds. But you're telling me potentially we prevent any deterioration of lean mass. Yeah. That means they're down to 10 pounds of fat mass on 150 pounds of lean. So I'm making an assumption. Okay. This is remarkable. Yeah. So let's say that happened. Okay. What would be the FDA's criteria? I'm going to give you approval for this drug. I think the FDA would ask that you've also improved function in some way. Yes. And the function would probably be have to be determined through absolute strength, not relative strength would be my guess. So I don't know the answer to this question. Because that's it. Because the way I think about these drugs is less about that situation. It's more in the it's more in the sarcopenic adult. This is the lead, particularly the old person. That's right. That's right. This is the elderly individual who's sarcopenic. Yes. Fall risk is enormous. Yes. And their risk of fall and morbidity and mortality is very high. Yeah. And in that individual, I don't think the FDA will be satisfied with simply an increase in lean body mass unless it is accompanied by strength. Now, I think that some of the tests that are used here are silly. I think the six minute walk test should be folded up. This card put in the waist basket and never discussed again. It is such a stupid test. They do it all the time. I know they do and kind of just makes me want to scream. Yeah. We need much more rigorous tests than a six minute walk test. We need a test that is actually more of a sub maximal test. So if we're testing cardi respiratory fitness or some sort of peak aerobic fitness, we have to do more than walking. And if we're testing strength, IMuch prefer grip strength, leg extension, bench press. Again, these can be done with machines. They can be done very safely. But we really need to test strength. Well, you see, you're raising very important in critical issues. Because there are many, many companies that are going ahead with these drugs. That increase muscle mass. But to me, okay, increasing muscle mass, what does that mean? It needs to be some functional trenslation of that. And by the way, there could be other functional benefits that exceed strength. For example, glucose disposal could be a function. That's the one that's put at the top of the list. That's right. Get rid of the insulin resistance. That they have to, they won't give them credit for that. I don't think. Yeah. But I think that again, it's harder to tease out because there's more moving pieces and they might argue there are easier ways to increase insulin sensitivity glucose disposal. But one way to think about this is to go back to what if you did it the old fashion way? What if you got in the gym and lifted a bunch of weights? That's been done. Yeah. And it increases insulin sensitivity and functional strength. And so thEQuestion is, can we replicate that pharmacologically? And that is actually exactly the way I ended my discussion to these people. I showed them what resistance trening did. And if you could show what resistance trening did with your muscle mass increase, then you'd have something. But you need to design this studies appropriately. And as I said, as you said, I don't know what the criteria are going to be that the FDA uses to judge these things. They do have a sarcopenia set of criteria. But that's a very different group of people that we're talking about. But this comes and hits on one of the things you asked me earlier. What about the lean person who's 80 years of age? Is this the right drug for that person? I don't know. Maybe not. But now let's say you have a healthy, 80 year old person and everybody in the family lives to be 105. And they have diabetes. Well, they're at risk to, you know, the toxic effects of hyperlaseemia would it be reasonable to treat that person? We know this powerful effects on the beta cell. I would say it would bEQuite reasonable. But I think you need to monitor what's happening to their weight and other features. Here's a bigger issue. Childhood obesity. You are obese when you're four years of age. You're going to be obese when you're at that. And your life expectancy will be significantly and your quality of life will be significantly reduced. Now, I can even better. At lessons, these young kids with diabetes, they don't respond to any of the drugs. What is the prevalence of type 2 diabetes in under 18? It's increasing, but I would say maybe around 4 or 5 percent something like that. 5, 120 teenagers has type 2 diabetes. I guess I'm biased by San Antonio, because we have more people with type 2 diabetes in our clinic. But you could say potentially in San Antonio, one out of 2018 and you're going to be very high. That is for average or pre-divies. And I'll tell you about the pre-divies that we did. So now, let's say you're, and we know these studies are out there. These kids, and this began in age, sponsored study. They don't respond to metform itself, all you read is they don't respond to any drugs very well. Even the GOP one I can ask? The first study has just come out that respond better. It's a little agglutite study. They don't have any of the two. But if you're just clinically, if you're in the clinic, and you're treating them without, you know, you're using the best drugs you have available. Here's, here's your travel. And we know, why? Because you can't get them control. Why? There's an ink. There are so insulin resistant, much more more so than adults. These are well published studies. Is this not so much? Is the causality here not? Is this really a selection bias where for someone to develop type 2 diabetes as a 16 year old, the underlying genetics and pathology are so severe that the current crop of drugs are the problem as opposed to when you take the current crop of drugs and you apply them to people who are young, they don't work. All three, because I'm a bit more, genetic predisposition. So Hispanic population is problem. Obesity, all of these kids are huge. Okay. So you don't have the lean diabetic phenotype in the age. Nine of these people. And then the drugs don't work very well. And so all three of these things. And what now is come. It's called the rise study. And these kids have been followed up. They're starting to develop kidney disease. They're even, I'm told a couple of people have had MIs in their 20s. They're incredibly difficult to control. What do you think? IMean, not that, IMean, yes, we're going to argue that these kids are that this is due to what they're eating. But what is it in the environment that is so a piece of genetic to these kids? I'll come back to this in a second. But I want to raise the issue now. Let's say you're 16 and you don't met moments of these drugs or not. You're anyone see us nine? You can put someone on my jarrel. And they're going to have to take this for the rest of their life. Because as soon as you stop the drug goes on. So this is what I treat the person, of course. I can't let the A would see nine. But if you take that 16 year old with a hemoglobin one, two, nine, and you give them a jarrel. Where are they in a year? I think that if they can afford the drug and they stay on the drug, the three big gifts, if the doctor knows what to do, I know what to do. If the patient will cooperate with you, if you don't, they'll lose every time. And if they can afford. If you can satisfy those three F's, that person we know from the studies be pretty well controlled. And insurance, what fraction of insured patients will have coverage on Mingero if their A1C is nine? I don't, I can't answer that. But does CMS cover it? Does Medicaid cover that? Yes, if you have diabetes. I don't know. The Mingero coverage I think is pretty good if you have diabetes. If you have obesity, that's a different, if you have obesity without. That's a whole different issue. Should you be treating these young kids who are obesity is a disease. It's got all kinds of problems. Should you put these young kids on these newer drugs? And knowing that all I did is change you from food addiction to drug addiction. I didn't do anything else. It's almost like alcohol addiction, okay? There are drugs that things I can give you that can help you, but it tend to relapse. Food addiction, I put you on the drug, you lose weight. You stop the drug, you regain the weight. This is a huge public health concern. It's almost way beyond my capacity because finances are involved here. Can we afford to treat 42% of the people in the US or obese? Or is there some way amongst the 42% we can define who are the people who are in some resistant, who are the people of the metabolic syndrome that we know they're at risk, that we can treat them. My guess is that's the great majority of that 42% of the people. Can we treat all of those people? And moreover, they're going to stay on the drug. We know on average what the data is saying. I put you on the drug. We don't know all the reasons why, but within a year, half of the people stop the drug. Yeah, it's probably a combination of cost and side effects. Yeah. And my patients very commonly tell me, you know, say Ralph, I enjoy eating. I can't eat anymore. And some people just tell me they just want to eat. And so I'm going to get fat against. So when you eat, some is GI side effects. And some is cost. $1000 a month. There's a lot of money for it. Yeah, it's insane. Yeah. For the people. So Ralph again, I just kind of bring it back to this question, which IMean, everybody wants to understand this, which is what has changed so much in the last 30 years that has created this epidemic. And, you know, everybody has their favorite pet theory for what it is. It's the sugar. It's the carbs. It's the plastics. It's the video games. It's the internet. It's the whatever. Perhaps suggesting that it's many, many things. What is what is your best explanation for what's going on? I would say all of the above process foods, chlorically dense foods, lack of exercise, a critical. But these are, I would say, the stimuli that has done something that's changed the North circuitry in the brain. So yes, there's a stimulus. And because now you've been oversubscribed to these stimuli, that's now initiated a process in the brain, which is going to be a self-fulfilling process. This is something that I'm very interested in, Dr. Peter Fox and I at the Health Science Center. But if you go through the literature, and we've published on this as well, in the areas of the brain that control food intake. And I'm not talking about the hypothalamus, that kind of regulate your basal energy intake. What you need to be, keep your BMI of 25, do what you do during the day. But what is it that makes you a BMI go to 35? That's all related to the hedonic areas in the brain. The putin, the amygdala, the prefrontal cortex, et cetera. And then when you do structural MRI, what you can show is that those areas in the brain, the gray matter, is shrunk down. And if you now map the neural circuitry, which Peter Fox has been involved with, you can see that this clear disruption using functional MRI of the neural circuitry in the brain. We have a particular interest in defining where this function occurs. And we have some ideas which I'm not going to go into, but how we might be able to sort of reprogram the brain. And sort of in concert with this, these are not updated, but these are data that are published in the literature. And I think IMentioned this earlier, if you do an insulin clamp, I told you that in your brain doesn't respond by taking up glucose, but in people who are obese, actually almost improposited to how obese you are in these areas in the brain, hedonic areas, there's a marked increase in, it's called Florida deoxy glucose, which is the pet railway step tray, so we use in these areas. And that correlates inversely with the muscle insulin resistance. The more insulin resistant they are in the muscle, the more FDG glucose. I'll take there is in the brain. Now this is very interesting because what it's saying, there's a connection that somehow or another, we believe that the brain is talking to the muscle, or the muscle is talking to the brain, and that somehow or rather the brain is playing a very important role in the development of the insulin resistance and that in large part that this deranged neurosurgery, which is related to food intake, is now making you overeat. And as you overeat, then all of the things that we know that we've studied, that other people have studied, that go with lipo toxicity, you put fat in the muscle, you're insulin resistant, you put fat in the lip you got nationalneffled, what people have totally overlooked, you put fat in the kidney disease, you put fat in the heart, yeah, yeah. So you've been in San Antonio since the late eighties, when did you really start to notice this was a problem at least in your community? Almost intangiously because I've run the text, even in kids, even in kids. It was very cool. We can't blame video games, we can't blame social media because that wasn't going on in the late eighties. So I never saw fat kids at Yale, and I was on the faculty from 75 to 88, and I kind of thought back, now I would say New Haven's not a large Hispanic, but it's more African-American, but I don't remember seeing 12-year-old kids with type 2 diabetes, and when I came here, and I remember this very distinctly, they're saying, oh, you're crazy. You can't, you don't see kids with type 2 diabetes. Believe me, I see them. And what did your colleagues at San Antonio tell you as far as when they started to notice that in the Hispanic kids? I think they just, I don't know I can give you a specific time that they told me except they knew it. But so okay, what about in non-Hispanic kids? Because if the Hispanic kids are genetically predisposed, then thEQuestion becomes, when did you begin to see this in African-American kids and Caucasian kids? Yeah, so we don't have a large African-American population here, but like in Philadelphia, there's a lady, so we're so far as slabian, she sees the same thing, and she sees, I think it's a significant African-American population. So I think that in certain ethnic minorities were the genes for diabetes are enriched, that those are the populations that are predisposed. And do you think this is mostly an energy balance issue and therefore it's mostly a food environment issue? No, I think it's both. So I told you I'd come back to the genetics study that we did. So we, in the Italian fellows with me, Giovanni Gulli, a long, long time ago here in San Antonio, we wanted to know what is the earliest defect that you can see in people who are going to develop type 2 diabetes. So we said, okay, in the Hispanic community it's very common to see mom and dad with diabetes. And it's very common to see a lot of children in these families. So we said, why don't we go look at the children? And let's see if we can define because they're at high risk. Yeah. And if you have mom and dad with diabetes, you probably have a 78% chance if you're Hispanic. If you're born in that family developing diabetes. It was very easy to find the children. The problem was we couldn't find lean children. So it took us a while because if you're obese, then you got the lipo toxicity. So we finally found them. This is a JCI paper I believe. And so we did an insulin clamp. Here is resistant is their parents. They have normal glucose tolerance. Why? Because the insulin levels are astronomical. And then we do a muscle count. How high just for understanding? Oh, they're like two times normal. Even higher than that. We do a muscle biopsy. The same defect in the insulin signaling pathway. How many of the, how many of the tyrosine kinase defects do they have? They have starts at IRS 1. Uh-huh. insulin bind to the receptor is okay, just like their parents. The ability to activate these insulin signaling pathway, the level of IRS 1, it's already well established. Which enzyme in particular? It starts at the level of IRS 1. It starts at the first one. Yeah. Also it's not just one enzyme. Well, it no, it's IRS 1. You can't tyrosine phosphorylated. You cannot activate P.L. I see. Okay, so it starts at IRS 1. Yeah. And then the other thing, Jerry and I have both done this in somewhat different ways. So Jerry, I'm talking about Jerry Schultm. He uses NMR by looking at phosphate derivatives. Even though I believe the primary defect is in the signaling pathway, there's clearly severe impairments and glucose trensporting phosphorylation. His work would suggest that the primary defect is at the level of glucose trensport. We did, we developed a novel triple tracer technique using three isotopes infused into the breakout artery. We believed that the primary defect is at the level of hexokinase and phosphorylating glucose. So we kind of agreed to disagree because we can't do this study. And we'd have to do the MRI study at the same time we're doing the triple tracer technique. In addition to the incident's signaling defect, there's a severe defect in glucose trensport and phosphorylation. Once, let's just make sure people understand this is we're kind of getting into some biochemistry here. Yeah. When glucose enters the cell, passively, there goes for trensgloat for trensporter. Yeah. It gets pre glucose in the cell. Yes. Then to metabolize it. Yeah, first and then phosphate. Yeah, the first step to that is hexokinase, which takes a phosphate off ATP and puts it on the six position if we're not able to do this. It's a specific type of hexokinase that's hexokinase do. Yeah, because there's a different one in the muscle and the liver, correct? And that is correct. So, Gerry would say the primary defect is in Glutin for the trensporter. Yes. I would say yes, that is severely impaired, but even more severe. What does remind me what Gerry believes is wrong with the Glutinase trensporter? That it doesn't work normally. I thought it worked fine. It's just not getting the signal to work because of IRS 1. That's where the controversy is. How, how, how when you have a severe, we are, we were the first to show this defect in muscle. But with the old people, I think they're showing this in human muscle. It's been shown in rats, et cetera. That to me, metabolism and rats and mice, so different, this is all people data. So you're saying but it's possible that just having the IRS 1 problem is enough. It's also possible that even if IRS 1 is functioning reasonably, if Glutinase is not getting up, and there is evidence to support that. And then it's also possible that even if all those things work, if you don't get hexaclinase to phosphorylate glucose, you back up the whole system. And I can show you this is a primary defect in pyruvate dehydrogenase in in Glutinase. This comes back. I have an ominous octet for the insulin resistance. Okay. This, this why people don't understand. Look, there are eight organ sort of things that are a problem. There are eight problems I can show you within the muscle. Why you think one drug is going to correct all these problems? We need drugs to work on the beta. So we need insulin sensitizes. We probably need different types of insulin sensitizing drugs. We need drugs that reverse the lipo toxicity. And you know, will we ever have a single magic bullet that corrects all of these? You know, probably not. I think until we discovered the genetic basis and remember, I said the diabetes is a heterogeneous disease. And I did, in diabetes metabolism reviews, I would say 30 years ago, I wrote a review article that said, I can put a defect in the muscle in reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the liver and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the fat cell and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the beta cell and reproduce diabetes. And I went back and read that and I said, I can put a defect that starts in the brain and reproduce diabetes. So we see some of the day when see you eight or nine. All these defects we've been talking about, they're already there. So you put that defect in the fat cell. They can look lean. And there's a syndrome called Alzheimer's syndrome. There's a specific defect. And this is white adipose. This is Phil Cher, who will love me for saying this. He's the top guru in adipose, metabolism up in Dallas. And it's also from syndrome. There's a specific defect in the glucose trensporter and white adipose tissue. You know what happens? You become diabetic. You know what happens? You game weight. You know what happens? You get nash. So here's a defect that I said, like 30 years ago, I just postulated and said, here's a syndrome. And not only that, now that they define this in people in this paper, they then went to the animal model and they knocked out the gene that's causing the defect and they reproduce diabetes in the normal rat model of the model. So we're off. I want to close by bringing it back to something that people can do to help understand if they're at risk, either lean or otherwise. We talked about it at the outset, but didn't go into it in detail, which is the OGT. Yeah. The oral glucose tolerance test. Now again, none of us have the privilege of being able to use a euglycemic clamp both clinically as physicians or as experienced at his patients. So we're going to have to kind of rely on other things. We're going to have to rely on body fat. We're going to have to rely on triglycerides. We're going to have to rely on hemoglobin A1C, although I find that to be a particularly useless metric. Not that useless, but the individual level I find it very unhelpful. I think at the population level it's great and in deltas it's great. But boy, the correlation between an e-moglobin A1C and realized glucose levels it's pretty weak. But let's talk about the OGT because this is not a test that is done frequently. I believe it should be. And I'd love to have you walk us through the interpretation of the following. I'm going to give you a couple scenarios. So case one, I'm making this up as we go. So you got a person who starts out all these people are going to start out normal. They're going to start out with a glucose of 90 in an insulin of 6. At 30 minutes, this is after 75 grams of oral glucose. The insulin rises to 90. The glucose rises to 130. At 60 minutes, the glucose is down to 100. The insulin is down to 60. And we'll just do one more check at two hours. The glucose at this point is 60. And the insulin is 20. That is a pre-diabatic state. This is a very insulin resistant person. And two, our later hypoglycemia is a reflection of the beta cells early insulin situation. This is kind of a pre-diabatic state. Yeah. And it's so agree with you completely. And we see this all the time. This is a person, by the way, with a perfectly normal hemoglobin A1C. Yes. And this is a person who gets passed all the time as totally normal. This is really an sum of reasons. Because your, the beta cells are not as 90. Your hemoglobin A1C is normal and your insulin is 6. Even if the doctors check insulin, but as you point out, the thing that trips you off is not their glucose. 90 to 132 a 100 is amazing. It's 90 was how high the insulin was at 30 seconds. And of course, they overshot, which is why they become hypoglycemic. Yes. Okay. Well known. Yep. Okay. Go another one. This person also starts at 90 and 6 at 30 minutes. They go to 180. Yep. insulin goes to 30. Yep. At 60 minutes, they go to 200. insulin is 40. They diabetic. We showed one. But just be clear. This is a person. These are almost real cases. By the way, this person who's hemoglobin A1C is 5.6. Got it. We already published this. Yep. The best predictor who's going to get diabetes is a one hour glucose greater than 155. And this is from prospective data from the San Antonio Hardsteady also from the botanious study where these people have been followed up. We were the first people to publish this. Oh, I'd say 7, 8, 9, 10 years ago. They're banned. I'd say at least 15 to 20 studies that have reproduced what we showed 10 years ago. It's a one hour glucose is more than 155. Yeah. And that's a great predictor of type 2 diabetes regardless of all the other metrics. Yes. And if you also happen to be hypoluncinlymic, that adds more to the addictive value. But just pick one 55 without knowing the insulin, that's a huge predictor of whether you're going to develop diabetes and that's from the San Antonio Hardsteady and that's also from the botanious study and also from our various study. Okay. Next case. I'm not even going to give you the numbers. I'll just describe it. This is a person who has a delayed onset of insulin. So in other words, they start out normal at 90. 30 minutes insulin is deficient. That's a predictor as well. Yes. So what's going on in this person? We're 30 minute insulin does nothing. Glucose rises. Yeah. And then in an hour and 90 minutes, the pancreas kicks on and starts to dispose of glucose. What's happening in that person? That's a bit primary beta cell defect. And one of the earliest things you can detect in people who are predisposed to develop diabetes is loss of first phase insulin secretion. Now first phase insulin secretion is strictly speaking can only be measured with the hyperglycemic clamp that we develop. So when I acutely raise the glucose from say, you know 90 and I raise it to 200. And the first 10 minutes is a big spike of insulin that comes out. That is typically lost in people who are going to develop type 2 diabetes. And it's counterpart during the OGTT is the insulin level at 30 minutes. Okay. So when you ingest the glucose, of course the rising glucose is more gentle. When I acutely raise your glucose from 90 to 200, that big spike of glucose gives the first phase. But a low insulin response in the first 30 minutes is another predictor of who's going to get into trouble. We use the following numbers in our practice as what we consider what we want to see. Do you think we're being too aggressive? At time zero we want to see you less than 90 and less than six. At time 30 minutes we want to see you less than 140 and less than 40. At time 60 minutes we want to see you less than 130 and less than 30 and at two hours we want to see you less than, sorry, at 90 minutes we want to see you less than 110 and less than 20. Do you think we're being too hard? Yeah, you might be being overly aggressive. But for sure, if they meet those numbers, you're probably safe. Ralph, I don't know where the time went today, but it went. And this was a fascinating discussion. I could talk about this stuff all day long. And it's interesting because someone listening to this podcast who heard the podcast with Jerry Shulman from probably three years ago will be pleased because the overlap is virtually zero. That's what's amazing about a topic as rich as this. As you can talk to two of the world's experts and have two completely different conversations. Conversation with Jerry focused so much on the pathophysiology of insulin resistance. Here we focused much more on the actual organ specific aspect of type 2 diabetes. We got a master class in the pharmacology of it. And then I think kind of brought it back to ways to diagnose it. If you're slumming it with those of us in the clinic, who don't have claims. So maybe we should in the future we do them with both Jerry and I. I will 100% agree that in a few years we come back and we do a double version of this. I really do fantastic. I sign up. Ralph, thank you so much. Not just obviously for this, but for your contribution to this field. Okay, I appreciate it. This is wonderful.

=== FILE: 339 - Unpacking trauma： How early wounds shape behavior and the path toward healing [mE5vd98mohY].txt ===

talk a little bit about this loaded word of trauma. Really embracing a definition, moments of perceived helplessness. You know, that's what's going to activate the limbic system. What would you say to a person who's listening to us, who's trying to even understand if they've experienced trauma? Learning coping skills in safe offices with therapists. It's really hard to recreate that back at home. I'm going to day two of my journal here. I can't help but feel like it's a mistake to be here. How could this place, this experience, possibly make a meaningful difference in my life, trust the process they say, surrender to it in quotes. I'm told, okay, I'm here and I guess I'll try. This is hard work and this is uncomfortable. And if it wasn't, there would be a lot of people all the way back out that heel trying to get in here. But if you noticed, there's no line. There's no line to get in there. You know, if someone's listening to us and they're sort of contemplating, either dipping their toe in, you know, by working with a therapist and trying to probe some of these things, or if they're thinking about jumping in the lake and then going to a residential place like the bridge. What would you say to them? If there's a voice saying it, listen, if there's a voice, even if it's a whisper, it's there for a reason. And I say more important than anything else. You're either going to deal with it or it's going to deal with you. Hey, everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Jeff, Peter, kind of hard to believe we're sitting here, huh? Yeah, it is hard to believe. And it's amazing. And it's good to see you. Likewise. I thought long and hard about how I wanted to sort of structure our discussion today, knowing that this was a conversation I wanted to have for a very long time. And, you know, I think maybe the easiest way to start is just to kind of talk a little bit about this loaded word of trauma. When I first was introduced to this idea of trauma, I didn't know what it meant. And I think today it's become such a catchy buzzword that everybody is traumatized by something. And I don't know if that represents a pendulum, swing, or a normalization, or what. But why don't we just start with kind of how you describe trauma as a trauma therapist. And as someone who's been doing trauma therapy for many years, not just in the, you know, in the recent treny years for whatever that means. But how do you describe this to people? Well, I would have described the same way that you described it initially, you know, back in the day, you know, trauma. You know, I have to have been at Vietnam for a time, nine, eleven. These are those big tea traumas you hear some folks use that type of terminology. But within the spirit of the work, the need and the work, really embracing a definition, moments of perceived helplessness. So, you know, that's what's going to activate the limbic system. So, who is to say what one limbic system evaluates as helplessness versus another? All right. So, that's when we get into this, I think, discovery of most of the people that IMeet. Have been meeting over the last several years. Or the ones, wow. Like, I think I did experience trauma, right. You mentioned it's, it's a much more popular thing. And now are we trening in a different direction. So, and a lot of my work with clients individually or groups, you know, I say, I hate to over-simple five things. But I think sometimes we just make things to damn complex. Okay. And so, you know, a lot of what I do is try to depolarize for folks, you know, and we get into these situations to where, you know, we live in this world of get over it. It doesn't matter versus, like you mentioned, perhaps. Stay stuck in it, right? So, but yeah, moments of perceived helplessness, you know, activating that limbic system. And these things can happen, you know, sometimes the bridge you remember we talked about wounding events. And one of those would be a tragic event. You know, life seems to be going one way before this thing happens. And then this thing happens. And life changes. And everything is different on the other side of that, right? A big T event versus someone again who, maybe you could describe it as a thousand paper cuts, right? Someone growing up going through childhood daily, being limbicly activated. But moments of perceived helplessness, that stuck for me. And it stuck for a lot of clients. I've written about this in the book, which is that, you know, even IMet at a place called the bridge to recovery in December of 2017. So hours ago. And, you know, that was a very hard chapter for me to write. And one, I wrote somewhat reluctantly. But also in the unfelt I couldn't not write it. So the book was sort of incomplete without that chapter. So maybe we can even frame this discussion around how a place like that comes to exist and how therapists like you work at places like that. I'll throw a one idea out that's worth discussing, but it's literally one of a hundred, which is it might be shocking to some to realize how much group therapy is done at a place like the bridge to recovery. In fact, as I looked through my journal, which I brought back, looking through the notes, it's amazing how complex it was for me to be able to open up in front of a group. And how I spent the first few days saying virtually nothing, largely because of, I think, that that discomfort. Sure. So maybe tell folks a little bit about the bridge, the type of work that's done there. I forget exactly how I described it in the book, but I described it as this wonderful horrible place in the woods of Bowling Green Kentucky. Yeah. Some folks call it a residential treatment, some people call it trauma camp. There's a lot of different. Well, I wrote some other names down here. Do you know what I have? I have camp misery, the sadness factory and the tree of pain. Yeah. Those are the names I wrote down for. And I could argue with any of those. So what is it? It could be described as residential treatment, and I would describe it as residential treatment for disconnection. Okay. So when folks think of, I think when most folks think of disconnection, they get a little like well, that's vague. Okay. But when most folks think about residential treatment, we tend to jump to substance abuse. That's where people go so that they can go away and get sober. Okay. And so oftentimes thEQuestion would be like, well, why would somebody go to a place like this that's not an addict? I want to use that type of terminology. Well, disconnection is just the concept that's used at the bridge. And it's a word that describes one way of disconnecting is substance abuse, but also screens, sex relationships, ego, anger. So you just take away the substance, take away the word alcohol, and plug in whatever word you want to. You mentioned the group process. So you might have a group of eight folks and there may be three folks in there that identify as substance abusers and there could be two work of hallics in that room. Right. And so the commonality within the circle is going to be, you know, you may disconnect differently than I do, Peter. But the commonality is that when especially when life throws us a curveball, this disconnected version of me seems to come out, jumping my driver's seat, if you will. And that's probably been happening a lot as far as a cutie goes if that's where how you find yourself at the bridge. Yeah, they'll say and there's nobody gets there because it's a slow Monday. Okay. So and then the big word that you use, which I think is, it doesn't matter. There's a part of me that wants to say like, oh, don't give away the secret, so let the magic happen. But I also, you know, going through the program to work there and know that you can know everything that's going to happen and then you start going through the process and discomfort towards it's all about. Right. That's when my stuff comes up. So that's the whole idea. Right. So when folks, you know, if you remember admissions days on a Monday, so we would usually meet the groups on by Tuesday and countless times, I've tried to help talk folks off the ledge of leaving. And in summary, there are reason all of them different details. But you know, I came to the bridge and my anxiety was at a seven right now. I think it's a nine. I need to get the heck out of here. This place ain't for me. You know, and sometimes I look at me like I've got, you know, two heads. When I say, you know, actually you're provide an evidence that this is exactly the type of place for you. So yeah, that first day there, that Monday is, um, is a very, very, IMean, it's a very unpleasant day. I'm sure for everybody. I don't, I don't think that's a stretch to take my experience and say that that that was unique um, the, um, maybe it's worth kind of explaining again how what, what are the objectives of this phase one that you describe? From the beginning, I would say getting my history straight. Okay, the telling of my life story. Same sample. Several folks, many folks have done it before, but within and through the lens of what we introduce as far as the trauma tree that you referred to, like, it's the what happened to me. Story and so many of us for so many years, sometimes decades, have been telling the story of what's wrong with me. And so from the very beginning, the shift is to it, the hope is to move a little bit closer to what happened to me, right? Not within the spirit of an excuse, but an explanation, right? Like, oh, wait a second, it makes sense that I do this thing now. This, there was a utility to this behavior, right? The group process, it's just, it just brings up the stuff. I call them the guards, parts there, pistol call them protective parts, but this isn't new. There's something that we use terminology that's new, but it's ego states. But when I say guard, this protective side of Jeff that comes up when he gets vulnerable. And when do I get vulnerable? Typically, when I get dropped into a different situation. So that first week, I'm going to live with some new people. I'm going to eat with some new people. I'm going to share story, share deep information about myself. And that's really the objective is to start. Within the technical thing that's happening therapeutically, there's a window of tolerance that we all don't have, right? And so we don't want to drop into week two or can we start doing these experiential therapies, right? But within the spirit of a window of tolerance and experiential therapy, telling your life story is experiential therapy, right? The contents important, Peter, but so many times the way the story is told is more important or as important, at least as the content of the life story. You talked about the trauma tree, maybe we can describe the roots and branches of that tree in some detail because that is kind of the meta structure that I think that story gets told. It's the cause and effect piece of it. At least that's how I sort of came to understand it. Right. I've seen many different ways that trauma is described. Obviously since I left the bridge, I've been to the topic. I'm personally very interested in for myself for patients, et cetera. But I say, Jeff, I always come back to that structure and I think it is the single best one I've seen. Now that doesn't mean that it is the best one. It's just the one that resonates the most with me because causality means so much in my world. And I like the idea that even though it's not a one to one mapping, everyone who experiences this trauma will have this manifestation, not, but if you accept a little bit of the randomness in the system, it's pretty powerful. So maybe walk people through the five roots and the four branches of the trauma tree. The five roots of the trauma tree, that's the what happened to me. Okay. So this can be seen through the lens of trauma. And for folks where trauma is just too big of a word, I can't I can you believe I'm saying that on this podcast. But okay, then lose it. Right. Highly stressful events. Okay. So abuse tends to be the one that we talk really the least about at the bridge because that's the one that folks tend to know the most about. That's not to mean that we minimize it. There's just so many different forms of abuse, physical, emotional, abject, social. So you move over from abuse and you look at something like neglect, which can be very tricky. So many folks that have experienced neglect. It's an eye opening experience. Because while something like abuse is something that happened to me, neglect is something that failed to happen for me. Right. And so to see that through the lens of high stress or pain, so many different ways one can be neglected. You know, an example that's used there is the little boy that is going to school and he's being bullied. Okay. And he's got these parents who are professionals and they're successful and they're busy and they've got the best of intentions. But they're missing it. They're missing the look on this kid's face when he comes in every day and before he gets on that bus every morning. That question's not being asked. What's happening? And so every day, this little person's being required to go to this place where this thing's going to happen and evidently these folks at my house don't have time. Right. And it's important to emphasize, I think, the word intention because intention is not required. Right. How many times have I said, have I heard, well, they had the best of intentions that tried that it still happened or in the case of neglect. It failed to happen. Okay. In measurement, that's a wounding experience where you've got a boundary violation. Right. So that can happen within the spirit of what we call emotional insist. Where a child is put in an inappropriate and age inappropriate position. Maybe the child becomes best friend, counselor and confident for a mom or dad. And then you've just got this in golfing and measurement, which happens a lot of times in successful families where outcomes and expectations are celebrated and they're not so much the journey. And so that in golfing and measurement can be one of those situations where this is the way to be more of a me minIMe relationship between a parent and a child instead of that eye valve relationship. And so in in those situations with with a measurement, what typically happens is either drink the kool-aid, get on board with it or what do we do? We rebel. And I'm not going to do anything that looks anything like this. Neither of those things is probably who I was meant to develop into. Yes. I think probably in my opinion the umbrella wound or we're talking about the tree and the root of the tree would be abandonment. Okay. And physical desertion or abandonment, that's low hanging fruit as far as I think the general public and knowledge just when somebody leaves. Now a permanent abandonment obviously someone passes away, there's death, there's seasonals, folks leave for work, military deployment, folks go to prison, parents get separated, parents leave, come back. Now emotional abandonment. That's that situation where someone's there, but they're really not there. And this emotional self gets denied. And a lot of times when you're emotionally abandoned, it can be a situation where it's emotionally cut back, meaning the house I grew up in, we did anger. That's what we did. What no k to be sad, what no k to be scared, but we did anger. Okay. So it wasn't like we were emotion free. It was just we were cut back to that one. That's the one that I saw the most. And then sometimes it's just the situation where it's cut off and splank in no emotion. And IMentioned already the tragic event route of that trauma tree. And so I guess what IMean by the abandonment for me being this umbrella wound is, is when you abuse me, you abandoned me. I keep going to parents because those are the folks that we spend the most of our time within those formative years, but any of these wounds can happen with anybody in our life. And they can also happen anytime in life. It's not limited to childhood. When you get something happening when the brain and the body's developing, right? You get something what I call, it gets concrete. You know, that gets cemented. It gets burnt in. And that thing that I'm talking about getting burnt in is how I adapted. All right. IMentioned that thEQuestion is what happened to me, but I believe the most important discovery is how I adapted. Okay. We talk about that tree and you were talking about the roots being the wounding experiences. And then that's top of that tree is the manifestations if you will of the wound in this, right? This is how I survived. And so you have codependence. You have addictive patterns. You have attachment issues. And a whole slew of just survival strategies. Mallow adaptive survival strategies. And as I say that word, maladaptive, I want to wash my mouth out with soap. Okay? Because they are ingenious damage control strategies. The way I describe them, it's an old friend that served me well. And perhaps now it's making life hard. And the best example of I can give is have a four-year-old boy spending a lot of time in his bedroom playing with the door closed, playing loud. So that he doesn't have to hear what's going on in the rest of the house. And then one particular day, he hears his mother and a voice he has never heard before. Tell his father that she thinks her arms are going to be broken and he has to open the door. And when he opens the door, he sees his mother up against the refrigerator. And her father, the boy's father, he's got her in a hammer lock, arms behind her. And the little boy's got to do something. Right? And he's really outgunned. Because let's say dad's 35 and he's four. So he starts walking towards them. And the first room on the right is a bathroom. And he goes into the bathroom and he lifts the lid on the toilet and he faints, fakes, acts as if he's vomiting. And the next thing he hears is, do you hear that your son's getting sick? And dad, let's mom go. Now, there's the boy go back into his bedroom and get out a little journal and write down manipulation and deception or very effective in life. Probably not. But I say he learned a powerful lesson that day about deception and manipulation. Right? He got him out of trouble. He got his mom out of trouble that day. Right? And old friend, that served him well. But perhaps has made him life hard. Because healthy folks in adult relationships, Peter, they don't dig deception and manipulation. Right? So that's where my old friend can get in my driver's seat. You could say, and make life hard for me. But a very adaptive skill, I would call it a skill. Some folks would use the language of a character defect, not against that language. I just prefer a skill. I really think that's a powerful bucket because it has enough breadth to include things that don't easily pathologize. Maybe for the sake of completeness, we could just go back and talk about the codependencies, addictions and attachment issues. I think everybody's familiar with the terminology, but just as within abuse, there are things that people don't quite think. Everybody thinks of sexual and physical abuse. Very few people think of emotional abuse or religious abuse. Those kinds of things. So similarly, maybe talk through the breadth of what we think of as addiction, codependency and attachment disorders. Yeah, codependency, it's the spirit of it. It's not my definition. It's an old one, but it's the one I prefer. It's an outer reach for inner security. I can't draw that thing from inside of me. I have to get that from something or someone else. You let Jeff know he's okay. I can be okay. But if you're not okay with Jeff, it's hard for me to be okay with Jeff. That's a blanket summary, and I think an accurate summary of codependence. And your addictive patterns, addictions, addictive patterns. IMean, again, these can be substances. These can be processed. When I talk about the ego states, the parts, my guards, those parts of me that jump in my driver's seat, I look at those through the lens of addictive patterns because it's that concept of powerlessness. You'll hear folks that are in the programs, such as 12-step programs, they talk about being powerless to something. You know, and to get into the surrender of being powerless. So you can just, again, you can take the war alcohol, remove it and replace it with whatever that behavior is. It's the thing that I do. It's not a bad thing that I can do it. Sometimes, the problem is I can't not do it. So again, this could be work. This could be ambition. This could be anger. This could be many things. And usually, these things, they're there for a reason. And again, we're back to vulnerability is the enemy. So the goal of all of these maladaptive coping skills, patterns, whatever we want to call them is, we've got to keep Jeff from being vulnerable. We've got to keep that little boy that had that situation with his mother and that refrigerator. We've had a bad experience of vulnerability. So all these parts of me that step in to my driver's seat, they've got to go and they do their job in different ways, but the goal is to keep me from being vulnerable. Attachment style. You know, you geT4 books. You're probably going to geT4 different numbers of attachment styles. I like simplicity. You'll probably hear me say that more than once. But simplicity, let's just the three, the three, the three most popular, right? So you've got anxious attachment. It can be charming. It can be charming. You know, it can look a lot of different ways. But the more of me, I give to you, the more of you I expect from you, that's going to be the best chance to keep this thing going. Now avoidance attachment. Right? The distance. I can be in a relationship and still not give you all of me. I can be in with a person, but still have distance. Right? And then there's, I'm not crazy about it, but disorganized attachment, which is kind of a mixed bag of, you know, a familiar, familiar, familiar, familiar, now get away. You know, you've got your close now and the now needs you to get back. And you know, that's what happens, unfortunately, with these wounding, a lot of these wounding situations, the thing that we were created for, right? Belonging. Connection. All right? Oftentimes that gets coupled with fear. So that's a powerful thing when you get fear intensity, things of that coupled with belonging. And you can have ten different attachment styles, unhealthy attachment styles, if you will, but the commonality, the common denominator is going to be the insecurity. They may play out differently behaviorally, but it's the insecurity. Right? What is secure attachment? Look like Jeff, well, I don't know. I don't meet those people, right? But it exists because those folks have trust. And if we go back to the tree, I often think that the wounds or the roots that you keep referring to, it's really the story of my broken trust. Right? How did my trust get broken? And here are all these things that I do ingeniously to handle that. Jeff, when we examine ourselves or we examine, you know, or witness others where one or more of the branches of the tree, I eat the manifestations of trauma or present, is it your belief that that automatically implies there is at least one tie to a root. In other words, is there a scenario whereby these manifestations exist minus the injuring events? IMean, I suppose anything's possible. But with the folks that I've met crosspass with, had the honor to work with, they're repeatedly, there's typically always a connection, you know? And, you know, it's, it gets so tricky because it doesn't really need to be an A plus B equals C. It's, you know, it's the science of this kind of undo, undoes itself, so to speak. But like, when you, when you bring this up, this question up for me, it brings a stumbling block that I've witnessed a lot with, with clients within the spirit of or before they even become clients. And what I'm getting at is, is like, nothing happened to me. I don't think about that. Why do I need to talk about that? Right? And that, I honor that, is someone's truth, right? And, of course, the answer there, politically, within the setting of somewhere like the bridge is, well, that, okay, like I believe you, so you won't have any trouble telling your story, right? It'll be a breeze for you, you know? So, you got a role with that resistance. But the example that comes up for me, and that's where we get into implicit and explicit memory, okay? And this is, it's a scenario of a good example, I think, is flashbacks, right? Like, so, you know, go back to the example of something where if somebody has an image. I think what comes to mind for most folks is an image. Like, I see this thing. So then, back to this other person who says, I don't think about this stuff anymore. Like, I didn't, I don't go into the room and think about my dad cheating on my mother. Like, I don't remember that stuff. And often times the answer is, sure you do. What do you mean, well, you remember through your anxiety, perhaps, right? Maybe it's not an image, maybe it's not a sound, maybe it's not a smell. But that thing that that discomfort that you're experiencing, maybe that's the way you remember it. Something that's coming up for me. And again, there's so many case studies, if you will, but within the spirit of making the implicit explicit, in the example that I just gave, you know how that process works at the bridge. So after the groups over in the evenings, we have usually have meetings where the folks can experience some type of maybe a 12-step meeting, some kind of meeting. And, you know, it's part of the curriculum, if you will, and it's, you know, it's mandatory. And so, we've had clients, you know, have panic attacks. I would qualify some of those as that in these situations. And so, you know, the next day, when you're in group trying to unravel something that happened on the previous night, you know, and we're talking about a client that I've been describing and they're like, you know, I don't know what, you know, like I need to, obviously, I need to see a medical doctor because that's like, well, possibly you do. Well, let's try to work in a both hand. Like, let's, let's unravel this. What was going, you know, well, let's, there's process. You give up a certain amount of control. This client, let's say this client had control issues, right? And so, between things we asked you do, is give up control at the bridge, right? And so, in clients' client X says, yes, yes, yes, that's right. So, okay, so you're sitting here and, you know, you know, there's exits. You know the people are in the room. You know all the players are here, but for some reason, your anxious, that your anxiety's building to the point to where you experience or you describe this thing as a panic attack. I said, right, exactly. And I don't need to talk about any of this stuff that you guys are talking about. I said, okay, great. So, but just play along with me. Who's the most controlling person that you've ever met in your life? Oh, you should have met my grandmother. Okay. Well, tell me one of the most controlling things your grandmother may have done. Well, you know, I lived with her for, you know, three or four years in my childhood. You know, there was that deal with, you know, the basement. You know, when I was in trouble, the deal with the basement. You know, can you say more about that? You know, maybe you get locked down there. How long? I don't know. It was dark and they'll learn how to not think about it. You know, so back to the implicit with that explicit. So I think it's about this like files. Like there's this loss of control file in the traumatized brain, right? Does can I prove that a plus B equals C? No, I can't. All right. There's not going to be anything evidence based that says that was a situation based on that grandmother's control and abuse in childhood. That is why that panic attack happened. But it certainly gives us something to look at. It's like coordinates on this warboard, if you will, and therapy. Wow, there's a part of you that really gets activated when you seemingly don't have control and can't leave a situation. So, and the hope that can come out of that, right? Like to see someone who could have been described as resistant to the process, all of a sudden, at least start to like you're doing right now, not in your head. I'm going to start thinking about this. Maybe I'm not buying into it. Maybe something did happen. I think that's one of the, IMean, gosh, Jeff, I don't even know where to start. I think there are so many huge hurdles for for people to get over when they, when they at least begin to enter pain the idea that this is something they should look at. So that's the first one, right? So the first one is there's something wrong. Unfortunately, as a species, I suppose we have so many remarkable layers of protection that we have to be suffering quite a bit to go through this. I, again, I go back to some amazing lines in my journal. No one showed up here on a winning streak. Like, IMean, could not, I'm not going to name who said that, but I bet you can remember who said that. IMean, could not be more true when I think back to us all sitting there on day one, the 12 of us, IMean, what a collection of losers we were. IMean, if we're just being honest, like we were, we were all on the outs. We had lost everything and we were there not because we wanted to be, but almost because we had no choice. How often do you see that? And how often do you see people that somehow manage to show up there on the basis of pure introspection as opposed to, if I don't do this, I'm going to lose my family. If I don't do this, I'm going to lose my job. If I don't do this, I'm going to lose my life. Well, what you just described, I'll call that answer B, is that's the status quo. That's usually how folks get there, right? Every now and then, some of them may come in, you know, maybe maybe I could call the tourist or what, not, but that doesn't happen much. You know, it's like, like we would say, and if you really, if you remember how that property is, you kind of drive down into it, right? And all the things that are Kentucky, you see on the way in. And so we used to, we used to play around with this, like, yes, this is hard work, and this is uncomfortable. And if it wasn't, there would be a lot of people, all the way back up there, he'll try to get in here. But if you noticed, there's no line. There's no line to get in here, right? And there's also no gate on this place, meaning, you know, you're free to go. Also. So, and, you know, I think about, I use, it's just an average seven or eight, when I think of groups, they could be 10, but I use seven and eight. I think about those folks in that room, you know, and like there's so many different stories. And in some, just about every group has got somebody in it that's pretty close if not right on surrender, you know? And surrender within the spirit of my way does not work, right? I don't know if you're always going to work, Jeff, but I'm willing to try it on for a couple of weeks, because my way does not work. Now, that is a wonderful place to get to that I believe most people don't. It's what meaning most people don't show up there. Don't get to that type of surrender. I spent many decades, this may sound familiar, in this space right here. Well, I was pretty bad, and I hear what you're saying, but I still think I know what's best for me. And I think that's where most of us spend a lot of time, but when you get in that circle, see, to me, that never matter, because if you were there, you had a chance. You had a chance to get some different perspective, right? And if you're not there, you know, I think just about every group that I've worked with has had at least one person in there that's their out of obligation, just to get somebody off their ass, right? And quite honest with you to do the thing so that they can go back and say, I tried your thing and it didn't work. Right? Like I've seen that quite a bit, but there's still a chance for something to happen, right? Within that group dynamic. If, you know, if I tell somebody their an asshole, IMight just be saying that from therapy heal. And maybe that's the same thing that their spouse has been telling. Okay? But if somebody in this circle that's living with you, eating with you, doing this uncomfortable thing with you, if they in some way let you know that they don't dig that thing that you do, I eat a thing that makes you maybe an asshole, then hmm, okay. So maybe my spouse ate in the only one saying this, right? Now if you like it, I love it. I tried to retire from force and change on folks, but if you examine that, that thing. Hmm, this person's letting me know they don't dig that either. Now I've got a chance to think about doing something different, right? And to pinpoint the explanation for why is it's hard for me not to do that. Right? So it can be so fruitful, even with folks there that have less than what I would call healthy intentions because they do show up there. You alluded to control one of the huge impediments to people, I think, making the journey to a place like the bridge is that you have to completely see control. So you show up and you hand over your phone and you go to your room, which is literally like a room from a camp with a your sharing room with somebody else, sleeping on a cot, that's not comfortable. And there's no luxury and your sharing bathrooms with a bunch of other people. And they rummage through your books and make sure you they sign off on everything. IMean, I, I, I don't think they, I didn't bring any contraband, but I, I know that there was very limited in what I could bring. Basically, you didn't want anything there that would distract me. Right. I don't think I could have brought books about F1 and sports or whatever, right? So so talk a little bit about the control because that for many people is this, that I know many people who have ultimately gone to the bridge and this was the thing that made it almost impossible for them to go and they had to fall to a certain level of pain before they would go and I know other people who who just haven't been able to pull the trigger and I put myself almost in the situation, which is I can't go off the grid for two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, that's not possible. You don't understand the complexity of my life. Mm-hmm. Surely knowing that you must have a very strong conviction for why it's required. And it's such a real thing, too. And you know, and it's, it, it's true. Some folks can't do it, you know? And we can't box ourselves into a world where we're talking about all the fruits of residential programs, right? But this doesn't have to be an either or thing. But within the spirit of that residential process that you described, so many different ways that I love the titles that you gave to the place, right? But the control, it's got vulnerability written all over it. I keep going back to that word. We're in introducing vulnerability. I don't, we don't try to induce suffering, okay? But distractions. You mentioned the word distraction. We don't take away as many distractions as possible. I don't pretend to know what you need to happen. What the magic's going to be. But I know that we got a hell of a lot better chance of it happening. If you don't have your phone, if you don't have your cigarettes, if you don't have all of these things that help you disconnect, because I need you to be present. Right? And for some of us, that's the vulnerability. It's being present where my feet are. You still, the one thing you didn't take away that I don't, I think if had had been taken, I'd not try to go on was exercise. So I was still able to run at 530 in the morning in the woods and do some pushups and stuff like that. Had I not been permitted to do that, IMight have lost my mind. Have you guys ever, has that ever been question that, hey, for some people exercises is also a bit of a numbing distraction? That's an excellent point because each case is different. There's no one size fits all. Disprings up to me how many times the clients come to me when group breaks and everybody's going to the bathroom that come up to me and they're like, what do I need to do on breaks or in the evenings? Like, what am I going to do with this downtime? And the answer is, you know, some folks need to get serious. So they might want to pick up one of those books on the shelf and read a little bit in our library, you know, some people need to get serious. And some people need to play ping pong. You know, what might look different for you? I did a lot of coloring. Okay. And I did a lot of dot to dot. You know, you guys had a book of super elaborate dot to dots like a thousand dot puzzles that actually make beautiful pictures. And never thought I could find something like that so interesting, but I enjoyed it. Well, you know, and one might say you had the disconnect and come to the hills of Kentucky to find a space to even discover that or rediscover that, right? But that control thing that is such a player for so many. It's a human thing. It's not just a client thing. It's a human thing. It's like, everyone, I believe, wants to have a sense of some a certain sense of control, right? And most folks who have a hysterical reaction, as we say, if it's a hysterical, it's a historical to the sense of a lost piece of control. You know, that's where we get back into, there's probably a precipitating event. There could be something that needs to be healed here. And that's tricky to healing versus integration. How can we integrate this trauma, this thing that happened, right? All these words bring up so much for me, but I do want to mention with control because again, it's case study and it's, and it's everything is so connected to these, in my experience, to the trauma. You know, let's take another client. For instance, we're going to stay on this control. This control topic. So let's say this client comes into the group room. And this client is getting ready to check in. You know how that thing starts. Like, we kind of just like say something to start today, and everything gets quiet until somebody gets nervous enough that can't stand the silence and starts checking in, right? Somebody always does it. Can you describe what a check-in is because it, it is actually a pretty interesting experience and I needed a piece of paper to help me do it because I didn't know what the words were. We try to let folks experience or start practicing letting their outside match their inside. And that sounds like a simple goal and it is, but it's a complex scenario because again, some of us have paid a price for letting our outside match our inside, right? And so that's really the spirit of the check-in. It's to get some practice doing that just kind of rigorously with as much honesty as possible. How am I starting this day? Where am I right now? What's on my heart? You know, bringing the heart and head together. This kind of how I describe that. Some folks, you know, it's very personal and sometimes it's group dynamics. We want to introduce that, you know, but again, it's just just get honest. You know, let's get honest because I think that's the beautiful thing about the group. And again, this scenario where, you know, if you can't do it with some yay who had to bridge, like I hope everybody's Facebook friends for the rest of their life. But the fact of matter is you don't ever have to say these people again. So if you can't get honest with someone so or in front of someone so, how can you do it on the couch with the people that are closest to your heart? Because those are the people who end up being, if we want to fall back on the trauma word, our biggest trauma triggers are the people that are closest to our heart. So what, maybe I can build some muscle memory and be vulnerable in a scenario like we've been describing. So, you know, that's the spirit of the check-in. And the example that I'm given where this client is in this rocking back and forth. Like I believe I can take this client's pulse from where I'm sitting at. Okay? So I'm going to suggest that that client checks in first. It's kind of my job. I've noticed something like that. Yeah. And so, they haven't set a crossword in my experience in the firsT3 or four days of their journey. I haven't started, I heard them say the word hell. Okay? And I'm going to flat out here's what, you know, that was a bunch of bullshit last night. Bunch of bullshit. Nobody told us that we were going to that place. I had to sit and I had to sit out there. I wouldn't go in. Nobody told us anything about that. And let's say this client that they're one of their calling cards when they approached the bridge. Was that they were really thrilled about, you know, you mentioned about nobody on a winning streak. But one of wins, they're not void of wins. One of these clients wins. Let's say is that like their medication management finally, like finally was dialed in. The finally got their anxiety medication dialed in, right? And so, you know, this thing happened in 18 hours later. I'm looking at this person having this response to literally what it was. Was I didn't write on the board every detail that was going to happen that particular day, especially what was going to happen in the evening when you guys went to a 12-step program offsite. Right. Exactly. In this example. So, yeah. So, and this is the type of reaction. Still 16 hours later. Okay. Right. Now, you know, in this scenario, perhaps I rolled the therapy dice. If I have the rapport and say something to the effect of, well, at least the medications are dialed in. Perhaps there's an uncomfortable silence that's probably five seconds, but it seems like five minutes. Right. And then maybe in this scenario, we all sigh of relief because this pissed off client smiles and laughs a little. And knowing the journey, let's say this client a day later tells her story. And they tell story about spending a significant amount of time with a spouse who is controlling and emotionally abusive and the spirit of their relationships sounded kind of like this. Get in the car. You'll know when you get there. Right. So, you see where now we did this client have back to flashbacks of this, but there seems to be a file based on this trauma, based on this wounding experience that was able to push through the medication. So don't hear me saying, medications go on the wrong way. But in this example, I think the discovery inspires hope in a situation where there seems to be so little hope in in this scenario that I'm making up, you know, what's the answer? Do I just need to go? No, do I just keep up in the dosage? Well, that thing happened to me. So that must mean we need right. So is that the answer? So back to this both and maybe there's something to look at here. Maybe there's a file. I think that's profound actually because you could argue if you simply look at that experience and say I need to up the dos up the dos up the dos. IMean at some point you're going to become a toast. Right. So so there's there probably is a dos at which there will never be a breakthrough. Right. But then you're also not alive. Right. So maybe we're better off as you said, taking this as a gift saying, wow, the fact that I got hysterical is now going to point me to something historical that I still need to go and resolve. Maybe there's some work that can be done. Maybe I do need to be on medication to get stabilized. Maybe the medication will help me be stabilized enough to build the window of tolerance that I need to do this type of historical work. But there's also some work that can be done. Right. We're not just treating symptoms. Right. I'm going to day two of my journal here. I can't help but feel like it's a mistake to be here. How could this pay? How could this place? This experience possibly make a meaningful difference in my life. Trust the process they say. Surrender to it. In quotes. I'm told. Okay. I'm here. And I guess I'll try. That was day two. It is I didn't journal until I got to the bridge. Now it's been, you know, it's a, I have reams and reams of journals that have been filled since. What did you have sent to how many, what fraction of folks show up there with the journal? 20%. Okay. You know, and now that number goes up, oftentimes the way you just described it. And that's found out something different a different way to do your day. Right. It is an artificial environment. One could say. When we're talking about still talking about the bridge. And also it's a metaphor for me in real life. Right. And so, you know, it's not just these therapeutic interventions or what some group members says or what some therapist says. Like all those things can be powerful. But like what are the things that you added to your day? You know, and how can you take that back with you? Right. Doing your day different checking in with which means in the driver's seat. And like, journaling is an excellent way to do that. Or just simply some mindfulness and some meditation and some just like a, you know, life's busy. We don't always have time to do these things. But take a minute, you know, which means in the driver's seat. That's thEQuestion. So let's talk about the different versions of the kid. Okay. There's the kid that's born the unwounded child. Right. What does it remind me the name of that child again? The inner child. Inner child. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Okay. So inner child. Some folks will refer to the inner child. Some folks prefer the original child. The original, the original me authentic me. But yes. And then we have a wounded child that goes through this this experience or these experiences. Again, very important to remind everybody this could be a bunch of little teas, none of which look like much. It's it's too easy. I think to look at the big teas and and say, I don't know, I'm a big tea like a fork. It could be that the the some of the little teas actually matters more than a big tea in some individuals. And then you have this adaptive child. So the example is that kid who figured out that by being deceptive he could protect his mom. And that's that was the right thing to do. Clearly the right thing to do. He should do that all day every day. Yeah. The more time it's done successfully, the more power it takes on. Talk about some other examples of how these adaptations that occur to trauma are really valuable. And then start to slowly lose their their their their their they start to become net negative as opposed to net positive. Because again, I think this to me is the Darwinian nature of trauma. Right. Like we're such resilient adaptive creatures that. You know, like the case of this kid, right? Like it's that's that's that's brilliant. That's adaptive. That's that's that's great. Like all the things that we do to not succumb. Maybe just share a few other clinical examples so that people get a sense of of how insidious this can be and why when that kid is 30 and he's in a relationship and he's misbehaving and manipulating his spouse who's not his father it starts to backfire. Right. Right. And so it would it brings up for me so many things. But this concept that I'd prefer, it's not going to sound very clinical at all. It's grit. Grit is something that I think we all have. I think we're all born with it. And you talk about this wounded child, these wounded events. These something happens and a lot of us out of that are grit gets covered up. And so I've met so many people that to survive they did it by submitting. Okay. And so losing their voice becoming compliant. Right. And so to spend decades trying to find their grit. While another another human being out of their woundedness may have survived from grit and they live from it. They can't not live from it. Then they live from it from decades and so thEQuestion tends to be at what cost. At what cost. When does this thing that was a utility to when is it enough? And I've always fall back on it's not typically the thing that's bad. Right. It's not it's not the fact that I can do it. It's the fact that I can't not do it. It seems like I can't not do it. Right. That's where that takes me with the utility. And when you mentioned the big tea in a little tea or those thousand paper cuts, it brings up post-traumatic stress and complex post-traumatic stress. And in no way do I want to minimize what we or a lot of us would describe as big tea traumas when we talk about those tragic event, those one-time events. But in the spirit of unraveling things and the healing journey and integration as a clinician, I would prefer. Not this is human had to go through that. But as far as there's that thing, there's the thing we need to work on. I know there's several interventions that have been very successful working on that thing. Versus this other thing that again, going back to the example of the child with neglect. And every single day, going to school, knowing for three years that he was going to be bullied. Right. And knowing that no one was noticing and so having to develop something to survive that. Living in limbic activation. Right. Just think about that. And so how many times, how many years that muscle memory created of going back to the part-slang which or of that guard, of that adaptive child unraveling something like that is a whole another ballgame. Again, please don't hear me minimizing big tea trauma. But within unraveling and the integration, that's just repetitive. And these limbic systems, we only know what we experience. Right. So, object abuse. You know, I've heard horrible stories. You've heard horrible stories. But let's take a child that knows that when mom gets home because of what's happened, her ear is going to be held to the burner on the stove. Object abuse. Right. Let's take another child that knows their portions laid out on their plate. That will be eaten in a certain way, in a certain manner, at a certain speed. And after that meal, they will be weighed. And their thought will be pinched. And should things not be as expected, there will be a lecture. Okay. Who's to say that which one of those humans are more limbically activated? The one doesn't know the experience of the other. Right. It's helplessness. I can't get out of this thing. This thing I'm getting ready to have to do. So again, how can I survive it? And how many times does that happen? And how many years does that take place? And then we get frustrated and we have the shame bug that goes along with it because we're back to the what's wrong with me. Why can I not do this thing? I got to know this thing's not doing me serving me well now, but I just can't not do it. Right. Yeah, the utility of the behavior. How do you differentiate for folks the difference between shame and guilt? Because for many people when you show up at the bridge, there's a component of something that you've done that's wrong. Right. You've hurt people along the way. Again, that's I think part of the hitting rock bottom that gets you there. It's not just that you've hurt yourself. You've probably injured others. Right. Now, and that's a part of this maladaptive behavior that's now kind of spiraling out of just being adaptive. So how how do you talk about the difference between guilt and shame and how do you work somebody out of that? Shams about will guilt about making a mistake. Shams about being a mistake. Right. You know guilt. I did something IMade a mistake. I did something that I wish I had not done. I need to make an apology. Right. And there's a way back from that. I think in this classic John Bradshaw, we're talking about healthy shame versus toxic shame. And what when you talk about a difference between guilt and shame, we're talking about toxic shame. Right. That there's something flawed. This flawed defective core, if you will, my identity. There's something wrong with me. There's a way back from the guilt. Shame registers so differently. So when we talk about folks being wounded and shame and that's how the shame gets registered. Somebody once told me that that my father never had to get sober because he had me and my mother and my sister to carry a shame for. Okay. So it can be a generational thing and it comes from somewhere else. But shame can play out two different ways. Some of us add when we're living from our shame, we live out of superiority. So grandios shame. Grandiosity. I control, I perfect, I judge, I criticize, out of my wound as it is, out of my shame, that can be the me that you see on the outside. And some folks, the other side of that coin, of course, is inferiority. Broken, worthless. You know, I am my pathology. Why do you think one chooses preferentially one of those? IMean, I know that my tendency is always more towards the grandiosity than inferiority. What do you think it is in some individuals that steer them one way or the other when they're in that? And by the way, I love that these are, I don't even say this to be judgmental. I just think that this is a really interesting way to observe. But I know that when my inner monologue becomes more judgmental, that's a great yellow light for me. It's like, oh, look at the judgey word you're using. Look at the black and white thinking that permeates every statement that you're making. But again, that's just the tends to be the gravitational pull. Why do you think certain people have them? The thing you just said is the thing, though, that I can't not hold focus on, like that little conversation that you just had with self. Now, you've done the work. You're still doing the work. I'm looking at the journals sitting in front of me. That's just a portion of work, right? But having that voice that you've obviously cultivated, that's where the hope is because again, to live in simplicity. I say, I hate to over simple fight, but I don't. At the end of the day, I got bad news for the folks up there who think that there's going to come a time through my healing that I just never get triggered. Again, especially those of us who have experienced trauma, bad news, you will be triggered again. In this whole integration game is about starting to live a life where I tell stories that go like this. I noticed that I was starting to be really judgmental. I noticed I was getting triggered. I had this little short subtle thought conversation, whatever that looked like. Maybe there was something somatic that happened with my body that I did, but I had this thing that I cultivated, this new muscle that gave me enough space to choose my next step. When so many of us, especially out of our shame, out of our trauma, have lived a life telling so many stories that go like this, I got triggered and then I did this. And that's the reaction versus the response. Simple goal, right? Complex process. Yeah, absolutely simple and complex and ever to be distinguished. There were a bunch of interesting rules at the bridge. No minimizing. You got to stand up to get your own clen-ups. Tell me again some of the rules and the reasons behind them. First thing is trying to create an emotionally safe place. If we can create a space where folks feel like they can let their outside match their inside, then we got a chance for the magic to have right? So learning a new language, one of those things is eye statements. You know, when so many of us want to make statements for the world, the we. It's a lot easier to address someone's behavior. We're tired of this or we're tired of you doing that. How many times a client may come up to me and say something to the effect of when is somebody going to say something to Peter about being 10 minutes late to group. You were never. But hear me out here. And the answer is, I think the appropriate answer is, we're wondering the same thing. Okay, because if I say it, it weighs about 10 pounds. But again, within that group process, if another peer going through this rigorous journey with me says it, it sends away a little bit more. You know, that clen-ext rule, you mentioned that. It's there's so much that comes out of I don't even know what a box of clen-ext costs nowadays. But like, I used to say 99 cents, right? Like so much can come out of that. Like how hard it is for for some clients, not to give somebody a clen-ext. Right? You can have the best of intentions in the world, right? But out of our windedness, our trauma, our shame, so many of us, the commonality is professional feeling stuffers. Right? Like a lot of muscle memory and stuffing emotions, especially sadness. Right? And so the very act of handing someone to clen-ext can cut off something that maybe had been 25 years in the making. Right? And there's so much more that can come out of that. Because, you know, for the person who's having the emotion, like, I think about my healing journey that I'm still on and like out of my code, depend and it's like I expected a lot of people to read my mind. Right? I don't ask for what I need, but maybe I'm sitting there thinking, why the hell isn't somebody giving me a clen-ext? Can't they say I'm crying? The answer is because you're a grown man, you need to ask for them, and go get them yourself, Jeff. Right? But like, and it is the person rescuing me from my pain, or are they rescuing themselves? Right? Language that feels guilty, part of those rules, back to the eye statements, and learning how to have, I'm not crazy about the word confrontation, but like it's group, it's group dynamics, right? So I need to let my outside match my inside. So how can I tell another human being that I've got issue with this thing that they're doing? You know, and to learn how to say, I get angry when you check in every day, as if you love this place, and then on our walks in the afternoon, you're making front of the process, and you're making front of the therapist, and you're talking about the sick behavior you're going to do as soon as you get back home. Right? I didn't grow up in a house where we talked like that when you I feel. Okay? So it's so, it just feels clumsy. It's just to learn to, again, to create some new muscle memory, and to listen, to be able to listen to somebody. You know, we asked for folks to be present. That sounds like president's supportive. Sounds like the easiest rule. You could, like, why would you have to explain that? But like, it's hard to be present when you're not in the room. That's why if you remember, we take breaks as a group, right? We try to take them every hour, every 50 minutes, but sometimes, you know, we always encourage the clients. If you need to answer the call on nature before then, just let us know and we'll, you know, we'll take a break. Because it can be also really handy to go and use the restroom when Jane checks in because Jane gets underneath my skin every day. Right? And that and brings up something for me that I need to say out loud. So the rules are there to create hopefully, hopefully the safety, so that the magic if you will can happen. And also to give folks a chance it's a new muscle memory. And I encourage clients in these scenarios, like, start it off by acknowledging you're taking a risk. I'm getting ready to take a risk. Peter, I need to say something to you. And that's the spirit of the rules. And what about minimizing? That was a very interesting rule. Yeah. Well, and IMean, minimizing is an ingenious damage control strategy. Back to the utility of behaviors, right? Like, if it wasn't that bad, then I don't need to address it, right? But my behaviors also affect other folks. So when IMinimize, let's say, for example, a client, you know, like, it doesn't matter, you know, like, I got abused. So what? A lot of people get abused. You know, you get over it. And then having the effect on me doesn't have any effect, like, in another client, hopefully using some healthy language, when you speak as if child abuse, especially physical child abuse, does an effect that child, I feel sad and I feel angry because you've got to write to your own truth. But I know how much that abuse affected me. You know? So that minimizing, again, it's very adaptive, but also if it didn't matter, you know, if none of this stuff matters, then I just am, right? And I think you've proven the theory, something's wrong with me. Or nothing's wrong with me. Superiority or inferiority. How many folks find themselves in a situation where, and I say this because I definitely had a bit of this feeling myself, and I can't imagine I was alone, where there's almost a reluctance to get better because there's also a belief that, yeah, I get it, like my life's a bit messy right now. And I, you know, my, my, my response is spilling out into bad areas, but look at all the good. Like, you know, I, I remember in particular, one of the, one of the rants I went on was about how much good has come from my trauma. I, I think, in telling my life story, it was virtually all good. It was, look at this good thing and this good thing and this good thing and like, why, you know, IMean, we don't want to erase any of this stuff. And, and I, and I, and I suspect you have a number of people who show up. And yes, they're, you know, it sounds ridiculous because on the one hand, there's clearly a bunch of things that are not good, but they're sort of like, okay, but that's a, maybe that's a reasonable price to pay and exchange for all this other stuff. How, how do you, how do you help people think through that process and what the trade-offs are? Yeah. You, when you describe that scenario, it's like you have to say it was your fuel, right? And I'm using the language of parts, when I, or guards, I call them guards, these protective parts, these protective adaptive behaviors. And I've looked at many of folks in, in your example of the, thank God you've got ambition. Thank God you've got grit. Thank God you can get angry and you've got a voice. Like, I don't believe I would have met you if you didn't. I'd say the same thing to somebody who was an alcoholic. Like, like, thank God you had that then. I don't think I would have met you. Would, should you not have had that, right? But now, you know, again, can we look at this thing and can we just at least look through the lens of, is it making life hard? An important thing for folks to remember going into, am I going to do the work? Do I need to do the work? Am I working on a part of me? Is that these guards, these protective parts of self? We are not necessarily trying to retire them. And that's what happens, I think, to a lot of folks is, is that part of them, there's almost a fear of like, how do I exist? Does that mean that ambitious, at times perfection, this Peter has to go away, right? Think of think of folks who go through life out of their woundedness that we might describe as they're always waiting for the other shoe to drop, right? IMean, I can think of clients, multiple clients who have said, it's not if it's going to drop, it's when and how loud, right? So they are really good detailed at finding negativity, at finding danger, and they'd be a hell of a good person to have a long on a walk in a bad side of town, right? Like, I'm sure if they were a building inspector, they'd be the best damn one out there, okay? But can you not do that thing when you go home and sit on your couch? Right? That's the spirit of, and back to the process and the vulnerability, the vulnerability can get brought up so many different ways. We keep talking about this group process that you experience. There's so many different ways, but the common denominator is the vulnerability is what triggers this protective side, this protective behavior to step in. And when that happens, we can work on it in real time, should that person be in at least consideration of doing something different? Every time I see you reading your journal, I think to myself, what must that be like? It's surreal actually. I'm looking at a note, this must have been about day four, no, this is day five. So we went to 12 step meetings every night and I found it very difficult and awkward. I was, I didn't understand why we were doing it. Why was I don't have a drinking problem? Why IMet an AA meeting? I don't have a sex addiction problem. Why am I an essay meeting? I don't have a drug problem. Why IMet the narcotics and anonymous meeting? I get just kept. We just kept going from one to the next to the next to the next. But I wrote something here, said the essay meeting last night was amazing. Three men shared painful, shameful stories. One of them said that he was getting, I can't even read my handwriting. Something his wife said things about him and his kids. He was basically he was losing his family, right? He was losing his wife. He was losing his kids and he was so upset. But his sponsor told him that he had no right to complain about how his wife feels. I found that very powerful and it was like he was taking responsibility for his action. And this was interesting because I remember walking into that meeting kind of thinking, good, the Lord, another one of these meetings, how many of these things I have to sit through. And yet, and I think it's people have to remember too. We're doing these meetings in a part of town where you're seeing people on the wrong side of the tracks. You are not looking at the affluent part of society showing up to these meetings. You're really seeing people who are hurting beyond just this is my dirty little secret. How many people have the same reaction I do initially, which is I'm not a fill in the blank addict. Why do you keep making me go to these meetings every night? By the way, I've already done 12 hours of group therapy. Can I just go to sleep? Yeah, just about 100% of the folks who survival strategy is not substance as far as that type of reaction. What am I going to do during the 12-step meeting? Well, you're going to hopefully set there and get something out of it. You're just going to take alcohol and put in caretaking, put in control, fill in the blank with your word. You know, helping folks wrap their brain around there, their compulsive, they're having an area of powerlessness. It's not always well-received at first. For example, let's say that clients there because he's married. Let's say he's married to an addict. Why is an addict? He's considered in the same thing. Why do I got it? She's the addict or whatever. And so within the spirit of sharing, maybe not in the group, maybe it was overheard. But anyway, the information comes out that this husband talking about his teenage daughter and going through the laundry found birth controls. So discovers that teenage daughter is on birth controls. And so the first words that come out of his mouth what are what if the people at charge find out? And so, you know, when you can in some way try to help someone use a different lens, you know, one would say and I would say this. You know, one might say that you're no less powerless to your image management than your life is to alcohol. Right? Because you can't get into couples therapy. You're not going to, you're not going to not go to church on Wednesday night and tell the people that you're married to an alcoholic. Right? So the area of powerlessness is image management. So back to that meeting, you know, you're just going to, you're going to fill in image management in that blank where everybody else or some of those people who got alcohol and some of those people who got cocaine. And again, to tell someone that they've got an area of powerlessness or to suggest it, it's not, it's not always received well initially. But it can be an aha, eventually an aha moment. So if I recall, Jeff, the end of week one was when we do our story, right? Kind of depending on where you were in the order, but yet, it tends to be the last few days of week one. Talk about what the instruction set was for how for each of us as we went off and prepared to do that. Well, the guidelines that we would typically give folks again was just, you know, we all, well, well, we always suggest that the clients, you know, write something out bullet point at. And we'd ask that the story be told within the framework of the trauma tree. So these stories don't need to be void of success and great moments. And if it wasn't for my grandfather and that stuff, but you know, there's a thing we're here to focus on as well, right? So what happened to me? And that we'd be given the 45 minutes to tell your story. And we try to stay out of the way as much as possible, okay? Unless it's therapeutically necessary, you know, some folks, you know, not rescue would be the wrong word, but some folks need to get to go and down the rabbit hole of dysregulation with their emotions and going into detail. So that client may need a little help moving forward, right? Whereas another client may machine gun through a story, right? And that's ingenious too, right? Don't have to fill it if I don't stuff and we might need to slow that client down, right? But the essence of the story again is just to tell the what happened to me. And then I think where the real magic can happen is during the feedback. Because you get 45 minutes to use your mouth and then we ask you to use your ears. And we ask folks to play by one more rule. And that is, please do not give feedback to the feedback. And then we're back to the control word, right? Because I've got this thing I'm ready to present and perhaps I've presented it 10 times and I've got it written out or I've at least got bullet points. So I feel good about no problem. But you start telling me how you felt and what came up for you Peter when I was talking about my dad and what he did, I don't know how that's going to fill for me, right? And so in so many times, almost 100% of the time within the spirit of not giving feedback to feedback is feedback is, feedback is almost like equates to I'm going to throw some love on you. Okay? Like maybe I didn't have anything in the world of common with you, but when you talked about that thing at eight years old, I felt myself getting angry. And that's how somebody lets somebody know, I was listening to you. I was there with you, right? And 90% of the time at least when it's so hard for folks to not give to just sit there and let somebody share from the heart and to not give feedback to that feedback, right? And but so many times it's like, well, but my brother had it, my brother had it a lot worse. It just and it's like, and it's like, I just throw my hands down and I'm like, it happens almost that's why we do. It's like somebody throws some love on you and it's almost like out of my shame and my wound in this, I need to remind you that I'm a piece of shit. It had happened so often. So we're just like, you get to, you get to talk about it. How do you break that cycle? It's very, very difficult. A lot of folks they think that change is about announcing what that they've been know what they're about to do, right? I know this is going to sound code dependent. All right? Well, if you're firing on all pistons as a therapist, the response should be then don't say it. Right? Because there's enough muscle memory there. We need to practice the uncomfortable thing of not saying the thing you've been saying for years, not doing the same. I'm the last person to be black and white about many things. I think much of my work with clients individually in groups, what have you with human beings is finding the gray, right? And but I tell you, well, when it comes to compulsive behaviors, complex, post-traumatic stress, these things that we've been doing for years and decades, you're either eye-mise or strengthening an old connection or I'm building the new one. You know? And so that's back to the when those clients say, what should I do? When I leave this group room, do something different. And experience what it's like to do something different. And so many times it's not doing something, right? IMean, we've took the vacuum clener away from clients before. IMean, it's an ingenious damage control strategy. It's a safety man. IMean, it's like it's written all over the walls. You know, we're here to talk about some deep stuff. And I'm finally going to be expected to talk about my stuff, all right? So, and we we've encouraged other clients to break rules. Some folks at the bridge, you know, might not like that, but it's like you need going that you need to go take some coffee into the morning meeting. Even a real follow your whole life. Yeah, we were only allowed one coffee a day or something. Right. Yeah. First that's not much. What I understand, it's not the strongest coffee in the world. You do a lot of work now with clients individually as well. I wonder how that is different. You know, I've obviously, I've recommended a number of people go to the bridge, I've recommended a number of people go to PCS, a place I went to three years later and taken together those two places changed my life. And one of the things I've said when people ask me, you have a bit Peter, it's just such a huge commitment, do I really need to do it? I don't know the answer to that question. I'd love to hear your thoughts. But what I do say is for me in the state that I was in, it could not have been done any other way. I had to have immersion. And I say, I suppose it's not unlike learning a new language where if I decide I want to learn Portuguese and I'm willing to take lessons two hours a week, I'll get there. But if IMove to Brazil and no one speaks English to me for a month, I think I'm going to get there a lot faster and it's not just the sum of the hours. There's something agreed of about the total and utter immersion literally in the experience, the changes it. So how do you think about the difference between the work you do and have done at the bridge, which is indeed what we're talking about here. This immersive residential type of treatment versus someone who's listening to us that says, I hear everything you guys are saying, I just don't. I can't do that. Can't go there yet. Is there something in between? Can I start by working with Jeff just an hour or two a week? How does your work with clients differ? And how do you help somebody decide, maybe I'll start with this question, how would you give somebody the way to think about whether or not they could find some success in individual therapy versus whether or not it's really just rearranging the deck chairs and the Titanic. You got to go hardcore. Yeah, so the answer would be yes to the can I do this or can I do that? Yes, because it's not a linear path. Okay? And whatever it takes, whatever works, right? So I know that before I started doing this gig, before I found the bridge, I know that I never thought about doing anything residential when it came to mental health and being a professional, being a therapist. And then all of a sudden, I couldn't imagine doing it any other way. You know, and I couldn't imagine doing it without the group process because all those things that I'm talking about, they're so meant. So so much access to vulnerability and all of that. But let's not box ourselves in. Right? Because some folks, it's their truth. Some folks that can't, they just can't go do something like that. And so the way that it's changed the way that I approach the individual dynamic, the individual therapy, um, efficiency, right? Not rush. But I think that through all of the years and all of the clients within the group process and how, how I could see that works and to be able to somehow synthesize that into my individual assessments and the way that I can work with clients to that discovery process doesn't have to be as long as sometimes it plays out to be. Right? So within the spirit of the individual process, it's like we may reach a point to where it's like, you know, and here's the next level. You know, here's the, but the same could be said on the opposite side of that coin. Somebody might be like, I'm going to a residential program, right? And then they find out all this stuff and we can take that and to great that into the individual therapy. So, but I'm practicing individually, would have looked so different 10 years ago because of how the trauma and the unf. It's, it's something that, it's, it's no one's sauce fits all. And so to think that this intervention needs to be used because it's my specialty or this has to happen or this is exactly how long it takes for someone to have a window of tolerance like every human being is different. And I haven't seen everything because every Tuesday at the bridge will remind you of that, okay? But I've seen a lot, right? And so my hope is that most people that IMeet or I have, I've met so many people and continue to meet them that are you've described, so you described them when you talk about folks like I've got a lot like if you want to call it half functioning like I've got a lot, right? But there's something missing. Now they won't all say that initially, but that tends to be the truth. There's still something missing. There's a hole there. Something's just not right. And so, so why are they with you? Why are they with me? Meaning what, from their end, from their standpoint, why are they seeking therapy if it seems all right? Well, it could be because they've just discovered. They've this been exposed to something that happened to let them know. Maybe not. Oftentimes that client that I just described may have got to see me to get somebody off their back. Okay? Like you need to go do some more. You need to go get some help. You need to go help. So that's, you know? And then it becomes pretty evident whether the person's there for that reason or for something a little more authentic and for self. You know, I think part of my paperwork should also include Jeff English cannot fit a square peg into a round hole, right? Which oftentimes trenslates into, I can't change somebody else's behavior in your life. That's a lot of that you see that a lot too, right? But like this person that is found to get into a point of where they have been willing to go talk to somebody, right? And so that is so often those are the people that I'm seeing. One of the things about the bridge that I assume it's still true, but it, it was remarkable to me was that everybody who worked there had been a client there. Is that still the case? Outside of some staff members, certainly all of the clinicians, most of the staff members. And that is, I can't imagine being a clinician there or working there without having done that. And that honestly has been the reason why some folks won't work at the bridge, right? So we don't operate from therapy, he'll. Right? So I'm in my own journey to get my challenges as well, yes. And so to know, I'm going to have to do some work, right? And then to wrap your brain around, you know, these are the people I'm going to work with. Right? But to be able to look at a client, like yourself and say, I'm not going to, I'm literally not going to ask you to do anything that I haven't done and to be able to say that from the heart. Yeah, that's, that's that's really an amazing feature. And I sort of imagine that through the lens of anyone who takes care of another person, right? And sort of like, you know, people, I think are right to sort of be frustrated when they have a doctor who's asking them to take care of themselves when the doctor clearly doesn't take care of themselves, right? Like how, how is it that you can tell me that I need to eat better and exercise when looking at you? It's clear you're not doing those things, right? Right? It's, it doesn't mean that the advice is incorrect or that you shouldn't listen to it. Right? It's just, you're asking me to do something you won't do. Right? Right? Whereas, yeah, at the bridge, you know, we, we can talk about some of the other things that are very difficult to do there, such as in the second week when you're kind of beating the shit out of things, that those are not easy things to do. But to know that your, you know, when Jeff and Julie are asking you to do it, they did it. Yeah, absolutely. And if you think though, to the way the journey starts, you know, is we disclose, you know, in some professionals, but I could, you don't, be careful with self disclosure, you know, and it's not about me, it's about them, but like, hey, we're going to ask you all pretty quickly to start showing us a pace of your soul, so to speak. Right? So I'm going to tell you a little bit about mine. And that's that hopefully we can start building that rapport early. Like, I think we can trust these folks, I think it would get, I think, I think that they can lead us. Maybe not everybody, but I'd like to introduce that because, like you say, in week two, we ask folks to go places with us, right? And, you know, it's, you know, that experiential therapy, and you mentioned one way of doing experiential therapy, the somatic part of what we do, but, you know, things have come a long way. And, within the, the spirit of that process, and when you talked about that learning a language, I love that analogy, you know, because you are immersed in that, but, you know, it's, it's that being able to experience the emotion, right? The hijacking, if you will, of the emotional brain. I like in it to, we're going to walk you down to the edge of the river, okay? And we're going to put your foot into the water, not the water being here, your past, your pain, right? Because we want you to fill a little bit of the temperature, right? But we're going to stand here right beside of you and our job is to keep you in 2024, 25, whatever year, right? Like, we're going to go there, but we're going to stay here, dual awareness, right? That's the integrative part, right? Some people need to yell because they haven't had a voice. Some people need to know, need to learn that they yelled and they were able to not get lost in it, right? And everybody's journey being different and befriending, but that, you know, it's, it's almost like some people say, why can't put my finger on what it was? But I just something was different, right? And it's like, what did what happened? What is it that you did? I say, well, sometimes you might say, we were activating your limbic system so that you could do something different while activated, right? Like learning how to get space from the emotional brain. So many clients, especially clients with trauma, years frustrations, learning coping skills in safe offices with therapists. And they're done beautifully and repetitively within that environment, but it's really hard to recreate that back at home, right? Or at work, you know, when triggered, right? My coping skills live in a part of the brain that gets hijacked when the emotional brain takes over, okay? And this doesn't always have to be about trauma. I can't you believe I'm saying that, but the example I give, because I'm a professional, right? One mother's 87 years old with dementia. She's living in a nursing home, okay? Now, so all the things to go along with that, the irrationality that's involved with that. And so Jeff goes to these visits and he starts noticing that all these visits are starting with my mother talking about how somebody is stealing her blue ink pens and what I call her O lady blue jeans, right? And so I'm sitting there saying, are you kidding me? Like, are you who would want your blue ink pens? All right, think about this, Rashley mom, who wants these old blue jeans? And how many of my visits? That's how that visits started. And it just went downhill from there and to literally be sitting in the truck outside before a visit, praying. Give me the what needs to happen here. And so many times in as clinicians, we ask clinicians take your, you take your hat off, take your therapist's hat off, right? But sometimes you need to put it on, because Jeff, the clinician is not sitting there in front of his mother. There's a son sitting there in front of his mother who is facing the reality that it's not his mother anymore. And that's very sad, right? And so the anger is a much more comfortable place to be or frustration. So I'm going to argue with mom about how irrational this thought is, right? But it's breaking because I don't want my mom to think that people are stealing her blue ink pens. I want her to change. I want to this to be corrected, right? But I'm forgetting like one of the golden rooms rules, excuse me, of change when it comes to therapy and rolling with resistance. Okay? The more that I fight for change, the more this other person is going to fight for the status quo. It happens 99% of the time. Okay? But when you sell crazy back to somebody, tenfold, they start to suggest rationale. Rationality, here's what IMean by that. One day in that truck, I realized I have got to do something different. Right? So I'm going to go in there and when I went in there, I went in there with my executive functioning. I went in there from the prefrontal cortex, right? And so when mom started talking about her blue jeans and her blue ink pens, my response was, you know what? You're right. And I think I know exactly the lady that's doing it. I'm going to give her a piece of my mind. And what did my mom say? Jeff sit down. Be sensible. I didn't have access to something that I do all the time. Clients. All right? So I'm crazy back to him. Right? You just, yeah, you go home. You'll get your cigarettes back. If you're talking about the bridge, you'll, you'll get your cigarettes back. You'll get your phone back. You'll go back home. You'll go back to your perfect girlfriend and life will be okay. And I didn't say life's okay. All right. Well, then we got something to talk about. Right? You got to stay here. You're going to die if you don't change. That is fine. They just fight fight for the status quo. Right? So, but that's that, that Jeff that I was talking about. I didn't have access to those skills because that was, I wasn't being driven. But now there's all the baggage. There's to be in the sun. There's a trauma-related demand. There's all of that that played into that. But to be able to get access to the, what some folks call the bill pay and bring. What year were you a client at the bridge? 2000 and 16. Okay. So only a year before me. So you'd been a therapist. Obviously for many years before. How did you find the bridge? So it was, it was an email that I probably wouldn't have read and there was an opening and a mentor of mine. Simply an email and said, I know you, I know your story, I know your background. I think you, I think you ought to check this place out. And you know, then to grow up somewhere like that, Bowling Green Kentucky and to not know this place that's existed now for 50 years. It says something. And again, I had, I had a certain mindset about what residential therapy would look like in residential treatment and yeah. So I was just blown away. And privilege to be able to do the work. IMean, it's a gift. I talk about folks not wanting to do it and sometimes that being the reason that they won't join the team there. That's a very true thing. And you know, I wasn't crazy about doing it either. Right? I got new. There was stuff that I was still working on and will still be working on. And it was going to be very vulnerable because I'm almost, in one way I was like, I'm almost interviewing, you know, like this is an audition. Do you want to know all my crazy? They're like, yes, we do. What is it that attracted you to this field? You know, I've done a lot of different things, sales, marketing. I used to build based fencing. People would say, oh, really, I think they think jousting. I'm like, no, like, wouldn't chain link fances. Yeah. It's not take the glamour. Go too far with that. But, you know, I did undergraduate in psychology. And then there was that gap in between me determining and realizing that, you know, this is what I need. This is what I need to do. And, you know, it's just that the self discovery part for me, it was like starting to do my own work and then realizing that, you know, to see someone get a taste to hope. Right? To see somebody get a taste to hope. And to be part of that, you know, I think when I tell clients, you know, it's like, you've got it in you. You know, maybe I can create a space where it can come out. You know, and it's, it's a privilege. You know, it's said, no, I don't take it lightly. What I do. And what, and what clients trust me with, you know? Yeah, I think you have a really special talent for it, Jeff. And I just wonder, is that something that only comes because you've experienced the pain as well? Does someone have to have necessarily been through this journey to be able to guide someone through it? Do you think that's necessary? I don't think it's necessary, but it sure is. It helps. I'll say that the depth of the connection with the heart and the work. Because it's one thing to say, you know, my profession, the profession, I've got purpose. Right? Like I, I could say, I do something that matters, right? But does that thing matter to me? Right? And it does. And, and, and just me personally, I think the weight of that purpose is from the pain, in addition to the hope. Having that type of impact to where I feel a little bit each time I help somebody integrate their trauma. And I've had some amazing things happen in the group room. I'm human, you know? Like certain things that I've done in the group room where I'm not, I don't need to be doing my therapy while I'm a leading a group. But certain things that I would do on a like an art therapy or something, I use the same scene on the board that I used time after time because again, that's something that I've tried to unpack and process. And I don't need to be doing anything new while I'm and then to be sitting there because of something that happened in the group room or maybe it's where I hadn't realized that I look at that scene that I just drew in the board, but differently. And it's also, it's also, it's personal. We've trauma and we talk about how it's shame, like it's something that's touched my family. Unfortunately, there's not much of that family left. And so yeah, my sister passed away in 2014 and she grew up in the same house that I did. And so yeah, piece of my piece of my heart's connected because it doesn't have to go that way. You alluded earlier to sort of the generational nature of trauma. Terry Real has written about this in some of the most eloquent ways I've seen. And I think that for some people that can be the motivation to change once they realize that there's a pattern and that it's not linear, right? Because if you if you if you have a belief that it's linear, then it's really easy to say, well, I've already stopped it. So for example, if your parents were alcoholic and you're not, well, IMean, the story's over, I don't need any help regardless of whatever other behaviors I'm manifesting. Yeah. And but if a person can accept that no, that's not how it works, right? There could be, you know, this type of trauma in generation G minus two that manifested as a different trauma in G minus one. Right. And now here in G zero where you are, you have this blind spot to what's going on. I know that for me that was among the most powerful motivations to stop the cycle is this Terry described it, right? And how much do you think that that factors into peoples willingness to kind of endure the challenges and discomfort of the journey? I think it oftentimes becomes pivotal in willingness and in that surrender game that IMentioned. Because I think as a parent, you know, one of my jobs or the most important job is in my opinion, then my children go to bed and wake up safe, right? And if they don't, they don't grow up in fear, right? And I have a lot to do with that, right? But like the analogy, you know, like they tell you on the airplanes about your oxygen mask, right? Like you got to have yours on first, right? And that, you know, as the end of the day, being a parent has made, you mentioned about why do what I do and what I get out of and what not, and to know my clients on a different level because doing the work is hard and like, you know, sometimes at the end of the day, when you need to have that hard discussion with somebody, when a boundary needs to be set, you know, when conflict resolution and a relationship needs to happen some days, you know, when people finally go to bed and the house is quiet, you just don't, you just want to watch Netflix, right? And you just, you know, and so to understand like, you just, and what happens, what can happen is that you put off these things and things start to build and they build and the build and then when you know, the little heavy breaks on the worst version of Jeff, right? If I let that happen, right, then what about that generation, you know, what about that next generation? And it's, it's responsibility on a whole different level, but, but, Jeff, too, you mentioned like, yeah, IMiss conception you were describing of well, at least I don't drink, at least I'm not an alcoholic, so that means that I'm not as bad as my parents and there's no work to be done, right? Because there's so many other ways that I can have an unhealthy impact on that next generation, right? But to just to be in that place of, okay, like, this is it, this is it, and, and, and I have the opportunity, like, to change this thing, in my case, reverse the cycle. Yeah, and I think that you must encounter a lot of people who have these socially acceptable, maladaptive behaviors, and in many ways it makes it even more difficult to reconcile because society is externally sort of patting you on the back for your workaholism, your perfectionism, you know, your achievements and all those things. And, and I don't know, I don't know, it is one pattern in your view harder to address than the other, or is it all about the individual? In other words, if you think about the individual characteristics, the manifestation of the trauma and the nature of the injuries, those are three kind of things that are all blended. Do you, do you try to disentangle those when you're working with people and, and, and look, and pattern recognize or do you just say, nope, I literally, every person's a, a clen slate and we're, we're just trying to figure out how those three things fit together. That's a place I try to operate from out of, I think, my humanity, our humanity as clinicians, we create their client files. I've seen this, we've seen this one before, right? And sometimes it needs to be set out loud. Some people need to hear, you know, you're not, you know, I've seen you before, right? Yeah. Not always appreciated, but sometimes it's lands, right? But, um, it's, yeah, it's funny. I, for me, that's a very calming message actually. Okay. The, you know, what Peter, you're not unique here. Like, there's all, there are lots of people like you out here. It's really easy to think you're the only one. Yeah, an amazing to wrap your brain, maybe you're around the fact that that's actually coming. It's, it's nice to know. Yeah. Um, so that's just, you know, there's certain interventions that tend to go along with certain, you know, personalities or certain, uh, maladaptive behaviors, if you will. Um, but, yeah, God, to the best of the immobility, client slate. You know, like, what is, what is this person telling me? What, how they're telling me, you know? Jeff, when you think about examples, um, I've, you know, I've seen examples where this, it seems like everything we're talking about has been taken too far. Okay. Right. So you, you know, there's a story I read about a teacher who started every day with her school children, basically trying to get them each to talk about what was making them sad. And, you know, the story digress so much in that, you know, one kid would say, well, I'm sad about the fact that something happened. And it was a legitimate, you know, it sounded actually quite, quite traumatic in that kid's life. You know, they were getting yelled at all the time at home or, you know, locked in a room. But it's sort of derailed the ability to do anything, right? This is a, you know, a group of kindergarten kids that ought to be, like, learning how to write and, you know, color and stuff like that. And it was, you know, everything was being pathologized for them. Yeah. So, so, what do you say to the person listening to us that says, we've gone too far? And I get it. I'm sure that some of the people that Jeff works with who have genuinely been abused deserve to be there. But aren't we just coddling people too much and don't people just need to sort of just buck her up? IMean, isn't this what makes us who we are? Yes, and no. Yeah. So, and I'm certain that those things are happening. I would not be comfortable, you know, painting a broad brush and saying, yes, we are too far. You know, again, I'm back to depolarizing things, right? So, most of my folks that IMeet through the therapeutic work, again, grew up in much more of the get over it, right? Buck up, right? And so, and then the other end of this continuum, if you will, is everything is trauma, right? And so, let's not box ourselves in. You know, I worry about the example that you just give there because I'm just thinking about kids in general, especially younger kids and some kids can be me, right? And so, like, do I want, you know, like, is that the space for that? You know, emotions, like, yes, it can be so powerful, I believe, for children to learn about their emotions, right? But, you know, to be guided by them, that's a tricky statement, like, so I would hope the spirit of guiding is learning what the behaviors are, learning the time in place for emotional attention is in the time in place that it's not for, right? So, again, my experience comes from individuals typically who are from the far other end of that. What would you say to a person who's listening to us who's trying to even understand if they've experienced trauma, which sounds like a dumb thing to say, but let me give an example, right? So you have a person who's listening, who's either introspective enough to realize that there's some, some of those things we describe is the four branches of the trauma tree, whether it be co-dependency attachment disorders, some sort of maladaptive behavior, etc. Addiction, maybe. They're like, okay, IMean, if I'm being brutally honest, I'm not flying on, you know, a perfect level, right? Like, yeah, and my, you know, my spouse has complained about XY and Z, and there does seem to be a little bit of, you know, interpersonal discontent in this nature, in this relationship, etc. Okay, fine. And then they, if they're, again, in a particularly charitable mood, they look at the kind of five roots of the tree, and they're like, well, okay, yeah, IMean, these sort of things happened, but they can't make the leap to say, but does any of that stuff actually rise to the level of, of quote unquote trauma, even little T trauma? Like, is the answer just that I need to get my act together and drink a little less, you know, just try to be more present with my kids or, you know, whatever it doesn't matter what the, what the fix is, but, but they're just not sure that going back and stirring the pot of what happened to them during the first 10 years of their life is going to be an exercise worth engaging in. How would you help that person decide that, you know, you're right, it's probably not worth stirring that up. Let's just work on some behavioral tools right now to, you know, address the behavior versus actually, I don't think you're ever going to truly fix these things until you go back to the root. I think that's a perfect way to approach it. So let's try that. You just, in your example, like, maybe I should just do this less and do this more, all these behaviors. Let's try that. Let's put together a plant goal setting. Okay. This is, you know, I'm coaching you. We're not doing an intervention here in the therapeutic intervention and then we, and if it happens, it happens, right? But folks who realize or already know that they have trauma or have been wounded significantly. Sometimes I think the word just trips folks up and they just can't get over the word, right? Wounded, right? Survivors. Whatever we want to call these folks, they have a really hard time putting knowing into action. Right? Like, I spent many years as a very well-informed prisoner. Right? Like, I know all this stuff about why it is. I do the things that I do, but it's the putting it into action. The thing that you did said about the not doing, that's where we get to realize hopefully it meant to sell. If that's the fact when I come back to C.J. for whoever, well, the goal is still failing. For some reason, I just can't do that. Right? Okay. Well, perhaps there's something significant connected to this. Maybe something needs to be integrated. The part of you that is unwilling to do this thing that you say is the goal and the plan when you sit in front of me, that's who we need to work with. So how do you begin to do that integration? Right? So, you know, let's go back to the example you gave because it's so profound and and and probably tragic where thaT4-year-old boy that learned how to manipulate and deceive to protect his mom has now carried that behavior into his marriage. So step one is is obviously getting to the point where we uncover that story and make the connection, which was an inner child is wounded, that inner child adapted when the strategy that was very positive. Everything about that strategy made sense. But guess what your dad isn't kind of hurting your mom anymore because luckily she got a divorce and he's gone and you're now applying that same behavior pattern in relationships that have nothing to do with the relationship in which that was developed to be protective. And he says, okay, I get it Jeff. How do I change? Like what are the next steps? How do I go from the understanding of that to creating a new pattern of behavior? Because this is this is really wired. Yeah. These these pads are heavily heavily dilinated at this point. So in general, what we're going to have to do is we're going to have to expand your window of tolerance if you will to vulnerability, right? Because typically that protective behavior, again, the enemy is vulnerability. And so to create some muscle memory doing something different when vulnerable, not doing that same thing. Okay? And like when you talked about your experience at the bridge and you talked about what it would have been like if we had a taken away exercise. Okay? Like simply sitting still for some folks is a very vulnerable experience. Right? And so to create an environment where that person can experience the discomfort. And that's why I think that within my work and a lot of professionals looking at individuals from a part's perspective. Right? There's different systems, different theories, internal family systems, structural dissociation, but this language that I'm using. It's not necessarily new because it's like you're talking about. So this is original self, this wounded self, this adapted self. Right? The adapted self tends to have some really hard-line beliefs. Right? Safety equals control. Safety equals distance. Safety equals self abandonment. Safety equals somebody else. Right? And as long as that part of self, right? Has that core belief? I believe it's going to be damn near impossible to do those things that I know I should do. So to know that there are interventions that will fit that process within the first question is, do you get issue with this? Right? Because I'm back to if you like it, I love it. Right? Like when a client is talking about, you know, they're at the bridge. And they're there because they're spouse. You know, their spouse is going to leave them, their spouse is finally fed up with it. And, you know, they've got all these opinions about it. So here I am because they said I needed to go to a place like this. And you know, you're like, you know, it doesn't sound like you got a problem at all. What do you mean? I was like, it just sounds like you can keep being you. You just got somebody telling you now that they're not going to deal with it. Right? So it may maybe it's the biggest controlling jerk in the world. Right? So all you need to do is go find another dormant. You know, I'm just hearing you say your spouse is not. So you decide whether there's a problem there or not. Right? And so this behavior again that's become the problematic behavior. How difficult it is to unravel and stop doing that behavior again, tie it into the trauma, tie it into it being an ingenious, damaged control strategy at a time in life, perhaps. And perhaps done multiple times successfully. Right? So, you know, there's a part of self that says, why not do this? We've been doing pretty well like this for a long time. There tend to be these moments along this journey where I assume I'm not unique in this, where people have really significant breakthroughs in beliefs. And it's mostly that a belief gets shattered. Yeah. I, again, this is, I think one of the real joys of having a journal is you can kind of go back and read what that was like and read. You know, on this day like through this exercise, this really profound thing happened. I'm I wrote about two of them in that last chapter of my book. I wrote about one at the bridge and one about PCS that were undoubtedly the two biggest breakthroughs and beliefs I've ever had in my life. They've had a far greater impact on anything in my world. And they both happened in an instant. Right? Like they both, they were huge step function changes in a radical belief system. And what I find interesting about it is how much easier it became to make any change after the fact. I never want to represent that I'm better. We're all in recovery here. But when I think about the December 2017, April of 2020, or maybe it was by this point May of 2020, those particular days when those things happened. IMean, literally within an instant, I don't understand, I don't understand the neurobiology of how it happens. But something really switches. And I never look at the world the same way I did before. There's an immediate acceptance of something typically. That's the shattering of the belief system is the acceptance of something that is more honest and more genuine to the more close to the innate child that we all were. Mm-hmm. Is that common? First of all, that people have these major, major sort of life-changing appreciation of something. And then secondly, is that by itself sufficient sometimes to drive change? I'd be careful with the common word, but it happens a lot. And I typically hear about it kind of the way you described it. Months, even sometimes years later, right? Like, it hit me one day. Or this thing was happening. And I was incredibly compelled to do it the old way. And I heard something so and so said in my ear, you know, or something against that belief system. And that's what's so tricky about that process at the bridge. Or if you want to talk about experiential journey, six years in experiential therapies, IMean, just going to a process, a group therapy process, residential isn't experiential intervention, right? And so to be able to put my finger on what was it? You know, what exactly was it? You know, and cannot prove that that was the thing. Like, it's so hard. It's interesting. For me, in both cases, it came down to a therapist pushing very hard, but very kindly against a set of assumptions. It was me saying something, offering it up the same answer. And the person saying, what about this? What about this? What about this? What about this? You know, and just maybe describe it as a loving confrontation? Yeah. That when fully backed into a corner in an unthreatening way, collapse the scaffolding of a mental model. Yeah. And I think God, IMean, that's you when you tell that about putting your finger on that. Like, I've got so much gratitude sitting here. You know, IMean, obviously, I know the moments, you know, several of the moments. And, you know, it is common. I think the spirit of you in this example is putting yourself in a position for it to happen. And there being a process to get this guarded version of self out of the way enough to allow something like that to happen. And there's a lot going on to create that or to cultivate that possibility. Yeah. I think that's absolutely the, maybe the lesson I would want somebody to learn from this is in science. There's an expression that I think it was Louis Pasteur that said that, you know, chance favors the prepared mind. And the idea is that great scientific breakthroughs don't just happen. They happen to people who are toiling in the lab, failing, failing, failing, trying again, trying again, constantly thinking about the problem. And yes, usually something lucky happens that trips them in the direction of a discovery. It's, it's often very, very much an accident. But that accident can't happen if you're not on the field. Yeah. So it doesn't happen if you're in the stance. Absolutely. And maybe that's the, the takeaway I would want somebody to have here, which is you're very unlikely to have that eureka moment if you're not mired in the trenches of going through the painful work of figuring out your story, understanding, trying to create the map of what's happening. It's unlikely to happen when you're, when you're continuing the distractions or the numbing behaviors. Right. Absolutely. And to speak to just, you know, sometimes I guess the frustration with, in the individual one-on-one therapeutic dynamic would be, or, you know, I've heard a lot of therapists who many of the therapists who would ask thEQuestion, why would somebody go to a residential program that wasn't an addict or alcoholic? Like, to talk about the frustrations of like the goals not being able to put the knowing and acting. Like, you see this person we have four steps for, we have this great 55 minute session, right? And then six days later, they come back and I'm like, who the hell is this? What happened to them, right? Well, what happened to them is more than likely, they went back and lived underneath the same roof with their biggest problems. Right. And so, you know, in your experience and many others having the ability to get that, you know, that separation, if you will, you know, it's season of separation to make that possible. Not the only way to make that possible, because again, we paint ourselves in a whole little where, you mean if I can't go to a residential program, I can't heal. Right. We certainly don't want to paint that, because then we've got a lot of folks without hope. Right. But one of the ways, absolutely. And do you do, do you view your work today? The work you do just with individual clients is something that you prefer to only do with people once they're coming out of a residential program, or do you take clients that are saying, hey, I think I need help. I'm not ready to fully commit to doing something as intensive and committed as residentiALCARe. Either one. Yeah. Absolutely. Because you mentioned that, like, it's a journey, right? Like, I'm not a healed past tense, typically isn't a reality. Right. We're all on a healing journey. I hope. And so yeah, we can have these lightning bulb moments and make this, I get this moment of make this progress. You describe your experience of it. And also know that the work continues. Because back to the language of these maladaptive behaviors and all the muscle memory, like, to have a eureka moment, just completely wipe that out. Right. And when you talk about that scenario, that, you know, yeah, if I know somebody has been to a residential program. And I know kind of have an idea of what they did because I have familiarity with where they were at. Then I can do a certain thing with that. But at the same time, like, just, I guess the fire that it lights for that person that you've been talking about so much that is finally getting to the cusp or to that place of, I think I need to look at something. Like, I got a lot of good, you know, you talked about that person, but something's just not right. You know, and to be at that point of that journey that we talked about not being linear and having a system, if you will, or the background, I believe, with that group experiential process has a different way of making that one-on-one relationship, and back to the word efficient, you know, and trauma efficiency, you know, like, and being, hopefully being able to help recognize, here's the what and the wind, and let's make sure we're using our time wisely. Jeff, what advice do you have for somebody who's out there trying to find a therapist, they've listened to us today, and they've been like, okay, you know, these two guys have got me at least thinking, I ought to maybe scratch this a little bit, see if this scabbleeds. What are the attributes they should be looking for? First, how do they even begin to, like, what do you go on Google and search trauma-based therapy? How do you find somebody, and more importantly, when you find somebody, how do you say, like, I'm going to give this three or four sessions to determine if this is a good use of my time? What are you looking for? Is it, hey, if I'm not uncomfortable in three or four sessions, this probably, this person probably isn't doing a good job, what are the metrics? I certainly want some input from a professional, a seasoned professional. I personal referral, IMean, if you will, you mentioned that I just did a Google trauma-informed, it's kind of like the buzz thing, and what does this mean? Did you, did you go to a 45-minute seminar on trauma-desafec folks, and now you're trauma-informed, right? Yeah. Is there a certification that people should be aware of that says you're a true trauma-based therapist? There are several, but I would be more interested in, IMight, what I do when I look at bios, sometimes I get more concerned about the more specialty, so I see. A niche is so when I see these lists that cover every class that someone takes during a graduate program for counseling, that troubles me, because it looks great. I cover all of these different things. But no depth. Yeah, but like how much muscle memory do you have as a clinician, working with a certain population the way that you do it, you know, and where did that muscle memory come from? So, and that's a big part of what I do, you know, is helping folks make sure, that they are with the right person or they can go, that's where I go with the efficiency of it. Like, no-in the story, learning the story, getting that eye-opening moment, and then that hint that someone wants something different, right? And then to be a part of that process, or to put them in the direction, point them in the right direction. What else should they be looking for? So, so they find somebody, they think, you know, they even get a personal referral that says this person is good, how should they evaluate what is going on, and if they're on the right path, within a month, for example, what's a sign that things are going well, what's a sign that things are not going well? I personally think that sometimes I would say that challenge, like, how challenged do you feel, right? How do you feel going into a session? How do you feel after the session? Okay. What's a good sign to that to the going is going in apprehensive and coming out exhaust at a good sign? I think, yeah, absolutely. I don't think it's a good story when it's like, I can't wait to talk to Jeff because I'm going to get to Grite for 55 minutes, and he's going to let me pay him for that, right? Now, it's happened before, and I would just say, we need to call this what it is. Okay. You know, if this is where you want to put your anger at for an hour, we can do that, but let's call it what it is, because we're not working on change here, right? So, what's happening? What's being illuminated, right? Because they wouldn't call it a blind spot if I could see it. Right? So, what's happening within that back and forth that's what I would say, I'm not know, what made me think, what made me pause, but the main thing is what's different? And, you know, not all therapeutic relationships are a good match. And so, to just know that that's a, that's a reality. And to give yourself permission to, you know, after an adequate amount of time, this isn't working. Let's not keep doing this. You know, let's not keep doing something's not working. You know, watch short. I'm looking at my last entry before I left the bridge. I see a couple of great lines here. So, one of my, one of my favorite other co-residents there, she said this, she said, I asked God why he beat me down this year. He said, he broke me open. I thought that was very powerful. You said, on the way out, the more you cry here, the more you win here. Also, I thought that was, that was pretty interesting. There's just no escaping. It is there. Like it's very, very difficult. If the name of the game is, I have to become vulnerable to become connected. Right. That's, that's the central thesis here. I am disconnected. And I am using something to stay disconnected. Sometimes those things are obviously bad, like drugs and alcohol. Sometimes, and many times, they are not that obviously bad. Like work and perfectionism. Exactly. Um, or clenliness, or you pick it right, depending on the extent of it. Um, but I have to get vulnerable to be connected and being vulnerable feels like getting broken down and you're going to shed some tears. Right. Exactly. And the sheer fact, or thought of shedding the tears, my amplified the vulnerability through the roof. Right. So, it's written all over the walls literally. IMean, if you remember group rooms with emotion words on the walls, right? And to have clinicians sit in that room as guests, of hours, and, you know, refer to them as negative emotions. You know, and I'm just, I squirre or I'm in my seat, right? Because maybe they're not as comfortable. But like there's a utility to all of these emotions, right? And I like and stuff and emotions to like tightening the string on a guitar. And you think of how many times, how many times that you've stuffed that emotion and then, you know, what what happens? And that thing right there, I think a lot of folks have been misinformed or it was an old way of doing things. But I think a lot of folks go into it thinking that they've got to have this explosion, right, with their emotions, like for the thing to happen. And, you know, if being lost in my emotion is if it's drowning in a pool of tears, is this what trauma integration is, then let me have no part of it, right? Because if dysregulated emotions is what comes out of the work, then I keep referring to them as guards. My guards, my protective parts, they've got more reason than ever to do their job, right? You just introduced me to vulnerability and it was overwhelming, right? So when working with the client regardless of the setting, it's befriending vulnerability. And to introduce vulnerability as overwhelming, right? That is counterproductive, right? And these these protective selves you mentioned back to the connection and human connection is vulnerable, right? It's not something that's meant to be controlled. There's unknowns, right? There's another person we don't know, we really don't know what they're going to do, what they're going to say, how we're going to be received, right? That's that's vulnerable. And if you look at it within, look through the lens of these protective parts, my guards, like they say the irony is the way the means about which they do their job typically brings me the thing that they most fear, all right? So another example, okay? Let's say that a client, this is one that works sometimes. Let's say it's a client, like one of their things is they've got some trauma, they've got some insecurities around betrayals, right? And they're in a relationship, and one day their partner comes home and tells them that their ex is back working at the hospital where they work okay? Now who wants to hear that? Nobody wants to hear that, right? But it's going to be especially bad news for somebody with a betrayal file, right? It's going to be very vulnerable, right? So here introduce introduce vulnerability into the equation. This is where the disconnected self shows up. I have to do something to take care of that vulnerability, right? So I have this avoidant part. I used to call him the two cool for school part, right? And he was born out of hearing a lot of what kind of man's he going to be, what kind of man's he going to be? So in other words, a man, this part of me doesn't believe that a man says something like, you know, I'm scared. I'm vulnerable. So this part of me says, what do you, you know, like you want to hear about all the skeletons in my closet? I don't care that your ex is back at works five years ago, right? But when that partner's on their seven to seven shifts, it's hard for me to be connected Jeff. When all that stuff, it got starts going on through insecurities and betrayals and things of that nature. So I need something, right? Something to step in and take me away. And that's where that disconnection comes in. For some folks, it would be drinking or whatnot. Within the spirit of the the example that I'm given and trying to give the irony is again, the problem is not having the parts. It's how they do their job and the relationship between those parts, right? Because eventually what happens is that as I do the thing with, let's say they let's say the behavior is drinking, right? So I'm drinking, I'm drinking, I'm drinking and eventually like I get to a point to where not thinking that much about what might be going on at that hospital. And then I get to a point to where my buddy leaves, we were watching the ball game. I was able to be connected Jeff from front of him. But now I'm really starting to get up in my head about what might be going on at the hospital where my partner's at. Yeah. So when the phone finally rings, okay? At 1130 or 12 or whatever, it's not connected Jeff and answers the phone. Right? I'm using myself and this made up example, right? But it's going to be a disconnected version of Jeff. Right? You have him fun? Well, the night's so young. Maybe you guys will have time to go out again, right? All this wound didn't start coming out. And so eventually what happens is in this example, if this partner's got any healthy going on, I'm going to come down stairs one day and there's going to be a note that says, I wasn't created to save you. I can't do this. You need some help. And now have I ever been any Saturn, you know? Then I am because that it's a triangle of vulnerability, sad, shame, and fear. Right? And that's what all these guarded parts of self. They're there to protect us against that. But you see the means by which the protected disconnected self did its work actually don't play it out. Brought me the thing that I feared the most. Right? So now here I am sitting at this table alone realizing what's happened. Right? And that's that's how that happened. So back to disconnection, connection, what is connected? Jeff says, I know this is my stuff. And I've got work to do. It's a reminder that I've got work to do. But I got it to you. You got to be honest with me. It bothers me. What you just told me about this person being back working with you bothers me. That's a very vulnerable thing to say. Of course, you can only really say that if your partner is equally vulnerable, right? Because if your partner is not vulnerable, that that message isn't going to land. And that's going to be triggering to that person. And I guess all of this is a long-winded way of saying, you have to have two healthy people to make a relationship work. You can't just have one. Absolutely. That might not be welcomed. Right? That emotional vulnerable self might not be welcomed. And that's information. It's necessary. Right? Nessus, or information about my partner. Because when the example, I'm not asking you to do anything about asking you to quit your job or anything like that. But I just need you to know my truth. And I've got work to do around this. But it does bother me. Schairs me to death. See? And scares me to death. Probably the bravest words I've ever said to another human being in my life. It scares me to spend so many years trying to act like it didn't. If you're in that relationship where one of you is feeling like, hey, I can be vulnerable here. But it's not being reciprocated. How do you, what are the tips for maybe helping your spouse, if this is thinking about it as a sort of, you know, a marriage or something like that? What can the vulnerable member of that relationship do to help the other one? Because it's not going to be tenable indefinitely. So it's how do you lovingly get that person to come to a place where they want to get help? Well, you're certainly a lot of folks have wasted years trying to pull and push people into help. Right? You just have to be the agent of change in the relationship. Right? You have to break the dance. So in this particular dance is it's I'm wanting to be vulnerable and you're not having anything of it, something's got to change. Right? So you got to sharpen your skills with the boundaries. Foundries, boundaries, boundaries. And you know, sometimes it's a worn-out word, but it's a health of skill to be able to utilize. Right? Like, and to be able to set a healthy boundary. You know, top to your boundary setting oftentimes doesn't include the word you. Close folks away when you just talk about me. I realize when this behavior happens, whatever, fill in the blank, when this behavior that it's affecting me. You know, I'm building resentment. This isn't good for me. So when this behavior happens again, I'm going to choose to do blank. Right? And whatever blank is is whatever change looks like. Right? It might be in this example. Like, you know, I'm not taking, I want to be able to share my heart with you, but evidently, I can't. Right? So I'll be taking it to my best friend or, you know, and so to be able to to to set the boundary and set a boundary word where there's a consequence, it's something that I can hold. It's something that I can do. Right? Because a boundary without a consequence is useless. Jeff, I want to thank you very much for, for not just coming today, but for obviously being a really important part of my life. I owe you a great debt of gratitude as I do, a number of therapists who have been really lucky to work with. But I will forever reflect on what can only be described as just an unbelievably difficult experience that I'm so glad I had no idea how bad it was going to be when I reluctantly agreed to go, because I just don't think I ever would have done it. And I've had the privilege of encouraging many people to go since then, not just to the bridge, but to other places as well. And I think almost without exception, it's, it's helped them. In fact, I know it has. I can't think of an exception where it hasn't. So, you know, if someone's listening to us and they're sort of contemplating either dipping their toe in, you know, by working with a therapist and trying to probe some of these things, or if they're thinking about jumping in the lake and then going to a residential place like the bridge, what would you say to them? If there's a voice saying it, listen, if there's a voice, even if it's a whisper, it's there for a reason. And I think more important than anything else. You're either going to deal with it or it's going to deal with you. And my hope for that you and humanity and what we do as far as helping people, in this case, we're talking about emotional health, but longevity. Yeah, it's like, right, to deal with this, grab the bull by the horns. Thank you Jeff. Thank you so much for having me. It's honored to be part of your journey and congratulations on everything. Keep up the good work, brother.

=== FILE: 341 - Overcoming insomnia： improving sleep hygiene and treating disordered sleep with CBT-I [NneZHMv7VBU].txt ===

Low end, one in 20, high end, one in 10 people, adults. adults, adults, adults. But I guess most people at some point in their lives are going to have an issue with insomnia, whether people have difficulty following a sleep in the beginning of the night, waking up in the middle of the night, waking up too early in the morning. The people who can't fall asleep at the beginning of the night, their mind's just racing earlier than yours. Yours is just waking you up. Okay, this is really important to you. This is something you're doing all the time all day. Guess what? What do we do with things that are really important to us? Make time for it. We schedule them, exactly. I always tell patients if you don't deal with what's causing you stress or anxiety during the day, it's going to demand to be dealt with in the middle of the night. Let's talk about sleep supplements. Oh, right. Melatonin's like the guy at the start of the race, right? He's the guy with the gun. He fires the gun. He doesn't have a car on the race. He's not like helping you stay. He's like he's telling you when to start the thing. So for a lot of adults, taking Melatonin is really messing him up. I think the time and bed restrictions pretty interesting. I don't even do time and bed restriction that first week, because for some people setting away time solves the issue. Hmm, let's go back to sleep hygiene for a second. Kaffee and withdrawal is not something I want to deal with in my clinic and I don't think it's necessary. So I tell people do not change how much coffee you're drinking, put it all before 11. When does the treatment fail? The treatment fails when people don't do it. Hey everyone. I'm your host, Peter Atiya. Ashley, thank you so much for coming to Austin to talk about a lot of interesting things. Let's start with with the one that I think everybody listening can probably relate to at least once, which is insomnia. So where did you're interested in insomnia arise? Well, I've been interested in sleep for a long time. I was fortunate to go to the University of Arizona for my doctoral work. And when I was there, the late Dick Bootson was also there. And he's one of the co-inventures of cognitive behavioral therapy from insomnia. And I think I found it particularly interesting because it works so well. We have so many different psychological treatments, and they all have varying degrees of efficacy and effectiveness. The thing about cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is that it's kind of like a recipe. If you do it, it works. And this was always just so interesting to me because it was so different than so many other psychotherapies out there that had just so much more unpredictable outcomes. And I would say that I became much more interested in it after my post-doctoral work when I'd gotten to UCSF. And I was a post-doc at UCSF, but I started my assistant professorship at UCSF. And there was this gaping hole in treatment availability for people with insomnia. You know, like this might be a good way for me to get back into some clinical work I was doing just research at the time. And I fell back in love with it because there's almost nothing as rewarding is being able to see a patient seven times. And that seventh time have them say something to you along the lines of, I have my life back. I'm going to go get my driver's license back. I'm not afraid to drive with my kids in the car anymore. I'm going to go back to work. I have my life back. IMean, not much better than that. And so I grew the clinic that I do CBTI in. And now I just, I love it so much that I do it on top of my job. Like I do it in night with patients after hours because it's the most rewarding thing. And you can have such a big impact and people need it. So before we dive into what CBTI is and how it works and how profound it can be, let's maybe help folks understand a little bit about insomnia and maybe go through some of the definitions around the different types of insomnia. And maybe some of the different causes for it and maybe even what some of the other treatments are a pharmacologic and otherwise. Yeah, so. IMean, probably speaking. Most people at some point in their lives are going to have an issue with insomnia. I think some 90% of adults at some point are going to struggle with insomnia and point estimates. I think at any given moment might be between 5 and 10%. The interesting thing about insomnia is that it's a very clinical diagnosis. Great. There's no blood test for insomnia. There's no. We can't put you in a sleep lab overnight and do a test to see if you have insomnia. And we don't diagnose insomnia based on one night of bad sleep. If someone says, I didn't sleep at all last night or I haven't slept even for just the last week. That's not going to get you a diagnosis of insomnia. So. And there's a whole whole suite of. Different. So many of us that we could talk about, but I think the point that is the most salient is just that when you have a problem sleeping. And when it's been going on for a long time, at least like threeish months. And when you really feel it's a problem. That's when it's time to get help. Because there's plenty of people who don't sleep a whole lot. But it's not distressing to them. It's not causing any problems in their life. They're not going to meet, you know, a definition of insomnia per se. It's the folks who will tell you that I can't sleep. I haven't been sleeping for months. It's interfering with my life. It's really upsetting. And they've started. They've probably already started trying a whole bunch of things to try and help themselves to fix it. And this is where things get interesting. Just to be clear, Ashley, when you say that a point estimate of five to 10% of the population would have insomnia at any point in time, you mean according to that definition where it's been going on for months, it's causing distress in its impacting life. Yeah, probably speaking. Well, that's so it's one in low end, one in 20 high end, one in 10 people adults adults. I guess, yes, by the way, I do not do pediatric. So please assume everything we're talking about today is adults. Insomnia and children is a totally different thing. So that's a higher estimate than I would have guessed. Yeah. IMean, given your definition, if the definition was three nights a bad sleep, I would say, yeah, that makes sense. So that's pretty far away. That's a good thing. That's a good thing. Yeah. And insomnia is from most people probably quite episodic. Mm-hmm. It's not necessarily a permanent state. People go in and out of it. And thEQuestion is how quickly do people go out of it when they go in it? And that's what CBTI is so beautiful for. It's helping people get out of it quickly. There's going to be things in your life that are going to just happen. And they're going to put you over the threshold for insomnia. So maybe we can talk from in and about how insomnia begins and then how it's perpetuated. Because these things are actually quite different. Yeah. So you and I and everybody have a certain level of predisposing factors that are going to put us at risk for having sleeping problems, particular insomnia, right? Yeah, right? And then we may experience what's called a precipitating factor. That could be a major life event like losing your job, getting a divorce, getting in a car accident. Some major unexpected unhappy life event that might throw you into about an insomnia. Right? And that event will end though. That event ends. The car accident ends. It resolves the job loss ends. You get a new job or you don't. A lot of times only the elections might end here, however it may take time when it's important but not when it needs to be opened, but only when we talk about the trying to purchase contracts love debt at a time of year,love of lots of times making mommy love money. No. So you can just start being killed automatically. Yes. But go ahead. First off is just a day off the day. So then just go up and it gives you time and pressure. So, if you're going to have to take the liver off the tolerate for you. You'll see me in some of the pain-wellástico events of what the2018 has to do as an answer major for you. short term, make a lot of sense, right? You're trying to help yourself in the acute moment. But in the long term, these kinds of behaviors aren't actually doing you any favors. And over time, that precipitating factor is going to go away. What all of these behaviors that you've started doing to respond to the precipitating event, they're what stick around. And those are what are going to perpetuate insomnia symptoms and problems. And you say more about the predisposing factors, are those genetic? Well, yeah. So there's, of course, genetic predisposing factors. I've had patients come and say, I'm a really light sleeper. Can you fix that? That's going to be pretty tough to fix. We're going to recommend something like ear plugs and I'm asked, a white noise machine, what have you. But yes, there are going to be predisposing factors. So if you are higher on general psychological reactivity, you're going to probably get pushed over the threshold more easily than someone else. Right? Some people might get in a car accident, a fender vendor, and they're over it by the next day, the cars in the shop, whatever. Other people might feel antsy about driving for a while after that. They might feel more anxious as a real result of that event. And that's going to differ from person to person. You can argue that that's genetic. You can argue that that's based on early childhood or other experiences. But nature and nurture probably both contribute to that predisposition. And there's not a whole lot that we can do about that. But this is the beauty of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. When people come in for treatment, they're often pretty focused on what caused their insomnia. And I actually don't ask people what caused their insomnia until the end of my first session with them. I'm asking them all these other kinds of questions about their behaviors now. And at the end, I ask, okay, so when did this start? What do you think might it cause this? And get their attribution for what's going on? Because at the end of the day, the interventions the same. And that's what's beautiful about this. And might differ a lot from the practice of medicine. I'm not an MD, I'm a PhD. And so in, I think in a lot of disease states, we often look at what caused what's going on. I'm not really concerned. I'm more concerned about what you're doing now that's perpetuating the problem. That's where I intervene. And that's why this particular treatment is so effective for so many different presentations of insomnia and causes of insomnia, whether people have difficulty following a sleep in the beginning of the night, waking up in the middle of the night, waking up too early in the morning. Right, you might think on their face, these people all need wildly different treatment, but that's not actually the case. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So the focus is much more on the coping strategy and the behavior that came out of the predisposing factor, or the precipitating event, actually, is really... That you used to respond to the precipitating fact exactly. Exactly. Okay. Yes. Can we talk a little bit about, you know, is there a difference, for example, between the individual who can't fall asleep, you know, this initiation of sleep in insomnia, versus the person that I hear much more about and frankly, I experience more, which is, that's not that hard for me to fall asleep. But boy, I will jolt up at one in the morning with some thought or anxiety, yes, I can't get out of my mind. And my mind starts running and I can't go back to sleep. Or I get up because I got a P, but when I come back, I erroneously just do something with my mind where I get thinking about the day's problem or whatever. So do you think of those as difference or the same side of a different coin? Different side, same coin, I guess I'm... Great question, great question. So, those people need the same stuff. And the people who can't fall asleep at the beginning of the night, their mind just racing earlier than yours, yours is just waking you up. And there's a whole suite of interventions that are part of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. And there are a lot of ways that I could approach and answer to this question. So I think starting by addressing the racing mind issue, I always tell patients, if you don't deal with what's causing you stress or anxiety during the day, it's going to demand to be dealt with in the middle of the night. It's going to say, oh, Peter, I noticed you're laying there peacefully, not doing any work or tasks. And you don't have anything you need to do right now. So you're going to pay attention to me. And it's going to demand your attention at that time. Other people, that happens right when their head hits the pill at the beginning of the night. Oh, you're relaxing. Okay, here's your 10 things to worry about. Right? So one of my favorite interventions that's actually born of anxiety treatment, but that I've co-opted and I've moved into cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia because it's fits with the theoretical framework. It's something called scheduled worry time. This sounds a little bit panicked and silly, but hear me out. If a patient came to me and said, Ashley, like, I worry all day. I'm worried about all of these things. My life is just a constant ball of worry and I said, okay, I've got a solution for you on it. It's two words. Ready? Stop it. Yeah. That wouldn't work, right? Doesn't work. So I take the opposite approach. Okay, this is really important to you. This is something you're doing all the time all day. Guess what? What do we do with things that are really important to us? Make time for it. We schedule them, exactly. So I have my patient literally get it. We sit back in the day of paper calendars. This felt like a different exercise. Now people get out their phones, but I have them get out their phone or whatever. I say, all right, we're going to schedule a worry time and it's going to be an hour a day for the next seven days. It is non-negotiable. IMay or may not schedule an email to go out to you at that at the end of that time and you have to go and provide to it and tell me what you did, right? And what we find is that when people work with this during the day, it does two things. The first is, let's say it's 9 a.m. And you are trying to do something in your life and instead a worry pops up. You can actually think, oh, okay, I don't have to deal with this now. I'm going to write this down because aT4 o'clock, I've got scheduled time to deal with this, right? So that way you're uncluttering the rest of your day by moving all of the worry into that schedule time. So this could be a valuable technique, even absent in Somnia. Totally. I would tell you that probably between a third and half of my patients who come in with in Somnia, they've got some bad sleep stuff for sure. But for some of those people, it's a primary anxiety disorder and sleep is suffering also. Whereas other folks, it's primary in Somnia, that's driving them anxious, right? But to rewind back to your earlier question about the middle of the night versus the in the night. So the other thing that scheduling worry time does decides, uncluttering your whole day is it helps you get it done during the day so that when your head hits the pillow, it's not there. Oh, I already worked on this. And also the knowledge, oh, I have time set aside tomorrow to work on this or to think about this. So I don't have to do that now. And cognitively, this all makes sense and you would maybe think you can think your way out of this, but you can't. You actually have to try it. And I've done this with a lot of people. I've done this with doctors, police people, all people from all walks of life can really find this valuable. The other thing when it comes to falling asleep at the beginning of the night versus the middle of the night is that there's sometimes low hanging fruit that we can think about. You mentioned getting up to go to the bathroom. I found that for a lot of men who are 45 and up who still have a prostate, just not drinking very much fluid with dinner and after dinner is huge and also throwing an electrolyte tab in there can really help. Granted, it's got to be the right Osmalarity and everything else, but there are ways to find this. Don't slam gatorate at night. That's not what I'm suggesting, but just throw a noon tab or whatever element eat, whatever electrolyte replacement. And I've had some male patients go from waking up three times in the night to be to one time. And a few times you wake up in the night, the fewer times you risk not falling back sleep. So little things like that can actually make a difference for waking up in the middle of the night. The other one I have about the middle of the night is a little more out there, but hear me out. If I had five cents for every time, I took away a downcomperter from someone and their sleep got better. I'd have like eight dollars. IMean, this is huge and this is because everybody's heard of circadian rhythm, right? But it's missing a word. It's circadian temperature rhythm. Right? Body is supposed to be its coolest at night and it's warmest during the day. And my favorite people to talk with about this are actually anesthesiologists. They know more about body temperature than anyone. It's remarkable. But what I've had the great good fortune of learning is that your body temperature, it's most be the warmest during the day in the coolest during the night. And when we do things like trap heat with downcomperters, quilted nonsense, even cotton replacement dovet, if it were dovet isn't it? Comperter is in it. Woe, like I like that's a no for me. And I give people a handout. I'm like, here's the definition of a cotton blanket. Here are links to examples of what cotton blankets are. If you are cold, buy two, buy three. Use these. I'm telling you, it's made a huge difference for a lot of women, in particular with night sweats. And people wake up less sometimes because they're not giving their body this message that it's time to wake up because they're not as warm. People complain about their feet in their hands and I say, that's fine. You can put your downcomperter over the foot of your bed. You can wear some socks, right? But I take body temperature regulation very seriously and sometimes it's a quick fix and we don't need a whole lot of muscle fuss. Now, you've probably tried to, this is a very long way to answer your question. But I'll finish after this. The people at the start of the night, it's worth asking people to start at the night if they're cold, if they're hands in their feet are cold. If you've ever tried to fall asleep when your hands in your feet are cold? Yeah, IMean, I, uh, I try to be, try to be uncomfortably cold when I get into bed. Right, but your hands in your feet. No, generally not. IMean, it's just my body. Right. But again, I'm using a device to cool me as well. It's slightly different. Yeah. Yeah. But spoiler alert, it's pretty hard to fall asleep when you have cold hands in feet. And what we have data on from some interesting research in a totally different realm is that people with extremity circulation disorders, like, who have really grown hands or something like that. Right. Yeah. They will have more early in, what we call early in Somnia, which is difficulty falling sleep at the beginning of the night. Yeah. And when they get successful treatment or when you warm their hands in their feet, much easier to fall asleep. The whole warm foot bath before bed thing. That's an actual thing. So warming your extremity is help you dump heat. Right. So when you actually warm your hands in your feet, you can actually help dump heat from your core because your vasodilating. And when you fall asleep, you want to be dumping heat from your core. Hard to do that when your vasodilating is restricted in your hands in your feet. So for folks who have trouble falling asleep at the start of the night, we want to make sure their hands and feet are warm enough, right. And that they've dealt with the thoughts and the worries during the day. And that they're not trying to go to sleep at 9 o'clock when their body doesn't want to go to sleep until 11. A lot of people just think I need to have this much time and bed each night. And they get into bed and they struggle for two hours before their body actually wants to go to sleep. So a major part of CBTI is aligning when your body can produce sleep with when you're in your bed. I want to kind of go into many more of these because I know this is this is the exciting stuff that people are interested to hear about. But I do want to take one step back and just make sure we kind of understand how what constitutes cognitive behavioral therapy before we even get into cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. So we've had a podcast where we talked about dialectical behavioral therapy, DBT, but we haven't covered CBTI. Okay. Can you give us a little bit of the tapestry of what defines it and why it if we're of course then has this additional subset of treatment for insomnia? Yeah, I should have done that first. That's a great question. So cognitive behavioral therapy, my favorite way to think about this is in a triangle. We have thoughts, we have feelings and we have behaviors. And you can think about this triangle as having these three pieces that are all connected. Cognitive and behavioral therapies are cognitive behavioral therapies. Generally we'll focus on one intervening on this process between thoughts, feelings and behavior, thoughts, feelings and behavior on one of these the sides of the triangle. Right? So let me just spell out a quick example process. Right. So let's say we have a patient with type 2 diabetes who has the thought I'm never going to be able to get my blood sugar under control. I'm never going to be able to manage this and not be able to do this. When a person has those thoughts, how do they feel? Crumming. Feel bad about themselves. When people feel bad about themselves, what do they do? Eat some chocolate cake. Eat some chocolate cake. What does that do? That reinforces the thought. I'm never going to be able to do this. So we've got this pattern of thoughts, feelings, behavior on repeat. And cognitive behavioral therapies will choose where to intervene on a process in that triangle. So we might intervene. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, for example, is really focused on the area between thoughts and feelings in many ways. Because people will have a lot of thoughts. I can't sleep. I'm never going to be a good sleeper. If I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job, whatever. And then the big emotions that follow from that. We work on questioning a lot of those thoughts to then recalibrate the feelings that follow. Like, oh, if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I won't feel great. But I'll probably be okay at work. The feeling is much smaller than if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job tomorrow. Right? There's noticeably different. In terms of depression, an example that IMight be someone saying, oh, you know, I'm really depressed now. But when I feel better, I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. I'm going to take them to the zoo. I'm going to do all these things. As a therapist, what IMight do is I have the patient right all of this huge, long list of stuff they're going to do when they feel better. And then you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to get out their calendar with them. And I'm going to say, all right, I don't care how you feel. We're scheduling all of these things. So we're intervening on that behavior to thoughts line, right? So we're going to make them take the kids to the zoo. We're going to make them take the kids to the movies. And then the kids are going to have a great time. And the patient's going to come back and say, oh, you know, pretty kick ass grandma kids at a great time. This was pretty great. So we're intervening on the behavior to change the thoughts about the self, right? Like, oh, I'm going to do these things when I'm better. Right? So a major feature of cognitive behavioral therapies is intervening on behavior to change thoughts, but also intervening on thoughts to change feelings. And there's just many, many applications for this. Coagulated behavioral therapies been adapted for a whole host of disorders for eating disorders for insomnia, specifically for anxiety. That's going to be more in the thoughts and feelings realm too. And it's a lot of fun. So it is that kind of running the triangle in the other direction. So you change behavior to change thought, change thought to change feeling. Yeah. So you can you can change thought to change feeling. You can change behavior to change thought. You can operate on any any way of those with different techniques that have been just repackaged into different therapies. And tell me a little bit about the history of CBTI specifically, when did the, when did the idea come to, you know, existence in a way that's, that it's been packaged more or less the way it is today? Yeah. So cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is actually old news. IMean, we can go back to the 1970s. I remember when I was learning cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, one of the most fun studies to read about was the study of, I believe it was college aged men who were not doing well academically. And the intervention that they did with them was one of the two pillars of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, which is called stimulus control. What they did with these young men is they told them, all right, you're going to be assigned a carol in the library. And in this carol is the only place you can study. You can't study in your dorm, you can't study outside, can't study anywhere else, just this carol. Right. And only this amount of time can you study each day. Even if you're on a roll, we don't care. You have to stop. If you're miserable, we don't care. You just have to keep on doing whatever portion of the studying over and over again that you're stuck on. Right. So they trened peep these young men to just study in that one place. And it succeeded in helping these men. And these men were struggling with anxiety or actual insomnia. Yeah, they were, there's just, this is just stimulus control. Yeah. Where we learn to associate a place with a behavior. Right. Fast forward, a little bit. One of, it was actually, it was called the Bootsin Method at one point for Dick Bootsin. But one of the hallmarks of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is your bed is only for sleep. There are two things you're allowed to do in bed. I always tell my patients, your two things that you can do in bed are sex and sleep. If you're not sure of something counts, message me and I'll clarify it for you real quick, whether it counts in one of those two buckets. But we really want to just associate the bed with sleep. And the state's even further back. And to be clear, just going back to this study was, was there a belief or were some of these guys studying in bed? They were studying in their dorms in their beds and everywhere else. And everywhere. So this wasn't specifically a study focused on sleep per se. It was just studied, it was just focused on this associate of pattern that became the bed rock of this treatment. And we can go back even further and we can look at Pavlovian conditioning, right? The dog and the bell and the food. And we don't need to go over that whole thing again right now. But the point just is that the dog came to associate the bell with getting food, right? And a lot of times when people are struggling with sleep, you know what they're doing in their bed? They're reading. They're scrolling. They're watching TV. They're listening to podcasts. They're doing it like everything. A lot of people by the time they get to me, they're camping out in their bed just in case. They're able to sleep. Oh, I'm going to go over snacking bed because if I'm sleepy enough all over and take a nap and I'll get some extra z's, right? So people have moved so much of their lives into their beds that it's completely dissociated from sleep. So that's a major. That's one of the bed rocks, right? And then another bed rock is what we now call time in bed restriction. This used to be called sleep restriction. But I think I don't know where along the way in the last number of years it went from being called sleep restriction to time and bed restriction. But whoever made the change, I'm still not sure who made that change. I am thankful to them for it because the other key component of CBTI is that we restrict the amount of time that a patient is in bed to match how much time their body can actually produce of sleeping. But how many people have been told me? I said, okay, I need to be in bed for at least 12 hours. If I want to get seven hours of sleep, right? I know it's hard to believe, but it's true. And we just obliterate that notion. And this is another core and very old part of CBTI that dates back what? 7, 1970s, 80s. But when you take those two parts, then you start to add in some of the cognitive components that have been around also for decades. The cognitive therapies part, the air and back stuff with cognitive restructuring, which is where we take a thought. To be fair, that phrase don't believe everything you think. So you take a thought. And on the classic thought record tool, you'll have patients write down the thought, right, down how they feel, write their feelings for say, 0 to 90%. And then we have them write down, what's the evidence for this thought? If you had to go to court right now, and there was a judge at a jury and what have you, and you had to present evidence for your thought, what would you be able to present? Evidence for a thought is not another thought. It's not a belief. It's evidence. Last time I slept six hours, I got a worse grade on the test or something, right? That would be evidence. You got worse grade in death. But then we, we look at all the evidence for our thought. We look at all the evidence against a thought. Like, oh, last time you didn't sleep so well, you didn't get fired. You still did find in school, whatever the thing. And then we create a balanced thought, which is, okay, even though I'm not going to be as well rested, I'll still get through this day, right? Then we have people rewrite their emotions, rewrite how much they believe this new thought, this whole song and dance, right? This is the cognitive component. And that's kind of the bedrock of so much of cognitive therapy. And so, of course, people have so many negative thoughts about sleep and dysfunctional thoughts about sleep that aren't true or that are catathed to advising and whatnot. That is also blended into the treatment. And then we have relaxation techniques, which are things like progressive muscle relaxation that came along as well. And those are part of the treatment. And that progressive muscle relaxation will be like, where you squeeze your hands and let go and squeeze your hands and let go and then squeeze your arms and let them go and kind of move through your whole body to get out of your head and into your body. And I don't know what order those actually were packaged into CBTI. But I can tell you the first two, the stimulus control and the time and bed restriction. Those were among the earliest, earliest parts of CBTI. And what we know from dismantling studies is when you take either of those out of the treatment, it is. Yeah, I want to talk about both those a little bit more. So I want to bracket sleep hygiene and come back to it because I think again the temperature and all that light stuff. We shouldn't gloss over that even though it's easy to take for granted. And I know that many people listening to this podcast will have heard other content where we talk about it. But I'd love to have it all in one place. I think the time and bed restrictions pretty interesting and in talking with sleep physicians who also implement this, it seems quite draconian at the outset. It can be remarkably difficult. Like, you know, they're giving people five hours in bed, max. And they're really trying to force sleep pressure, right? So how do you navigate that and how do you decide how hard to squeeze the tuba toothpaste? Let me draw a line in the sand between what CBTI says, broadly as a treatment. And then how I've actually implemented it in my clinic. So what CBTI will have you do is they will have you as a, and I say you as the Royal U, your patient, they will have you felt something called a sleep diary. And this is a paper diary that covers seven days. We have it, right? Because if I asked you how well you slepT4 nights ago, you mean like, you have so that food frequency questionnaire and epidemiology. Totally. Totally. So you have to every morning. Yeah. Of course, I'm not obsessed with it being exact because I'm much more interested in the picture pattern of it, right? If you asked someone to fill it out for just one day and then worked with that, you'd have a totally distorted picture. You wouldn't know what you're working with. But what classic CBTI does is they'll take that seven day sleep diary. And then they will actually use the time you got in bed, time you fell asleep, how and times you woke up, how long you were awake, what time you woke up. It does a bunch of, it has all of these different questions in it. And you can use that to calculate how much time a person was sleeping on average over the course of the week. And what CBTI does is it says you patient, why don't you pick what time you want to get up every day? And then you would ostensibly pick a time. And then the CBTI clinician would say you're sleep log said you were naturally sleeping six hours and eight, right? The clinician would add 30 minutes to that and make it six and a half hours and then work backwards from your chosen wake time. So let's say you chose a wake time of 7 a.m. I would work back six and a half hours to get to a bedtime for you of 12 30 a.m. And of course, that's the bedtime of your childhood dreams, right? Imagine going to sleep over and your friend's mom saying, all right, kids, you can't go to bed until after 12 30 a.m. Right, kids love it adults think this is torture, right? Because it is. So that's what classic CBTI would do. But six hours being the number six and a half. Yeah, right. You get that half hour of this. Right. And as far as I know in CBTI, almost nobody's restricting less than five and a half hours. Five and a half seems to be the floor. Okay. So I've not seen people restricting to five. There are a subset of people and I don't know the data on this because I don't even know if the data exist on this, who are what we call genetically short sleepers. Yep. And these people know who they are. They have always been like this. They've, they've, it's not, and it's not upsetting and distressing and causing them grief, right? Those are, we're not talking about those people. Yeah. Okay. So that's what CBTI will do. And just to be clear, let's say five and a half is the floor six is typically what you would do. So six and a half in bed. So we'll know if your body is producing six hours of sleep, I add 30 and I get six and a half. If your body is producing only five and a half, I add 30 and you get six. So I do this computationally for each person. I see. So when I bring my sleep log to you and you've seen that for the past week, I've been spending 12 hours in bed, but by my recollection, because I'm looking at the clock when I'm not sleeping, I'm only getting six and a half. A half hours of sleep in the 10 or 12 hours I'm laying there, you're going to say, oh, okay, that's your sleep time. Take that, add 30, that's your time in bed, working back, I got it. Yes. And here's where what I do slightly different, but also keeps the, the whole theoretical underpinning is not disturbed at all by the way that I do this. So how many times have you had a patient come to you and say, oh, you know, I really want to be that person who wakes up at five am gets a go on my day, I want to get my exercise in, I want to get my meal prep in, do all this stuff. And you're like, oh, okay, cool, cool. So you want to be a five and person, what time you get up now? All like 11. And I'm like, oh, okay, all right. Okay. So this whole part in CBTI where people choose their wake time, that's not a thing for me. In my clinic, we play a game called Democracy within a dictatorship. What that just means is that instead of just letting patients cart launch choose their wake time, I actually look at their sleep diary and I let them think they're choosing their wake time. And if I agree with it, they will have chosen. If I don't, the dictator comes in. And I look at their diary and if they are getting up at 7 am, 6 am, 7 am, 7 am, 6 am, 6 am, 6 am, and they say, oh, I want to wake up at 830. I will say, well, we have no evidence that you can sleep until 830. That's not realistic. But we have evidence that you can sleep until 6 because for the last seven days, you made it until 6. So 6 o'clock is your wake time. And this is not anywhere in CBTI. I've spoken with a lot of my colleagues who do CBTI and asked them how do you choose a wake time. And there is no standardized method. But by using this method, I'm definitely making sure that I'm at least gating the patient's sleep at a reasonable time. Because if I let that patient just choose 830 am as their wake time, and they were only producing 6.5 hours of sleep, they're going to bed at 1 in the morning. They're going to bed at 2 in the morning. And they're getting up at 830 because they chose their wake time as 830. But really, they're going to wake up at like 6 or 7. And they're not even going to cash in on the full 6.5 hours that they should be getting bed. So I've added in this component of my own of setting their wake time to be a much more reasonable time. And then what I do before giving them a bedtime, I give them a week at that wake time. And I see how much sleep is your body producing with this new wake time. Now, let's say you're doing this sleep log. And they're spending 8 hours in bed getting 4 hours of sleep. Let's say they're getting 5 hours of sleep, 8 hours in bed, and then they're taking an hour and nap a day. So they're removing all their sleep pressure during the day by taking that nap. But they need to take the nap because they're not getting enough sleep. So they're in this vicious cycle. So do you add the hour of nap time back to sleep and say, actually you're getting 6 hours of sleep. Let's do the exercise based on 5 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 6.5. No, no, no, no, no. We want to extinguish that sleeping during the day thing. So there's a difference between a person without insomnia, healthily using naps. And there's a person with insomnia who's tapping, tapping to compensate for what's not happening at night. So I think that to best explain this, I should just finish this example of the wake time thing. So if people, because this directly ties in, if I'm setting their wake time and then I'm seeing how much time they're actually producing sleep at first week when I give them the wake time, I don't give them a bedtime. I don't even do time in bed restriction that first week because for some people setting a wake time solves the issue, which is kind of nuts, but one or two of every eight patients who I see because I see patients and groups of eight will have a huge improvement from just having a consistent wake time because their body actually recalibrates and they start getting sleepy at a more consistent time each night because they're not doing that. And I do say in that first week, I take away the naps as I don't care how you slept last night. You need to just stay awake until you're ready to go to sleep. No naps for now. Now when I have patients, probably older patients like 80 and up, I'll be okay with a nap, but I'll often at this stage, I'll say look, nap, you have a nap opportunity of 25 minutes and a 25 minute nap opportunity means you set the alarm for 25 minutes, you get in bed and it's going to go off 25 minutes later and that's when you get up. I don't care how long you actually slept during that time because I don't want you going into phase three or phase four slow wave deep sleep during the day because that's what's going to really mess you up at night. Right. A stage two sleep nap is not really an issue during the day as much. That's not going to be so bad. But at this stage of the person with insomnia that we're talking about, I don't want them taking one hour and a nap in the day. And they come back that second week having done the week time that I said and I then recompute how much time and bed they're spending and then I still use that week time and I then calculate their bedtime. And then the true time of that restriction begins week two. Okay, but just to be clear, if you have someone who is using a nap to compensate for their insomnia, step one is, just kill the nap. Kill the nap. And then let the cards settle where they may for a week. Recalculate actual sleep time and then go through the exercise as described. I've just, I've made this point on a podcast before I think, but just want to get your blessing. When we're on bow hunting trips, you are going to bed insanely late and waking up insanely early. It's just a nature of when you get back to camp and eating and then you got to be up super early. So, you can't, it's not, I've never been on one of these trips where I could actually be in bed for more than five and a half or six hours in a night. So the strategy is to get that sleep, but then I always try to get a 90 minute nap at around one in the afternoon. And I reason I pick 90 is to get a full sleep cycle. Okay. And I tend to function incredibly well under those circumstances better than I would because when we were also very physically active. Like this is demanding time. So, would you argue that there's any, would I be better off not doing that nap midday? Oh, that's a bow hunting trip and you don't have insomnia. That's not a problem. Okay. All right. Got it. Yeah. Totally different monster. And I tell people to, when, because a lot of blast few years people have been had serious illnesses. They've had COVID, they've had whatever. You know, when, when your sick, all bets are off. And what I tell people is, if you need a nap when you're sick, you need a nap when you're sick, but we maintain stimulus control. We don't nap on the couch. We're only napping in bed. And if you're awake and feeling sick, then you can be on the couch, not in bed. Well, we're on that topic. What do you say to the legions of people watching who, um, fall asleep watching TV on the couch? Oh, the worst, right? So, a lot of people fall asleep on the couch because they're just so over tired that they've, they should pass out. Like, their body's ready to go to bed and they're just like, let knit and they're not getting up and doing the thing. I tell people, look, if you're want to prioritize your sleep, pay attention to your body. When you're watching TV, do you notice that you're starting to nod off? Do you notice your eyelids feeling heavier? Hands feeling warmer. You're starting to sag a little bit. Like, okay, these are indicators that it's probably time to get off the couch and go to bed. And for people who can't figure that out, I said, okay, you want to watch TV at night in the stool. You're going to figure that real fast. And what about just the social dynamic of it, which is when you have a couple and, uh, not that I'm saying this from experience at all. And one, one part of that couple, uh, they want to be together and watch TV, but one member of that team falls asleep immediately while the other does not. And the one that does not tries to tell the one that is to go to bed, but that couple says, but I, but that one wants to be with the other, like, I don't know if you can ever imagine a scenario like that. Yeah. I'm just making it up. Mm. Okay, good. I'm glad you're making that one up. No, I have a lot of these couple level issues that come up in sleep clinic. This is not uncommon. Because what's more intimate than being completely unconscious next to another person if you think about it, like evolutionarily, that's probably the riskiest thing you can do, right? So there is this desire for closeness in lots of couples. And it becomes a challenge when one of the members of a couple has a sleep problem. And the first step is remembering, like, that this is not necessarily permanent. We need to go about fixing this now. And then we can find a new winning solution. So in the interim, I'm assuming you've already tried, you know, maybe watching something different on TV that might be more exciting to the second partner, et cetera. And it's not about the boringness of the show per se. It doesn't have here to be. Mm. Okay, good. That's the issue. Then I would say, hey, like, this is a priority. What are we going to do? We're going to schedule it. We're going to schedule time to be on the couch together at a time when I can definitely be awake and be spending meaningful time with you. Problem is sometimes other members of the family who tend to be smaller, also tend to be occupying all of the bandwidth during those earlier hours when the member of the family in question is able to be awake. This is a hard problem to scale. But what I would just say is, if you're ready to go to, if you're actually ready to go to bed and your body is saying that you need to sleep, you should probably do that. It's more likely that then you'll be awake the next day and be a more pleasant, exciting partner to be around and be able to have more meaningful experiences with your partner that way. Otherwise, as hell people look, this is an issue. If it's really an issue, we're going to get a babysitter. Let's figure it out. There are ways to get around these things. People just often want it to work like they see in the movies. Like, oh, this should be easy. Now, if obviously I'm talking about my wife here, so I'll stop double speaking. But if my wife falls asleep every single time on the couch, but then when said Netflix is over and we go up to bed, she falls right back asleep and it doesn't seem to keep her awake. Is it pathologic? No. This isn't necessarily problem. What I would say is that we do tend to have, but we sleep more deeply at the beginning of the night. We experience more slow waves, sleep in the first half of the night and then more REM sleep in the second half of the night. I think other podcasts, guests you've had, can definitely go into the neurobiology of this much more deeply. But my way that I like explaining this has to do with evolution. If you think about it, one more deeply, deeply asleep. We're kind of tuned out, right? On the prairie, when we figured, okay, it's safe to go to sleep right now, our body's prioritized getting that really deep sleep when we knew it was safe. Then as the night goes on, we sleep more and more lightly, which makes sense because, hey, there could be lions and tigers around or whatever that are going to come in eat us. So evolutionarily speaking, it was adaptive to sleep more deeply in the first half of the night. Now, if your wife is falling asleep on the couch and getting some of that sleep at that stage of the night and maybe getting more interrupted aspects of that because there's noise from the TV or whatnot, it could be disturbing all the other stuff. That's the drawback, right? Makes sense. And just, and then to that effect on the prairie, right? It also makes sense that evolutionarily, that there's diversity in people who are night elves and early morning larks, right? We needed that diversity in order to keep the tribe safe from the threats on the prairie. Some people were staying up late, okay, no lines. Some people were up early, okay, no lines. And yeah, there's nothing pathologic about being a person who's going to be more likely to fall asleep earlier or be a person who's more of an idol. It's not, and it's very hard to change that. Yeah, a lot of patients want to change it. And there are broadly two to three different archetypes of that, right? There are the, I know there's a circadian rhythm test you can take online that kind of gives you a sense of it, but it's, I almost think it's so self-evident if you pay attention to it is your patterns. It is. And I'm, I'm really a clinician. So I deal with what's in front of me all the time. I'm not so concerned about these tests. I'm more concerned about what's the problem that's messing up your life right now and how can we work around that? Let's go back to sleep hygiene for a second. For a temperature. Yes. You know, nowadays we have these incredible devices that can cool our mattresses and things of that nature. Obviously we have air conditioning that can cool the room. Do you have a preference for one or the other? IMean, clearly not everybody needs to buy a mattress, cooling device if they can't afford it, that shouldn't be an impediment to sleep. So do you have a room temp set? We typically talk about the mid 60s as an ideal room temp do you adhere to that? Yes, mid 60s is terrific. And if people say, oh, if this is just too cold, I say, well, what's too cold that often they will say my feet? And we have wonderful solutions for that. They're called socks. And we can get really thick socks. And I'm also not opposed to, you know, those tiny little heating pads, you can get there like this big. I'm like a foot and a half by a foot or something. Putting one of those in the foot of your bed, it's got an auto shut off, shut off after like an hour or something to fall asleep with. I don't have a problem with that. There's no issue there. But yes, a cool room is definitely key. And you know, insert my refrain about down, comforters, duvets, etc. Get cotton blankets, get cotton sheets. And then let's talk about light. Do we need to have it so pitch black? You can't see your hand in front of your face. Do we need to block the moonlight? How dark do we need it to be? Yeah. So this is a common question. If you close your eyes right now, you'd be able to tell that it's light in this room. We can sense light through our closed eyelids. And many women would tell you that their eyelids seem to get thinner as they age. So I think an eye mask is a great addition. And this is for a lot of people early morning awakenings. Eye masks can be a game change because they don't realize that what's causing the early morning awakenings is a little bit of light getting the wrong part of their eye indicating it's time to be awake right now. And I don't know the details on what wavelength of light that is or what necessarily the light is coming from, whether it's a light in outside from the sun or the moon or whatever it might be. But the point is there's a lot of folks with early morning awakening can really benefit from having something covering their eyes, whether it's asleep mask or there's like hats that go down here now. I'm a big fan of making your room dark. I am one of those people who travels with a role of black electrical tape because you go to a hotel room and there's like 50,000 lights everywhere. And you wouldn't, you wouldn't just get relief from the eye mask and the system. I do, but I'm one of those people who rip my eye mask off in the middle of the night. And I've tried every single eye mask and it's come off. So I like to wear it. I start with it. I try and keep it on as much as I can. But I also, if there's a griegeous lights in the room, I cover the mudlock. Meaning like you're going to cover the alarm clock and over the bed. Oh, yeah. And no, there's none of that in my room. Yeah, I don't do that. But back to the cool thing for us. My trick is I unplug alarm clocks because I realize sometimes they're so complicated that they just go off in the middle of the night and I didn't realize it. Oh, totally. And the microwaves are the worst. Those are the blinking time. I'll clocks in there. But you mentioned the cooling mattress stuff, which I'm intrigued by, but I also am concerned about. It seems that a lot of these mattresses have settings where you can make it cooler, but also you could make it warmer. And I worry about two things. One is I worry about messing with our circadian temperature biology. Because you remember in the 1980s for a hot minute when electric blankets were really popular. And all of a sudden they're not. They were starting to see associations between electric blanket use and some cancers. And at the time, there was a lot of speculation that this was related to EMF. But the great thing that time does is it gives us more perspective. And there are some indications that actually that might have been messing with circadian temperature. And that might have been part of the issue. We know that night shift work is carcinogenic. So all of these things that need to be done. Yeah. Night shift works been declared a good question. Well, IMean, no disrespect to the WHO. I don't know what I believe that they say. I know that there's an association between night shift work and cancer. But do we really know that it's causal? I think if we go Bradford Hill on this. And we look at temporality. I think that there are our age-matched case control studies where they can look at people going through different to a control for history effects, right? To see our people getting more and less cancers. We know it's it is tricky because if for example, you look at firefighters, right? We're way more likely to get cancer. They're way more technical. It's a bit of way more other things in the mix. But I think that some of the more classic studies have also been done with hospital workers, right? Also confounding effects. But yeah, and how do we get around the confounding effects of the diet, the obvious dietary shifts that occur in people when they're working under those conditions? IMean, if I think back to how I ate in residency or how I ate after a night of poor sleep, IMean, it's yeah. I to me that's that would be more the cause. I'd put more of that on kind of the metabolic ill health that might result. But Macarion. Yeah, I think that there's it's it's often hard for people to sleep during the day, making that change from going to sleeping at night, to being a person who sleeps during the day. For some people, it's not even possible. You talk to some night shift workers. They shift, they sleep very little because they just can't sleep during the day. They're not able to flip. They're circadian biology. But there's a whole history, and I know we'll probably talk about thermal stuff in a bit, but of looking at disruptions in circadian temperature as one of the most common, like circadian disruptions in mental health disorders. Going back to the cancer thing, what would be the belief to mechanism of action? I would talk to an oncologist about that, and I would probably talk to a circadian biology person about that. But what I can just speak to is just my understanding that electric blankets are no longer here with us and very common because there were these observed ill health effects, whether they're due to EMF or whether they're due to messing with your body temperature at night. What concerns me about some of the exogenous interventions like mattresses that might heat up is that there's supposed to be a normal circadian temperature rhythm that we do during the day and during the night. And when we start imposing things on that, my understanding that some of these mattresses can actually be set to cycle different temperatures during the night and all of these things. Yeah, I think so the one that I use, and just by full disclosure, I'm an advisor to that company, the one that I use, you change how cold it is throughout the night. So I think I run it as, I think the settings go from zero to minus 10. Like, where my 10 is the absolute coldest. Zero is no temperature. Is that like a point skill or is that degrees? No, it's a point skill. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you know, I think I get in and I have it at like minus five and I run it down to minus 10. Okay. And then I bring it up to minus five in the morning. Something to that. So I'm taking it from cold to really cold to cold. Right. Okay. So where my concern is just that my understanding of some of these things. Your thinking people would heat themselves with these things. Yeah. But that gets to the point which we know we don't want to be warm. We don't want to debate. Right. But a lot of people get in bed and they don't like feeling cold. Because it is easier to fall asleep when your hands in your feet and your skin is warmer. Right. So people will maybe mistakenly do this for more of the nights than they should. And I'm just concerned that our circadian temperature rhythm is an exquisitely controlled system. And like a my a 10 point scale on a device. I think pales in comparison to the complexity of what our bodies need to do in terms of temperature. Well, IMean, I think that the good news is if you can keep your room at 65. Yes. None of this matters, right? And if you, um, and the biggest challenge, honestly, is hotels for most people. It's where you have the hardest time controlling temperature. Hotels are the worst. And there are some mattresses now that are just they're just hot. And there's a whole, well, there's a short list of mattresses. So I just tell people like, look, that's going to be a hot mattress. Don't get that one. And you want to be really careful to make sure that you can be cool in your bed. And I think the easiest way to do that if you don't have the money to splurge on you know, something that's going to be a mattress that's going to definitely be cool will be keeping your room cool. What about, um, blue light before bed? So so I've, I've looked at these data quite a bit. And I would say that six years ago, I sort of was in the camp of every light had to be red. So, you know, I had to have my phone shifted into a red light phase. My computer shifted into a red light phase. I had all of these apps that managed all of this stuff. So as soon as the sun went down, blue light was being removed from my electronics. And I have to say, I sleep subjectively and objectively better today. I say objectively if you can believe what a sleep tracker tells you. But, but we can bracket that and come back to it. We should. Um, paying never taking blue light out of my devices, but instead paying attention to what I'm consuming. In other words, my new hypothesis has become it's not the blue light that is the problem. It's the stimulus that often comes with the blue light. In other words, not looking at social media, with regardless of light color is a far greater positive impact on my sleep than looking at those things, but just making sure that there's no blue light coming through. Yeah. So, so let's talk about that. What is the, what is the role of minimizing blue light when it comes to preparing for sleep? That's an excellent question. Well, first, I want to completely agree with you. We didn't evolve for the neural experience of Instagram. That's not, we're not ready for that. Right. And I think regardless of what color light you're getting your Instagram on, that's probably not helpful before you go to bed. So, I think that you're entirely right. I think the larger problem is not necessarily the blue light, but is the thing that we're interacting with. Whether it's an iPad or a phone or a computer, because typically those things are going to involve social media, work, email, all of these other things that I think are much more potent disruptors of sleep than the blue light itself. IMust caveat this though. I have had a few patients who have found, they were not using Instagram before bed. They were not doing email before bed none of this. Not there anything stress forced in you. No. But, and I just finished with a patient recently like this, who found that using orange colored glasses. And I'm talking orange colored glasses, not those beautiful blue light blocking glasses that are clear lenses that I'm not sure what they're really doing sometimes. Like I'm talking ugly, motor cycle, looking orange lenses. And I found that handful of patients wearing these two hours before bed, it completely ameliorates their sleep on set and so on. Yeah, such that they were able to almost immediately banbean. The beauty of these interventions is if you can isolate them to one change at a time, you can be empirical about it and something like wearing glasses is benign. IMean, you're only out the money you spend on them and if it works, great. And if you really want to test it, take them off and see if your symptoms return. Exactly. And if they don't, maybe it fixed you, maybe it wasn't that who cares if they return and you can fix it. Yeah, like again, I don't, I try not to be terribly dogmatic about this stuff. But I also sort of think that when people go to great lengths to remove blue light without removing stimulus, they're missing the boat a little bit. And for me, social media is not much of a stimulus. I actually don't pay that much attention to it, but work is. Yeah. So for me, the single worst thing I can do right before bed is look at email. Oh yeah. If I've like, you know, we're as watching TV, totally like it's a total beautiful way for me to be distracted by watching something mindless on Netflix for an hour. And as long as I don't go and check my email and see what got sent to me in the last hour. Right. It'll be great. It doesn't matter that I just finished watching a big bright screen of Netflix. Right. Doesn't seem to impact me. Totally. Because, well, one is much more interactive and stressful and one is very passive. And you're just watching a movie that has nothing to do with you, no bearing in your life. Right. And what I would say back to you, what I'm going to call AB testing, right? Whenever you want to test one of these individual, what I call low hanging fruit interventions, you want to collect your own data on a paper sleep diary for two weeks. Make the change. You must do it for two weeks. And there's a few more low hanging fruit pieces of sleep hygiene. By the way, do you have a nice template that people can like we have one that we give our patients. Again, it's super low tech. It's a piece of paper. Do you have one on your UCSF website? I can make it public. Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you a link to it in the show notes just so folks. He's easy to do. And where we get the link ours as well. But yours is probably better. Arze is like boxes you color in. Oh, yeah. And it's like you put C when you had caffeine. You know, A when you had alcohol, E when you exercise. So we're documenting when did you exercise? When did you have food, alcohol, caffeine? And when were you in bed and when were you sleeping? By the shading. Yours might be even more high tech than mine. But what I will tell you is mine is just enough to get the information that I will definitely act on. That's okay. Nothing else. But I will tell you, can I go over a couple more pieces of low hanging on sleep hygiene? Yeah. So okay. So back to the glasses. If you are a person who has trouble with what we call early in so many as a difficulty falling sleep at the beginning of the night. And you're already not looking at your email, not doing Instagram. You're just annoyed that you cannot fall asleep at the beginning of the night. It's worth it to try these glasses for two hours and night for two weeks and see what happens. It's it's it's it's it's so easy to do, right? And to be clear what is our particular brand? IMean, I have no affiliations with any of these things. I can tell you there's some really nice ugly ones from low blue lights.com. I think. I still am business. But they look like motorcycle goggles. I do think that the wrap around features is important. It's going for it. Let's go for it. Right? So it's a worthy thing to do. Another important thing to do is to talk to your physician. I'm not a physician, but I work with a ton of them. And I learned this from an anesthesiologist. All medications have circadian effects. All of them. Somehow it's probably not known for all of them how they do. But they do. Make sure you are taking your medications at the same time every day. And at the right time of day. For example, I want to had a patient coming in saying they were taking 450 milligrams of bupropion for depression before bed. No. Right. That's going to be a pretty stimulating dose of some of the day for bed. So make sure that you go over your medications with your doctor and that you're taking them at the optimal times of day and be really consistent with your medications. And another one that is a particularly low hanging piece of fruit is something called decaffinated coffee. Turns out there are speculations that decaff coffee can have as much as 15 to 30 percent of the caffeine that regular coffee has. I haven't found that reference. I've dug. I've tried to find one that will show that. I haven't found exactly that. But there are some data from 2006 that were published saying that you know 15-ish percent. But then again, more recent data have shown that Starbucks, I think, says that their 12 ounce has 155 milligrams of caffeine. But outside laboratory testing found like 310 something like that. So when you're decaffinating coffee that's much more caffeinated than you started with, this can make it an absolutely huge difference. I tell people were done with caffeine by 11. That's my 11-am. That's my standard. Unless we've got an extreme face delay or phase advance, I should define those terms. A phase delay is when you go to bed really late and you wake up really late. A phase advance is when you wake up really early and you go to bed really early. So someone who's waking up at like 330 in the morning and going to bed at like 8 p.m. That would be like a phase advance. Phase delay would be like I'm going to bed at 3 a.m. and I'm waking up at 10 a.m. Right. So in those cases, IMight do something differential with the caffeine. But for most people who are neither of those, I'll cut it off at 11 and it's that includes your, your caffeinated coffee and your decaffinated coffee and I never take people's caffeine away. Caffeine withdrawal is not something I want to deal with in my clinic and I don't think it's necessary. You can cause a lot of damage taking me by someone's coffee. People really don't like that. Really put some in a bad mood and it's not necessary. So I tell people do not change how much coffee you're drinking, put it all before 11. Right. Just move it all. What fraction of people are such rapid caffeine metabolizers that they seem immune to caffeine and sleep? I think that that person doesn't actually exist. I'm not, I need to be convinced that there are people, IMean, what the normal caffeine half-life is four to six hours. Right. So even if we take someone who's four hours, that means after four hours you still have half of a cup of coffee and after eight hours you still have a quarter of a cup of coffee and if you have that coffee at two PM and that coffee actually had three hundred and ten milligrams of caffeine in it and it was only a tall coffee from Starbucks and there's a lot of contingencies to build in here. But I, I could tell you people, someone just know, actually stops using the coffee after dinner and it's like a world of difference for their sleep quality. People will say, oh, no, I fall asleep. Just fine. It doesn't affect me. Well, it is affecting you. It's affecting the electrical quality of your sleep throughout the whole night and I would refer you to talking to like a sleep neurologist to interpret some of those sleep studies and talk with you more about that. For my purposes, all I need to know is the person who's trying to fix the insomnia is, oh, you're having two D.K.F. coffees after dinner every night. That could add up and that could be doing something and that could make your sleep less restful. Okay. So low hanging fruit. Just stop at at 11. Like do the experiment at a minimum. Okay. So those are three. But don't forget is the key thing. Anything, any other really obvious things to AB test for two weeks? So do you want to talk about getting off medications or do you want to leave that and put that in the next? Let's wrap up all of this and then I want to do I do want to talk about the weaning off. Especially the ambience and the lunastas and the all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that that's the major part. I will tell people also people like to fall asleep with podcasts on don't do that. Including this one, right? Right. Yeah. Well, this is an easy one to fall asleep too. But I don't know. I hope that people aren't falling asleep listening to this. Although if this helps them sleep, one of the things we want to talk about is on the realist re-reoxation techniques. Where does or does mindfulness based practice come into it? So anyone who's done mindfulness based meditation probably appreciates how difficult it is. It's not like, you know, trenscendental meditation where you're focusing on a mantra. You're instead focusing on a sensation typically breathing. But body awareness is a thing that you want to focus on. Is that counterproductive or is it productive as you're laying there awake? So my unsatisfying answer to so many questions is always going to be at the pens because there's moderator variables, right? And when it comes to CBTI, what we know is that what's been tested is progressive muscle relaxation, which you could argue is a form of a body scan, which is part of many mindfulness practices, right? Where you scan your whole body, you think about your hands. You notice how they're feeling, are they warm, are they soft, whatnot? And you move through your whole body with progressive muscle relaxation, you squeeze your hands and you let them go, you squeeze them and you let them go. It's more of an active process that you're paying attention to throughout your body. Doing this in bed right before you fall asleep for a few minutes is fine. That's kind of the one exception to the sleep and sex rule. I tell people that it's also fine to practice this in other parts of your house. You don't have to just be in bed. But the body scan and mindfulness in general has been studied in combination with CBTI. And what the data have shown is somewhat fascinating. There's no actual differential improvement on sleep duration or metrics of sleep. But people like the mindfulness stuff. They report they're just more they're more happy with it. They like they like doing that. Right? But in terms of actual improvement on sleep outcomes, I don't think it really adds too too much to CBTI. The effects with CBTI are pretty whopping. When it's done well, you know, 50 to 60% of people can get remission and 70% can get clinically meaningful improvement to their sleep. So that's, IMean, in the world of psychological treatments, that's really good. But to circle back to your question, mindfulness is great. I think there's a lot of practical uses for it for helping yourself when you're in psychological states. You don't want to be in. It's a great way to be in life. But when it comes to sleep, do I need you to start a mindfulness practice to improve your sleep? No. So you mentioned 50 to 60% of people are going to have a remission closer to 50, but yeah, 70% will have a clinical meaningful clinical improvement of the 30% that do not. Why when does the treatment fail? The treatment fails when people don't do it. So in other words, we're really saying it 30% of people are not able to adhere to the treatment. I wouldn't go that far. There are some people who are genetically short sleepers. And at some point this may become distressing for them. I had a great, I had a story of a patient who was in her 70s and came to me saying, I have a huge problem. My sleep is not good. And I asked her, okay, so tell me all about this. She was like, upper 70s had a volunteer job in Sanford. Like really active, full workout plan. I'm like, you're crushing it, lady. What's the problem, exactly? She says, well, I joined the study and I had to wear this wearable device. And I woke up in the morning and it says that things are not going well every morning, morning after morning. And it says I'm at risk for different things. I'm not going to say which wearable company was, but and I said, okay, okay, so there's rips. There's an amazing treatment for that. Can I see the wearable device? Can I please just have that wearable device? Here's my vise grips. Exactly. So, and this was a while ago, but I took it away from her because I think, you know, and the wearable devices now are not doing doing this. This was, oh gosh, seven, eight years ago. This is actually, I actually wanted to ask, this is a, IMade a note to ask you this question, which is when do you tell people? Because we do this with our patients, which is take the tracker off. We're doing a six month tracker holiday. Yeah. Done with the tracker. Done. So, is that kind of mainstay part of your treatment is like, let's get all that anxiety out of there for people with insomnia. I tell them, yes. And I do like with, we're coming to me in my clinic. The people who have bothered to wait a year and a half to get into the clinic, those people, yes, I am telling them that. And so, to go back to your 30% of people, the genetically short sleepers who become distressed about their sleep are not going to be helped by CBTI. They're not. Maybe they shouldn't be helped. Maybe there's nothing to fix. Correct. Yeah. Correct. But they're presenting. So, I'm putting them in the group. I got it. And then, yes, we know that there are so, there's such a huge body of data on CBTI at this point. It's just wonderfully studied. And we know that when people don't do the treatment, it doesn't work. adherence is a major, major component. Duration of treatment also matters. It seems that if you do four or more sessions with a therapist doing the CBTI, your outcomes are going to be way better than if you try and cut it way short with one or two. My treatment is five sessions. I do an intake. You get five treatment sessions. And then I do a follow-up where we just tidy things up. And the space between them is a week. Always one week. I am militant about this. If you're going to miss a week, you can't be in it. You have to wait for the next cycle. Given that people are waiting a year and a half to see you, tells me that there's a mismatch on the supply demand curve. Yeah. Why is that the case? Yeah. This is a great question. So, first of all, there is a great directory that I can give you for the show notes where people can, so there's actually a way you can look up all over the world. We use it ourselves. But this is a slightly regional sleep medicine thing. Yeah. So, that is how you would find a provider who definitely knows how to do CBTI. One of the major problems comes down to psychologists and providers taking insurance. A lot of the best folks there in private practice, they don't take insurance. And you could be paying hundreds of dollars a session to see them. Right? And they're pretty backed up as it is. And they don't take insurance. Yeah. I am fortunate. I get to work at UCSF at the OSHA Center for Integrative Health. And we take Medicare and all kinds of insurance. So, people can pay minimal or non-existent copays to see me. And there are other CBTI providers at UCSF. They're waitlists are long, long, long too. In fact, in order to see patients now with any volume, I don't see individual patients. I see eight patients at a time in group medical visits. And I do it 90 minutes every week, all eight patients in that 90 minutes to get it done. So, what will it take for AI to replicate what you're doing to scale this much more? Because a lot of this, I'm a lot of the work I do can be done by an AI. How much of the art and science of this is teachable to LLMs. And and at least as another offering. Like, I'm not saying it should ever displace what you're doing or what a therapist is doing. But if we have a backlog of people for years, shouldn't we have an alternative, which might say, look, there's an online course that you can do that will give you 70% of the value of what you might get sitting in the group with Ashley. Oh, hey, if you can find a way to replace me, I'm here for it. If we could actually just come up with an alternative to scale. Here's the issue. There are some CBTI apps, smart phone apps, and it's out there. And I've had patients who've tried these and they're while they're waiting. Yes, exactly. And they'll come in and they'll say, oh, you know, it might help a little bit. But, and I think the major issue is that many, many people with sleep problems think that their sleep problem is unique. It's special. This can't be treated by just a generic app. My problem is different. Right? And the joy of me having a group is that people can hear that everybody's problems are different. And I'm going to treat you all the same way. You're all going to do the same things. You might do it at different times. But you're all going to do the same things. And I think that there is a world where AI can help with the personalization aspect. And I'm actually I'm actually helping a company that's making an app. It's called the rest. And they are integrating AI to use, for example, the way that I calculate someone's wake time, which is not something that's in standard CBTI. They're incorporating that. And they're able to actually do more tailoring. And I'm excited to see where it goes. But I think that the biggest fly in the climate with this is going to be getting patients to look at the fact that they have been assigned to wake up at the same time every day for the next seven days. And think, oh gosh, I only wake up at 5am two days a week. Normally now I have to do it every day. Getting them to really do it is going to be hard. Before my patients enroll in my clinic, they watch a 10 minute video. And it's a really scary video. In that video, I'm basically saying, look, this is going to be hard. You're going to hate me. You're going to want to make a dark board with my face on it and play darks on it. You are going to suffer in the beginning of this treatment. But guess what? You have been suffering for months or years. Now you're going to suffer for five weeks. You're going to do my way. And if you don't like it, you can go back to your way. This is five weeks of your life. How bad can it be? How much worse can it get? So I do one of these kind of pep talk videos. There's just something about knowing that someone else is actually really paying attention to one of the biggest problem. If not the biggest problem in your life at that moment, sleep is a 24 hour day problem. This is not just a problem at night. It is affecting you all day. It is intensely personal. So it's a lot to trust and algorithm or an app to know, oh, okay, I really should do these things. I think it's a big ask and it's hard. By the way, when you're giving them that bootcamp speech, is the time and bed restriction typically the thing that causes the most distress. I think the thing that causes the most, well, that's a great question. They don't know about that at that stage. I intentionally am not people are in the dark at that stage. I just say, look, we're going to do this thing. It's going to be really hard. You're going to get worse before you get better because everybody sleeps less the first couple of weeks, right? Well, we're getting all these things lined up. And for some people, what ends up being the hardest is the wake time because they're used to just sleeping in whenever they can or catching up on those catching up on those hours when they when they can. For other people, those the super late bed time that I give them, that's what crushes them. Oh, my gosh, I have to stay up until then. But the great news is that we dial it back over time. And I don't think we talked about this part with time and bed restriction, which is just that there's a benchmark for efficiency, for efficiency. And we define sleep efficiency as the amount of time that you're in bed sleeping, divided by the entire time that you're spending in bed. And the benchmark is 85%. So each week, I'm actually calculating sleep efficiency from people's paper sleep diaries. And once we do time in bed restriction, if they are above 85%, IMove their bed time back 15 minutes. And then if that's the same for another week, you move back another 15 minutes. And people say 15 minutes, two cares. I'm like, oh, you'll care after after four weeks, that's an extra hour every night. That's huge. And our people able to with a high enough fidelity report awake time in bed. Like for example, like if I were doing this, let's assume I've got a clock next to my bed that I can look at because you have to do that for this purpose. You have to have some device to keep track of time. So I get in bed because my time in bed tonight is 11 and my wake up time tomorrow is 530. Okay. So I get in bed. It's 11. Check. Okay. How do I know what time I fell asleep? Let's just say I didn't have an issue falling asleep. How do I know if it's 1115 versus 1130? I'm looking for the difference between five minutes and 50 minutes. One of those for that time to fall asleep thing, right? And in the middle of the night, when you're waking up, guess what? If you're not getting laid, you're getting out of bed. So you can look at the clock. You're like, all right, I'm out of bed. And then you have to go do what I call a very fun and potentially embarrassing activity. Embarrassing, meaning if you're boss caught you doing this activity during the work day, you should feel embarrassed. So for example, reading people magazine or reading some trashy magazine, right? You wouldn't want to be caught at your dust doing that at work. That's exactly what you should be doing. I see you're sitting on the night. So person wakes up at two in the morning, the idea, and they can't go back to sleep. Get up. Yeah. Go and do something that is not productive, not rewarding in the way that, hey, this is I'm building a pattern around getting up and doing something I like. Right. So I wouldn't be able to get up and play chess. Do I wouldn't be able to do the online chess thing that I love? Maybe maybe not. IMean, I tell people they can play solitaire. Okay. Adult coloring books are all the rage. People that I couldn't check email. No. Work related work is a definite no. What about scrolling social media? No, no. We don't like that. Again, like although that meets the criteria of your you would be embarrassed catching you doing it, right? We don't do social media or interactive nearly, like neural experience we didn't evolve. That's fine. Okay. But we don't read about global warming, current events, politics, pandemics, like those things are off the menu. Stock trading? I have it stressful. I wouldn't do that. Okay. So there's a narrow subset of activities that you are going to get out of bed to do. Yeah. Yeah. Stuff that's kind of boring, but entertaining enough because we don't want you to get a habit of looking forward to doing something in the middle of the night. This happens with parents. So I'll have parent, like a parent, for example, who might be busy all the darn day with their kids and their families needs and everything else. And then in the middle of the night they wake up and it's like, oh, this is me time. This is when I'm going to do all these really fun things that I don't get to do during the day. We don't want to make a habit of you time being between three and four a.m. That's really when you want you to be sleeping. Right. So sometimes you have to schedule that stuff during the day. But we want the stuff in the middle of the night to be mildly boring into that and back to your blue light thing. I don't mind if people watch, for example, an episode of mash or Gilligan's Island or sex in the city or some other sitcom. I like 20 minute episodes because then you can generally turn it off, check in with your body. I think am I ready to go back to sleep and then you can go back to sleep. Do you remember in the 90s, um, if you played video games ever, how we had those like cartridges and we go put them in and sometimes we have to take out and blow them out to put them back in and reset them because they would freeze. That's what you're doing when you get out of bed in the middle of the night, you do it for an activity. You're resetting and then you're going back to sleep instead of just having stewed and bed that whole time. Yeah. Right. And it's much easier to fall back to sleep when you have that reset. So we don't want the activity to be too stimulating, but just like mildly boring and entertaining enough. Got it. That's right. Yep. Uh, one obvious thing we haven't talked about and maybe it's so obvious we don't need to, but just to close the loop on it as food and alcohol and how they pertain to this. Um, so what's your, what's the checklist you run through with the, with the clients? So since we're dealing with so much life, I actually don't mess with their food. All I do is say, hey, really, let's try to not eat within three hours of going bed. Okay. Right. Um, sometimes it's rare that I'll have nighttime binge eating disorder to deal with at the same time or a blood glucose issue that, you know, diabetes that's poorly controlled at the same time, but I'm going to put those cases aside for just a moment. Okay. So I generally will go with don't eat for three hours before bed. And when it comes to alcohol, I tell my patients look. This is five weeks of your life. I'm not going to drink and you're not going to drink. So when I'm running a clinic, nobody's drinking. And the reason for this is that in order for me to actually see what's going on with your sleep, I need to see this with the least perturbation possible. And alcohol and marijuana are those things. Now, if people are using a lot of marijuana or a lot of alcohol, I'm not here to put people into withdrawal. So they just don't enroll until they're, no, no, no, I don't. So what I'll do is before people come to their first group, I have them do a sleep diary so I can see what's going on. And before that, I will have done their intake and I'll have them have told me their alcohol and taken all of the side at all. Here's what you're going to do. You're going to, you're going to not or you're going, like, let's say someone I just finished with some people, one of them was drinking between 16 and 20 ounces of wine and I, his huge, okay. And I said, okay. So you're going to drink two ounces of wine and I out of that same glass. And then you know, you're going to keep using that glass and you're going to drink something else. Some other fruit-food drink, I don't care what it is, right. But I want it to be something that is, you don't drink during the day, so I want it to be, you know, overpriced juice or overpriced bubbly water or something like something special. Some special, right. And you're going to keep drinking it out of that wine glass. And I have them do that, right. And IMake sure they can do it before they start treatment. And they generally can, because again, the other part that I have going for me is that people have been waiting so long that by the time they get to me, they'll do what I say, which is just this lovely, lovely gift that I have. But I'll make people be very consistent with that, they'll be like, oh, I have to drink two ounces of wine and I'll say, yes, you do, you must. I want this consistent, right. That's the thing, consistency. And so if someone's saying, oh, no, I drink three nights a week and I'll say, all right, cut it out. You're going to stop. I'm going to stop. Are there any specific cognitive techniques that people are instructed to be working on when they first wake up? No. Nothing. There's nothing. No mind game to play. It's all behavior behavior. I'm all business. Yep, it's CPTI. I'm a purest. And I don't involve the cognitive techniques until week three of five. Okay. And that's when we get into things like scheduled worry time, working with the thought records. And then also one of my favorite things to do with patients who seem to wake up in the middle of the night, maybe at one AM, they jolt themselves awake, worrying about something in particular. And if I have a patient like that who every morning, every night in the middle of the night wakes up at one AM and says, I'm very worried about thing A. Also, okay, thing A. Here's what I'd like you to do with thing A. I would like you to track how worried you are about thing A all day, every couple of hours. It's called tracking degree of belief in the thought. And what you might find is that I'll I'll build on this with an example of a patient that I had actually this might be an easier way to explain it. I once had a patient with multiple sclerosis early 30s, pretty debilitating disease to have when you're that young, working a full-time job who used to jolt awake in the morning every morning at 7 AM thinking I'm never going to make it through this day. My whole body hurts. This is a mess. I'm never going to be able to do this. And she would lay in bed for two hours until like nine o'clock, thinking these thoughts. Just, oh, I can't do this. Right now, the clock should get out of bed. She'll shower. She'll get to work by 10 o'clock because in the Bay Area, all these tarps don't start till like 10. And then she'd actually get her coffee, work with her assistant, do her meetings. And if I asked her, how much do you believe that thought I'm never going to make it through this day at noon? She'd probably say, oh, like 50, 60% like this afternoon is going to be rough. I don't know if I'm going to make it through. But if you ask her at 530 when she's done working or whatnot, oh, how much do you believe that thought I'm never going to make it through this day? She'll like, oh, IMade it. Zero percent. And day after day, she started really, I was like, oh, I don't believe this thought at 7 a.m. because it's true that I'm never going to make it through this day. I believe this thought because it's 7 a.m. Right? And once she was able to make that connection, we were able to recapture her mornings. And at 7 a.m. she went and said, on her couch, and she started doing something she loved doing 7 in 9, which for her was learning Italian with an app. She loved it. And 7 to 9 used to be her most hated part of the day. But by the end of treatment, it was her most beloved part of the day. Because no one was bothering her and she could learn Italian and whatnot. And so one of the tricks and not tricks but cognitive tools that I've built into CBTI in that cognitive package is tracking how much you believe a thought over a given day. And if you believe a thought in different levels throughout the day, how true can it really be? And it's really a lightning. And I would invite you to notice what you're thinking about at 1 a.m. And then just see how worried are you or how much do you believe this the next day at 3 p.m. Oh, not at all. How come this gets airtime? How come this deserves airtime at 1 a.m. but not 3 p.m. Let's talk about sleep supplements. So do you do a purge of supplements when people come to you when they say, hey, I'm I'm taking a pound of melatonin every night. I'm on an ashwaganda drip. You know, just rattle them off. Let's we could go through this. Can I give you two links for the show notes to studies of melatonin supplements that found that these melatonin supplements either had none of what they said they had in the park? Yes, I think we wrote a newsletter on one of them. Oh, great. Well, there's been two. And so when people come in and they say they're taking melatonin. I'm like, okay, the alleged melatonin. How much of this is it? Are you taking? Let's assume that they're, you know, because obviously you're the guillist. Well, let's assume that they're taking, they are actually taking melatonin because they're getting it from one of the companies that submit to third party testing. Okay. And so now they know they're doing it. And again, let's further, um, posit that they're not taking a dose that is deemed too high. So if you look at some of the sleep literature, you know, there seems to be a kind of like most people would agree anything north of a melagram is probably just too much, um, whereas kind of in the three to 600 microgram, you know, there might be some some benefit. And more importantly, not just benefit, but actually safety, like it might be, you know, you're not sort of downregulating melatonin receptors, you're offsetting the natural decline in melatonin levels over time. I can tell from your face, you don't agree with any of this. So no, IMean, it's puzzling. So it's, it's, it's, my face is also because it's hard to know where to go with this question because so some countries you need a prescription for melatonin, right? This is something prescribed by an doctor. It is regulated. Yeah. Um, I don't remember all the countries off the top of my head, like Australia and New Zealand, but not you want that. You're not going to find it at their Walgreens. Um, but, you know, in the US, taking too much for Kent Killier. So here we go, right? Um, there are, by the time someone gets me if they've got a huge list of supplements and they still have a sleep problem, I say, okay. So clearly, these aren't doing what you want. They might be undermining what we want to do. I don't know what's actually in all of those things because none of that's regulated. The data for things like Ashwaganda are weak if you want to go Bradford Hill, we could. Um, the data are also pretty weak for melatonin except in certain cases, which we can get, we can unpack a few of those with the explicit acknowledgement that I'm, I'm not a physician. I've not been trened in this in the biological substrates whatnot, but your question is, do I take people off of this stuff? Yes, get off that stuff. It's not worth it. If you want to take it after trening me with me again, great. But let's get off of it for now. Let's see what your body's actually doing because chances are you've been taking, you've been adding a supplementer to or whatnot over time for years and we didn't even know what your body wants to do now and you actually could be shooting yourself in the foot with some of these things. Right. Now, on the contrary, sometimes a patient will come in and we'll say, oh, I'm taking the beta blocker for blood pressure. Now, you and I both know that's like a fourth or fifth line treatment for blood pressure at this point. Nevertheless, beta blockers inhibit melatonin secretion. And yet, most prescribing doctors who are giving out beta blockers don't realize that there's a significant risk of insomnia when you prescribe these to patients. And I've had some patients who don't need treatment with me at all. They need a 0.5 milligram melatonin pill every night and that's it. And those are some of the most angry and satisfied patients ever. They have one visit with me. It's done their furious that they've been suffering for five, ten. I had one patient who suffered for 30 years taking, oh gosh, Metoprolol. And he wouldn't you couldn't change his supplement because something having to do with the vocal cords, he was a singer. And some of the other blood pressure medications affect that. I didn't fully understand, but he would not change blood pressure. So that was all that he needed. But do I think that the average healthy adult should be taking melatonin? No. No. Now, there's probably some excellent data that you are much more aware of than I am about how our melatonin secretion inhibition processes what not change as we age. And there may be some patients who benefit from taking melatonin, which is a hormone to induce sleep. But remember melatonin's like the guy at the start of the race, right? He's the guy with the gun. He fires the gun. He doesn't have a car on the race. He's not like helping you stay asleep. He's telling you when to start the thing. So for a lot of adults taking melatonin is really messing him up because they're trying to go to sleep when their body isn't ready to go to sleep. They're forcing it to go to sleep. Then they wake up in the middle of the night and they wonder why. And it's because, oh, you want to sleep at the wrong time and your body's all kinds of confusion. Yeah, interesting. So I really try and take people off of these things so I can see what's really going on. And then if there's something going on that looks like it might necessitate melatonin, I tag in one of my physician friends and talk about it. So what about sleep medications? And let's talk about as many as you want. Like, like, I get talk about benzos. We can talk about trasodone. We can talk about ambian. We can talk about the erects and base drugs. How many of the patients who come to see you are on a regularly taking one of these prescription based drugs, firstly. A lot of people take over the counterdrugs and prescription drugs for sleep. And there was a huge shift that I noticed when COVID started and there was a ban on flying to different countries, Mexico and Europe. And it turns out there are a lot of people who will fly to Mexico to get their ambian or and fly to Europe to get very sleep drugs that you can't necessarily get here. So all of a sudden, I saw a wave of patients dealing with withdrawal in the early months of the pandemic because they couldn't go get more of their drugs. Oh my gosh, I'm screwed. What am I doing now? How do I cope with this? So there was a mate? And why couldn't they get them here in that situation? Oh, ambians prescription only. And if you're saying they were buying it out, prescription, I got it. And they just they couldn't get a prescription while they were here. Yes, because they were taking so much that they were well beyond what they could convince someone to prescribe them. And a lot of physicians are, and a lot of my patients are physicians. And a lot of physicians are pretty redicent to go above FDA recommended doses when it comes to ambian. A lot of people don't realize that I believe I believe this is the case. The ambian is still the only drug that is differentially prescribed to men and women according to the FDA that's starting dose for women should be five millions of grams. Sorry, no, it's five to ten for instant release. And then for extended release, I believe for women at six point two five and then for men, it's six point two five all the way to 12.5 because women metabolize it less efficiently. So IMean, the people who I've seen, I've seen people taking 30 milligrams, big big doses, right? And gosh, this is a very loaded question. But there's a lot of patients who come to me who will say, I've read something in the news. It turns out this medication I'm taking for my sleep is bad for my brain. It would be like, oh, I can't see saw that. And I want to quit immediately. I need to quit my next week. Oh, okay. And you've been taking it for how long? Oh, 20 years. Okay, right. That's, oh, mm-hmm. So that never works. That never works. And I don't have, I wouldn't say that I have any sort of extreme expertise in the different classes of sleep meds. But what I can tell you is the ones that people most often are coming to me saying, I want to quit this. I hate being dependent on this. What do I, what do these are going to be the benzos? Yeah. Which doctors are becoming less and less hip to prescribing for sleep? Ambien, the synodal illness to stuff. And then over the counter stuff, like Benadrill, maybe your occasional doxipin. And then people are often prescribed remeron for sleep. And they run into metabolic issues. And they need to get off of it. So I think that covers, probably the most, the broadest swath that I see of things people wanted to quit. Now, the cubic of it, is that some of these newer ones, I don't see them as much yet. I'm sure it's coming. Yeah. And what about trasodone? Trasodone is the one that I'm the least concerned about for a couple of reasons. I've not seen compelling data that it negatively impacts the electrical quality of your sleep. No, in fact, I've seen data that it does the opposite, that it's slightly positive. Great. IMean, I just, I'm looking for what's negative. Yeah. I think I don't know if that the study that you're speaking of was statistically powered to, if the primary outcome was improvements in sleep or decromance. I think the, I think if I'm now I'm trying to remember something that I wrote many, probably three years ago, I believe the study looked at sleep duration as the primary outcome in a secondary outcome may have been staging. Yeah. So I don't think it was powered for that, but I think that incidentally did find an improvement. I think you've talked about extensively. Like it's important to think about what was a study power to look at. And all that, but I'm not the most worried about that also because it's an anti-depressant drug. And if someone's taking it and it is helping with their depression and I take them off of it in the name of trying to help with their sleep, I have created it a different problem. Although the dose people take it, it tends to not have that effect. IMean, most people are typically taking it at kind of 25, 15, typically no more than 100. Maybe at a hundred depending on the size of an individual, they're getting some of that benefit. I often see a hundred for sleep. Yeah. And so for me, I'm thinking, ooh, I don't know if that's just for sleep. Right? And then I'm also, if I see 50 even, and then I see another anti-depressant, I think, ooh, these could be working together. You actually also have a diagnosis of depression. We need to think about this carefully. So if folks are showing up on 20 milligrams of volume or, you know, Sanxer, Picker, Favorite Benzo, do you have them go and do a tapered detox with their physician before they come into the CBTI program? No, I have them do it with me. Most of the times. So you will manage the medical withdrawal on that? Let me explain exactly what I do because a scope of practice, right? So first of all, I always work with the prescribing physician. I never start without making sure the prescribing physician is explicitly aware of what I want to do. I talk with them. And this has to be one of your colleagues at UCSF or whoever they're prescribing physician. Who ever is prescribing the medication to this person? We now share a patient and have an obligation to. I, every single time I have done this, the physician has been in support of getting their patient off of benzos, except for one time, which isn't even worth really getting into, but the point is, it's an overwhelming amount of time. Yeah, I can imagine. Most of the time, these patients, these physicians have already tried to get their patients to quit and to reduce. But in my opinion, they've tried to do it way, way, way too quickly. And that's because there are physiological dependencies on these drugs and psychological dependencies on these drugs. And we have to attend to both of them while we're doing this taper process, or it's going to be a box, and the patient's going to relapse, and we're going to be back at square one or square negative one, unfortunately. So, here's what I do is, I'll, let's take, can we take a boring example? Pick your favorite benzose. They produce. I don't particularly like them myself. Yeah, no, they like it. Let's take volume. Well, okay. 10, 10 milligrams. Yeah, sure. So, let's say we've got a patient on volume. They've tried to quit. They've occasionally abused. They've gone up. They've split in next, and half. They've gone to 15 sometimes. What not? The first thing that I do with the patient is I say, all right, we are going to get you stable. Actually, for sake of better example, for sleep, let's just put you to ambient because it's a little fun. And we can make more coffee. And a fan of ambient, a very nice. To take, let's say 10 of ambient every night at the beginning of the night. And then let's say sometimes they're actually taking a fiber in the middle of the night when they wake up because they want to get back to sleep. Right, like I like the party dose. Right, right. So, let's say there, you know, some nights, it's 15, some nights, it's 10. What do we do? So, the first thing I do is I take out the middle of the night dosing and I say, we're done with the night. You limited to 10 a night and you got to take it before bed. Well, yes, you have to take it before bed. You've taken the same time every night, but if you're taken, if you're going 15, five nights a week and 10, two nights a week, I'm going to make it a 12.5 before bed. Let's put generous. Start higher, right? So, we'll, we'll agree on a dose that the patient will take and integrate upon time. So, the prescribed or an I agree on that, it's like, okay, same page, this with patients going to do and they start doing that. Generally, the patient's like, no, no, no, I'm trying to quit. I don't want to take more and I see no, not before you quit, it must be stable. You cannot quit from a point of instability. It will not work. I've seen people try and people say, oh, I want to quit. I want to go from 10 to five. No, that's not how we roll. So, let's say this patient's taking 12 and a half and they're like, okay, I want to I want to cut down. I'm like, all right, okay, so how does it go in from 12 and a half to five sound and they say, oh my gosh, that's going to be really scary. I don't think I can handle that. And what I actually have them do is I rate it on a scale from 1 to 10 with 10 being the most anxiety-provoking upsetting thing and 1 being not upsetting at all. This is called a subjective units of distress skills. So, it's okay, I have them suds it. So, I say, okay, so, going from 12.5 to five, that sounds really terrifying now because they've just done a week, right, with our consistent with 12.5 at the beginning of the night, they've had no middle of the night crutch and they're not feeling great about that, right? So, then I say, okay, so how about going from 12 to 10 and they say, oh, not as bad, but that's still like a six on my scale and I do this process all the way until I get them to a one and I'll say, all right, so next week we're going from 12.5 to 12. How are you even making that increment? Yes, I can tell you exactly how we're doing that. We're going on the internet and we are buying something called a gem scale. Now, you and I both know that people who are wealthy enough to have gems worth measuring aren't measuring their own. So, the people who are buying those scales are using them for other things. And so, what my patients end doing is they buy these scales and they get a full blown like breaking bad set up in their bathroom. We're going to, okay, we're cutting pills, we're weighing pills, we're doing math because the pill actually weighs more than 12 and a half because it's got binders and fillers and what percent doing it, and we kind of make it fun and they end up having to put the crumbly pill into a shot glass of water. We shoot it in the whole thing. We make a whole production out of it, right? But the point just is, they're going from 12.5 to 12 and we do that for like three weeks. They've been on it for years, we're going to three weeks. And the first couple nights are a little rough. So, they're only doing a seven week program with you, you're no. Oh, no. Yeah, no, this, this table program we make and it will last a year, it'll make a long to the last one. So, when they enter the program, this is a separate issue. This is a separate issue and we do this after they finish CBTI treatment. During CBTI treatment, I stabilize them on their meds and we just get it. So, they're not erratically taking five different cocktails of things. When people come in to see me for treatment, they'll say, oh yeah. So, Monday's I do ambient. Two days I do trensit on Wednesday's has been a drill because they have it in their head because they think they don't want to get dependent on one. So, they think they're by doing a rotating merry-ground of these things that is actually smart. I wouldn't have even thought of that. Oh, yeah. Well, working great. Yeah. So, I generally work with the doctor and we decide, okay, here's the one you're going to do. Here's the dose you're going to do and you're going to be consistent with that. It's a vodka on Monday and then Tequila on Tuesday, red line on Wednesday and then Shard and A Thursday and this way I'll never be coming alcohol. Oh, you figured it out, Peter. So, in short, I have people really stabilized during CBTI and sometimes during week four, week three, four, they're ready to start this and we start them on this program and once I have them in this way, they're able to do this on their own. So, they'll go from 12 to 12.5 for like three weeks and they'll be keeping sleep diaries so they'll see like, oh, okay and look at some confidence. And then they'll email me, you know, the message me and let's say, okay, so now what and I'll say, all right, well, how are you feeling? Like, how, what if we go down to 11.5? How do that sound? Like, sometimes that'll be too scary. For some reason crossing the five threshold is really scary, so we go from five to four, point seven, five sometimes. And just to be clear, this is psychological. They're can't possibly be a physiologic difference between four and four, point seven, five and five, million grandfamble. That's what the medicine isn't even homogenously enough compounded within the capsule to, like, yeah, okay. So as long as everybody understands that. Probably not. But, you know, it's a test. I'm thinking some of retablets and I don't know about the homogenes. I don't know about the requirement. Yeah, because the binder and the active ingredient are, in no, like, yeah, and generic S.B. 85% similar to the, to be able to, there's all kinds of messups here. This is, remember how I said there's the psychological part, the physiological part. This is a psychological part that I think it's left out of a lot of the, oh, just cut it in half to start decreasing your dose aspect, which is dealing with, okay, what can we physiologically do? I'm talking about what can we psychologically do? And do you think that this methodology of the incredibly slow taper with incredibly high precision? Do you think it works for opioids? So I don't think I've ever seen that in my clinic. It's just not something I've had to do it. I don't know if I'm asleep. I just mean in general, like if we're dealing with people that are, or is the problem so grave that you have to be a little more aggressive and switch them to a completely different class of drugs like that's so far outside of your area. I can't speak to it, but what I can tell you is just that doing this method with the sleep drugs slowly over time, people get more confidence and they can make larger reductions at a time. And then importantly, Peter, when someone gets is tapering and something crazy in their life happens, like a child gets diagnosed with cancer or something terrible happens, we stop the taper and we stay so your taper might look like this. Right? But there's not a huge rush to get off this thing. You've been on it for 20 years. Better to stable you get off it. I always joke with people like, yeah, if you think if you can lose 10 pounds in two days, how quickly do you think you can gain two pounds? Right? So when it comes to quitting these meds, slow and steady wins the race, having people gain the confidence that they can do it is such a big part of it. And I know that one of the critiques I've gotten from folks is like, wait a minute, some of these pills have coatings and deadoted it. But it's a lot of it is psychological. So this works really well for a medication taper and people can do it themselves. There's no, there's no like magic. IMean, I think we've kind of covered a lot on CBTI and let's now revisit the idea of the types of things that people should be on the lookout for that need to be addressed first. Right? So we haven't talked about sleep apnea. We haven't talked about restless legs syndrome. No. We haven't talked about, I don't know, what are the other things where you just want to have some sort of sign off that says, hey, we've also confirmed that these things aren't present or what what gets your suspicion rows that says, hey, we got to look at something else because you're presumably not doing polysumnography on everybody on the way in. How do you navigate that? Yeah. So I have the wonderful luxury of being able to look in people's charts and see who referred them to me and why they are referred. They can't be self referred. Everybody needs a referral of some kind from any can be from anybody, but any any referral. A lot of my referrals come from sleep disorder centers because they've already done all that work up and they say, all right, it's none of these things. So here you go. If a patient tells me, I always ask a patient like, oh, it has your partner anybody you've slept with ever told you that you snore or that you sound like you're gasping for air in the middle of the night. So I do have a bunch of those types of screening questions and I aggressively refer to colleagues with expertise in those areas. But for treatment with me, a lot of times people have a CPAP and they say, oh, I don't really use it. I'm not sure about that. I say, well, I'm here to tell you that you should be sure about it and that you should use it every single night. It doesn't fit. Cool. I'm going to make a call because we're going to get it to fit. There's a different mask. You can probably get there's a you know, there are all these different issues that we can tackle. It just sometimes takes making a phone call and unfortunately a lot of patients don't have great follow through for their CPAP in terms of just help using it and figuring it out. So sometimes I have to just make that extra connection. The one thing I think I want to make sure that we put a bow on also is a obsession with bedtime. I can make you wake up at any time. By setting a very loud alarm, I can anchor you into your day with a wake up time and that can be consistent every single day. I cannot wave a magic wand and make you fall asleep at the same time every day. So when people think, all right, I'm going to get a handle on my sleep. I'm going to go to bed at the same time every night. No, no, no, wake up at the same time every day. That's a much more important first step. And if you're waking up at different times throughout the week, that is the first thing to fix. Yeah. What degree of social jet lag do you tolerate? Again, just for folks listening social jet lag, meaning the experience of changing your sleep time during weekends, which could be akin to jet lag if it differs by, you know, hours. In an ideal world, there would be zero. Right? In an ideal world, I wake up at seven o'clock in the morning every single day of the week for an individual who says, oh, but God, on the weekends, it's just so nice to not have to get up at seven. Do you say, look, give yourself a 30 minute grace and that would still be considered perfectly healthy? Great question. So during treatment, I tell people you need to wake up at the same time every day that ends in D.A. Why. So that means Monday, Saturday, Sunday. Yeah. Right. So that's all of the day. That's yeah. That's during treatment. I did check. Yeah. Good. There is no room for negotiation during treatment. We're in the dictatorship, right? But what I do teach people at the end of treatment is how to cope with the fact that life is going to happen when treatment ends. It happens during treatment, but there's a lot that pauses during treatment to be honest. But let's say that you've got a major event on a Friday night. You're going to go to a concert. Yes. And you're going to be out away later than usual. And what I tell people is, look, you need to pick which day of that weekend, do you want to suffer? And which day do you want to feel good? Because we can sleep in one day. You cannot sleep in two days in a row. That's going to take you off the wagon. We're not doing it. So let's say Friday night you go to a concert. And you want to feel good on Saturday. Cool. Sleep in on Saturday. Sleep in by an hour on Saturday. Okay. Fine. Go to bed on Saturday night when you get tired. Spoiler alert. You're probably going to get tired. Paths are usual bedtime because you slept in. But then Sunday you have to wake up at your wake time and Sunday you're going to suffer. But let's say you want to feel good Sunday. That means on Saturday you're going to wake up at your usual time. Saturday is going to be a struggle for us. But you'll make it to your bedtime. You'll go to bed at your bedtime. Then you'll feel better Sunday. So you just have to choose. One do I want to do this stuff for you? Okay. So basically force the suffering into the narrowest place possible. You can choose because sometimes people don't want the suffering to be the next day. They want to be the day after. So you get to choose that. But I tell people, look, don't sleep in more than one day in a row. It's going to mess you up. And generally sleeping in past your bedtime. You're not really getting quality sleep when you sleep in past your bedtime. I'm sorry, wait a minute. That's when it's been a pattern for a long time. When you sleep in past your wake time, you're probably getting some extra stage to sleep. You're not getting more deep sleep. That's for sure. That's not happening. We're recording us on a Tuesday. Sunday, two days ago, I was flying back to Austin from LA. And the flight got delayed over and over and over and over and over again for reasons that are so assomined. They're not even worth describing. And then we finally got on the taxi and then the water was leaking out of the coffee machine. So we had to go back to get another plane. I'm not making this up. But I can only tell you how ridiculous this is. The punchline of the story is we didn't get home till 2 in the morning, which is long past my bedtime. So what would your strategy have been getting home at 2 in the morning prior to Monday or workday? Where you do have some leeway. You know, I don't have to get up at 6, which would be my normal wake up time. Would you have said, just get up at 6, stick with it and make it up by going to bed a lot earlier Monday night, or would you say sleep until 8? You'll probably feel better than if you woke up at 6. How would you handle that situation? I'll say which day is more important for you to feel good on Monday or Tuesday. Let's say I said Tuesday because I'm sitting down with you. Well, then I would say probably try not to sleep in too much so that you can go to bed at your regular wake time on Monday and not have to. If you sleep in horribly on Monday morning, you're going to stay up later Monday night. And then you'll get up at your wake time today and your do will have had shorter sleep for today. It will have rolled all the way over. So I thought actually what I did. So I have not thought about this. I just slept until I think my wife tried to get me out of bed at 7 and I said, can you let me sleep till 8? So I didn't get up till 8. But last night you're right. I had a very hard time going to bed and I was like 11 o'clock and I was still up meandering around. So you just have to very carefully decide which day do you want to prioritize and that's how you make that decision? Yeah. So yeah. So you have more control than you think is what's what's beautiful about that. And I just remind people like you can never really make up for last sleep that easily because sleep architecture really matters. And when you're sleeping in, you're not getting more deep sleep, you're getting some more maybe light sleep. And at worst, that's robbing you of maybe some of the deep sleep you would have gotten the following night because you're on a circadian plan here. Right. And we didn't really talk about process S and process C. But maybe I can just briefly tell you what those two things would be. Absolutely. Okay. So process S is sleep homeyestasis and that's this sleep pressure idea that we are working on. Right. And every day we build up sleep pressure until it's bedtime and then we capitulate, we fall asleep and then we are our sleep pressure drains throughout the night while we sleep. And then in the morning we were full of, you know, then we build it up again the next day. And this is just a dead-assine building up. Yeah, I think about that. Yeah, I think about that way. And that's also why caffeine is problematic. Right. So caffeine blocks the denocene receptors. So that's the, you know, the caffeine crash, when it wears off and then all the denocene floods the receptors that we experience that, oh, sleepiness, right? So, and that's why taking a nap is so difficult because what napping does is it basically kind of deflates your balloon a little bit of your sleep pressure. It robs you of some of that sleep pressure. So by the time you get around your normal bed time, if you've taken a long nap, you've reduced how much sleep pressure you would ordinarily have at that time. That's why napping could be dangerous. And then we have process C, which is the circadian process. And that just marks you on. It doesn't really care about your sleep pressure or how much you've slept. If you ever, I'm sure you've pulled an all nighter, but when people pull all nighters, what they often will notice how many all nighters you think I've pulled in my life. Oh, hundreds. IMean, I would need scientific notation to count them. It's a pathetic. Yeah, a lot. So thing to note about that is that you're you're sleepy during the night when you're pulling the all nighter, but in the morning you kind of have a burst of energy. And that's the circadian part speaking up, right? And when we look at the the sign curve of it, right, that that's because your temperature is coming back up. Your adrenal glands still make cortisol. Everything still is functioned, right? So your circadian process doesn't really care much about the sleep pressure. So it's okay. If you lie in these two things up on a graph, they look like they talk to each other. They don't. But these two processes really determine a whole lot about your sleep. And there are things that we can do to support each of them. But CBTI really focuses on the sleep pressure aspect by regularizing people's schedules. And then it supports the circadian aspect. By some of these little things that I talked about that I don't even know if you can't really call them standard CBTI like standardizing what time people are taking their medications. For example, doing things that we know supports circadian biology, not eating right before bed. In my perfect world, all of these different zacoburs, which are timekeepers during the day, would be consistent from day to day. You lunch every day at the same time. Breakfast every day is anytime. All of these things would support your circadian biology and probably improve your sleep. Any rules about exercising? Do you have people that are showing up and you're going through your intake and you realize, you know, based on their schedule, based on work, based on kids or other obligations. The only time they're going to get their workout in is in the evening. And is that in counterproductive or part of the way? If it is an issue, how do you adjust? This is a really nuanced issue. I once had a patient who a long time ago who said, oh yeah, I take the 10 o'clock, spin class and the Castro. I was like, okay, moving on. I assumed it was 10 a.m. I was wrong and I learned that the next week and we were talking about other things. But for some people exercise at night is fine. For other people, it's super stimulating and it also really depends on what kind of exercise we're talking about. And I think that one moderating variable here is also going to be level of fitness. If you take a person who's extraordinarily cardiovascular unfit and you put them in a spin class in the evening, do you know it could take their heart ratEQuite a while to recover? You could probably provide me a lot more information about that than I know, right? And what we know in order to fall sleep is that your heart rate should be lowering, right? So if you're heart rate is still elevated from a whole bunch of exercise you just did, that's not going to help you. But if you're super fit and your heart rate recovers really quickly, it might affect you less. So this matters. I think there was for a long time kind of this general suggestion to not exercise close to bedtime. I still think for the most part it applies. But I think that it's important to think about what kind of exercise you're doing. If someone tells me, oh, I'm going to a yoga class. I find this really relaxing and calming. It's a form of stretching for me. Did it to fine? Okay. And this is the only time of day you can do it. You got to job you got kids, whatever, right? I'm not going to tell you to not go just because of the time of day that it is or weightlifting or whatnot. But if there's an option, if you want to go to a hit class, I'm going to say, well, can we not do it at a time of clock night? Like, I think it would really be great if we could move it earlier. We try try to do that. I do tell people, you know, I have some patience to come in and say, oh, you know, like, I wake up my body wants to wake up every day at 7 o'clock. But I really want to go to this 5A. I'm spin class every day. I'm like, okay, well, I understand exercise is very important. I'm a believer, right? Also, your circadian biology has you going to bed at 11 and getting up at 7. And even if you're getting up at 445 to get on your home, spin bike to do this thing with this group, your body doesn't want to go to bed until 11. And we're not going to be able to change that. So you're going to have to make that, you know, cost benefit analysis with, do you want to lose that much sleep to do that thing? Yeah. It's, um, I was on my mind because I was my brother and lot plays in a men's hockey league. And, you know, you only get ice time late at night. So I think they literally play Sundays at 11 p.m. or something. And he's always fried Monday because, you know, pretty hard to play a game of ice hockey and then, and then fall asleep right after that. So um, I'm not understand more, um, kind of how what the, what the spectrum of CBTI looks like. IMean, your process sounds super dialed in, but also it's quite bespoke. You know, you've brought a lot of your own expertise, um, to it. And you've created a system where you've got, we're going to do the intake. We're going to do these five sessions, which I think are group sessions. So you described them. Then we do kind of the exit. Um, you, you bring so much rigor to it. Is that, oh, is that the way it is always done or are there CBTI therapists out there who function like psychotherapists? And they say, yeah, we're just going to engage with each other for until your problem is fixed. And we'll see each other once a week or maybe once every other week. Like everything you're doing is sounds formulaic. And I say that not in a bad way. I think that's probably a big part of its efficacy. Um, is that something people should expect when they are going to a CBTI therapist? It's something people should ask for. I, before people start treatment, they fill out the Pittsburgh sleep quality index. And they fill out the insomnia severity index. And I tell them, look, we're going to fill this out when you're done with treatment. Two. And we're going to see how this worked for you. We're going to actually take measurements. What type of scores are you getting on the PSQI? IMean, ranges from zero to 21. I get all the way to 21. Yeah. And below five is considered, uh, no clinically significant sleep problems. I relax that to six or seven because if you have a prostate or if you're going through menopause and hip hop flashes, you're going to be, um, elevated on that scale by no fault of your own or your sleep's fault. And the insomnia severity index, IMean, yeah, we see, I see all the way up to what was it like 22, 23, something like that. So I see all the way up to the most severe levels in both of these scales commonly. And the average point drops are a huge, huge, in clinic. So I don't know if it was like 10 points in the insomnia severity index. Like it's, it's, it's, it's very high, very responsive to this treatment. But back to your original question is, I think I wish everybody did it this, this by the book. I think there's a lot of practitioners out there who want to do it this by the book. I have a luxury to do it this by the book because I'm able to enlist help from my team to help me process sleep diaries every week and do probably two hours of work outside of my clinic of prep for me. So they feed me my stuff. It's been built into the systems that I have. And I get to, and I, I'm prepping half an hour before, uh, clinic, I see everybody for now and half. And then I've got my, my notes, my templates and things. But I think that it is very difficult to do CBTI when you're not seeing patients weekly because I look at weekly sleep diaries and IMake changes based on that. So when you find a CBTI therapist, I would say, ask if you can set up a time in the future without therapist and see them weekly for a set of whatever five to eight weeks and put it on the calendar that way with them. If they say, oh, they don't have bandwidth to do that for another month. So okay, call all weight and then get on every week. And a lot of practitioners also aren't going to necessarily score your sleep diaries for you. You can score them yourself if you want to. IMean, it's not that difficult. If you just Google online, you can find a sleep diary calculator and it's very easy to do the math yourself. There's a book that I really like called quiet your mind to get to sleep, which written by Rachel Manber and Colleen Carney and Dick Bootson wrote the forward. And it's, it's kind of a guided way through the treatment and you can use that workbook yourself to do it. And you could also use that workbook when you're working with a provider. But I think there are a lot of CBTI providers out there who can see you weekly and can do this. You'll probably just have to do your back end work with your calculations because they don't have the billable time for that. That'll be busy during the sessions trying to teach you things. I would also note that between my sessions with my patients, IMake them much very annoying videos that I've made of myself giving a lecture about all of the science because I've found that if you explain the science to patients, you'll get the adherence. Here's why we're going to do this. People think, wait, I have problems sleeping now. You're going to make me not go to bed. This is not what I'm going for, right? And I have to explain to them, okay, here's why we do this because it's what ultimately get you where you want to go. But the principles of what I'm doing are not at all bespoke. I'm doing the time and better restriction stimulus control, the cognitive text techniques, the relaxation techniques and the sleep hygiene. Those are the five major components. What is bespoke is the way that I set the wake time because that's not been standardized in the literature, the way I deal with standardizing medications, the way I deal with medication. Tapers, some of the anxiety tools that I bring in like scheduled worry time, tracking degree of belief during the thought or tracking degree of belief during the day. I think that is actually pretty well incorporated into CBTI. But some of those are a little bit more tilted toward my audience, which tends to be higher in anxiety. So I build those in. But otherwise, find someone on the the website that will put in your note, shown notes, who know how to do CBTI. And I have a feeling you'll go far. The treatment works when you do it and it doesn't work when you don't do it. It's what I tell all of my patients. The book, um, quiet your mind and go to sleep. Get to sleep. You mentioned that that's something that people could do in therapy. But you also mentioned that it's something people could just do on their own. So if somebody's listening to this and they're thinking, I can't afford CBTI or be every practitioner I've called said the soon as I can get in his nine months from now, if my choice is continue to suffer or do something proactively you would recommend that as a great strategy to start. They can get that. They can try some of the apps. They're out there. I think they have less traction currently. They're still in early stages, but you know, I'm trying to help the rest of app, but thEQuiet your mind, you get to sleep. Book, people can do it by themselves. And I actually had a patient at the summer who was on the wait list. He got to, got his intake and he was like, look, I'm fixed. I did the book. It was awesome. But I still want to be in this group because I want to see what it's all about. I'm not giving up my spots. And it was great having them in the group, because they just cheerlead everybody else and said this works when you do it. Uh, any concerns with, um, extreme temperature changes before bed. So people use in son of people using cold plunge, taking hot showers, hot baths, and subjectively from my experience, uh, a sauna before bed really seems to help. Um, maybe it creates a great, a bigger gradient in temperature drop as I go from high body temp to low when I get into that super cold bed. But what, what, what is your experience with that and how do you manage it through the process? Well, it's first to cold plunge before bed off the table. Um, that's not a good idea because we know that when you get in the cold plunge, it's immediately cold on your skin. But then once you get out, your body is busy warming itself back up. And that's not what we want to be doing right before bed. Right? And then I'm going to go into the sauna part by saying that it's another it depends. Some, the, the, the, the, the outline that you just gave of the temperature gradient is beautiful. It makes a lot of sense. For people who are naive to sauna who get in a sauna and it increases their heart rate, increasing your heart. It might be the same problem as the exercise. Yeah, if they don't have the rapid recovery, they don't have the rapid recovery. So that's something to learn about yourself. And in fairness, I don't actually go straight from sauna to bed. It's usually sauna to 30 minutes in that flicks to bed. So yeah. So that's going to be person to person. Another thing to keep in mind is that some people who will go in the sauna at night, then drink a whole bunch of water afterwards. Yes. And then that ends up causing them to wake up more in the middle of the night. So it defeats the purpose. So that's a consideration. Also, if that's an issue for you. But I would say just don't make it too strenuous. Some people find that it's really helpful. I do best with it a few hours before bed, as opposed to right before bed. I think it's going to be a do what works situation because we don't have enough data. But we are, I just started an NIH funded trial where we are looking at people who have difficulty with falling asleep. And we are giving them whole body heating at home before bed and we're giving them cognitive behavioral therapy, for insomnia, through an app. And we're going to have them do this whole home-based treatment that's going to combine a body-based heat treatment for before bed with the CBTI treatment. And the idea here is what you explain, which is that by heating you up right before bed, if we're heating up your hands in your feet, we're helping you actually open the vascular and dump some heat. It's going to create that gradient. And we think that gradient might be important for people with the early kind of insomnia with falling asleep at the start of the night. So we're going to see if that helps people in a very using a sauna blanket type thing. Yeah. Actually, someone listening to us for the last two and a half hours might assume that the only thing you know about a CBTI, but it turns out that we've sort of only scratched the surface of your area of expertise and there are other clinical areas that you have a lot of interest in that I think our listeners would have interest in as well. So the good news is we think when I say we, IMean you, you've delivered kind of a master class on a topic that I've wanted to know much more about. You know, it's interesting. It's a bit of a black box because we send a number of our patients to CBTI therapy around the country. And I would concur with what you said, which is based on their ability to comply. The efficacy has been unparalleled. Simply stated, right? So, you know, as far as regular old doctors, I think we're pretty good at helping people with sleep, given the nature of our practice and how much attention we can pay. And therefore, I think just by ourselves, we do pretty pretty well. But when we can't, and we refer to CBTI, I'm not, I would have to think if there's been a patient who hasn't been helped. So that's, that's great. And but, but truthfully, you've filled in all the gaps for me, and I think more importantly, I think you've really helped listeners understand this and I hope given people a lot of confidence. Because what I also take away from this is there's really nobody who should be suffering from insomnia. It's, it's really not a necessary thing to suffer. There's things we might have to suffer within life, but this isn't one. I think from very, a very large percentage of the population, that's the case. I always, I almost, I'm afraid to say never because you just never know. But, but there are so many, so many people, countless suffering from this who definitely don't need to be. The drawback is we have kind of run out of time to talk about a few other things that are really interesting, which is not uncommon on this podcast, which means we're going to have to do a part two at some point to talk about eating behaviors, thermal regulation, the impact that that has on depression or other things like that. So apologies that maybe we spent more time on CBTI than we intended to, but as, as I kind of warned you before we started, we, we love to just me and or where the discussion goes. So is there anything else you want to talk about on this CBTI front? Those were that, that I have a lot of notes on, on kind of where I wanted to go, but I also realized there's probably something I've forgotten or if there's an area you want to double click on? Now, I think that it's really important for people just to remember with this one that even if you don't know what caused your insomnia, you can do this treatment. You don't have to have figured out, oh, this is where it started. This was the, the root of it all. You can start this treatment without that knowledge because this treatment is going to address what you're doing now that's actually perpetuating the problem. And don't wait, there's never going to feel like a good time to do it. Now is the best time. Your life is always going to be crazy. You're always going to have 50 more things on the schedule than you wish you did. It's always going to be too busy. You're always going to have events. Just do it now because it's so difficult to live with the live with insomnia and all the problems that it causes. I had this patient who was 87, who I finished treatment with last year and she just said, my, I wish I'd done this 40 years ago. So don't wait, just do it. You won't regret it. Are you under the impression that obviously people are waiting a long time to see you? That probably speaks to how good you are and the resources that UCSF provides maybe in combination. But if a person's listening to this and they're like, yeah, I wish I could work with Ashley, but I'm, I just want to work with somebody. Do you have a sense of how large the CBI community is and how long a person should expect to wait? Do these therapist ever work via telemedicine so that you have more opportunity to work with folks? I think that it is easier now to get than ever largely because of telemedicine. So I see patients all of our California. I'm licensed in California. So your eight people per bracket don't all physically come to San Francisco. Nobody does. Great. I'm only, I only see patients on Zoom now. Okay. We just actually a whole lot safer because patients used to drive in for example from Fresno that stay overnight in a hotel. Yeah, we just screw up the whole thing. It's no bad for everything, right? Patients would have to fly in in some cases. It's just, it was nuts. But now I can, I just see people on Zoom, which is great and there's a lot of versions of me who do that. And by going to that website, you'll be able to find a CBTI provider and chances are they do telemedicine. There are just so many benefits. And one of the great pieces of news about that is that if you live somewhere more rural now, it is instantly more accessible to you. Although we have to hope that the providers take have a, you know, if you live in Iowa, we want to make sure they have licensed in Iowa because you wouldn't be able to say somebody. Right. There'll be licensed in Iowa. Yeah. And there's also actually a growing and great thing called SciPact where I think 40 different states now are members of SciPact where if you're licensed in one state, you can be licensed in all of these states. Of course, California. It does not participate because we're California. But there are, it's getting easier and easier. And I do think that there's, there's ways you can start to do this on your own. If you get that book, if you try it app, you can actually do this. You just have to remember that as, as special as each human is, you need to try and not feel like a delicate flower with your insomnia. Just assume that you need to do this as it says you need to do it. Well, actually, this was awesome. I learned a lot and I'm pretty sure everybody listening did. So thanks for sharing and look forward to to round two at some point next year. Okay. Thanks.

=== FILE: 342 ‒ Aging well： Peter shares strategies for improving longevity with residents at senior living [rRZs9xJ0ulo].txt ===

the idea that lifting weights is a young person's thing or a male thing. I think both of those are just incorrect. Lifting weights is something every person on this planet should be doing. Is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? In an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. If you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? For people in this audience, how can they start to safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? Sitting is to lower back pain what verbin is to alcoholism. When I think of longevity, what I'm really thinking about is maximizing both the length of life and thEQuality of life. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet, you can sleep right, you can exercise, but if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible, but I would say even more than that, regardless of how long you live, if it's unhappy, why bother? Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Welcome everyone. My name is Olivia Atia and I'm here with my dad, Peter Atia and we are here to talk to you today about longevity. So over the summer, I volunteered at a senior living center called Quarencia, which is where IMet Sally who unfortunately couldn't be with us today because she's sick, but we got to talking and I discovered that she's very interested in my dad's work and as I'm sure all of you are. So we decided that we'll be here today and we'll be doing 45 minutes of conversing between us two to keep it interesting and then a little bit of time at the end for you guys to ask and things that you're interested about. So with all that being said, are you ready? As all ever be. Okay. So I think it'll be helpful to start talking about the actual word longevity because it can mean different things to different people. So when you talk about longevity, are you talking about living forever or how are you defining it? Definitely not living forever, although understandably that's probably what some people think of when they think of longevity. I'm talking about it in terms of two things. One of them is called Life span and the other is called Health span and Life span is the part that I think most people think of. It's the how long you live part. But then there's Health span which is the how well you live part. And both of these things are important. I would argue that they're of equal importance and an extreme of one without the other is not ideal. In other words, I don't think there's anybody sitting here who says I'd love to live to a hundred but I want to spend the last 20 of those years unable to move. IMean, that wouldn't be ideal. And similarly, I think the idea of living an amazing healthy life but that life being cut short prematurely at 50, nobody would think that that's ideal. So when I think of longevity, what I'm really thinking about is maximizing both the length of life and thEQuality of life. And again, quality could be further broken down into sort of a physical piece. So, you know, am I free of pain most of the time? Am I able to physically do the things I enjoy doing? And that could range from just the activities of daily living and self care to recreational activities. If you like to garden, how long do you want to be able to do that? If you play golf, if you like to go for walks and hikes or swim. And then there's a cognitive piece. So I don't think anybody would fully expect even at my age that my brain is kind of as sharp as hers is. But I still want to believe that my mind is pretty sharp. And I think we all sort of want that for as long as possible. And then the final piece is sort of an emotional piece that deals with happiness, sense of purpose, connection to others. And again, you can imagine a scenario where somebody has perfect physical health span, any may can do anything they want to do physically. Their brain is sharp, but they have no friends and no relationships. And I think we would all agree that that's also, that's not really an ideal life. And I don't think anybody would aspire to that. So that's a lot there. But when you put all those things together to me, that's what longevity is. And if some people here are wondering, is it too late to start caring about longevity and living longer? What would you say to them? I would say that that's not the case. I would say that on the one hand, sure, the earlier a person begins to take steps to increase their longevity, the more opportunity they have. It's sort of like investing, right? When is the best time to start saving for retirement? Probably the minute you start earning your first paycheck and your teens or 20s. But does that mean you shouldn't save money when you're older? No, it doesn't. There's also a lot of data that we have from clinical trials that are done with seniors that demonstrate that, for example, people who have never lifted weights in their life before who start lifting weights for the first time when they're in their 60s and 70s have a remarkable benefit. This is not just true of weight trening. It's true of any sort of exercise. So the short answer, I guess, is that no, it's never too late to really start thinking about this. But obviously, the best time to plant the tree is yesterday, if not today. Why do they have a benefit if they haven't done it before? Well, you know, there's an effective trening, right? So specifically thinking of exercise, the body is really a user-illusate organ or collection of organs and the muscles are a great example of that. So it's actually true of young people and old people. The greatest effective exercise is generally seen in the person who goes from being completely sedentary to even a mild amount of trening. So if you look at somebody like me who exercises all the time or someone like you who exercises all the time, if we added three hours a week to your trening or to my trening, it actually wouldn't have an enormous impact. If you took an individual who did zero exercise and you took them to three hours a week, which let's be honest, guys, 30 minutes a day, six days a week is not a huge ask. The impact is enormous. That's strenge. That's not what you'd think. Can you talk about the importance of adding life to years rather than just years to life and what that means to you? Yeah, it means a lot to me and I think it will mean a lot to people here because, again, the metric that most people think of is life expectancy. How many times have you heard it? Life expectancy is increasing. Life expectancy is decreasing. And I think the reason for that is frankly, it's just the easiest thing to measure because it's objective. It's quantitative and it's a single number. It's a number that shows up and it can be measured from a death certificate. We know exactly how many years to the day that a person lived. And if we keep track of that, we certainly know something about them. But my argument would be that it is not the most important thing. And again, I would challenge us to find an individual who would, if given the choice, and I don't think one ever has to make this choice, but for the purpose of the thought experiment, if you said, look, you could live to 80 in remarkable and perfect health. And then when your life is over, it ends very quickly and suddenly versus you could live to 100. But you spend that last 20 years in a painful state of decline. I think very few people would choose the latter, even though they're living longer. And I think what most people want is quality of life over quantity outside of these extreme examples, which are common and tragic where people die in their young. But I think when you really start to think about pushing those things, most people in my experience are more interested in quality of life. So when it comes to someone's risk of dying, you characterize the biggest risks as the four horsemen. So could you explain what those are? Yeah, IMean, you can't have a discussion on this topic without talking about the four horsemen, which you know, might seem a bit grim, but there's no reason to avoid talking about the inevitable, which is every one of us in this room is not going to be alive at some point. And I think to confront the how is important, right? So statistically speaking, all of us in this room are going to succumb to one of four processes or disease processes. So in rank order, the first of those would be cardiovascular and cerebral vascular disease. That's the leading cause of death in the United States. That's the leading cause of death globally. This leading cause of death for men and it's leading cause of death for women full stop. So that's a heart attack, a stroke. The number two and it's not that far behind in the United States is cancer. And of course cancer isn't just one disease. We lump it all together. But of course prostate cancer and breast cancer are, you know, frankly as as different as, you know, a pickup truck and a carola. They both have four wheels, but that's about where the similarity ends. Number three would be the diseases of dementia and the neurodegenerative diseases. And there's a lot of things in here, right? So you have Alzheimer's disease, which is the most common form of dementia. But you also have lots of other types of dementia that are that are not neurodegeneratives, such as vascular dementia. And then you have the fourth horsemen is kind of a spectrum of diseases that we call metabolic diseases. The most extreme version of this would be type two diabetes. But of course all along the way, you have conditions like fatty liver disease and insulin resistance. And all of these conditions form a continuum. And the most important thing to know about them is, well, not that many people will die directly from those diseases. If you have anything along that continuum, it's increasing your risk of about, by about 50% of the other three horsemen. So we really want to think about a strategy at mitigating all four of these conditions and delaying them as long as possible. What would you say to someone that may already be navigating these chronic diseases that come with aging? And what advice would you give them on how to manage a high quality of life and keep hope during these times? You know, it would matter very specifically on which one we're talking about, right? So I certainly won't ask for a show of hands, but just based on the age of everyone in this room, it's impossible for me to imagine that nobody in this room hasn't already faced some of these diseases, right? So if you're sitting in this room and you already had a stent placed in your coronary arteries, that says, look, you've already had a brush with coronary artery disease. Maybe someone in this audience has already had a heart attack and you're fortunate enough to have survived it. All the short answer is, look, the fact that you've survived it is great and that means you get a second chance. Many people don't, right? So many people's first brush with heart disease is death. In fact, on average, about 50% of people, one in two people that have a heart attack, it's immediately fatal. So if you're in that group where you've had that heart attack or you know somebody who has and they've lived to tell about it, they're in the lucky camp and what they should be doing is everything in their power to not only prevent it from happening again, but to strengthen their body. And so, you know, the first thing I do is I ask myself, what were the conditions that I had that led to this heart attack in the first place? Now some of these conditions, you don't have a lot of control over. Genetics play a strong role here, but there are many things that can be controlled such as cholesterol levels, blood pressure, smoking. Those would be the big three. We have ways to manage all of those things. Also, we know that exercise plays a very important role as does metabolic health. So, you know, I've met many people who have had that near brush with death from that standpoint of a first heart attack they survive it. And what do they do? They turn it around and they say, look, I'm going to lose 30 pounds. I'm going to stop smoking or I'm going to manage my blood pressure cholesterol better. I'm going to take up exercise. And I know people that have gone on to live 30 years after that event that might have happened when they were 60 and they live until they're in their 90s. So I guess I would always frame it through the lens of, hey, am I fortunate enough to have survived this thing? And if so, what am I going to do going forward? So someone here asked what happens to our balance as we age. Fall seemed to be so prevalent here in our senior community. Can we help these problems from increasing as we age? Yes, if there's a fifth horseman out there, it's accidental death. Now what constitutes accidental death varies a lot by age? So when we're talking about people that are Olivia's age, the most common cause of accidental death is going to be car accidents and overdoses, drug overdose. When you talk about people my age, the most common cause of accidental death is overdose by far. When you talk about people your age, it's a total flip and the prevalence of accidental death goes up by five or six fold and it is virtually all related to falling. So what is, so I guess there's two questions. Why are falls so lethal and maybe more importantly why do people above the age of 65 fall so much more? And by the way, why do women fall disproportionately more than men? And why are women more injured by falls than men? These are thEQuestions that I think we should spend a moment on. So let's start with the why do falls happen? You touched on it a moment ago. As we age, we don't just lose our balance, but we're losing something else that people my age and certainly her age take for granted, which is called reactivity. So the other day I was in the woods because one of my kids accidentally kicked the soccer ball down into the woods so I had to go and get it. And as you can imagine, the ground is very uneven, right? It's like this. And it's covered in leaves and twigs and branches. So you can't even see what you're stepping on. I'm sure you can all picture exactly what this is like. Every step is a spray and ankle waiting to happen. Sure enough, at one point, I stepped into something that wasn't as it appeared and I got jolted. And I had to react very quickly with my leg to put it in the right place so I wouldn't fall. And I did, and I'm here sitting here talking about it and I don't even remember which leg it was. That's how insignificant this was. But the type of muscle fiber that was necessary to do that, which if we want to get technical is called a 2A muscle fiber is the type of muscle fiber that is responsible for explosive movement. It's the type of muscle fiber that is the most powerful muscle fiber. Well, those muscle fibers start getting weaker and weaker and shrinking at about the age of 25. So I'm long past my peak in my early 50s, but I still have enough to hold me on. But at some point, they really, really start to diminish. And by the time someone's your age, you've got threads of those things left. So you're losing those things. Now, the good news is you can tren these muscle fibers, but the only way to tren them is to move very heavy weights. Sounds crazy. It's counts counterintuitive, but that's what we have to do. We have to move really heavy weights and we have to tren in movement patterns like that, which means, for example, bouncing, moving side to side. Being rope, things like that are necessary for our feet to have the reactivity that you had when you were young. A second obvious issue as we age is a reduction in bone density and a reduction in muscle mass. And this is the reason why women are more susceptible than men to these injuries, because for obvious reasons, women have less muscle mass on average and have lower bone density on average. In part, due to the fact that many women didn't receive hormones after menopause and as their estrogen levels went down after menopause, their bones got disproportionately weaker relative to men, because estrogen turns out to be the most important hormone in preserving bone density. And so all of these things taken together are what mean that, you know, falling is something we have to be very mindful of. At any age, but boy, does it play a bigger role above the age of 65? And as I, again, I won't ask for a show of hands, but I would be shocked if no one in this audience knew somebody, if not personally, who hadn't experienced a significant fall that resulted in a broken hip or a broken femur and the tragedy of that type of accident is that in many cases, it's not fully recoverable. So you have the proportion of people that will die as a result of that, but even the people who live often about 50% of them never regain the same level of mobility they had before. So all of this to me points back to the idea that we want to be exercising as much as possible. I'm going to sound like a broken record saying this, but you're going to want to have your body as prepared as possible, because that physical piece is so important in preventing these types of injuries. Is there anything that people of this age can do now to preserve that muscle or strength in it, or did it have to be done while it was still like in their 20s? Sure. Obviously, if you could go back in time and I put you all in a time machine to win your 20, knowing what you know today, maybe you would exercise more, but that sort of interrelative point. I would say the point is what we do today is what matters. And again, I, you know, there was a woman named Belinda Beck that I interviewed on my podcast a few months ago. She's a researcher in Australia, and she did a study there that I really was fond of called the Lift Morse study. So this is a study that was done with a group of women, all of whom were over 65 years old, and all of whom had a disease condition of very, very low bone density. So as a group of 65 and plus year old women who had very brittle bones who didn't exercise beyond sort of like yoga and, you know, walking. So it's not like they were inactive, but they'd never lifted weights. And these women were randomized into two groups, one that continued with that type of exercise, and then one that engaged in really, really heavy strength trening. And I love that there's a video of this on YouTube that is easily one of my 10 favorite videos of all time because these women who look so frail by the end of the study are able to, in some cases, pick up their own body weight off the ground, do a deadlift with their own body weight. And they're, you know, coached on how to do this safely and they're, they gain strength. And they really do hardcore powerlifting exercises like they're not, you know, holding the little two pound dumbbells, doing curls, they're doing squats, they're doing deadlifts, they're doing, you know, getting to pull up, bench press all sorts of things. By the end of this study, they defied something that we thought was possible, which is we never thought it was possible to increase bone density. We thought the best you could do was maintain bone density or maybe slightly prevent the rate of decline. But amazingly in these women based on the CT scans of their bones, they actually increased bone density. I find this to be one of the most uplifting and important findings with respect to aging. And I think it speaks to how the, you know, the idea that, you know, lifting weights is a young person's thing or a male thing. I think both of those are just incorrect. Lifting weights is something every person on this planet should be doing. Moving from risks into action. Do you want to quickly walk through the tactics in your longevity toolkit and then from there we can go into detail on each of them? Yeah, IMean, I think broadly speaking, there are five buckets of things that we have control over to impact all of these things we're talking about. So one we just talked about exercise and you can probably tell my bias is that that's the single most important one for the most part. So the second and no particular order would be nutrition. So what you eat matters and we will talk about that. I'm sure in more detail. The third one would be sleep. So, you know, the difference between sleeping well and not sleeping well has an enormous impact on your brain, but also on your metabolic health, which then indirectly plays a great role in in other diseases. The fourth would be all of the sort of medications and supplements, drugs, anything that your doctor prescribes or that you can buy over the counter. And these are of varying degrees of efficacy. Some of them are incredibly dubious. Some of them can be lifesaving. But again, all of those things we'd want to think about. And then the final bucket would be kind of all the tools that we would have at our disposal to improve our emotional health and well-being. So we've already touched a little about why exercise is important. But for people in this audience, how can they start to safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? It's hard to provide kind of a blanket statement on that because everybody's going to be different. But I think it's safe to say that people are less fragile than they believe. And you know, it's, IMeet many people, for example, who have back injuries and say, look, I have a back injury, I can't really do anything. And the reality of it is when you sort of probe a little bit further, what you realize is nothing tends to make their back hurt more than inactivity. You know, I don't remember who made the statement, but I loved it. And I've paraphrased it or plagiarized it many times. Sitting is to lower back pain, what bourbon is to alcoholism. So you know, and I think any of you who's back has hurt will probably think about that and go, you know, he's kind of right. My back hurts, sitting is the one thing I don't like to do or after a long drive it hurts worse. And, and, you know, for most people actually being active makes them feel better. Now, let's be clear. There are certain activities. Like if you have no cartilage left in your knee, more walking won't make you feel better. And so you've got, you know, you're going to have to see an orthopedic surgeon. They might need to do a knee replacement. But boy, I will tell you, in this day and age, in 2025, what can be done with a knee replacement, a hip replacement, even a shoulder replacement? IMean, these operations have come along so far and they have restored so much quality of life to individuals. So, every one of these cases has to be managed individually. But if you have a really good PT or rehab professional who knows what's fixable with more trening or more conditioning versus, hey, this actually does need some medical attention. I think the aspiration should be what can I do to get as active as possible. Moving from exercise into nutrition, we saw questions come through that different diets are being talked about and they aren't sure which one they should follow. So, is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? I don't think there's a diet that is best. I think there are principles that matter and everyone should find the diet that best allows them to adhere to the principles. So, what are the principles? The principles are not to eat too much and not to eat too little. That sounds dumb, but it's just the reality of it. And I think everyone struggles with a different end of that spectrum, right? There are some people who just don't like to eat that much. They're like little birds. And as they get older, that becomes a huge problem. They are too frail. But the other end of the spectrum, you have people like me who like to eat too much. And we will spend most of our life fighting against the urge to eat too much. And that also becomes a problem as you get older because the heavier you are, the more weight you're putting on each and every one of those joints. And again, we're thinking about all these things that are working against us as we age, not to mention other complications that come from eating too much. But I would say that in an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. First of all, I just think for many people, it's kind of hard to get enough protein in. Even I have to pay attention to it and I don't have a problem eating. But I need to be mindful of, hey, that I get enough protein. It's really easy for me to get all the carbs in the world. I don't have to go out of my way to eat more fat. But I do have to be cognizant of getting enough protein. And enough protein is a pretty big number. It's about one gram per pound of body weight. So I would challenge each of you to pay attention to, hey, if you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? And I would bet that especially for the women here, that's even harder. Now, if you follow a little bit short of that, it's okay. But if you're at half of that, you're really not getting the optimal amount of protein. And as we age, we develop something called anabolic resistance, which means that it is harder and harder for our muscles to synthesize and grow new muscle cells with the given amount of amino acids, which are the building blocks in protein that we get by eating protein. And therefore, we actually need more and more protein to overcome that. So we talk a lot about obesity. We talk a lot about osteoporosis in osteopemia. But there's another condition of aging called sarcopenia, which is the condition of muscle loss. And that's a huge problem. And there's really two ways to, in concert, two ways to address that. One is consuming enough protein, and the other is doing enough resistance trening. So again, doesn't matter if you're a vegetarian, doesn't matter if you like a Mediterranean diet, doesn't matter if you like steak and potatoes. If you can adhere to those principles, that's going to make your life easier. Is it harder to adhere to those principles if you're a vegan? Yeah, it's a lot harder. But it's not impossible. I know lots of people who have done it. But looking at a food tracking app in your phone is a great way to spend a week evaluating how many grams of protein you're getting. I think you'll be surprised that for many of us, it's we're probably underdoing it. Now I'm moving on to sleep. Sleep is something that you've written a lot about. You said that you didn't use to take it very seriously. But now you do take it very seriously. That's true. He goes to bed at eight every night. So why do you think it's so important? I've hammed up till nine these days. Yes, sleep is important. In your right, I used to probably until 12 years ago. I think my mantra was I'll sleep when I'm dead. And I, you know, just would try to sleep as little as possible. But the evidence are pretty overwhelming, especially for both near-term and long-term function of the brain that sleep is very important. Now I think at your age, a couple of unique challenges emerge. Again, I think most people, once they're over 65 or 70, they're not fighting the will to sleep because they want to be out partying all night. It's more that other things are getting in the way. So we know that as a person ages, they tend to sleep a little bit lighter and their sleep architecture tends to change a little bit. We also know that other things get in the way, especially for men, which is it gets harder and harder to make it through a night without having to get up to pee. And IMean, you know, I'm already at that stage where at least two out of the seven nights a week, if I am not mindful about when I had my last glass of water, I'm going to be up at two or three in the morning to pee. And sometimes that's harder to go back to bed after. So what are the things that we have under our control? Well, one of them is absolutely timing of water. Now again, water is super important. The older a person gets, the more susceptible they are to dehydration. The older a person gets, the less reliable thirst is as an indicator for fluid status. So at a livias age, you don't really believe they're not need to pay attention to how much you're drinking. First will be the guide. But that becomes less and less true as you age. So you're juggling a narrow problem, which is on the one hand, you have to be mindful about drinking enough. But at the other hand, you can't drink too much too close to bed, and that's going to keep you awake. Another thing that makes a huge difference in sleep quality is timing of food. So the longer you can have between when you have dinner and when you go to bed, the better. So we eat dinner really early because we have young kids in our house. And that's why I can get away with going to bed at nine because it's still been three and a half hours or three hours since I ate. Another thing is alcohol. So some of you probably drink alcohol and the less alcohol you have in your system when you sleep, the better you're going to sleep. Having a super dark room, having a super cold room is going to make a big difference. And perhaps the biggest thing to sort of make a point about here is consistency of timing, especially on the wake up. So if you could tether yourself to one time, it's what time do I wake up? And if you force yourself to wake up at the same time every day and don't allow yourself to take a nap during the day, and this is a big ask because I know naps can be tempting, it's going to regulate when you end up going to bed by building up enough sleep pressure. So if a person tells me I'm struggling to sleep at night and I find out they're napping during the day, the first thing I want to do is get rid of the nap. I want them to, and then I want to fix the wake up time, eliminate the nap, and then actually let them get into a better sleep cycle that way. Are there any good sleep supplements that you recommend taking and that are not damaging to you? Yeah, there are. IMean, and I think one has to be very careful with this stuff. You know, there's certainly evidence to suggest that as we age, melatonin levels go down, and therefore melatonin can aid, at least with sleep initiation, but it's important to know that melatonin really is only the signal to initiate sleep. It's not going to necessarily keep you asleep all night. So if you're not doing all of the other things correctly, melatonin is going to be limited in its efficacy. So before I go down the route of supplements, I want to get everything we just talked about. It's not going to be the high gene completely dialed in. And then, yeah, if there's still an issue falling asleep, I think melatonin can be viable tool. Although I really want to make sure it's the lowest dose you can buy. They tend to sell this stuff in high enough doses to kill horses. It's not necessary. You know, the lowest dose, which is maybe 300 micrograms is probably all you need at most twice that dose, but you don't need anything north of a milligram. I think one has to experiment a little bit with other things. I find Ashwaganda a little bit helpful for others, maybe not so much. Okay, and then we'll quickly touch on the last one, which is emotional health. And a lot of people think that this is not really something that kind of matters in longevity, but you talked about this in the last chapter of Outlive and how it's really important to you and that you've recently discovered it. So do you want to talk a little bit about that and how it's important as people are aging? Well, I think it's actually important at any age. And I think that, you know, what I imagine is so appealing about living at a place like this is you have a built-in system of friendship. And I would imagine that that's probably a great source of well-being that many of your peers would be missing out on if they were living alone. You know, I think about how little I see my parents because we live in a different country. And so I can imagine that things that we take for granted when we're young, like being close to our children or our grandchildren, aren't guaranteed when we grow older. Now, of course, she's signed a contract that says she can't leave Austin. So this won't be a problem for me, but, you know, I think social support network. And some sense of purpose might be the single most important part of the emotional health tool kit as it pertains to living longer. Every one of us knows the story of the couple that have been married for 70 years. One of them passes away and then the other one has, you know, dies within a year. I don't think these are, I don't think these are just anecdotal. I really think there's an understanding of why that happens. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet. You can sleep right. You can exercise, but if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible, but I would say even more than that, regardless of how long you live. It's, if it's unhappy, why bother? You know what IMean? Like I, so let's say you do live a long time, but you're alone or you're miserable. And in some ways, that would be the ultimate purgatory. Okay. So is there anything else you want to add before we hop into thEQ&A? No, let's turn it over to you guys. Yes. So why did you decide to start like focusing in longevity? Yeah, that's a great question. I guess there are sort of two things, right? The first was when Olivia was born, she's my oldest. And I bet all of you can appreciate this. Those of you that have kids, which I'm guessing is most of you, something about your mortality kind of kicks in. There are many stages to mortality, but I think having a kid is one. I think losing a parent is one. I think losing a friend. Like we, you know, as we gain and lose things throughout life, we become aware of its finitude. And her birth was a moment where I was like, this is amazing. I, but you know, I'm not going to be around forever to be a part of her life. So that kind of got me thinking about it. And that coincided with me also coming to coming to the realization that there are lots of things in my family history that might otherwise suggest a short life for me. And I wanted to get very serious about it. So my own journey into this space was actually very selfish and was strictly geared towards me figuring out things for myself. Awesome. Okay. I'm going to repeat that question. So there were two questions there. The first was an update on Clotho. And I'll explain what that is for everybody else. And then the second was on the gram of protein per pound of body weight. Is it ideal body weight if a person is overweight? I'll start with the second question. The short answer is it depends on how overweight. So if a person came to me and said, look, I weigh 260 pounds. I probably should weigh 200 pounds. I would tell them, you know, if I agreed with that assessment, I'd say being closer to the 200 is probably fine. You don't need to be at the 260. Okay. This gentleman was asking about a podcast I did. So, I don't know how many months ago it was six, nine months ago. I had an amazing scientist on my podcast. Her name was Dina Duball. She's a neurologist at University California San Francisco. And she studies a protein called Clotho. This is a protein that is made by the body. It is made in response to exercise. But it also is just made, you know, endogenously and declines with age for reasons we don't understand. So children make six times more of this than adults. But of course, any one of us can trensiently increase it by exercising. What's special about this protein is it seems to be one of the most important proteins that protects the brain. And so in both mice and monkeys, when you inject this protein, if these are animals that have signs of dementia or cognitive decline, it reverses. If these are normal animals, they seem to get superpowers, like super cognitive powers. That protein is going to be tested over the nexT3 years in humans. And if the results of that look promising, then a larger clinical trial will take place. So I would say the best case scenario here would be that in, you know, seven to 10 years, this could be an actual drug that humans take either to prevent cognitive decline or to treat it. So what is the best type of protein supplement you recommend to get to your grams these so I always ask people if possible and it's not always possible. Whatever you can get from food is great. But I understand that for many people, and again, especially for women, it's really hard to just mash through that much protein. So we turn to supplements. Now, when it comes to foods, the three that stand out the most are dairy products, beef, and eggs. And there's a, because there's a quantitative way that you measure both the type of amino acid and what's called bioavailability of the amino acid. So how complete are the sources of amino acids and how readily can the bodily access them? Can the body access them? So again, if you're thinking about eating, beef, eggs, and dairy are the big ones. Again, you can get lots of amino acids and also other proteins. I'm not saying don't eat chicken or fish or vegetable proteins, but those are big ones. Therefore, when you're supplementing, way protein, which comes from dairy, tends to be the winner. Now, KCN is also great because it's also from dairy. So way or KCN probably stand out a little bit above, but so does egg protein supplement. So what I tell people to do is figure out what works best for you, because there's some people that just can't do dairy proteins. Remember, if you just because you can't tolerate dairy, doesn't mean you can't tolerate a dairy protein. Most people who can't tolerate dairy can't tolerate the carbohydrate in the dairy, but they're totally fine with the protein. So give it a try. So you're saying, a few years ago, he did a genetic test and it did not show a genetic, okay. So let's assume that the test was correct. What it was screening for was very likely a gene called the apoe for gene. And this is a gene, the apoe gene that exists in three types. There's the number two, the number three and the number four. Now, every one of us has two copies of every gene, because you got one from your mom and one from your dad. So if there's three types of a gene and there are two copies, there's six combinations. You can go through them all. You could be a two, two. You could be a two, three. You could be a two, four. You could be a three, three, a three, four, or a four, four. Okay. Why is that relevant? One of those types is higher risk than the other two and that's the four. So people who have two copies of the four are at significantly higher risk for Alzheimer's disease, about 10 times higher risk. Now, doesn't mean that they're guaranteed to get it, but their risk is significantly higher. People who have one copy typically a three and a four are at about a two times risk. And so what that study told you was you, what I'm assuming it said was you did not have a copy of the four gene. So you might be a three, three, which by the way, most of you probably are 60% of the population is aT3, three. That's the good news. The bad news is it doesn't mean you're free of risk. Because the only people who can't get Alzheimer's disease are people who don't have brains. IMean, a big limb. Everybody with a brain is at risk and unfortunately, women are at almost twice the risk of men. Now, we don't have a great understanding of why there are lots of theories. I won't expand on them now for the sake of time, but this is one of the areas where women are disproportionately affected to men. The other one, by the way, being osteoporosis and falls. So we've touched on both of the areas where women are at higher risk, of course, men have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. So yeah, the takeaway for me is I'm aT3, three as well, but I don't rest on it. I act as though I'm high risk, meaning I take all the steps possible, exercising, being the single most important thing we can do to preserve brain health, managing nutrition, sleep, all of the things that I can do. Sure. Okay. So the first question was talking about how your mom had a fall. She broke her hip, had a long protracted recovery, managed to survive, but was never the same again and basically slipped into a state of cognitive decline. And your question was, is there a relationship there? Very good question. My intuition is that there is a relationship there. In other words, we don't know the parallel universe experiment where we could see how she would have been, had she never had that fall. So what we're trying to understand is is there any causality between the fall and her cognitive decline? And my intuition is that there is. And it's exactly what you said. It's that with the period of profound inactivity and probably with it, not just the physical inactivity, but also I would suspect some cognitive inactivity. If nothing else, it may have sped up by a period of years, something that may have ultimately happened. But I think probably was happening sooner than it should have. But again, I don't, it would be a very difficult thing to prove that, but that's what my intuition says. And I think that's just yet another reason to kind of think about all these things we've talked about as far as like what are the steps we can take to minimize our risk of a fall. Awesome. Well, I think that's all you have time for, but do you have anything else to add? No, but I, I like that I was on the hot seat from you today. So it's pretty fun. Yeah. Well, thank you guys all so much for coming.

=== FILE: 343–The evolving role of radiation： cancer treatment, low-dose treatments for arthritis, & much more [xtgQUiBuGVI].txt ===

Again, hearing you say this, Andre, the listeners are going to be thinking, what? Yes, because we're all so brainwashed into believing that radiation is horrible. I don't think we can have this discussion without giving people some understanding of what radiation is. Essentially, the bottom line is that the low energy stuff that is non-ionizing cannot damage tissue. Falsies about your cell phone giving a brain cancer, and all are just that, their their first off, which patients are typically being radiated. It comes on the two things. You want, you want to be cured, curate is key, but quality of life is equally important if not more important for most people. And so now that cure rates with our modern focused radiation allow to get such a high dose into the prostate, we can say that they're essentially equivalent to surgery. Let's use that as a bridge to talking about using radiation to enhance tissue. You usually see depending on the joint summer between a 60 and 80 percent success rate where the pain isn't if not zero, at least markedly decreased. I don't think patients will have any patients for turf wars. Yes. Right, true. And so if I'm a patient, every doctor needs to be a fiduciary. They need to put my interest, have their interest. It's highly underutilized at this point, and your pain is of shown as the way it clearly works and America just has to catch up. Yeah, this is definitely an area where we are way far behind. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Sanjay, welcome back to Austin. Thank you, Peter. Pleasure to be here. I think this is the first time we're together, not driving, right? I think so. Yeah. That is true. So I don't know. Somehow we're going to resist the urge for most of this discussion to not talk about cars. If you don't want to bore your audience. I know. It is called the drive. This is true. So I feel like we have, we will reserve the right to have some automotive discussions at the end. For listeners, Sanjay might be one of the most knowledgeable human beings on cars. He's also a very dangerous friend to have. Because he's always the bad one on the shoulder when you're contemplating a new set of wheels or a new something for your cars. But in his other life, in addition to being the founder of MD Motorheads, right? That's right. Yeah, which is a Facebook group of doctors who are gear heads. We're going to crack 3,000 members. It's exploded. Yeah. That's awesome. So shout out to MD Motorheads. You're also a radiation oncologist, which we also spend some time talking about, right? And I guess we thought it would be a really fun idea to do a podcast for a couple of reasons. One is just the bread and butter of what you do as a radiation oncologist is a bit of a black box to many people. Myself included, if I'm going to be completely truthful. Even trening and surgical oncology, I feel like I had much more familiarity with the medical side of oncology than I did with the radiation side of oncology. So for myself, for the audience, I think it'll be wonderful to understand more as it's a field that has evolved a lot, right? I'm guessing last 25 years, yes. You know, a lot of change. It's one of the youngest fields, too. So I think in that respect, it's not steeped in some of the traditions that surgery and medicine are. So yet, it's a new field, highly evolving very rapidly and the technology has changed so much just in really in the last decade or two. It's pretty incredible. And just about a curiosity, when did it become its own discipline, its own set of boards and everything like that? Yeah, so you know, as a kid and growing up in Houston, some of my family friends were radiologists. And I remember it just like it probably an elementary school kid that some of them were talking about radio therapy. And they were these were diagnostic radiologists who at the time were, you know, CT scanning was pretty new in the 80s. And so it was around that time that prior to that in the 70s and then prior to that, it was kind of just a fellowship where people basically would radiologists would have a cobalt 60 machine that they would tren on for a few weeks and you'd do a few easy calculations and do some crude treatments. But it really started, it came into its own starting in the 70s and really more into the 80s. And that's when it became its own discipline. The ACR had a separate carve out. And so our residency trening is completely independent of diagnostics now. So we just do it's an intern year followed by four years of radiation oncology with a little bit of overlap, but not a lot of diagnostic trening at all, just because there's so much to do and, you know, just on the therapeutic side. God, see, I had no idea that it was that new then in terms of medicine. That's obviously like, right. That's very new. The second thing that I want to talk about on the radiation front is this idea of using very low dose radiation to heal injuries. Right. And I actually, I think that while people will be incredibly interested to understand the ins and outs of radiation oncology, again, given the ubiquity of it in treating people, I think a lot of people are going to be very interested in this idea that why aren't we using low dose radiation more to heal some of these nagging orthopedic injuries that people have. And of course, we'll go far down the rabbit hole on that. I don't think we can have this discussion without giving people some understanding of what radiation is. And I would like us to do it in a way that's both rigorous enough that we can really get into some of the science of this, but also get into it gently enough. Right. People that maybe don't remember high school physics well enough, sure, I can come along for the ride and not get lost. But once we get into gray and milly seaverts and all that stuff, I want everyone to be fluent when we start talking about doses. Right. Right. Right. So, radiation itself, the term itself has kind of got a bit of a negative connotation, but basically it's part of the electromagnetic spectrum. So, you know, we have everything on the one in the range of increasing energy of a photons, which are just particles of light. On the one end you have radio waves and micro waves and the other end you've got infrared and I'm excuse me, you've got ultraviolet and then you get into x-rays and radio waves. And in the middle of all that is the visible spectrum. So when you see, I'm sure everyone's seeing the graphs where you've got the rainbow red green blue that we can see, the human eye can only perceive a tiny little narrow spectrum. And then on the low end, the radio waves are wave lengths. These are wave lengths and energies which are the very low end energies you have things like radio waves. And in that situation, both radio waves and micro waves are what they call non-ionizing. And you've talked about this on some of your previous podcast. And you had a really good one with Atari Walla from Pranubo. Wait, he went to really, it was really nice in depth discussion. But essentially the bottom line is that the low energy stuff that is non-ionizing cannot damage tissue. And that goes all the way up to visible light. Then when you start going to the higher energy x-rays, that's when you get both x-rays as well as ultraviolet light and then the high and then the higher particles stuff. But basically the higher you go in the energy and the energetics of the particles, the more likely the exposure to these packets of energy are going to cause damage to your DNA. And why is it that the shorter the wave length? Because that's what's changing as you go from radio waves to micro waves to visible waves to ultraviolet. Why is it that is the wave length gets shorter the energy gets bigger? Yeah, I'm not sure what the reason is that they are inversely proportional to each other. I don't know that I guess I'm probably not enough of a physicist to answer their question precisely. But having said that, that is the characteristic of this. And in doing so that's one of the big reasons why all the fallacies about your cell phone giving you brain cancer and all are just that their their fallacies because even having a cell phone on your on your ear for hours a day, it's it's non-ionizing radiation and standing too close to micro wave oven again non-ionizing radiation. So that cannot damage your cells the way that the other radio wave is too long. That's right. The micro wave is too long. It doesn't have the energy. You can stand on it all you want. It can heat but it can't damage. Correct. It can excite the molecules but it won't actually eject an electron which is what what causes an ion to form which is why it's called ionizing. And that's where we deal with on the I'm on the therapeutic end. So diagnostic radiologists deal with lower energy x-rays than we do the very high energy x is what we use in our linear accelerators to treat cancer. So that's the big difference there is kilo voltage versus mega voltage but all of these are ionizing. Okay. So let's talk about how these are measured. How do wEQuantify them? Because people on the podcast have heard me talk about this I suspect. We talk a lot about calcium scores and CT angiograms and PET CT and so the I think the the frequent listener will have been somewhat familiar with how we talk about how to dose those things. Right. So radiation dosage there's a couple of different terms that we've talked about. The main one we talk about when we're talking about patient treatment is the unit called the gray and that's an SI unit that essentially is jewels of energy per kilogram of tissue. So that's what they call it absorb to dose. So that's in tissue whereas when you're talking about exposure and the general like in the air and in general exposure it's in the air and that's we usually use the term seaverate for that. And actually both those terms for the most part are equivalent. It's just that the seaverate itself will take into account if you have different types of x-rays, different qualities of x-rays that have different degrees of potential to be ionizing that they have a quality factor you'll multiply it by. But for the most part we use the term gray when we're talking about for example when I treat a prostate patient they're going to get somewhere between 70 and 80 gray but it's fractionated into small daily doses as to be tolerable for the body. And then when we talk about like millisevers like we're going to that's really just measure of exposure not absorbed dose in tissue per say. And what's the relationship between a gray and a milliseaverate is at a one to one. Yes, a gray and a seavered technically. A lot of it's also the gray also if anyone's kind of old school you read you listen to older stuff you hear the term rads a lot of people have heard a rads. So one rad is equal to one centigrey. 100 rads is a gray it's just an SI unit versus the old the older terminology and a seaver is the equivalent only it's in air not in tissue. But a seaver is a gray. Correct. Correct. So when you give 70 gray you're giving 70 severs or 70,000 millisevers over the course of the treatment. That's correct. And just so people can kind of anchor this to things that are familiar living at sea level exposes us to one to two millisevers of ionizing radiation a year. That's exactly what I'm on it. And then of course at the altitude it could be double that. That's really. If you live in Denver it's easily double that or triple that. Correct. Just another thing for comparison a pilot who spends a lot of time traversing the north pole right which is typically how they're going to fly they're not going to go all the way around the center of the earth. Might get another three or four millisevers quite a bit. That's right per trip actually. So that's that can add up. And I was actually talking to a pilot friend about this and they don't really have any sort of a limitation in terms of total exposure that requires them to be out of the to be taken out of the air. A lot of them they're forced to retire at 65 I think is there's the commercial requirement but there's really they don't really monitor the actual exposure to that level to where they it's then I think the reason they don't really use that as a limiting factor for the amount of work is really just that even though they get a higher dose there's been no proven increase in cancer and those types of populations even in you know flight attendants or anything like that the same way that the people in Denver the people here in Texas don't have any higher incidence of cancer. Now the NRC recommends that a person not be exposed to more than 50 I believe 50 millisevers of radiation in a year. Now someone like me that that's easy right unless I'm out there getting a lot of diagnostic radiology or of course undergoing therapeutic radiation treatment but for someone like you who has to set patients up or one of your texts is that a are you guys approaching that level of exposure not at all and so it depends on what type of radiation we do now typically for our external beam machines we're doing it all remotely from behind a shielded wall so the vault in which the machine is placed is custom built just a shield based on the angles that the machine can move through if there's like a direct angle where the machine is hitting a wall that wall has to be built ten times thicker than the walls where the beam can't reach so essentially our dose went treating remotely as close to zero so we keep film badges and we've been it's almost become kind of a joke that when we're not doing breaky therapy which is dealing with actual live radioactive sources our exposure is super low almost negligible really but back when I was in residency doing a lot of GYN implants and things like that where you're you're putting CZM or a radium actually into the body cavities and you're actually up there putting it in up close we had a ring badge on and we would certainly we as a resonance we'd rotate every month but if we didn't it didn't rotate some of the faculty actually got pretty high doses and any idea what the sequelaia that was I know a couple of folks the ones who did a lot of GYN therapy especially in the older days were talking about in the 80s and the 70s where you could actually see dermatitis on their hands from doing that just from the hand exposure one of my faculty members actually had a giant cell tumor of the bone in her finger and again this is after decades and decades of doing it it was you know it was a benign growth but that that was a real thing there's a lot of data out there on especially people who were dealing in x-ray for dentistry and stuff like that back in the day when they didn't have shielding or anything like that that they would get dermatitis the most common thing you'd see is skin irritation in that sort of situation dermatitis and even some kind of chronic flaking and things like that so let's talk about some types of x-rays that people are familiar with and give a sense of radiation dose and I'm also curious as to how much this depends on the size of the individual in other words does a person that is larger receive more radiation for the same test layer at chest x-ray sure and then they certainly do because you have to use more energy to get into a larger person having said that there's two different things because in what we normally deal with when I'm talking about dose to a tumor is the dose actually at that spot versus a whole body dose which is a very different metric and so for someone who I'm treating with say eight weeks of radiation for prostate cancer their prostate may get 80 gray in 2 1.82 gray fractions per day but that's literally only to a small volume roughly the size of the prostate gland itself and when you even get just a few millimeters away from that that dose gets cut in half and then it's exponentially lower because the intensity of the radiation varies with the square of the distance so as you get even a couple of feet away that goes down significantly but typically a patient who is getting 80 gray is a 80 gray was a whole body dose that would obviously be lethal but the whole body dose is more like a few milligray in that sort of situation so we typically don't see like full body sequelor anything from doing even the heavy-duty diagnostic treatment now for the CT scan we almost consider that negligible in our area because again I'm dealing with mega voltage high dose cancer killing radiation and so when they get a CT scan which is going to be just a few millisever it's a milligray that's almost considered rounding air versus what they're getting to the to the tumor let's take something like a chest X ratio so chest X ray again I people should anchor to this idea for what it's worth and we can come back to this and our C says hey limit your annual radiation right 250 millisevers you've got 2% of that just being alive because you've happened to go outside and it be exposed to the sun right so the other you know 98% might come through flying diagnostic let's say you fly a lot that might get you up another 10% right so let's talk about a chest X ray you've got a cough you go to your doctor they do a chest X ray that's how many millisevers for a normal size person normal size person it's a fraction it's probably less than one millisever it actually so it's significantly it's it's something that where you know people who are concerned about things like diagnostic mammograms and all every year you're still talking about maybe one millisever or even a little bit less than that was some of the newer machines and so you're in a zone where it is you know there's a principle we talk about it's called alara a a a a a which is as low as reasonably achievable and that's been the sort of the mantra for our radiation safety people the nuclear regulatory commission and whatnot that you want to keep things as low as possible but having said that when you're talking about numbers of less than 50 millisevers that's kind of an arbitrary number so it's not like getting you know people who've got I should have maybe gotten a chest X ray when I had my cough last time but I just I just don't want to do it that I don't want the exposure but it's so minimal in terms of biological effect that we really don't even really worry about those even if it's getting one of a month or so and a big reason for that is a lot of these numbers especially the 50 millisever number is extrapolated from higher exposure rates and so it's so there's something called a linear no threshold model or ln t and that's been written about extensively and that's what we're all taught in radiobiology and residency one fourth of my radiation trening and in residency was actually radiation biology in addition to clinical oncology and radiation physics but so the linear no threshold model is what states that even you know we we know based on all the the data from you know from a nuclear fallout from Chernobyl from three mile island of course from Hiroshima Nagasaki from the bombs that at a certain dose exposure there's a certain risk of developing a cancer or any other endpoint whether it be dermatitis or bone marrow suppression there's all that all these numbers are well sorted but when you try to extrapolate lower so you take maybe say a dose of say one full severt you know the thousand millisever and you start extrapolating that lower and lower to where you're looking at like a hundred or fifty millisever it's the linear model assumes that there's some level of damage even if those lower levels but in reality there's actually a threshold there is the ln t which is linear no threshold is actually been proven to be actually erroneous and so at very low doses it's actually been shown that there's almost no incidence of any sort of biological damage and there's also it's controversial but there's animals that each winter maybe a hornese is affected low low doses like that so let me tell people what that means because that's sure that's obviously going to come back later in our discussion so you know regular listeners of your podcast know all about hornies and you talk about it and in the exercise realm and a cool plunges and so on as and whatnot but the whole idea is doing some degree a small amount of cellular damage when the body repairs that it actually comes back stronger than it was without the exposure in the first place and in animal studies they've actually shown it very low doses we're talking about single digit milliseverage here that they've seen in mouse bones for example increased osteoclast activity or excuse me decreased osteoclast and increased osteoblastic activity so the bones actually heal quicker and some of the soft tissue as well has been has been shown to actually recuperate and in much in the way you see and the hornies is from other causes and that's not something that we're claiming is you know widely accepted but there is a lot of data showing that that is certainly a possibility which goes against this classic LNT model and the LNT model itself the guy that won the Nobel Prize for it in the 1940s did this all on fruit flies and his work was disproven over the years after that and so a lot of this low dose radiation safety stuff we have is certainly a noble goal to keep the dose as low as possible and when we get down into these milliseverage I think that they're probably a little bit overblown in terms of the actual negative effects on the human body. When I think about where for example something like a CT NGO gram used to be right so that that would easily have exposed a person to 25 millisevers to do a CT scan of the heart. You're doing it you know slowing the heart down getting the contrast in there et cetera. Today they're really fast scanners the best of the best scanners are somewhere between one and three millisevers for that same procedure. I certainly favor having patients get it you know getting a scan with that acknowledging though that I don't have amazing data to point two to say that the 25 millisever at one versus just to make the math easy the 2.5 millisever at one. Right. Tenfold difference poses any difference in risk. Exactly. What yeah how how do you think about that? Would you say what would be your confidence in saying that 2.5 is not actually better than 25 from a cancer risk standpoint. So again going back to that alarm principle there's not a whole lot of data at these levels. I certainly would strive to keep it as low as possible which is what that mantra says but I would go with the machine that has the best resolution and if 25 is if the radiologist tells me that that image is significantly better than a 2.5 millisevered exposure and some of the older machines are just less efficient you may get at better image with the with the lower dose. I think that dose is pretty negligible it really would be good. So the risk you're saying I don't really care if it's 25 or 2.5 is well and the good news is these brand new scanners are faster which is why they're giving you less radio exactly. They seem to have the same thing implies that's on the diagnostic side. On the therapeutic side where I am our machines are called linear accelerators and there's a similar progression as you know we as we've been able to focus the beams more and more precisely that actually caught it's a modulation of the beam and you have a lot of photons being showered in the general vicinity of a patient but you're blocking out everything except for a small area to treat and the same way the newer machines do definitely have a lower exposure to the you know Eastern the room in general. So what should people be thinking about in terms of extreneous radiation when should people be saying to their doctors hey do I really need this you know for example when you go to the dentist every year right typically want to do a set of x-rays is that anything people should be worried about not at all not in the least I would certainly not skimp on on dental x-rays mammograms if it's someone that needs cardiac workups and things like that the potential the risk benefit ratio is so heavily in favor of doing these studies that I don't even think twice about them and when and I think part of this comes from you I've been doing this 25 years now I have so many patients who've been through and when the by time they come to me as a cancer patient they've been through so many CT scans and nowadays we do pet scans we follow up with annual pet scans after the function of which are not only the CT but you've got a radioactive isotope that's being injected into them and we just really don't see now there are certain situations where you are giving a like for example an intravenous therapeutic dose of radiation say for thyroid cancer or things like that there's certain new uh their anostics that are out there in those situations you have to be concerned because they can get into the multiple you know again to a seaver range but when you're in these millisiever ranges it's such it's so important to do these studies the benefits of mammograms are so proven dental x-rays I don't really think twice about them okay um by the way just on the pet scan the rate what is so if you do a pet CT for example which again these are not routinely done these are typically done in oncology patients only um but just for my own understanding of returking 50 to 100 millisiever it's if you're doing a whole body pet CT I think you can be in that range yes okay that's exactly right and uh so pet CT's a relatively new but uh up until maybe a decade ago the pet scan was independent of the CT they would do them separately but the data is so much better when you have the anatomical CT data overlay with the pet that whatever that extra dosage is I think it's well worth it in terms of the resolution of what we're able to see and what we're able to gain from that information okay so now let's pivot from the diagnostic to the therapeutic um is it safe to say that the majority or the most prevalent or common type of radiation oncology treatment would be for breast cancer? A breast and prostate how the number one number two depending on what patient population talking about and prostate may even be a little bit higher and this goes back to the 80s when the tren from doing a whole steady in type of a radical mastectomy was falling out of favor and the randomized data was was obtained in the 80s showing that a lumpic to me breast conservation which is lumpic to me followed by radiation as the same uh outcomes in terms of overall survival as a full mastectomy that's when breast really took off in the 80s and around the same time is when prostate radiation started becoming a thing but at the time rat radical prostatectomy was obviously still king but now in the 2020s I think prostate is taken off and it's probably close to matching breast cancer now. Those are number one number two but we also do depending on where you are in the country and what you're affiliation with the hospital is tons of CNS, lung, lymphoma, GI not colon but more rectal and anal distal GI cancers even in the pediatric world we try to avoid radiating children but it's a very big part of that as well so we use it for almost almost all types of cancer now actually I'll solid timbers anyway. Well let's let's talk a little bit about breast cancer given how common it is and I'll tell you something funny despite trening at Hopkins I never once did a radical mastectomy and it was already long gone right from clinical practice 25 years ago and again just for listeners to make sure they're in the difference between a radical mastectomy and a mastectomy or what's called a modified radical mastectomy the current version of a mastectomy removes all the breast tissue along with the lymphatic tissue in the exila and though certainly I did more than my fair share of those but the radical mastectomy the Hall steady and prestigier removed also the entire musculature of the pack, pack major, pack mine or the whole thing it basically was a disfiguring operation the dilating, disilluminating with nothing but ribs here and can imagine what it's like to not even have pack muscles you sort of take for granted right what you need to do to move your your humorous and yeah to think that it's only been 40 or 50 years that someone had the courage I think it was probably Fisher right Fisher's big study in the 80s which now we have 40 year data from that and it's interesting how now even the modified radicals are relatively rare we still have some advanced cases that they have to go that route but we see tons and tons of patients now who are so much happier their quality of life is much better by just having a simple lumpic to me, a central node biopsy and if it's all negative especially if they've had their mammograms you get a small t1 or t2 tumor we give radiation to the whole breast following that and the radiation is again fractionating to small daily bits they'll get somewhere in the neighborhood of these days it's actually only abouT3 weeks of treatment maybe about say 40 gray and roughly 15 fractions we used to give even when I was in just just really a couple decades we were giving 50 to 60 gray was quite a bit higher dose but to 40 gray and 15 fractions to the full breast and with the modern technology we can cover the breast tissue without a significant harder lung those so we can even use 10 gencial beams even if it's a left-sided tumor to stay away from the heart which is things that we couldn't do very well in the past and then the overall and disease free survival is pretty much comparable to someone who had a modified radical yeah for folks who want to know more about that Sid Mukherjee and I think it was in the Emperor of all maladies has a chapter on the statistic book and one of your best podcasts love like he's he's a legend so let's talk about that okay so so a woman has a stage one or a stage two breast cancer typically these days I think they're moving mostly to Neo-Adjuven chemo before resection yes in a more advanced case but if it's a typical T1 or even a small T2 that we see they may not need any Neo-Adjuven therapy they just will have their lung if it's like I say one and a half centimeter mass that's that's easily respectable they'll remove that just without any Neo-Adjuven treatment okay and we'll do adjuvent radiation and then potentially depending on the receptor status adjuvent hormone therapy as which is the domain of the medical oncologists but we still work with them so just surgery followed by the three to week three to four weeks of all after surgery can you begin the radiation wound healing given a little bit of time we generally do our CT based simulation in three to mention planning maybe three to three weeks after their surgery and then by the time it takes about a week to do all of our computer programming and then we'll start the treatment within three to four weeks post-op so tell me a little bit about that I was completely unaware of that so I'm a woman I've had a lump back to me satin on note was negative so I've got an incision about this long the listener you know five centimeters six centimeter incision they've probably closed it with beautiful internal sutures I've got some stereo strips they're often a week and I've got a nice little scar a week later when I come and see you how many weeks after that I usually will see patients for consultation a lot of times the breast surgeon will send them prior to anything being done so I'll see them for their initial consultation ahead of time but then we plan on doing what's called a planning procedure or a simulation where we're going to put the patient on the table and essentially do a dry run for their treatment usually a couple of weeks after treatment and that involves essentially positioning the patients typically for a breast patient they'll be prone with their arm behind their head we call the the movie star pose to get the arm out of the way of the exiless essentially okay and so by putting them in this position and then putting them on a wingboard that'll slightly elevate their torso we can and there's a lot of different geometry here that we can use back in the old days they had all kinds of ways of doing plaster casts and things like that but we essentially do now is we will we'll use a we'll call a vaclocc essentially a bean bag with a vacuum port and they see the patient sinks into the bag we suck all the air out of in lock it becomes a rigid cast of their body and that way they fit into the groove that we've made for them will actually will kind of form it mold it around their elbow so they're comfortable many times with patients who've had an exiless section they may have a little bit of scarring a little decreased range of motion to be able to get their elbow back there so we'll work with them the best we can whatever position we get them in we do a CT in that position and that's the position we have to reproduce for the daily treatment and the key there is that when they have their arm out of the way we have to have room so that the machine can move around from different angles the actual radiation machine has a gantry that can move really 360 degrees can treat for many angle you want but we have to be able to model tangential beams we don't want direct anterior feel that's going to radiate the breast but the photons are going to go right into the chest by using an angle we can kind of cut across the surface and actually shape the beam to match the curvature of the chest wall so we cover the entire thickness of the breast tissue or even in many cases in the case of advanced more maybe a T4 patient something like that we may even do this post mastectomy so you're treating the full chest wall and we go a little deeper below into the ribs and to make the first inch of lung tissue below that but by using these tangential beams that really minimizes the treatment the the photons damaging the lung tissue so all of that is planned ahead of time we do a CT scan sorry just to be sure planned pre-resection because you're seeing the tumor itself actually no I what IMeant was pre-treatment got it so post-resection you'll see a tumor bed the lumpectomy cavities obviously clearly visible is a fluid pocket on CT so I'll scan the I'll scan the whole chest it takes about a week I have a whole team have a wonderful staff a radiation dosimitrius that helps do the computer planning and then a radiation physicist that actually calibrates the machine prior to actually starting the patient so we do the scan of course the CT scan is two-dimensional slices but we have three-dimensional modeling software so I have a full 3D model of the patient I can look at the slices or how thin it varies usually we don't need this is not a diagnostic scanner I think so usually something like two millimeters three millimeters we don't have to go super high resolution and so that way once it's once it's reconstructed then I can have a nice idea of what angles to bring the beam in because beams in at because every person has a slightly different curvature to the chest wall you're going to have to customize the anatomy different breast sizes we have all kinds of different techniques so I won't go too much into the details but if someone is very large breast did we could even treat them prone to get the have a special pillow to allow the breast to hang down and it's also I'm guessing where the tumor was in the breast so if you have large breast and a superficial tumor yes definitely prone would be amazing because now you're the the tumor bed is so far from the patient right that's true but our technically what we call the clinical target volume the area that we're trying to radiate would actually include the entirety of the breast tissue even even all the way down to the chest wall so there's two different ways there's fault there's full breast radiation which is what most people get but what you're describing actually is partial breast we would just target the lumpectomy cavity and that can also be done we save that for usually for older women who have a very small tumor and when I say older women it's more because of the fact that the remainder of the breast remains untreated so a local recurrence is a little bit more likely in some of it has not had full breast radiation but in a selected subpopulation of small breast cancers in some of the very large breast you can do partial breast where you're only targeting the lumpectomy cavity but for most of our patients we actually do treat the whole breast as stand standard of care plus or minus the exil if that's where the pathology comes in because if they did have a positive lymph node then we have to go after the exil and sometimes a superclavicular and even in for a mammary in a intramarinoid in some cases okay yeah so this is infinitely more involved than I thought which means I'm not the only one that probably was ignorant of what is involved right how long does each session take when they're actually on treatment it's about 15 minutes sometimes even a little bit less than that some of the newer machines can deliver the beam even faster but when I say 15 minutes I'm talking about I have four patients an hour typically so in and out of the room in 15s that includes getting them on the table the key thing for accuracy and reproducibility is positioning so the reason we made that mold and we've not only did we get them in position but I've also got a couple of dots on their skin to use as reference marks to make sure that the patient is in the correct position that whole process probably takes five minutes every day when the patient gets in the room and then maybe another five to 10 minutes for the actual beam to be on and my favorite thing is to come in the room after the patient's first treatment and then the most common question I get is hey doc when do we start and I'm like no maim that was they're like really that was it because the patient feels nothing so the machine will go through its various angles it's pre-programmed the entire process is about 15 minutes a day and they can leave feeling the same as when they got there just like getting any x-ray they jump in their car and go right back to work or to to the gym or the golf course. When did this become so automated with the robotic arm and stuff IMean when was the did you do this in your residency or were you do the one's manually doing that in residency? So I was in residency in the late 90s early 2000s so it was a very interesting time as we were at the cusp like my first year of residency and I was at UTMB in Galveston and we did a lot of it was a combined rotation with MD Anderson so we were at it time this is 1998 we're talking about where we run at the end of the old era we didn't even use CT planning we just had a couple of orthogonal films and we were literally drawing our tumor volumes out with a grease pencil on a physical x-ray and cutting and using that cut out to go trace a styrofoam negative and make a metal or a lid alloy block which you would slide this basically this aperture in the past the path of the beam that's the way it was done for decades and so we were still doing that when I started residency but by the end of residency we had full on CT planning we're now we're doing a full CT scan doing everything virtually and of course it's far more precise and you can model basically you can model multiple different iterations okay do I want to be in coming in from this angle do I want to bring in an orthogonal beam from here do I want to block out a little bit more of the chest wall to get the heart dose down I can see all that stuff now so by the time I finished residency we were basically doing what we do now I'll be with much slower computers and you know just being in the infancy of that it was probably more like 20 to 30 minutes per patient but the last 15 years roughly to answer your question things have been much more automated and instead of having lead blocks that you're sliding into the path of the beam now everything is shaped in the head of the beam by our computer so you hit a button and when I've already programmed the the the treatment planning values the machine knows how to shape the beam to match the aperture of whatever you're trying to do so that's all fully automatic now so the therapist job we have a radiation therapy so it actually positions the patient in the room they get them in position they take a picture x-ray first either a cone beam CT which is a low-dose CT or just a PA in a lateral film and we actually overlay that with our planning imaging to make sure that the original reference from the planning day matches today's image and the beams the the machines will actually superimpose the daily image with the reference image so everything is automatic I can see okay we directly on if everything lines up correctly then we literally have two images that look identical I just see one image which would but slightly off if there's even a few millimeters this way or that way we account for that by moving the table the table is motorized so the patient will be laying there and they'll feel it moved just a few millimeters this way that way until we have perfect concordance between the daily setup and the original and that way that's really really improved our accuracy and the original miss the geographic miss which was a problem in the old days when we didn't have digital imaging and all this stuff is essentially gone now the actual radiation beam is generated by what the ion is generated by what right so that's another thing that has changed now essentially when I say now the last basically 30 years most machines in the US are linear accelerators so these are artificially generated x-rays it's essentially accelerating electrons through a long vacuum tube you know potential electron gun and at the very end of the tube you've got a tungsten target and so the photon the electrons hammer that target and then they shower photons out so you're generating the x-rays that way and this has been done actually I think you're all the modern Stanford had the very first one in the US the medical linear accelerator but prior to that they were using these for atom smasher and you know they have the the gigantic machines they're used for physics but they started in London I think in 53 and then I think in the late 50s Henry Kaplan it's Stanford had the first one but so we're essentially still doing that even today on what 70 years later but the key difference is how we're able to shape those photons once they come out of the machine now and so when the actual photons are coming out they're completely unfiltered it comes out in a cone shape and it diverges as just as any light source wood you know how when you you hold the flashlight to a wall you get a nice precise circle as you pull the flashlight away it diverges so we have filters and we have what's called the multi-leaf columnator that can actually shape the beam as IMentioned earlier that can actually match the anatomy of the patient but now that's all done automatically we program it ahead of time as opposed to the old days we had to use lead blocks that were actually physically blocking the beam but basically the linac has been the standard prior to that we were using a cobalt 60 machine which is essentially it's not even a machine it's basically just exposing a patient to a radio active isotope and then shutting the jaws again so that's how they actually those are still in use in most of the world there's a few left in the US but they've mostly been decommissioned now because the linac have taken over when you say that typical treatment might be 15 gray over the course of the three weeks fractionated over 15 treatments so it's actually about 14 grams or so roughly you know 2.5 2.6 gray per day and you write and times 15 treatments are you getting roughly 40 gray to the breast and then we usually actually do a boost so we'll give what we call a tumor bed boost we give a little extra dose to just the lump itself or their lumpectomy cavity itself and there's a couple of French trials that showed that adding an extra 10 gray over an extra five days or two gray times five just to the lumpectomy cavity itself improves local control over just whole breast. Okay I actually what I was going to ask you was asking I was going to ask if the 40 gray is distributed completely uniformly across the breast the answer is no it is but it is you have that extra boost which is a customization based on the patient's pathology I occasionally have a patient that the breast surgeon will call me and say hey you know sunjay we did our best but we had a persistent positive margin I went back to the re-resection and there's still a positive margin maybe the positive margin is at the chest wall where there's only if they can only go so far in that case I instead of giving a 10 gray boost IMight give a 16 gray boost or something to account for instead of just treating microscopic disease potentially macroscopic residual in that sort of situation so every patient's a little different and then the axillary nodes themselves are normally not treated in an early stage patient but depending on the risk factors if it's a very large tumor or if there was a positive central note maybe an incomplete axillary dissection then in many cases we end up treating the full axilla and in in some cases when it's advanced disease we end treating level two and level three so you end up getting the super clav as well if we go back in time to 25 years ago 30 years ago versus today what are the typical side effects that a woman experiences from this trick treatment and by the way was she typically getting 40 gray 25 years ago or was that a little more I think you said and now they've come down a bit it was sort of 50 60 gray back and so a little that this brings up a point I need to kind of emphasize it's not so much the total dose it's the dose per fraction so how quickly are you getting it so the standard of care was actually 50 gray rather than today's 40 ish gray but it was used to be given in two gray per fraction daily dose is rather than the 2.6 2.7 that we're using now so the effective dose when you take into account there's a whole radiobiology lecture that we're not going to bore people with but taking into account the dose per fraction and the total dose the biologically equivalent dose with the BED is roughly the same now at 39.9 gray given in in 15 treatments versus the old 50.4 gray that was given in say 25 to 28 treatments so it was a longer process your career right and we still do that in some cases and this comes back to another question you asked about about the homogeneity of the dose and so our goal of course is to have 100% coverage of the whole breast but the reality is one of the way that photons are going to be interacting from different beam angles and whatnot you're always left with hotspots and cold spots and so the biggest difference between what we're doing now versus the old days wasn't so much the total dose it was the actual homogeneity that you touched on so the heterogeneous heterogeneous old way of doing things with a cobalt machine or with a low energy x-ray unfortunately meant that there were hotspots and cold spots in the breast and that of course could either be manifested as scar tissue if it's a hotspot or heaven forbid a geographic recurrence if there was an area that was underdosed so with the modern computer planning we were much more homogenous so even though you may say I got 50 gray back in 1995 and now I'm getting 40 gray you're now getting 40 gray and two and a half gray fractions which is equivalent to the old 50 plus we don't have a 150% hotspot and a 60% cold spot we have a nice 100% match all the way across and that's all it's like a CAD cam type of thing I'm about as close to an engineer as an MD can be and so we do actually simulate the dose of the dose distribution of the radiation in the tissue and so with a nice tip of modern days we get a nice homogenous dose and therefore that goes to your next question which was what is the patient experience maybe not so much 20 years ago but more like 30 40 years ago with the older cobalt machines they would get a terrible dermatitis like many times it was moist descohamation confluently over the whole course of the whole chest wall axillary descohamation is always bad because of the friction of the arm but with the modern treatment now with the first first one not using cobalt using linear accelerators the energy of the photons is higher which means the skin dose is slightly lower so you're getting maybe 100% on the skin rather than 150% like you once did so we don't see anywhere near the skin reaction that we used to it's more of a you know maybe a grade one or a grade two air theme so mild redness or maybe sometimes a little bit of you know like it's a sunburn but nothing is severe as we used to so these days patients do still get a sunburn we give them a little some free samples of aquifer or they can use an aloe vera plant if they have it just you know your normal type of skin care stuff as opposed to the old days when we were actually treating essentially burn victims with silver self-adysine and heavy duty narcotics and things like that the modern air it is so much better than a lot of the patients especially if it's someone that doesn't have a very large breast there's less energy being put into a smaller size person they don't get anywhere near the skin reaction and that's why if you did have a very large patient we actually still use the old 50 gray in 25 because you're giving less dose per day and you do have a very large breast where you're going to have areas that are going to have hot and cold spots sometimes that's still needed so we have to tailor it to the individuals as I guess my bottom line there. Did anybody ever look at the when you had the very disparate hot and cold spots and follow women for recurrence and yes was there any association between the cold spots and recurrence so there certainly is and so the problem was is that the cold in the old days you didn't have computer modeling so and actually the old school physicists got to give your hats off to those guys and had slide rules and probably abacuses or whatever the heck they had back then you couldn't really you couldn't really tell exactly where the hot and cold spots were my might actually having a computer show you you had to go based on the fact that you use what energy you choose a photon energy and you know what the dose distribution had various depths is and so you would try to minimize that by again having beams coming in from different angles and then by using multiple angles and multiple fields you could paint in the dose as best as you could but yes certainly there were issues where as you get deeper in the tissue the dose would be lower and then yeah this is again before my time but there certainly were were studies showing that there were geographic misses and there was that was obviously not good which would sometimes lead to like a salvage mastectomy or something like that but in the modern era not so much what is the impact of breast implants in this type of treatment either saline implants or the older actually they're not older now they're back in the back in the world yeah of course so it's going to either way what we can tell the photons that the x-rays we use they are not at all affected by that that's essentially tissue equivalent and I'm pardoned by ignorance I completely forget are those implants typically under the pack or between the pack and the breast so we see both you know it's interesting how there's I guess some what's the current standard I'm not sure but the car I think most of them we see are actually under the muscle that's I don't know I've actually seen so we can easily suddenly pack but I've seen them both even I've even even now the plastic surgeons have different criteria for that but regardless of what it is our whole if it's under the pack then of course it's really a little farther away it's not a huge issue but we still the radiation will still affect that area but typically these these implants are pretty pretty tolerant of that the only issue down the road is they may have a capsule or contracture or something from fibrosis the bigger challenge we run into is for our post mastectomy patients who are going to be reconstructed and they have expanders put in and that's where the relationship between the radiation oncologist the surgeon and the plastic surgeon is key you explain to folks what expanders are that works surgically so essentially what's happening is when you have a full mastectomy if a patient wants to have their breast reconstructed later on the the surgeon the breast surgeon will remove the breast but then the plastic surgeon will come in and place some sort of a placeholder to allow the the soft tissue of the connective tissue and the and the skin to stretch to allow for future implant placement and so those tissue expander typically they can actually inject saline into them with a port and gradually stretch them with time and so that's normally what they would do if there was no radiation involved but if it's a patient and again most mastectomy patients really don't need radiation because this gets away from what we mentioned earlier were breast conservation is lump back to me only but there are some patients with a full mastectomy who are going to get reconstructed so they come to me when I do their CT scan they have this expander in place from the breast surgeon so we have to again modulate the beams and we treat the entire chest while we make sure we're covering everything but simultaneously we have to make sure that we don't have those hot spots in the area of the expander where potential you could cause scarring and fibrosis and cause the the expander to have to be removed have the plastic surgeon have to revise it that becomes a whole other it will be in there that we don't like to mess with but we have techniques not to be able to keep the dose off of them and again as you mentioned earlier whether it's silicone or or saline it's roughly the same density but some of these tissue expanders have bits of metal in them they may have other artifacts and so when I'm treating with photons with x-rays depending on what you're hitting the effect is based on the density the atomic number of that tissue so metal behaves very differently from bone behaves differently from air but when you're in the spectrum of saline tissue water it's all basically the same we can model all that very much like I'm getting ahead of myself but very much like when we have a prostate patient with a prosthetic hip a piece of metal right next door we're able to compensate for that with the modern computer treatment planning systems do women experience any systemic symptoms from radiation like nausea vomiting or is that the only time we see radiation patients who have nausea vomiting it's typically a lot of times for other sites they may get concurrent chemo radiation with a chemo could be responsible but for for breasts we don't do concurrent usually sequential the only time I really see radiation induced nausea if I'm treating an esophagus or a pancreas or something that's in the it's treating in the abdomen or somewhere along the GI tract where nausea is more of an issue typically not for breast okay let's talk about prostate which is obviously also the sort of the bread and butter of the field so first off which patients are typically being radiated and so that the answer to that has been evolving there was a time as recently as probably 20 years ago where we only treated patients who were probably medically and operable that the herologist would say hey you know this is a high risk anesthesia patient let's send them to Dr. Mata for radiation and that's a big reason why a lot of the older data was not as good for radiation because of the patient selection criteria but in the modern era as we've gotten more and more precise and our side effects have gone down and our cure rates have gone up now it's pretty much wide open we're pretty much anybody who's eligible for surgery would also be eligible for radiation so there's not that big of a divergence as their once was so I know see you've gotten to know Ted Shafer who's not only going to get a cast but is equally let's just say interested in cars so you me and Ted have a lovely little text thread about cars he and IMay have another text so in case our team's meet in the playoffs as well he's a big Ravens fan so I'm from Houston so yeah I'm hoping we get there so let's talk about kind of a patient that comes in to see Ted for a biopsy they've got a Gleason 3 plus 4 and then another patient who's a Gleason 4 plus 4 or 4 plus 5 or something like that right how does that patient navigate their way through the system as to whether or not they need radiation or should then they go surgery and does androgen deprivation therapy necessarily come with radiation or is there a scenario where you undergo radiation but you don't require endrogen deprivation sure so to answer your last question first androgen deprivation for high risk disease is certainly standard of care Gleason 8 or higher for sure the Gleason 7s are always a sort of a gray zone and so a 4 plus 3 with high volume disease typically also do get concurrent and adjuvant androgen suppression along with radiation but one of the things that's really changing now is I know Ted talked a lot about it's with a decipher score where they can look at the chromosomes of the actual cancer cells and have a much more granular view of exactly are they truly high risk or can you die can you maybe say that this one 3 plus 4 is more like a 3 plus 3 so we can set for a lot of the 3 plus 4 is now with the decipher test and there's also an AI test I knew you had a really interesting discussion with your AI expert and that wasn't too long ago called Artera and we're using that that's actually in the NCCN guidelines now so that Artera test can help us differentiate between a unfavorable and a favorable intermediate risk patient and essentially actually I treated my own father not too long ago he was the first person I did this on the Artera test is essentially they just use the actual images of the H&E slides that were already done for the pathologist and it's interpreted by a machine machine learning computer that has been trened on hundreds of thousands of prostate images from the old RTOG studies the 94's all the all the stuff that was done back in the 90's and it cannot come back and say okay very much like decipher it can say that this is a 3 plus 4 but it's a favorable or an unfavorable person and that's in that subgroup and so because of that we can stratify better and actually tailor it to where maybe a 3 plus 4 doesn't need energy and ablation at all and maybe even some 4 plus 3 so they come back low enough on the scale where you could maybe you also have to talk about the side effects and whatnot but the standard of care was always to give concurrent energy and ablation for intermediate risk but now we're able to really take some of those people out of the equation with these new studies and is the main selling point because most patients just want things taken out right I have cancer taken out so is the reason that a person might select radiation therapy especially if it comes with the endogen deprivation therapy because of the sexual function and you're in every like what's the main advantage those are number one and number two yeah lack of incontinence and lack of impotence but of course when you have an origin ablation that sort of clouds things a little bit but typically the number one thing we see is patients who don't want to deal with diapers and for the most part although incontinence is still described to some degree in the literature and my personal experience I don't think I've seen a single patient who came in continent who left with anything less than that there's no pads there's no nothing and then of course also being you know with our as I talked about with breast cancer we can also focus very precisely on the prostate itself so the dose to the pinile bulb the dose to the rectum the dose to the the the bladder are so low now that the side effect profile is essentially zero from a radiation standpoint and they may be having hot flashes from the antigen deprivation and decreased libido and fatigue as you know but on the radiation side because we have all these tricks now very much like with breast a way we can avoid the heart and the lungs in the case of the prostate we can almost completely avoid the bladder and the rectum and even the the pinile bulb now so thEQuality of life those are the reasons why people tend to choose radiation and I know we've talked about this before you're just not seeing the proctatitis yes almost none in fact now I know I think a Ted and mentioned in his last talk there's a there's a jail spaceer that that is often inserted it's an injection that's done trensparently and it separates the the rectum from the from the bladder but in my years of doing this when you're very diligent about how you do this very much like a you know like a surgeon pays attention to the detail so do we I can actually trim the dose off of the posterior prostate and just makes make sure the dose fall off between the posterior prostate and the anterior recto wall is so rapid that the anterior recto wall is always going to get some dose but usually it's not clinically significant and and what we do to to manifest to make sure that that is is a daily thing because we're talking about treating patients from multiple weeks we actually coach the patient to come in with a full bladder and an empty bowel and by being diligent about that an imaging daily to double check that in fact the bowel is emptying the bladder is full that it that allows those two organs to separate from the prostate and even a few millimeters of separation is all we need to take advantage of our modern focused radiation beams and does the patient need to be coached to time their breath or anything as the beam is at that most delicate edge of the rectum great question so not not so much for pelvic patients but we do that for breast cancer especially left-sided breasts so just to go back to that you actually have a deep breath hold which will get the chest wall away from the heart so we do that in the case of thoracic tumors but in the pelvis that the diaphragmatic position doesn't really make any difference it's more about bladder and rectal filling and emptying respectively that's much more important everybody have talked to who's at lacych isurgery always says they're so worried that they're going to do something in a flinch and and and and the patients feel the same way when they're undergoing radiation like what if I just flinch my pelvis or you do something right now that's going to get too close and get that question all the time and from a lacych standpoint I would be worried about that's probably why I'm still wearing these coat bottles unfortunately but in the case of prostate cancer first of all the dose is given over the course of several minutes and then each of those fractions is again for you were talking about one fraction out of multiple weeks so even if someone absolutely had a coughing fit or something like that first of all we're watching them we can stop the being you can stop it at any given moment but slight variations day to day the biggest variations are going to be based on bladder and rectal filling we take that into account when we're doing the treatment planning so there should really be no adverse outcome because what I actually do is I'll map out where the volume of the prostate is and we will actually purposely expand that volume and treat the full dose of radiation even a few millimeters outside of the prostate to make sure that there is any internal organ motion or anything like that that we take that into account but typically if someone's coughing or something that would just we can just hit the pause button and get them reset and ultimately it's not an issue. What about patients that are inoperable? First of all what leads to a patient being inoperable and how do they show up? So you know typically the urologists have already screened the patient because that everyone's first first exposure is going to be to what the urologist tells them and luckily in this day and age I'm lucky we have people much like Ted who are very open and who are very open to not just doing surgery but who actually look at the other options and present everything to the patient but typically a patient who maybe was medically anoperable will certainly come to me but even somebody who maybe is on the borderline who wants to watch the both sides of the token a general urologist will send them to a surgical specialist and to me and we'll go through all the pros and cons of everything and really what it comes down to to not to not to you know and belabor the point it comes out of two things you want you want to be cured curate is key but quality of life is equally important if not more important for most people and so now that cure rates with our modern focused radiation allowed to get such a high dose into the prostate we can say that they're essentially equivalent to surgery so we don't have that deficit like we did 20 years ago when our fields weren't as precise it was sort of the shotgun approach versus our you know sniper approach now because the cure rates are better and it really comes down to thEQuality of life changes and that's where there's a spectrum of things now is this an apples to apples comparison because the patient who undergoes the robotic prostate to me today does not go on hydrogen deprivation therapy right they get to walk around in fact you've probably heard Ted on the podcast he says we'll give those patients TRT if they're hypogonatol right um why does the patient after radiation therapy still need to be endraging deprived if in theory the radiation is as effective as the surgery and that's that that comes to a key point where you have less surgical side effects you don't have it's it's trading one thing for another you don't have the incontinence you don't have the at least the short term risk of impotence like there is from surgery you don't have the you know the pinile shortening or whatever other sort of things that they have to deal with but you have to deal with hot flashes and the decrease libido and whatnot but again most of the patients who are intermediate or high intermediate risk are going to if they if they end up not having a negative margin or seminal vascular invasion after prostatech me they're still going to come to me for radiation anyway and they're still going to need to be on antigen ablation so there's a significant number now these days we'd certainly treat a lot less gleece and six and we used to we observe most of them yep but there's a lot of gleece and six folks that even in this day and age will choose to have radiation just because it's maybe a little bit more aggressive form of watchful waiting and in that case there is no antigen ablation and they just you know they just they live through the process of gleece and three plus three watchful waiting versus XRT no ablation now unfortunately there's no actual trial there's this observational studies that's that's kind of what we're dealing with oh gosh but obviously you can't figure out what the biases are but what do those observational studies show they show you know essentially because people don't die from gleece and sixties as we all know they really do becausEQuality of life they do so with the radiation there is just less of a chance of it for instance to with three plus four and and when they come to me to be seen I'll I get a like it's it's interesting the different patient populations I also get people this is not mainstream but I get a lot of trensplant candidates who need a renal trensplant and they cannot get their trensplant unless they're they're cancer free even if it's like even if it's one core of a gleece and six they're ineligible for their trensplant so those guys I will certainly treat but I've been following them now for 20 plus years that we've been doing it they quality of life they do so well and this way they don't have to worry about antigen ablation when they do become a gleece and seven yeah so it's really interesting there would be a very interesting and elegant study taking let's call it medium to high risk three plus threes so people based on family history or some other phenomenon genetic or otherwise you randomize them to watchful waiting versus radiate them without antigen deprivation and you're really looking IMean you have to do this is a very long term study so thEQuestion is outcome number one could be conversion to three plus seven requiring surgery or antigen deprivation therapy and then of course outcome two the very long term outcome would be overall survive that's right and that's the key that's why these haven't been done he would need decades to do a trial yeah so yeah definitely but it's certainly what certainly would be interesting to see what it would show but the real world observational study show that all the gleece and six guys like I would say until maybe maybe a decade ago we did a lot of gleece and six patients they mostly were sent for radiation and they just because of the why were they sent well you know I guess the combination of different things people have different levels of tolerance for watchful waiting in the pre MRI days everyone had to have an annual biopsy and that alone is more anxiety invoking than really the radiation is not to mention we'd see fair number folks zero sepsis and you know complications from that so now in the MRI era we don't really see that any more but that was done very routinely and because the patients had so little proctitis and and cystitis especially in a gleece and six where not only am I not worried about pelvic lymph nodes I'm not even really worried about the seminal vesicles so my field is very small which really minimizes the side effects because the bladder a full bladder when it's when it's actually full it'll move superiorly and anteriorly where the doses is close to zero so most of these patients they just kind of laugh and say I'm coming from my daily my daily treatment and I'm you know right back to my normal life again so what in the absence of antigen deprivation radiation has become very simple for prostate patients now and again what fraction of gleece and sevens can do radiation without requiring antigen deprivation therapy that answer would have been zero probably five years ago you know it's recently but now with our terror and decipher it's probably I'd say a quarter of them don't need it if it's a three four with a load decipher lower terrorist score and again this is still in a evolving area where I don't think anyone has the exact answer but that's what most people are doing nowadays and even some four plus three is that have load decipherers are potentially candidates to avoid that and the biggest thing the biggest change in this has now been our ability to do PSMA PET scans to follow up because otherwise I think that the extra antigen therapy antigen deprivation was more of a sort of a band aid for not being able to see what's going on afterwards now if someone has a recurrence and we do a PSMA PET I got a guy that had treatment 20 years ago with radiation now he's rising PSA otherwise he'd just be stuck with ADT for years now I see we see a positive parloric lymph node on a PSMA PET I can just treat that area and you're doing that and very successfully there's no long-term data yet but it seems to be working really well similarly to how we would use a FDG pet to target a long-term in the past what about these patients that show up with two spine mats how effective is radiation there given that that's a favorite spot for prostate to you're talking about like an initial presentation with all the go metastatic disease okay we could talk about that or we could talk about post treatmenT3 years later so post treatmenT3 years later palliative radiation does work very very well it would be probably five treatments you can even do what they call SBRT which is stereotyactic body radiation may be in a single fraction and it definitely is very good it's we kind of joke about it just kind of spot well that spot and then of course it's not going to prevent something else from popping up elsewhere but that's extremely well tolerated and usually it'll stop the progression at that site so there are people who had high risk disease and to get back to what IMentioned earlier if they had a couple of spots like that at the time of initial diagnosis now it's been shown that you can treat the oligomedastatic disease if it's in the bone only at the same time as the primary lesion and the outcomes are actually not significantly worse if it's just limited disease and what is a more favorable presentation oligomedastatic to bone or oligomedastatic to parahortic bone for sure yeah you can have actually I had a guy walking to my office with a PSA of 1900 he looked just as good as you were me and I actually took him on a TV show I did many years ago is kind of an interesting story 1938 65 year old guy Mr. Macho had never been to a doctor in his life widow who decided that he was dating a younger woman now and she's like if you want to be with me you gotta go get checked out colonoscopy clear blood work all clear oh by the way your PSA's 1900 which means the lab made a mistake if you're IMean that's what I said so you would think except for his bone scan look like a Christmas tree this was in the pre-pet era but IMean he had disease and every bone is body with zero symptoms so this is an obvious and outlier situation but in that such situation you need lifelong androgen deprivation and chemotherapy you know usually at back then it was mostly tax all-based therapy we didn't have all the second generation androgen ablation drugs that we do now like in the ludumide but at that time when when we saw that you know he went and got chemo and got engine ablation when he came back to see me again fully functional guy perfect shape his PSA was down to 1.5 with just the systemic therapy and at that time the tumor board we presented him the decision was made to go ahead and treat his prostate as though he was a you know a denobo presentation because all the bone disease had had a result and he did great so he treated his prostate and how long did he live he still alive this has been I got an email from just about a year ago so I think he at least has about a year ago he was 12 years out still doing great with the zero side effects aside for me how he did have to be he's on androgen ablation for life so he's certainly going to have issues from that but overall still very functional how is this possible what what is what's the biology of that tumor that allows him to still be alive I don't think it's even necessarily just prostate I've even seen it in in breast cancer patients in that small subset where it's bone only disease with no visceral metastasis some folks can live for a very long time with bone only disease and I'm not sure what the answer to that is he's not an any debilitating fractures you would expect that at this point but no not not even one this guy's in his late 70s now he's in his yeah late 70s and has not fractured a thing and is still active the guy plays golf and hope he still has the young girlfriend I'm not sure about that but but other than that other than the hormonal aspects of it yeah it's amazing how I've seen many many people with four digit PSA's that we get him down at least any D for some window of time even if it's not that long four digit PSA yeah I think the highest I've seen is 7500 and that was not that was a person that ended up passing away but the the guy he was 1900 he I think a lot of it is a function of just like any other type of tumor he had all the other risk factors that were lined up he was young healthy no other comorbidities active you know you name it yeah well it's interesting I Ted has told me about some of the most terrifying cases are the exact opposite these guys that show up will be a low PSA with a very low PSA of 1.9 those are worse and for sure rampant metastatic design right right and that's the thing to get some of these really poorly differentiated cancer that no longer resemble their prostate presented or sells and they just they're very hard to monitor and a lot of them even don't even show up on a PSMA pet scan anything else you want to talk about on the oncology side of this as far as what what should people know as they're engaging with a radiation oncologist what questions should they be asking what you know it sounds like it's no different than surgery where there's clearly a difference between good surgeons and not so great surgeons there is presumably are people that take the kind of care you take and agonize over the details how can somebody find out if their radiation oncologist is kind of practicing in your philosophy you know it's it's difficult in terms of actual metrics very much like even for the surgeons like you know Ted has excellent outcomes but it's not like it's a published series you just have to commonly that the best surgeons often are treating the hardest cases so it's a handicap right handicap right so you know it really comes down to finding someone who's got got the experience and in my case because we do so much prostate I think I've done something close to in the modern era 7000 cases probably 10000 when you include the pre image guided radiation days someone who specializes in the area that the cancer is located so someone like me IMay be extremely experience in breast and prostate but maybe for a pediatric maligncy you're not going to come to me you're going to go somewhere or a CNS or something that's unusual you have to find the right tool for the job but you have to just interview your doctor I think there's anything specific to radiation that's really asking about talking with patients right I think being very open with them saying yeah exactly and so ideally maybe you come to someone who knows something like I get a lot of patients who aren't familiar with the field they'll have a patient they'll have a family member that's a nurse or a dentist or a veterinarian or whatever it is some of it has some medical background they can say okay let me ask the more specific questions and these days with with the internet you can do all kinds of research in terms of like when I'm when I'm talking about matching my my volume of the dose distribution to exactly conform to the tumor volume that's something that's very easy to talk about but IMean for an educated patient they can ask to see the actual computer simulation so what am I engineering patients for the engineer is probably having easier time they do my love for my engineering patients are really the only ones who do this and I'll be I usually pull out all the graphs I show them dose volume histograms with area under the curve for each organ and you can see okay the prostate dose I air into the curve is huge the dose of the blood and the rectum is super low you can actually quantify that but for a lay patient it's it's hard you know it's not that easy to do that you really got to go with I think a lot of you have to go with your gut too in terms of this guy's had a lot of experience and the initial consultation is where it all comes down I'll spend an hour with a patient and go through every little nuance of what couldn't happen and my main I think my main MO is to sort of overprepare them and have them be pleasantly surprised maybe when the side effects aren't as bad rather than the other way around and you just it's hard to find the right person but there's a lot of good doctors out there so let's spend a minute just on the the brain and because I guess I guess that's sort of a unique case I know it's not where you are but but I'm sure you still do a lot of it you do okay not as much as prostate and breast but yeah okay both primary and metastatic yeah so again because the brain is such a sink for meds you know hey it's a source of a lot of primaries but it's also where a lot of cancer spreads it's often a place where you can't operate either because the the tumor the met were the primary is too close to say the brain stem or something too vital so it's a radiation is a pretty common tool there so talk about the history of radiation in the brain and in the spectrum of everything from whole brain radiation to gamini and stereotactic and sorts of things in between sure thing so really the main differentiating factor for brain patients is whether it's primary or metastatic disease and although primary brain tumors are relatively common they are dwarfed by metastatic disease so the vast majority of what most radiation oncologists see when you're treating CNS is going to be usually lung especially small cell base brain metastatic disease and so in those situations the the tren used to be where everyone we get whole brain radiation but now with the advent of stereotactic radio surgery which is more focused precise radiation the newer data shows that you can actually just treat the area of metastatic disease as as a as a delineated R&MRI scan and not necessarily radiate the whole brain like we used to but for decades everyone got whole brain radiation and for the most part they did all right but the problem was you're looking at a patient population that maybe doesn't have that much of a life expectancy now that systemic therapy immunotherapy everything has gotten better especially in the case of lung patients they're living longer we we have evolved where we've been finding people that were previously radiated the brain we're having cognitive issues years down the road not for the short term they would tolerate it well but maybe they'd start to have more forgetfulness and inability to remember numbers and names and whatnot and so the modern this was from whole brain radiation and give me some doses so we're talking about 30 gray to the whole brain given in 10 fractions of three gray weeks that was a typical sort of a three gray times 10 was a sort of a standard thing and again this is a staggering amount of radians and that's what and when we consider that again it's to the brain so it's a different story just to be clear do you need to use way more radiation because that's what you're delivering to the brain so the this is this an example of where the seaver it's in the gray are very different because this skull is you have to get through the skull so no so the the only difference between seaver it's in gray and any patient is going to be whether we're talking about dose in tissue or coming out of the machine basically the dose in air versus dose in the patient the biggest thing with the brain tumors yes the bone certainly is going to attenuate more dose but what I'm talking about it's actually 30 gray into the brain itself the actual brain tissue and so the but does not mean you need much more than 30 gray coming out of the machine a little bit more the bone doesn't do that it's not like there were in a football helmet or something yeah the first on's can still pretty much go through everything it's not that's not middle so it'll still go through but the dose is a little higher and it gets to be like for example in a lung patient it's more of an issue when you have multiple different areas you got bone soft tissue and air in that situation you have to modulate the dose more but in the case of a whole brain it's been found of course that the hippocampal dose is very much related to their cognitive deficits down the road so now that we have iMRT which is a term I hadn't mentioned before but that's basically intensity modulated radiation therapy which is also the magic behind allowing us to treat a prostate without burning the blood on the rectum and the newest form of iMRT is called image guided radiation therapy so here you'll hear iGRT basically those two terms go together but by using iMRT it's kind of like an HD TV versus a 1960s black and white blurry set where we can treat with multiple small pixels and high definition so to speak so now when we do a whole brain if I have to do a whole brain from multiple metastases by using iMRT I can literally carve the dose out I can map out the hippocampus and carve the dose out of there so you see these two cold spots on the hippocampal and not and really have a very low dose or while still treating the remainder of the brain perankema or there are other parts of the brain that you carve out and protect that's the main one of course we are going to not necessarily completely carve out because when when you have multiple metastases really the whole intercranial spaces of risk you have to cover everything so believe it or not 30 gray sounds hidey which it is but for a glioblastoma we is 60 gray but granted that's not to the whole brain that'll be to the either fits it on resectable patient it'll be the primary mass and then we will give maybe 46 gray to the to the peri to a moral edema but then the rest of the brain is getting much less hopefully zero in many cases do we know what the survival difference is for an unreceptable glioblastoma within without radiation it's it's certainly worse but typically the one there's again multiple confounding factors there because someone who's unreceptable probably has other other negative issues as well if they they have you know a poor overall performance status they have neurologic deficits whatever the reason the surgeon can operate that makes it worse but yes even then in that situation you get probably you're again you're measuring survival in weeks to months but it's probably double with radiation then without but a lot of our GBMs though are resected hopefully fully resected in terms of a radi-elisradio graphic of post-op MRI not showing any enhancement if you have someone that's got a fully resected primary who's a younger patient with not a lot of neurological deficit they can live a couple of years actually why is this cancer unservivable yeah you know that's that's the that's the key question I know you and I are both rush fans Neil Peart was lost to the GBM as well and you know it's it's so many people that's taken away but I think it just has to do with the the invasiveness of the fingers of the tissue in terms of even when you think you've gotten the whole thing there's microscopic fingers that are always on the periphery and you can't just radiate it indiscriminate like you can't other parts of the body because you've got the brain there so you get there's there's always a a fine line you're walking between causing you know say for example the process of the brain versus letting the tumor recur and so that's really the number one issue we do have a new tool now and as far as radiation oncologists in terms of treating CNS2 which is called proton therapy that you've probably heard about there's several centers in the country now M.B. Anderson where I'm in Houston has a huge one but with protons you potentially can have the dose go into the brain to a certain depth and not exit out the other way like an x-ray what x-rays are like light goes right through you you may have a decreasing dose what's kind of like a bullet you got an exit wound going up with proton therapy this is one of the areas where proton shine because you can actually modulate what's called the brag peak of the physics of the protons to where it'll go with certain depth and not go out the other way so down the road hopefully we'll start to see improves survival it so far it really hasn't shown to be a huge improvement but there's less integral dose to the rest of the brain and especially important pediatric patients where you've got you know children with growing skull bones if you can avoid radiating the growing bone to cause a you know a deformity later on that's huge so proton therapy is one tool we have but I wish I had an answer for GBMs you know that'd be that's going to be a game changer whenever that does happen yeah I I find GBMs to be just such a frightening type of cancer and I do wonder if it's going to require some sort of injectable immunotherapy or something like that I just yeah it's you have to basically figure out a way to treat the brain systemically and that's right and but you you have to mechanically overcome the blood brain barrier and come up with some sort of systemic treatment right um okay so today how many patients are undergoing whole brain radiation? Whole brain radiation is probably to give you a number it's I don't know what the absolute number is but it's probably 10% of what it was 20 30 years ago the original studies out of Kentucky that patch will have done in neurosurgery everyone used to get whole brain radiation following either following a resection limit has this or even if it was unreceptable and there was some good data back then supporting that but nowadays rather than whole brain you're usually going to do a focus treatment just to a smaller area and this is kind of a you know a universal tren to less radiation dose to a smaller volume same thing in lymphoma you want to treat just the enlarged lymph node and not the entire lymphatic access so it's the same idea where you're trying to minimize side effects so whole brain we still use it as in specific cases like for example small cell lung cancer part of their Regiment is going to be once the primary has been treated if they have a complete response in the thorax prophylactic cranial radiation only really small cell PCI 20 gray five fractions been done forever shows an advantage they have lower lower lower how much is reduction in CNS it's a lot I think it's probably 70 80 percent reduction in interest in CNS failures because they all fail their otherwise that's small cell they just all do that and at 20 gray they really don't have too many side effects but again of course the caveat is always small cell you know extensive stage small cell lung patient isn't going to have a long term survival but at least they won't fail on the brain it's a quality of life issue and I'm sorry this is done with every small cell patient no matter how early it's caught if they have a complete response to primary treatment yes basically I remember maybe there's some nuances but for the most part yeah okay so what's a gammonife so gammonife is is instead of using a linear accelerator it's actually using cobalt 60 like I described earlier but you have multiple small sources that can actually be used very high resolution cobalt essentially so you're doing the same thing but instead of using a linear accelerator based treatment it's it's using cobalt so is that used anymore or is it still our centers that use it it still works very well for what it is but the focus is very narrow there's a lot of children's hospitals and all that I think we're still using it but the linear accelerator which I is a abbreviated linac the linac based stereotyactic radio surgery for the most part has sort of taken over from that because it can do all the same things and also have more flexibility to do more than just CNS same juice hospital has a fantastic PDC and S program and they still have well it's been a while now but they did have a gammonife last time so we've talked a lot about radiation we've touched a little bit on the idea of radio phobia but but maybe let's let's use that as a bridge to talking about using radiation to enhance tissue as opposed to eradicate a subset of tissue sure what does it does it stem from you know nuclear accidents is that largely where radio phobia comes from I've done a deep dive into this this year which goes along with all these benign cases that I'm treating now they're essentially arthritis tendonize which we'll talk about and what's really interesting is that this radio phobia is largely a U.S. based phenomena because the first cases first of our x-rays were discovered in 1895 by RENkin in 1898 there was the first case described of actually radiating both arthritis type things are anglicing spondilitis or other arthritis and also tumors even back then we had no idea how to work but the case is pre-1900 they were already being used for that and then in the subsequent now 120 plus years we have this divergence where germany and the UK are using and all of Europe really are using radiation routinely for arthritis in tendonitis but in the U.S it seems to be a basic there was a lot a lot of a nuclear phobia the cold war like you mentioned but another thing that's been talked about there's a guy named Jason Becht that has a really good podcast on the subject he's out of Vermont standard oil the Rockefeller's and I'll actually had a massive lobby group that were actually actively promoting oil over nuclear power plants and the the amount of spread went from just the energy interesting to the just the general zeitgeist of our entire country and so at that time the radio phobia just caught on and it was of course bolstered by World War II and seeing what happened in Hiroshima Nagasaki and then on top of that you had the you probably heard about the radium dial workers there was a movie in its section to call the radium girls these are essentially women in the 1920s that were using radio luminescent phosphorous paint to paint the watch the watch dials yeah being a watch guy you probably appreciate that but they litter that was the only source of elimination they had so in order to keep the brushes very fine they were literally dipping it in the radium paint and then after each brush they were licking the brush to keep the the tip real fine and so they were ingesting bits of of radium and so there were a number of cases where they ended up getting the the radium is metabolized like calcium so it was actually incorporating into the mandible and they were getting osteo-radio and a process of the jaw and things like that so all of these different phenomena kind of added together became a became a big deal because prior to that people were using the radiation for all kinds of crazy things it was in sun tan lotions and waters and there was something called the gorydeen that they were using for e-d that you could not topical saves that had radiation and there was literally no end to it and then when all this sequela started to come out that hey maybe this isn't such a good idea that's when things took off but now that we look back the reality of it is is that a lot of that was really overblown even so much so that those radium dial painters which we hear about this from day one in our residency trening there was only a small percentage I think 50 out of 1500 roughly that actually had toxic sequela so most of them didn't is there a way to quantify how much exposure they had to write that thing you know they'd named licked different ways but there there had been some basic ideas it was again we're talking about it was probably at that era probably a couple of milliseverts to that particular area but it was daily for decades and so part of the reason why they if you actually look at the numbers it was probably a super high exposure when you spread that out of such a long period of time that's sort of the general tren like IMentioned earlier it's not just the dose it's the dose over time it's you know the denominator matters a lot and so that's why most of them actually did very well they even used to use radium internal and the internal nasal applications in the 19 I guess 1920s to 1940s essentially a radiation equivalent of a ton select mad noidectomy and it was done in something like a half million to two million children in the US and even in the armed forces it was done routinely back then and there's been very few adverse sequela that were reported I don't even know what the dose was but it was high so there's a lot of cases where the exposure based on our 50 milliseverts we talked about would just make people follow their chair but the actual reality of it is is that many times the actual end results aren't as bad as we had expected again hearing you say this on jade the listeners are going to be thinking what yes because we're all so brainwashed into believing that radiation is horrible right right I can tell you so many stories I got patients who have had to treat I had actually had a guy who was involved in nuclear testing at the lowest alamos in the 1940s he's passed away now but I saw him in his 80s so this was in the early 2000s this was 60 years after that they had very little monitoring back then but he was close enough to feel the heat from a thermonuclear bomb and by the time I saw him he had had thyroid cancer as you would expect he'd had a one or two lymphomas I think I ended up treating his prostate so he'd had at leasT4 or five different malignancies but the guy was as functional as most 80 year olds are the guy was still walking and talking and doing just fine and it's actually seems that the when you look at the population studies that were done outside the blast at Hiroshima Nagasaki when you've got the initial concentration everyone dies from the thermonuclear energy but as you get several miles out not only are the cancer rates actually roughly the same as the background you actually see again evidence of her mesis where you have some patients in whom or maybe not her mesis but some sort of radio protection where you actually have lower rates of leukemia and thyroid cancer when you get a few miles farther out than you did in the general population so it's all very much dose dependent time dependent but I think the human body we were evolved really to handle this to a larger degree than we realized because again mammalian DNA we came from you know the background of all the animal kingdom where there was tons of exposure from natural cosmic rays and whatnot and then you know our our predecessors had to be able to survive our DNA had to be somewhat resilient in order to get to this point and I think it's more resilient than a lot of people give a credit for so this first came up maybe a year or two ago when when I was lamenting must have been two years ago I guess because I was kind of lamenting my Achilles tendon which wasn't I wouldn't say it was injured I just had a little bit of tendonitis it was just bugging me a little bit you and me both brother and I'm exactly what you mean and and so it was through that discussion that we got into what we're talking about now which seemed crazy you know I just decided I didn't feel like driving to Houston all the time to undergo therapy and my Achilles is fine now I just been sort of standard therapy but right I've sent a few patients to you who have had similar injuries both you know high hamstring tendonopathy's Achilles tendonopathy's so so talk a little bit about this idea sure how prevalent is this type of treatment in Europe who you know how prevalent is it here right so prior to probably 1970 maybe 1980 it was very prevalent even in the U.S. it was very widely done so this is kind of everyone that talked about it now it sounds like I'm doing something experimental and radical but if you go over to Germany again going back to Ankelosing Spondylitis papers in 1988 they've done they do something like I hair between 20 and 50,000 patients a year in Germany and there's tons of it's mostly observational studies it's very very few randomized trials but low dose radiation for tendonitis osteoarthritis plantar fasciitis all the itadies you can think of birthitis a low dose of radiation has a similar anti inflammatory effect to what you would get from a colonel to find the dose so now we're talking about very low dose meaning 50 centigrey or 50 rads given six times over two weeks so three gray 0.5 times six it's three gray to the affected joint and using a very low energy machine so this is especially in the case of someone who's got a hand you're talking about electron beam right so let me just make sure I got that straight you were giving 40 gray total to a breast a breast and now for the achilles you're giving how much six goT3 gray six fractions of half a gray each okay got it so all six fractions combined is about the dose of one fraction for a typical cancer got it that'll kind of give you the idea and giving it in a superficial fashion where especially if it's a hand you only have a couple of send it maybe a couple centimeters of thickness so we use what's called electron beam therapy the same linear accelerator when the electrons go and hit the tungsten target and make photons if you remove the tungsten target you just get direct electrons and electron energy can be modulated to where you can treat a superficial skin cancer you can treat a knuckle I can treat a temple squamous cell and not going to the brain so these superficial things and in the old days before they had linear accelerates I told you this goes back to the turn of the previous century they had ortho voltage machines and these basically created kilo voltage x rays not the mega voltage x rays we use now and all they could do was superficial stuff back then and that's where it works very well the dosage has changed tremendously but these days with the modern the biggest data comes out of Germany half a gray three times a week Monday once they fried it for two weeks just to the affected joint and it has an anti inflammatory effect very similar to either either a cortisol shot or an insect or how many weeks is the course two weeks that's a month and a week this Friday six treatments and the protocol is what we typically follow the German protocol is to wait 12 weeks and you usually see depending on the joint summer between a 60 and 80 percent success rate where the pain is if not zero at least markedly decreased and then after 12 weeks the German protocol allows for a retreatment and at that point you get up to 90 plus percent success in terms of reducing pain and this is for joint arthritis arthritis 10 to 90s bursitis plant our fascia this is a really big one now that we're doing a bunch of I've done probably clicked a 70 cases across the board which is a positive markup because anybody who's had it you know I had it once back in med school so about 25 years ago did you get it treated it was it just a not just all went to PT and rolled on golf balls and did the usual thing but it you know it took months to get better it's such a big deal so you're saying so of the patients that are coming to see you with plantar fasciaitis how many of these patients how long have they been hurting first of all many times for years and in fact my biggest cohort recently which is still relatively new haven't done thousands of patients like I can speak from decades of experience with cancer we're talking about you know dozens to hundreds a couple of surgeons that were having trouble standing and operating they literally couldn't you know couldn't perform their normal duties six treatments to the to the fascia and they're walking like nothing ever happened how long after the last treatment did it take for them to experience in the case of plantar fasciaitis was almost immediate like within within a week I have other cases especially when we do like knee arthritis if there's a lot more pathology going on in a knee I treated my own Achilles which I can tell you about took two months or so so it was almost almost almost wanting if you was going to work and not I was my own first patient before I offered anybody I treated my own treat. True doctor physician healed myself right and so I literally jumped on the table because of colleague of mine had posted about it that he did his he's a radiation I call just in Florida he tried it out and so I was like you know I have the machine I know this should work in theory we just never taught about it in residency and I look at all the German data there's tons of it's like why do we not do more of this and it's sure enough like I I'm actually my own personal case controls study because I did steroids and PRP and my left Achilles and then later on this past year did the right side with only radiation and no steroids and now I'm walking without a limp and you obviously did the other side mm-hmm no I actually didn't I didn't repeat because the PRP actually finally did because I had two cortisol shots and PRP in the left and then a year later radiated the right and so both of them are holding up pretty well so far got it the other area that is a huge interest for me at least is the very very high hamstring tendonopathy so that that is chill tuberosity pain very very common for runners she seems to be anecdotally much more common in women than men that's on pelvic and I've only treated women for some reason that and they've all had tremendous results yeah again so you're it's still the same protocol it's the three over six treatments over two weeks exactly for any type of an arthritis uh you're essentially lacing all the macrophages and all and you're saliminated that side of kind storm that would have normally resulted it's very similar to what cortisol does but the difference is it seems to be based on the study we've seen this much longer lasting than a cortisol shot not to mention the fact that you're not necessarily violating the capsule and causing other you know again the case of an Achilles tendon you run the risk of rupturing it with multiple injections so totally non-invasive you just get up on the table most of my patients go right back to whatever they were doing and many of them are actually quite athletic and they don't take any breaks during treatment they just do what they do they're still working out is there any literature looking at this for spine injuries uh not by injuries let me be clear what IMean right so when you think of all the times that people are getting spinal epidurals for irritation of spinal nerves herniated discs things of that nature is there any reason to believe this could have any efficacy there if indeed there's some efficacy which there clearly is due to spinal injections or epidural injections there there is some data for spinal osteoarthritis specifically it's less robust than all the extremities uh I've actually done a few cases and it's actually worked quite well we've even got you know essentially Medicare actually does reimbursed for these things the issue with the spine is it's such a multifactorial area where if you've got a nerve root compression or a disc issue I can't fix that part of it but there is limited data that I've seen out of Europe that did show some degree of relief but it's not the 80 to 90 percent that wEQuote for the extremities. It's interesting and do you think that's because of patient selection like if you if you knew you were dealing with a facet arthropathy that should in theory respond well it should and it does I've done a few of those SI joints seem to respond quite well and that's in the literature that's included so hips SI joint, lumbar spine those sorts of things they are described they're just not as routinely treated there's not as the level of experience that we do have what your ability to center the beam is remark you're using the same high fidelity equipment you're using the rat on so you can hit a p inside if you want to. You could but that's exactly what you don't want to do because you're basically trying to eliminate all the macrophages in the region so you're actually better off treating larger features. It's the exact opposite of what we do with cancer therapy and because the dose is so low you're not really gaining anything by being too cute with the small fields you actually want to treat the region it's like almost like an abscopal effect for the whole area. So when if you're treating somebody that comes to you and they've got an achilles tendonopathy usually there's a point of maximum tenderness but it usually hurts up and down the whole like lillies how do you position the beam and are you literally hitting from mid-caf down to heel from the insertion in the gap even treat up to the in my case part of the gap the inferior gastroch was painful too. Okay so I treat that entire region the field is probably about that long all the way down to the calcaneal insertion and even onto the a little bit of the plantar surface of the heel because again when you're talking about these super low doses of radiation there's like if it was a sarcomo that area I'd be treating a tiny lill area but over here we won't we want to treat the whole region and in the most of the most radiation oncologists we talk to their experience treating an extremity it's usually for a sarcomo so that's a whole different ballgame where you're giving 60 grade to someone who's had a sarcomo and they're in their leg or something and you have to worry about things like a deema you know essentially if you you can have lymphedema of the distal extremity if you radiate the whole the holes circumference of a leg or something like that but with these low doses it doesn't affect any of that so you do treat large fields so it'll be from the entire and it's from the insertion of the Achilles all the way down if it's a plantar fascia the entire plantar surface of the foot another thing that we see a lot which is not arthritis is the putrons contracture and also the foot equivalent which is leader hose disease I had to look that one out that was like a trivia question but it's essentially palmar plantar fibrosis and so radiation works well there as well very well document and that requires a higher dose though you're talking abouT3 gray perfect fraction five fraction and then you do it again after a few weeks so 1515 1515 almost a cancer yeah almost um palliative cancer not not a high dose but again that's for fibrosis keyloids it works very well get teenagers with the big old golf balls hanging off their ear after getting their ear pierced and things like that and so again you're treating the fibroblast in that case you use four gray times three treatments of 12 gray relatively large dose per fraction you can totally protect the brain totally 100% yeah and just tell I've seen obviously patients with debilitating kiloids what does it look like after the treatment so the treatment has to be adjuvant after a surgical resection if you just radiate an intact kiloid it's not going anywhere okay because you don't have the DNA mechanisms of you know a week cancer so that can be wiped out so kind of like doing a good on pregnancy but obviously if the surgeon just did the resection the kiloids coming right that fibroblast go crazy and they roar right back so in order to do it right a lot of people do and they have multiple recurrent to rate treatment I've killed as even after treatment you have to do the first treatment the same day of surgery so you just not letting those fibroblast get a chance to have any sort of a foothold so I literally arrange it with the dermatologist to do the resection send them straight to me so we get the first dose in that day and ultimately the cosmetic outcome is as good as if they didn't have radiation that you'll see the scar wherever it is we get sometimes kids that have had acne scars all over their chest that have these bumps everywhere and they're all reseected flat and you're radiating them they just stay flat you don't see any sort of dermatitis from radiation I think what's amazing to me is I I just think there's so many people that don't know this right I think there's too many people that are walking around sort of suffering right from something that's cosmetically upsetting like a huge kilo aid especially on a visible part of their body right obviously the people everybody listening can relate to some nagging injury 10 SLB golfers elbow a killies 10 to an opathy hamstring 10 to an opathy these things nag for years at times yeah I think they the data was showing some like one in seven people in the country are afflicted and the the socio economic costs are massive and there's also you know going to your wholEQuality of life and longevity bias IMean we're talking about something that can really affect someone's ability to exercise at all and it can lead to exacerbation of other medical problems so it's a huge problem you know I'm very encouraged to hear you say a second ago that medicare is covering some of these things and private insurance too yes for the most part now a lot of times because it's relatively new I'll have to get on there and do appear to peer with the company but I've had no rejections at all even for the spinal ones which are little bit there's less robust data but I've gotten everybody covered so I think thEQuestion is do we need more radiation oncologists right because how are you making room in your practice to treat these patients when your cancer patients are probably ringing you off the hook as well and that's a big reason why it hasn't caught on I think there's a component of just you know when you've got eight hours or 12 hours a day that the linear accelerator can run we're busy with that but one of the things is that because not unless it's a deep hip or something for most of the superficial for all the other joints you can use one of those old style ortho voltage machines that IMentioned earlier like what they use in Europe they still sell those here there's a company called extra all that still makes them and they're perfectly acceptable for all the joint stuff except for the very deep ones like maybe an SI or hip joint but you could have a you know a small center set up and those types of machines don't even require the shielding because the energy of the photons is very very low so yeah this is something that could be it's highly underutilized at this point in the and the Europeans have shown us the way it clearly works and America just has to catch up yeah this is definitely an area where we are way far behind but it's truly exciting IMean I love treating cancer patients it's really personally very rewarding to tell someone that they're any de- there's no evidence of cancer and they're body anymore they're PSA's low or where their mammograms look good it's it's that's what's kept me going this long but the amount of immediate relief we're seeing from from all these inflammatory conditions right away it's like it's a night and day patients come in one day they can't grip a dornab or lift a gallon of milk out of their fridge and after six treatments they can't and they're just they think you hung the moon it's an amazing thing yeah I really I'm hopeful that people listening to this so if there's a million people listening to us have this discussion and you know one in seven of them let's just say one in ten of them at some point in the next couple of years they're going to experience the type of injury that would benefit from this how can they go about finding you they can't all come to Houston to see you I'm trying to get you to move to Austin but regardless of where you end up yes they can't all come and see you so where oh that's you already said the answer I'm just going to move to Austin we're just going to do this full time and drive cars in the on the weekends no but seriously it's there's a uphill battle because as I've been going out and trying to get the medical community in Houston aware but you have a lot of pushback because number one you've got orthopedic surgeons podiatrist hand surgeons who are looking at this like number one what are you doing what are you talking are you they look at me like I'm crazy and number two is like even if this actually works the concern is with someone's got maybe a knee arthritis has been nagging them and maybe they're going to need a total knee at some point their concern is wait a minute is is this taking surgery off the table they have all the which it's not by the way it's such a low dose there's been plenty of cases of surgery after the radiation it's not an issue or you're taking away from like when you had your plantar fashion as I'm sure the podiatrist build something from when they do those extra corporeal shock treatments and steroids and whatever it's it's a different paradigm that would potentially be taking away that these a lot of paid a lot of doctors are very negative about it most of them that this one are very negative but I think that tight is going to turn just like anything else it's just going to take a lot of education a lot of time a lot of well I think the end of the day look I don't think patience will have any patience for turf wars yes right so if I'm a patient every doctor needs to be a fiduciary they need to put my interest have their interest and what's interesting is that I think you can have your cake and eat it too and the reason I say that is many times this is an adjuvant for other things so if you've got a podiatrist that's doing all these PRP's and other things I'm actually looking at starting a protocol I just treated a nurse in Houston who's who's a NP who does stem cells off label but she does them routinely has a quite a big practice we're going to look at maybe you can do radiation with adjuvant stem cell treatment there's I think a lot of reasons because it's such a low dose this may be the sort of combined modality thing down the road that we haven't really approach where there may be options to do other things still but again the fact that medicare to improve something is a huge bar right so how are you getting medicare to improve this are they are basically acknowledging that well hey if everywhere else if Europe's been doing this for a hundred years and it's working like what's that sort of looks like when you you know I've got the c61 which is the icd code for prostate cancer which is in most of my patients we got the australarthritis codes now they just go right through typically without any sort of problem some of the private insurance is you have to get an appear to appear call but when I all I literally will do is quote them a couple of the German studies unfortunately we got a little bit of a setback because historic is only two randomized clinical trisers both heavily underpowered poorly run studies just not well done so that's been a little bit of a setback but and the randomized data may never come just because of the nature of this sort of thing but having said that that's not the obstacle anymore we got as if it's really just public awareness and like you said once you get it just like a guy that doesn't want a radical prostitute to me and wants radiation therapy for his prostate he's got to be his own advocate and the data is out there the information is out there I've actually held there's a couple of big Facebook groups and one is only the putrons patients and they literally will post up that got this big nodule what do I do my surgeon wants to cut on me and so there's actually a whole whole network now so there's a lot more of that education going on they've got big PDF files of doctors all over the US that will do deputions radiation so deputions is a little bit more commonly accepted but as I'm slowly talking these folks they're going to sort of you know migrating to their arthritis space as well so I think it'll come and the patient the general public has nothing but great positive outcomes from this IMean and do we we have a sense of the durability of this so for example I have a little bit of osteoarthritis at my AC joint right right it's it barely bothers me but everyone's in a while if I'm doing something really violent overhead you know reaching for something or I play a ton of football with my son it'll bug me for like three weeks I'll take a little bit of ad bill it's fine right if I did a treatment there would it be done or am I doing this treatment annually how it works and that's there's a lot of variability that depending on what the actual anatomy that's causing it if there's you know if it's literally just a straight up osteoarthritis case with no physical structural issue I've seen cases I've now again I've only been doing this about a year so I don't have the 25 years of experience I do with cancer but I've talked to there's there's a couple of doctors who do this routinely they've been doing it for 20 years in LA one of them treated his own neck shoulder and spine he's 15 I think he's at 15 years out anecdotal obviously but never had to retreat himself typically the German studies allow for to treat me to retreatments because the dose is so low radiobiologically I don't see any reason why you couldn't do it I don't know about annually but you know maybe every few years something like that but there seems to be a fair bit of data that a lot of patients who don't have other struck like a like a knee that's bone on bone it might only last a month or a man I even work but for the other ones like the hands and all it seems like it's certainly longer lasting than any sort of cortisol shot but I think months are very reasonable and probably years for most people now what about non osteoarthritis like a room a room a room a tight arthritis is like that is there any reason to believe that this could help with sort of the debilitating injuries that those patients so I've done three cases of room a tight arthritis and one guy that had a gaudy arthritis as well because again it's a systemic disease I'm not going to pretend to be able to cure that with a local treatment but to a single knuckle that's driving them nuts it's still in an inflammatory process and yes it works great for that so I've done that so if a patient has room a tight arthritis where they're really experiencing a lot of deformation in the hands yes you you think you can help that that patient with with the local part of it yes it won't reduce the deformation necessarily a lot of that is you know long standing and if they've got we're treated early enough in the course of disease I think it that there's no strong data to support them but I don't see why it wouldn't work personally and it definitely from a purely palliative standpoint just to reduce pain it does work you just have to you've to manage their expectations what are some other examples of where this could be used in your at least in your experience so far in terms of reducing reliance on and said or opioids or other things like that uh tennis elbows become a big one doing several of those and how much do you how far down the arm do you aerate it I would I'd base it on where the patient might out if they palpate if they're getting pained down into the break your radials and if it's if it's sort of radiating further down I'll treat a larger field because again there's no reason not to bigger fields are better no need to be again it's just six great jusT3 greaT3 great so and again that's three great locally and it's in it's two an area where there's no vital organs nearby the total body dose is negligible it's like it's like getting a cat scan initially for the rest of the body so I would treat definitely the joint capsule a little bit of the distal humorous and the and the proximal radius and whatever else but if it's hurting larger I'll just treat a larger field and in that case we use a posed lateral beam so the patient will just lay there the beam will come in from one side and rotate around from the other side and we treat them well because that way we get the same type of homogenous dose we do with our cancer patients but if it was if it was more disillivism or it's like we've actually done several piano players that have dequire veins tend to survive this in their wrist and because when you're stretching to play those notes all my music I'm a musician as well all my my musician friends are coming to me and the the wrist pain is going away and that actually again very quickly my biggest patient cohort so far are our former patients because they don't have radiophobia they're like I've been through 80 grade my prostate this is a joke and I'm bringing my wife with me and half the times the wives sit there for their daily treatment anyway they start chatting in the lobby so we do the wives hand the same time we do in the husband's prostate and for the most part the hands the wrist the elbows it's very rapid in the case of the tendonitis like my killies it was a couple of months but that's not outside of the window of what we've been conditioned to expect from all the German studies so it can be not as immediate of a ever-releaf as a steroid shot but it does seem to be more durable yeah we failed to mention at the outset that you're also a remarkable musician about that how much do you still play the drums I try to play with I got a couple of actually a couple of doctor buddies we get together in jam every every week or two and one of them is actually a guy who's actually got his own YouTube channel and Spotify and he was actually professional musician before becoming a cardiologist so we may actually start touring again but back in the day we had a full full doctor band a full 70s rock cover band called ultrasound so there's a good old days we used to play you know journey in rush and and led Zeppelin all day long so yeah was commenting recently on a podcast how much I regret not seeing rush during their last tour yeah yeah again because of a GBM tied back into what we're doing here needle needle was it was a it was a genius so greatest drummer of all time are you going with bottom neither because after coming I went to what to college here at UT and that opened my world open my entire eyes up to the world of jazz and so the jazz drummers can all drum circles around those guys in terms of pure technical ability but yeah feel rhythm not necessarily being able to to wow people the way the jazz guys can but yeah probably kneel in bottom are both right up there on the rocks you put them at the top of the rock list I would put kneel first I'm just partial to rush and a lot of that has to do with their music not necessarily and then kneel was obviously an innovator but as a 16 year old I'm sitting there trying to imitate every single note on his drum solo so if everything like that so kneel number one but bottom and the and there's playing and then the new generation rock guys are incredible the guys that grew up with kneel as an inspiration now you've got you know 12 year olds who can do this stuff and they're sleep and then all these math metal bands you got you know dream theater and you've got things like animals as leaders some of these guys are doing things I pride myself as a drumroll me able to analyze the music really well it's getting to the point where it's almost more math than music like it's so intricate the modulation of the time signatures and things like that it's it's actually getting beyond or even I'm having trouble understanding it now but these guys you appreciate it from an auditory perspective or is it is it does it get too technical where it's hard to appreciate and distinguish that's a fine line because when you think about it math music is just math with emotion added in and it gets to a point where some of it is not appreciable anyway at least not to me some of these guys love it but that's where the jazz side comes in where it's all about feel but even the jazz guys will be extremely you know talented in terms of their ability to to feel the beat and have it be pleasurable to the ear but they're doing such intricate things and you can balance those two things out that's that's heaven as far as I'm concerned when you can when you can have the emotional side and also have be technically challenging and not just playing a straightforward you know the straightforward stuff is great to you but it gets a little bit tedious sometimes so we met actually driving amg drift academy I think yeah yeah which by the way not to crap all over it but it was like I ended up doing it because of the last second I got a phone call from my driving convention he was like hey I'm doing this amg driving school and they got an extra spot in the advanced drift school you want to come right but I'd already been to you know the drift academy with my friend Josh Robinson yeah sure I'll go yeah and I was like what is this the last time I ever do one of these school josh this school is 100 times better compare like in close if you want to come and you want to learn how to drift you go to the Texas drift academy I want to go to Minnesota with a manila ice class are you going I'm just I'm just run I don't know if I'll be able to make it or not I'm trying to yeah so anyway we met and but it was totally random right like it was just well I knew who you were because I'm gonna remember I've been a follower for years I was like got speed or tea over there so we got paired up in the same group and that's kind of where it started was totally random I was actually just it was a last minute thing it was actually a level two so I was like you hadn't done the level one right right so I was like man how did this guy get any without even doing the level one but and so having done that I agree especially those cars with the automatic trensmissions in the turbo lag not the greatest for drifting you've been kind of a carnero your whole life and and what is it about cars that that has you as excited as you are you know I think whenever anybody asked me that I kind of think about it in terms of every three or four year old boys enamored by cars but normal people just grow out of it and some of us never do I and my dad certainly like cars he taught me how to change my oil and whatnot but he wasn't a fanatic like I am so it just kind of started there and then it got to point where like you know my parents will tell you the story about how I was like that was thaT4 year old who could tell you at a car driving by if it was an old mobile that had Cadillac hub caps on it like how the hell does this kid know this thing but I don't know where just kind of clicked and over the years it was always just a nice nice release and I guess being a mechanical he oriented type person I think if I didn't do medicine I would have done engineering which is why I said what did you study in college I was actually biology I did a BA with arts I did a lot of jazz studies at U.T. so IMusic guy engineering just seemed fascinating to me but I you know I was always interested in medicine from day one but I think that it's really the mechanical side of things like knowing the every every car's five gear ratios and what their torque converter lock up is and what their horsepower and torque is it's just you know and what posters of cars did you have on your wall the same as everybody actually know because everyone had a kuntosh right I never had a kuntosh IMean they're cool I would have like a calo a corvette Miami-Vice testarossa of 928 which I'm almost done with my old 928 getting it back on the road you know more the domestic stuff and the stuff is more attainable fox body mustangs the five leader mustangs of that era really cool C4 corvettes back in that era when they were state of the art IMean I loved watching night rioters so I thought Pontiac firebirds were super cool you know it's funny I just bought my youngest his first Lamborghini poster he's mostly got sports posters on his walls which is great but I was like you gotta have like a Lamborghini poster so let's go pick one out so we scroll you know edc for hours right and because I wanted to figure out what his taste was right that he want to go retro that he want like a kuntosh but in the end I think we went with the I can't even remember now actually we just ordered it I think we went with an oracan oracan I have a lot of guy yeah IMean ultimately was it was gonna be an eventador oracan but got the color right and get the angle right have you driven a kuntosh yet I've never driven a kuntosh have you it's I have it's one of those don't meet your heroes kind of things you know it's it's cool but it's kind of a POS too you know it's it's it's there was just the bar has moved a long way since then but you might even if you don't expect IMean you clearly don't expect it to perform like a modern car but but even if you judge it for what it was in the 80s would it is it's still not enjoyable it's enjoyable because of the 80s camping is in retro spec but even compared to its contemporaries you look at an 80s 928 Porsche or even a testarossa those cars are beautifully driving you know long distance cruiser super comfortable compliance suspensions you got good ergonomics and the kuntosh is so awesome because it has none of that it's awesome we bad yeah yeah I've driven a testarossa yeah have you ever driven it I've at 40 I have not yeah I have I'd love to have ridden and one but I haven't driven when it's it's it's a race car so it's you know you're basically just sitting on the ground with a carbon tub or on you so if you good have three road cars but you can't sell them so you can't you know you're not making the decision based on economics right okay what what if a three you wanT3 road cars not daily drivers or we tell me jusT3 cars that's all you can have in your right no no no these are your these are three grail cars okay I would probably say man there's too many to choose from but probably you have to go with it's gonna sound like a cliche but McLaren F1 IMean how do you not pick that if I could only have one that's the one I want it's got a bunch of the picture of you sitting in that yeah I was jealous I was happy number one but then there's at least 10 that I could pick from be happy but I would probably say and one of them is one that I have a lot of experience was with the 4 GT I just think just one and then Jen one one of the all time greats and I would probably pick stuff that's manual and somewhat analogs I'd probably just say career GT Porsche career GT with an NAV10 and they're they're an obtaining now but they were reasonable of just a few years ago and they're just again you just don't get there's plenty of faster cars career GT today is going for about one seven one eight ten years ago was half that yep and what's an F 40 going for today it's got to be three I think at least yeah IMean six seven years ago it was half that it totally was do you think this is a bubble or do you think these things are not coming down and value there never make any more of those limited supply the man is never going to wait for those at least I think when you look at other collector cars like some of the pre-war stuff it's going down because the the target market is all fortunately dying off they're just those people aren't around they could appreciate that but and that may happen at some point I suppose we're going to be a point where nobody cares about this we'll probably be long gone but the McLaren F one is it's unattainable oh that's IMean and there's so few of them yeah that's in a completely different league than the other cars but even like something that for GT they made four thousand of them it's not that rare well to two of them are gone a lot of them are gone thanks to yeah lack of traction control but still I don't think they'll ever go down just because that era I think then the gen two the current Ford GT which is a twin turbo automatic car will ultimately be a clipsed in value by the old one even though right now there's still more yeah they're almost double or triple but I think it's going to so where where would you put the nine five nine on this list we talked about that little bit it's right up there the only downside to nine five nine is that it was so ahead of its time that essentially is what a modern Porsche is now so yeah it's super cool we've got the 80s camping is the looks but it's basically like driving a nine nine three turbo for the most part it doesn't have that NAV8 or V10 sound it's a it's a turbocharged flat six like everything was after at that time there was nothing like it did thaT4 real steering as well I you know what I think they did yeah like it was so modern so modern it's sequential turbos and even water cooled heads even those were all air cooled portions back then they managed to water cool the heads and now canypid does a really cool version of resto modern version but those never came to the US you think you know about that right it was the bill gates ruled as you hear about that he who I did know about the same more so I don't know all the details I should have read up but essentially he was able to get the gray market to passage for these cars for some loophole I don't know the details of it now and only after that were they able to import them into the US and so of course now that they're older you can get anything under a 25 year old I like the oddbol stuff like that that's just unavailable but the nine five nine I would still put click below the courage to just because of that naturally aspirated F1 drive V10 that's just sings in the nine five nine's motor is not as than how that level of character I'll tell you what's interesting about the courage to be which by the way would be on my list of three as well most people listening to us now if they're not carners wouldn't spot a courage to if it ran over their toes yeah that that's like a bigger boxer right it's just like so they're like what is that a portion but it's like probably like that doesn't even look like it doesn't right stand out at all whereas if you saw Mclen F1 yeah you don't need to know anything about a car to know you saw something special for sure for sure um but it's and and I think the same as to with a GT the GT is yeah absolute head turner right no matter what and the interesting thing there is it's really based on a 60's design it was a tribute but the Camillo parto who was the the designer for fort who basically reinterpreted for the 21st century kept that original character but made it arrow friendly and didn't you know was able to use all these hard points from the old car but make it modern and basically upside the car it's like 110% size of the original that you could actually fit two people and because the original GT40s were tiny and they apparently generated tremendous front and lift in limon so the bottom and the modern when I've actually run at the Texas mile and the on an air strip over 200 miles now it's it's dead straight it's IMean it's they did everything right without resorting to the modern cars with all the big wings and all the big downforce it's just well balanced it is it's just they just did everything right on the car um okay now of the modern cars okay anything that you really really fancy kind of 2000 okay let's go let's define that first wave of hypercars in the 2015 so when the La Ferrarie the P1 and the 918 came out right 2014 2050 10 years ago they call it the holy Trinity for some reason yeah yeah IMean yeah that was staggering right first yeah so from that era forward right what do you fancy the most the most you know those cars again at that time I like the more than I do now just because again the hybrid technology is leaving those kind of they're a little outdated now I think out of those three I was personally maybe I'm sounded like a Porsche fanboy but the 918 was just stunning that part was just a design for get about the performance and it had an again NAV8 high-reving bespoke to that car you're not in any other platform and the electric component was just sort of a that was the G-Wiz thing of the moment which of course made it ungodly fast but that NAV8 and the way they exhaust it's out of the back well that's why by the way if you I've I've got a friend who has all in silver 959 career GT 918 that's the Trinity right like that's a Trinity that's like having you know F40 F50 and so La Ferrarie same sort of thing IMean all of those cars were amazing but since then it's gotten and that was probably the the the interesting thing about that era decade ago was that was probably the inflection point after which performance doesn't matter anymore you're okay saturated performance yours you can buy a your traction limited at this point right and not only that you can buy a used EV you can buy a Tesla plaid that'll do 16 2 seconds flat that'll for 50 grand that'll smoke everything so it's all about the total of the total of the total of the total of the total of the total of the total of the total of the time you took your Tesla plaid to Coda how how long did it take you to smoke the brakes on that so I when it was stock one stop in one make sure people understand this because they don't know so that means you came out of pit lane right so you're going up to turn one I didn't outlap so I didn't outlap so but the first coming down first hard break is going in turn one going to turn one of my buddy was in an SF 90 which is a 1000 horsepower Ferrari hybrid which is basically the fastest Ferrari you could ever buy and I was I found I was kind of catching up with him in turn in 20 and coming down the front straight I caught an SF 90 in my daily driver but I nearly rear-ended him because the car was able to stop just barely for turn one but the brake fluid boiled at that point the car was not designed to do that unfortunately and what's interesting is it's not you would say okay it's an electric car's heavy blah blah blah other electric cars don't do that the loose did the tie can they actually have really good brakes but at the time I didn't realize this because they had been advertised as being track ready or at least able to run a like the time of how it ran so good the nerve wriggling but the factory brake fluid is doT3 I know after the fact which is low boiling point is boiled it the car is designed for efficiency low driving I didn't even use doT3 in my simulator right I was running doT4 in the same probably boilers similarly yeah so a 5,000 pound machine stopping from 100 and I probably did 160 on the front straight at that time yeah what's about I don't think it was limited actually that time I have a track that the amount of BTUs that you're trying to shed off of those brakes it was just forget about it so thankfully it had to be great so fine if you put better fluid in or they're better they're less terrible so if you want to track a plot you're going to need new brakes so I don't did I tell you what I did I ended up having a full will would set up put on the car so all new rotors custom duckting Mike do sold to sold designs actually he bought a platform himself he's built he's like I've built the Z06 I'm driving now but he ducked into the front brakes basically custom custom brake ducks that car is sealed the whole front is sealed up it's not meant for that it's meant to just be looking for anything any error on them nothing nothing at all so he actually made custom ducking and after that the car was unbelievable because you could actually late break and and so really what lap time can you do in a in a trip to Plaid now a trip Plaid will only do one of them here's the problem you can only get one solid lap before starts pulling power due to heat to the battery okay my best was a 224 and so that's at a 55,000 pound car that's no way taken I just stopped car didn't do any mods to other than just the brakes but you do one lap and and the so just to re-answer your previous question I don't know how much time we have but I'll just keep it brief that one stop turn one brakes gone thank god I have regent so I just literally nursed but I was already I couldn't turn off so I go through the s's and I'm just you know 30 miles an hour whatever I got down through the regen is enough to keep the car from completely just going off the track so 30 40 50 so coming through 9 10 coming into 11 again I'm not on the throttle at all I'm just maybe going 40 miles an hour but the regen has slowed come coming down the hill towards 11 the regen is kept me from gaining any more speed but my my my right foot is on the floor like it's the fluid is boiled so I had to go wide in 11 into the gravel completely around and then you know that that's when I found out about all that and the McLaren Senate both taught me where all those orange squares are spray painted on the arm coat where you can have the emergency off so I literally went through the gravel came with an inches of the arm coat 11 and then just hobbled in but then after that the next time out we put doT4 a butt put castra will break fluid in it and change the pads then it was good for maybe a lap so then ultimately that still wasn't good enough so we did the big break now I see guys out there with testlers they're clearly not pushing as hard as you or they're mostly model three's the model three is 800 pounds lighter it's not as fast but it's a way better track car so I've done I've got dozens of laps in model three's they do fine because they're not making a thousand horsepower and they don't weigh 5,000 pounds they still will boil their breaks but if you just do pads and fluid that's actually a very desirable especially if it's a little bit damp outside not much can keep up with you in a model three and auto crosses they went national championships which is coil oversense in a 4000 pound sedan that's where EVs have gotten but just answer the previous question we did the breaks on the model S and then once that was done the only thing that that eliminate the brakes as this as the weak link but the battery the cooling is still not there so you got guys spending tons of money I actually was looking at doing a really heavily modified arrow testlamodel three like Randy Pope's drives it only do a lap at Cota because of again that's such a high high speed and high braking but it will literally just you can you can hot pit and go right back out and you can keep hot pitting but you'll never get a flat time but it'll do just fine if you do that but the next gen cars like Porsche Taycan the even the loose it's sapphire now those cars can they're just as heavy just as if you take in the Taycan turbo S out I did when it first came out in 2020 and what a lot lap out that was that the time was on stock tires and everything probably two thirty-ish yeah red red runs. Much IMean it had 750 I think I probably sent you that video at John Hennessy's track I had the Taycan the loose it and the plaid all lined up on the drag strip I'm in a 750 horsepower Porsche that can run tens in thEQuarter mile and the plaid and the loose it walked away from me like I was on foot. You just didn't have the traction control? No it didn't have the power 750 horsepower versus 1100. How much is the loose it up? The loose it has 11 this was the old loose it now the new sapphire loose has more has 1200 but this was 1100 and it's still in a 10-th or two behind the 1000 horsepower. Because they all have great traction. They all have and they're all will drive the traction is in the same size. It's literally just powered away at that point and you're just so I didn't realize that so the Taycan turbo S was only 750. When you stand on a turbo S if there's a plaid next to you he will leave you like you're not moving and that's like the outies a super fast car in the real world but that's why horse power doesn't matter anymore but that was more horse power limit the Taycan would happily do and actually I had a turbo before the turbo S which had steel brakes turbo S had ceramics and even the turbo would do it and on all season tires the very first Taycan that came out this was in the early days when Porsche was VW was having to respond to diesel gate you remember diesel gate and the whole deal. They had to build these electric cars and they had to go to states that were car basically the California Research Board admissions compliant because of all the diesel penalties they had so the first cars didn't come to Texas they only went to New York so I got a non-turbo S irregular Taycan when all season tires out of New York and on steel brakes Porsche Porsche it just IMean it was squealing in the corners of the all season tire but it lap 20 minutes no problem brakes were solid there's just something about the German engineering there but having said that the loose it is now equally good if not better despite being a brand new non-legacy company who is again not they're not trying to build a track car but the loose it sapphire is faster than a plaid now it runs eights in thEQuarter mile but it can actually track and even my old loose it which I would expect into the car on eights in thEQuarter mile these yeah it can crack and and sub nine now so it's severALCAR lengths ahead of a plaid which is beyond bonkers IMean it's this you have to warn passengers these are these cars now you can't just accelerate and we have to say hang on just put your head against the headrest before I can cuss you by the way we failed you you very very briefly mentioned it but my favorite car post that the Holy Trinity of 2014 and Vivid is of course the McLaren Senate yeah yeah where does how does the Senate stack up for you and what was your fastest lap time in the Senate so my best again the biggest limitation of the tires of the non-GT or the Senate GTR can probably I've seen guys run like I think two flats in those things a couple I know a coach of mine had run a 208 just on just barely even trying but then street Senate on the trophy or just it understands it's really just not meant for that but it'll still and it got tons of downforce tons of braking but it just doesn't have the grip so I think the best that it was a 2015 and again when you driving car that value that's insane for a street car release you still you're insane but but at the same time I'm sure a pro could do better I was still thinking you know that arm code gets really close to a that car of this value they could be very good and return 12 I wasn't breaking actually 150 even on trophy bars really and then I find you know McLaren doesn't want you to put slicks on it and so I violated all the rules and I ended up putting a set of probably tires off the for our challenge cars on it when I first put it again slicks need camber you can't get much camber out of a street Senate which to me was the most disappointing thing where is the GTR you goT4 degrees but anyway even without camber when I first stopped on that back straight completely stock Senate would just slicks on it at the 150 mark I almost parked it in the corner it's was incredible even with the trophy R to stop at 150 in a car that in the tire that drove me to Houston in back the band with of today's tires that's a whole another topic it's incredible what even on all season Michelin has congenerated one G one G is nothing anymore all my old car and drivers I have a library of thousands of magazines point eight point nine was a huge deal 30 years ago now you got many vans to do that and even all season shot sports cars that are heavy we can do that on a on a regular tire the chemistry of these tires these days is unbelievable yeah and the promos that were two poinT3 yeah yeah right IMean that's just and that's not even on a paralli that's like I'm a cheap guy so I run yeah well I run hard AMG GT3 I was running handcooks which would at least last me like two weekends and even then like that car was running two 11's on handcooks with just me driving it so the pros are running faster than that yeah I think I think Senate GTR not a streetcar of course just the the problem with the Senate street cars it's too track for the street and it's too street for the track it's just like a 720 S which is mechanically identical without all the downforce is a beautiful GT car drive across country you can store stuff in it super comfortable and on on Hoosiers not on select but on Hoosiers and and I change that to steel brakes that's a 2016 to 17 car it's not it's not that much slower faster than like the your old GT4 yes yeah the McLaren GT4 that's yeah that one I I'm sure I think Randy Pops could probably run close to that but when we drive for the drive drive it a driver three seconds probably and that's all in the streets because the GT4 car has half the not half the power but it has and actually my GT4 I actually cheated I tuned it okay so because those the the 570 S GT4 was already detuned from the street car but you can you can tune the street cars as well so when I was I pushed an extra 150 wheel just by tuning it because stock turbo's can handle that and so that would go 175 on the back straight whereas a regular GT4 can do 20 miles now or less than that but even then the 720 S and the actually 720 S and Senate are identical on the back straight the Senate can stop later though the Senate you can stop on the top 100 yeah probably 100 but in the in the 720 with the aftermarket steel brakes pads and a who's you're not even a real not in the which is still a DOT tire you can still break it a little bit after 200 it's not bad at all for a car that you can go shopping at the outlet malls and because it's got a massive fronken and the ride compliance that's the biggest thing about McLaren so the Senate is more tied down but they all have that active suspension that doesn't use sway bars or springs it's all hydraulic it's all fully active there's hydraulic lines that diagonally connect the front right to the left rear wheel so the pressure in those lines kind of combat body roll so you can have it be a plush highway ride or you can have it be AAStiff track car the bandwidth is almost unobtainable in any other any other car do you do you think in the in the in the sort of maybe in the public IMean do you think McLaren is somehow underperforming relative to what they should be doing given both their quality as an automotive brand and as a as a racing brand underperforming in terms of sales that what you're talking about primarily they are yeah they truly are and a big problem is I think is the perceived I'm actually and it's not just perceived the actual lack of reliability I love the cars but they're always there's it's all the jokes about British British electronics they all come to bear even the Senate would go into limp mode between nine and ten if you floored we even we had it wasn't just mine we had Senate Fest going on with 20 I think about 20 on track at one time almost every so some guys were just kind of tooling around so they were fine but if you were hauling ass between nine and ten when you get a little bit of suspension droop yep going to limp mode if you're if you're accelerating through that I would live even a GTR no no okay I'm sure the GTR is fine I haven't tracked one of those unfortunately but the and over a GTR is that a mode issue no like if you were in track mode that was in track mode I think it happened to me even one time I forgot to put it in track I think it still did it it it's a G4's related to suspension droop issue they just freaked out the computer and they had it they had Mclen guys on site who were actually working on patches and they could patch it they did and I think it made it less frequent but I think it still happened after the patch I have to ask them a clarion guys about that I think it's safe to say nobody's listening to us anymore now anyway but case anybody still is yeah this has been an awesome discussion I really appreciate the the offer to come out this is a true privileged Peter what you have done in this community is unparalleled in terms of like I think I told you when I first mentioned it's like dude how do I get CME for this stuff your lectures are better than almost all not lectures but your podcasts are better than almost all the CMEs because you get the right quality people on here much better than me by far and you get people and then the way you phrase thEQuestions and the way you kind of parse everything it's so understandable for a wide band with I got you know my non-medical friends and family all the way to the colleagues everybody gets something out of them and that's that's hard to do well hopefully today we delivered a lot of insight both to people who are obviously interested in radiation therapy for cancer which unfortunately is going to be a lot of people yeah and then of course this other application around the treatment of inflammatory conditions which again inflammation lies at the root of so many other things right and just in case anybody cares about a little drumming in cars that's right got us something to we got to we I think we have a whole indication for a whole separate series here that truly is the drive it's really just the drive we can do that all right well thank you Peter

=== FILE: 345 ‒ Chronic pain： pathways, treatment, and the path to physical and psychological recovery [SsHdjDFNbp4].txt ===

is consciousness necessary for the internalization of this full gamut of pain. Yes. Now what people incorrectly thinking while they're not experiencing pain, everything's okay. What is the most responsible case for oral opioids? I am not pro-alpioid. I am not anti-alpioid. I am pro-patient. Prescription opioids were over prescribed. They were over marketed. There were bad actors doing bad but it's not that simple story. Did it have bad consequences? Yes. Did it have good consequences? Hell yes. I am sure everyone has heard of and yet if you asked most people to define it, they wouldn't be able to define it. I'm talking about none other than fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is frequently preceded by some event. Societal burden of chronic pain is terrifying. It's astounding. It's more than diabetes heart disease and cancer combined. What are the other areas where LDN is just captivating the world? It's one that I use more and more and more because of its safety profile and it's potential for getting me a home run. Is there a part of you that thinks this is a guy who's going to be in chronic pain in the rest of his life? Or do you look at a guy like that and say no no? We can fix this. I've never hit a point in my career with a patient where I've ever said what done? Like I got nothing. I got nothing. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Sean, thank you so much for making the trip to Austin. Oh, it's my pleasure and it's uh, it's really good to see you again after a rather long time. Yeah, I was thinking about it. So this morning my wife said, oh, who's what's the topic of the podcast that I said? It's going to be pain and I said, she said, oh, who you have and I said, Sean, Mackie, she goes, you know, her face lit up and she doesn't know you. She's never met you, but she knows your name because she's heard me tell a story. Right? She's heard me tell a story about my own experience through this and I then realized something which is I haven't seen you since I was in medical school. Yeah. Yeah. Which is kind of weird. Yeah. Right? So I'm sure we will get to how you and IMet 25 years ago, exactly 25 years ago. Wow. And how you played an unbelievable role in bringing me back from arguably the brink of what could have been the end of my life truthfully. But I want to start with kind of some broader topics around pain. Right? So there's nobody listening to us right now who doesn't know what pain is. There's nobody listening to us right now who hasn't experienced pain. Yet if you ask for a definition of pain, I think you'd get a lot of using the word to describe the thing which isn't truly a definition. Yeah. So if you were trying to explain to a Martian from another planet who doesn't experience pain, what it is, what would you say? Yeah. Yeah. There's the formal definition of pain which is defined as an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage or described in terms of such damage. It's a mouthful. If you think of it as it's an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience and it is usually tied to something physically happening but may not be. I think sometimes what's missing in that definition, one of the things I wish they had put in but never did, is that pain is the great motivator. Pain is one of the most primitive experiences going back to if you will single cell organisms. You know it's either pain or reward. You're either being driven toward oxygen, food, sex or you're trying to get away from danger. And so pain is this pain is so wonderful because it's so terrible. It keeps us alive without pain. You know, we have these as you know, genetic issues of congenital and sensitivity to pain, we would have never lived as a species. So pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. To understand pain, whether you're a Martian or you're a human now, I think you have to look back in history. And so I'm going to evoke Renee DeCart, 17th century French philosopher, thought to be the father of modern philosophy, incredible contributions brought Cartesian geometry to us, which led to calculus. And he had this dualistic model of pain that he put forward. Now, he had to his credit. It was the first mechanistic foundation for pain because beforehand pain was thought to be something mystical or religious. It was punishment of the gods. So he put this framework together that's often illustrated this famous picture of a little boy with his foot in the fire. And there's a little string from his foot going up into his brain. And it ends up in the pineal gland, which was thought to be uniquely a human area. And the idea is the fire pulls on the little string. Opens up pores in the pineal gland, rings a bell and the boy withdraws his foot. The idea is in this dualistic model, there is a complete separation between body and mind. The body is where pain is generated. The mind is where it's perceived, but the mind is simply a passive receptacle, receiving these signals. That model put forward in the 17th century, stuck with us for hundreds and hundreds of years, and I would argue, is with us today. And it has influenced medicALCARe. It has influenced policy. It's influenced everything in our society about the way we think about pain, and it's utterly completely wrong. So yes, he got Cartesian geometry right, but he really, you know, complete Bollocks screwed it up when it came to pain. This biomedical model, this dualistic model, was with us for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years, and it's only been in the last number of decades that we've appreciated the nuance of what pain really is. And instead of it being under this guise of this separate mind and body, we now appreciate it is this integrated biosycus social phenomenon, meaning that, and I think this is one of the most important things that I'd like to drive across. I'm an introduced to term, we're going to get to a term called no-sysception, which are the electrochemical injury signals that occur in the periphery that what goes on in the body and what goes on in the brain, the experience of pain, they may have nothing to do with each other, or very little linkages. And we're going to hopefully unpack that. So hundreds and hundreds of years, we've got, we're basing in on Renee DeCarts, dualistic model. We still see this in medicALCARe. Right now, you're a surgeon, you know, for many, many, many, many, many years when I talked with the surgeons, they were firmly of the opinion that the amount of pain that a patient had after surgery was related to, you know, how much the scalpel cut and how much tissue damage was done. And I think it's only more in the last 20 or so years. I'm seeing surgeons really embracing this model that what people bring to the operating room table directly influences how much pain they have, like their early life experiences, all this stuff. And we'll talk about that. And Sean, just to interrupt for a second, thinking through the history of medicine a little bit, the latter part of the 19th century brought a couple of other tools to pain, right? So between local anesthetics, cocaine down to light a cane and general anesthetics in the form of ether, which finally allowed surgeons to cut people without having to hold them down while they screamed. It sounds like that didn't shed any new light. That was viewed in the one hand as just a blunting instrument. But it didn't change the model. Didn't change the model. Okay. Yeah, had no influence on that model, which just I think has had tragic consequences and the care of people particularly with chronic pain, particularly women with chronic pain, who have felt stigmatized and validated because absent something that's obviously wrong out in the body of the periphery, they were just labeled as being histrionic housewives or being told it's all in their head. Not just women, but also some men as well. And so it's only with that evolutianavar perception, our model into a bioscicial model that that's gotten much better. Okay. So let's talk about is there a pain receptor? Yeah. So let's break it down into the foundational stuff. So we have these things called no sea sectors, complicated name. It's basically a trensducer, which is another technical name. Now you're engineering background. So you all know that a trensducer is simply a device that converts one form of energy into another form of energy. This this microphone is converting sound energy into electrical energy. The speakers convert electrical energy back into sound energy. We have these no seceptors that lie in our skin, our soft tissues, our deep tissues, our viscera, and they're specialized. And they convert well different forms of energy into electrochemical impulses. They take pressure. They take heat, cold. They take chemical changes in the form of pH that can occur during infection. They convert those into action potentials that are then trensmitted up nerves. These are little electrical impulses trensmitting up generally two different nerve fiber types. These two different from nerve fiber types. One is called a sea fiber, which is thin and slow. It's really pokey. And I don't know if I'm getting a head if you want to go more in that. But you got this pokey, slow sea fiber that trensmits it about one meter a second. And the frame of reference, if it helps, is think about your thumb is about a meter from your brain. So an impulse on a sea fiber from your thumb to a brain takes about a second to two seconds to get there. The other nerve fiber type, it's called an A-delt of fiber. It's got some nice insulation around it. It trensmits ten times faster. So it takes a little under a tenth of a second to get your thumb to your brain. And it gives a real world sense of the difference in sea fibers and A-delt of fibers. Think back to the last time you stepped on a tack in the carpet. You hit your thumb with a hammer. You twisted your ankle. I'll come off a curb. What happened? Think back to that experience. You get this sharp jolt to pain that goes right to your brain. Those you're eight-delt of fibers at ten meters a second. Rapidly getting up to your brain, rapidly putting into play systems to protect yourself from harm. You withdraw. You have a reflex that's occurring in your spinal cord. You're not even consciously aware of it. Your brain is setting into play, escape mechanisms. The pain, the experience, sharp, it's well localized. You know exactly where you stepped on that tack. Then about a second, two seconds later, you get this hot burning flooding sensation. Come over your thumb with your hit with a hammer and you think to yourself, oh damn, this is really gonna hurt. And it gets hot. It gets burning. Those are your sea fibers. Unmile and aided slow. Getting up to your brain. And what you also notice for the first time is you don't like this. This has an unpleasant quality to it. That you didn't get as much with that aedelt to sharp pain, but you're getting with those sea fibers. That's really clear. And Sean, the aedelt is doing two things. If I'm understanding this correctly, is it creating the spinal reflex where hit my thumb with the hammer, the signal goes into the spinal cord out through a motor neuron to pull back without me having to think about it. That's exactly it. And, you know, it is synapses and there are synapses in the ventral or anterior, the front portion of your spinal cord, which is as you know, your motor part of that spinal cord. They're making synapses and it's causing a classic withdrawal effect. But am I also feeling the pain and my perceiving the pain? And if you could do a thought experiment where you could eliminate the sea fiber in an individual. Yes, would they still feel pain? Yes. Yeah. They would still feel pain. So there's still a central component to what the a fiber is doing. Those aedelt to fibers are still still going up. Going up there. They're in the spinal cord. They cross over to the other side. They head up through. So there's an aferrant and an eferrant to the whole thing. Indeed. Okay. Indeed. We think of these pathways. The main one that we all learn in medical school and we think about it's a spinal, the laminate pathway. This goes from the spine up into your brain. We're going to get there. But yes, if you had no sea fibers, you would still feel pain. That's one of the other things. I think it's important to understand about pain is we've been trying to knock this out for untold years. And we've not been very successful with it. And part of the challenges pain is so highly conserved from an evolutionary standpoint. As I was alluding to back to single cell organisms, reward pain. You know, we evolved over the years to have this complex experience of pain, but also redundancies. You knock out one pathway related to pain. There's others there. And they find their way up into the brain just about no matter what. Just thinking about this through an evolutionary lens. Lots of debate about this in the animal kingdom, right? Like does a goldfish feel pain? Yeah. Right? Do we have a clear sense as to how far from humans and or mammals you go where you still clearly have sea fibers and a delta fibers? You could go pretty deep in there. And I get the debate. It's a great debate over wine or beer. And I understand actually taking it seriously and having that debate. A lot of different opinions on this. I actually don't engage in that debate, you know, because I think you have to first of all define the thing that you're debating. You have to very clearly define the thing. And in this case, our definition of pain is a rather human experience. Well, this is where I was actually going to go if I can just give you that window. So you know, what I was really going to ask is a question about consciousness. Yes. Is consciousness necessary for the internalization of this full gamut of pain? Yes. Yes, it is. I believe it is. I believe firmly it is. And, you know, I'm a recovering anesthesiologist. You know, I haven't done it now in, oh gosh, 20 years. But when I did it, and when you were, you know, operating on a patient, the patient is unconscious. They are not experiencing pain. You need a conscious brain for the experience of pain. Now, what people incorrectly made the leap of is thinking, well, they're not experiencing pain. So everything's okay. That would be a logical fallacy. Because all those signals are still coming from the body, still hitting the spinal cord and having their impact there, all those injury signals. Because let's face it. When you do surgery, it's really nothing more than a controlled injury. Yes. And I just want to point out, and this shows you how long I haven't been in surgery. But 20 years ago, my recollection is an anesthesiologist was giving not just one medication, but several. Yes. So they were giving something like halothane, which to my understanding, we didn't know how it worked. Then do we have any idea how it works today? Better. We still are trying to unlock the whole consciousness aspect of things, but we're inching our way there. But it wasn't enough to give that. When I say we, the anesthesiologist still had to give, typically, unarchotic. They were still typically giving something like fentanyl, even though the patient was unconscious. They were also often giving in a music, so that they wouldn't have any recollection of what was going on. But of course, we all hear the horror stories of the patient and a paralytic on how to evolve it. Exactly. So you hear these horrible stories of the patient who is paralyzed, but somehow conscious, you can miss on this state sort of thing. But just to make sure I understand, in theory, a paralytic and an inhaled anesthetic should be sufficient to eliminate the perception of pain in a patient who is being cut. Yeah. Part of the challenge was, and now here, I'm starting to step outside of my wheelhouse, even though I was a member of the anesthesia tribe for a long time, is the levels of volatile gas anesthetic that you need to necessarily obliterate reflexes and full no-susceptive impulses would be so high that it would depress one's blood pressure. Got it. And so you augment that with an opioid. I understood like fentanyl, like morphing, like whatever, and you combine those together. And that's why what the anesthesiologist do is quite magical. Got it. So in other words, you give the inhaled anesthetic just to get unconsciousness, but not to fully suppress the no-susceptic system. Instead, you bring on the opioid to do the remainder of that work. They're working synergistically on the working at different mechanisms. Got it. And during that process, the patient is not feeling pain if they're unconscious because you do need a conscious working aware brain to feel pain. But all of the electrical impulses coming in from the body that are slamming into the spinal cord and the brain are open full bore. They're impenging on all those brain systems responsible for stress responses. So does that mean we are seeing a cortisol surge? We're seeing whatever one would expect a conscious person to experience with epinephrine, nor epinephrine cortisol, all these things still surging out in response to pain. Yes. And in response to no-susception. Independent of perception of pain. Right. And you notice that I'm trying to be precise in my language because sensor unconscious there's no pain, but there's plenty of no-susception. There are, deeply more than you would ever experience. IMean, if you think about what surgery, think about what we do in surgery, my God. Take a down-down gallopal. Yes. And then take an electric pottery and start burning tissue. Right. This is, IMean, there's no level of no-susception. You could ever experience like that while being awake unless you're in a burning car. Absolutely. That's exactly it. And it's remarkable through modern medicine that we get people through all this is a reflection of the advancements in surgery, advancements in anesthesiology, advancements in post-operative care. But it is no different than a controlled injury. It's done in a nice sterile environment, but it is a massive injury that people are undergoing. Yeah. And they're just not awake. And it's nice and clen and sterile. But there is a stress response associated with that most people recover well. What one of the hot topics of research these days is why do most people recover but a certain percentage of people go on to have persistent pain after surgery? That's an area that I used to research years ago. Many others are doing some great work in that space. Turns out that a lot of the factors we're going to get to this is what people bring to your operating room table, meaning early life events, levels of emotional health, cognitive health and everything else. So to answer your question and getting back to it, no, I don't believe there is the perception of pain without a conscious brain. And there's all sorts of nuances to that. Yeah. So let's go back to something you said at the outset from an evolutionary perspective, which is pain and pleasure have been the driving factors that have been the engine of natural selection. Yes. And but clearly those things have had to work in pre-conscious models. Yeah. So that means that whatever we're defining as pain there did not include a perception of pain. Yes. So what does that mean? That's where it gets muddy. And there's some art of people than I that would probably be more articulate. But I think this is why I think on first principles, you have to define the thing that you're talking about. When we typically talk about pain, we're talking about it from a uniquely human standpoint. Does a dog experience pain? Easier to accept. Easier to accept. I'm a dog person. I believe they experience pain. You move on down the evolution or at what point? Does a goldfish experience? Does a goldfish clearly experiences no deception? They clearly have all the classic withdrawal protection survival aspects of it. But what level is there a conscious brain that is trenslating it? And also on top of it, remember in our human definition of pain, we bake in it's an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Does a goldfish experience emotions? I you leave that to the goldfish experts. I you see how muddy it gets and you go down rabbit holes pretty quickly. Which is why I tend to stay with humans. Which is just for enough. Right away. So how does everything you just said differ or overlap with neuropathic pain? Or that sort of burning pain that I'm sure some people are familiar with. Certainly I was familiar with it for several years. Is that simply a subset of this? Are there various different types of pain that don't have a clear cause effect relation to tissue damage? Yeah. So we have different ways of categorizing pain putting it into different buckets if you will. One is no susceptive pain. And you'll note that that word no susceptive sounds very similar to no susceptors and it's by design. It means that it is pain caused by activation of primary no susceptors. Whether it be in your skin or soft tissues or an or viscera. And it tends to have certain qualities. It's very easy to localize. You know exactly where it is. It has a certain intensity that no susceptive pain tends to be time limited response well to short term use of analgesic agents. A seat of menophen and said it's Cox-2 inhibitors opioids and it tends to go away. And this is the kind of pain that occurs after typically acute injuries. You then have visceral pain which as a former general surgeon you understood this. This is due to activation of those primary no susceptors in our viscera. Now the dishference and why we bring up the distinction with visceral pain that is either in our thoracic viscera or abdominal or pelvic viscera is that the receptive fields that means where those no susceptors serve and what we perceive are very diffuse and wide. When you get a stomach ache you can't put your finger exactly where it hurts. You tend to put your whole hand over and say I'm kind of hurts here it's diffuse. That's because the brain the spinal cord brain have these diffuse receptive fields which expand the area. The viscera don't typically respond to the same type of stimuli that no susceptive pain does. You'll remember when you were taking a bovee to the bowel the small intestine patients wouldn't normally move because the no susceptors don't respond to that but if you tug on it if you pull that or inflate it or inflate it. Boyle boy blood pressure goes up heart rate goes up. Interesting characteristics with visceral pain is there's something called visceral somatic convergence meaning that the afferrence the information coming in from the gut from the thorax converge with the same sensory systems from the rest of our different parts of our body. So you may remember the old school adage C345 keeps the diaphragm alive. We all we all had these in med school. Well that means that the third fourth and fifth cervical nerve roots subserve our diaphragm which help us breathe. When the general surgeons or others are operating and they get blood under the diaphragm it irritates the diaphragm and what patients will typically complain of shoulder pain because the shoulder is subserved by the fourth and fifth cervical areas. And so when they had shoulder pain the answer wasn't you know something's wrong with their shoulder it's they had some irritation of blood under there. It's why when people have a heart attack pain radiates out into the arm because you've got the upper thoracic nerve subserving the heart that overlap with the nerves that go down your arm and the nervous system gets confused and that's how it's expressed. And if you like the neuroscience is it's all pretty cool if you're experiencing it not so cool. Let's get to neuropathic pain. And by the way, on visceral pain what is the response to treatments with respect to the way we saw in no septic pain where hey great response to these NSAIDs or opioids or whatever. Yeah, typical analgesics can be helpful but identifying visceral specific antinosis septic drugs is still an area of hot research. These days it's more about trying to identify the causes of visceral pain and you know reducing substances that are winding those no seceptors up. Neropathic pain another bucket. Neropathic pain means injury to either the peripheral or the central nervous system. The nerves out in the body it's either injury or dysfunction too. Nerves out in the body or the nervous system in your spinal quarter in your brain. Classic you know you get nerve injury from a trauma from surgery, classic qualities people describe burning sharp, lancinating stab and shock like. This is the kind of pain that some people tragically get after a thlamic stroke in their brain. You know, half their bodies just like terrible burning pain and just there's nothing going on out here. It's all central. This is the kind of pain that you get and you experienced with ridiculous pain and radicular pain means in this case injury to a nerve root coming out of your spine. It's this sharp radiating pain if you've got it in your lower back that radiates down and down your leg. Typically below your knee into your foot. This can be very challenging to treat with common analgesics. We tend to draw upon different categories of medications for this. These are broadly speaking anti-neropathic pain drugs. And here in our field we steal from everybody. There's only a few FDA approved medications for pain like a handful. So what we've learned to do is to steal borrow drugs from the neurologists, their anti-convulsions, their anti-seasure medications, the gabapentin voids, the taggera-talls and their derivatives. There are other anti-seasure medications because they tend to have mechanisms of action that also work on nerve pain. Gabapentin, I think you've had perhaps some experience with, turns out it's a lousy anti-seasure drug. Terrible. But it's a pretty good, you know, anti-neropathic drug. Four grams a day. Four grams a day. I was awfully drowsy though. You know who gets credit by the way for making, I give credit to making Gapapentin the blockbuster drug. George Clooney. How? Have you ever watched ER? Oh yeah. Yeah. He was a pediatric ER doc. That's right. Kid comes into the ER with a skateboarding injury. George Clooney puts the kid on Gabapentin. Now, where that had all started was a case report from a couple of ED docs who had noted by putting people on Gabapentin that they're acute paying up better. So I felt like beforehand when I was practicing medicine around the time I saw you practicing pain medicine that I'd look like a genius if I put somebody on Gabapentin because nobody heard of it. And then after that came out, floodgates open, primary care doc started using it now everybody's tried it. And it's a very safe medication. I have it like I should also make a mention when I'm talking about these meds or any treatments. I have zero industry relations with anybody. Nobody. I don't take any industry money. You can go look me up on open payments CMS, which is a public database. Okay. Neuropathic pain. There's another one. There's a new kid on the block called no C plastic pain. I don't know if this one is made much traction yet. This is a newly introduced category of pain, which is thought to represent dysfunction in the central pain processing system. And I'm not precisely defining it, but that's the just of it. It means that in the absence of identifiable peripheral cause, there is dysfunction in the brain in the spinal cord that is causing pain perpetuating an amplifying pain, no C plastic pain. And it has been tied in with conditions like fibromyalgia, temperament, dibular disorders, some aspects of chronic low back pain. Irrval bowel syndrome interstitial societies and more. It slowly started to get traction. So when we talk about pain, both to study it, but also ideally to treat it, we put them in these categories that we just described. Yeah, it was about to say before you gave your examples, I was going to say no C plastic pain must be a huge bucket because it's everything for which we don't understand one of the three. It's sort of the all-el spucket, which is enormous, especially for chronic pain, right? You're absolutely right. And I think the verdict is still out in the end. Does no C plastic pain stick around? Or is the problem that in these conditions that we associate with no C plastic pain, medical science hasn't caught up to identify a specific peripheral driver? I'm of the opinion it's that latter. Like I think we're going to find peripheral drivers for fibromyalgia. There's some controversy right now as to whether fibromyalgia represents a small fiber neuropathy. And just because we may not be able to identify a lesion doesn't mean that there's not something there. But as in all things, the truth will weigh out and we'll see how the story plays. There's no objective way to measure pain, correct? Oh, the last 15 years of my career has been spent on doing that very thing. And where do you think we are in that regard? Much further along than I ever would have predicted. So a large chunk of my research early on, my early research was in neuroimaging a pain. It was opening up windows into the brain to see where people were thinking, processing, perceiving, magnifying pain. And I spent much of that publishing work to understand the mechanisms of that. And we haven't yet actually finished our story of pain going up to the brain and what's going on. We'll get there. Over the years, IMigrated into the space of developing objective biomarkers of pain. And it's one of those things where this is why I love working with young, smart people. I bet against it. I had some young grad students and others who said that they knew they thought they could do this. I told them how you would do it. And I said it won't work. And I'm going to pay you. I'm going to give you money to go scan people and you're going to learn how it doesn't work because failure is a great lesson in life. And they came back and they showed they could do it. And it was all through developing patterns in the brain and using machine learning models to then take that pattern, that signature, and be able to predict in other people whether they were experiencing pain. I didn't think we could do that because of the hugely individual nature of pain. It's so different from person to person. But it turns out that there are core patterns in the brain that represent that experience of pain. And so now with others. And sorry, you're capturing these through what modality, if I'm a functional magnetic resonance imaging. It is a standard MRI that people go into. But we do some fancy pulse sequences. We play some physics tricks where we can see where nerves the brain's being activated. And we've taken this. We and others have taken this from being able to determine whether somebody is in a state of pain to predicting their long-term trajectory. And we're working right now. Big grant that I have is to actually create composite multimelial biomarkers to predict their future state. We're getting there. So let's just start with standard understanding. If you put me into an FMRIMachine and I said do you, hey guys, I'm not feeling any pain right now. I feel great. Yeah. And then you scan me. And then someone came out and took a hammer to my thumb. Yeah. And I went through the classic response that you described earlier. What would my FMRI show? Yeah. You would see, you'd see rather dramatic increases in activity in brain regions such as the thalamus, the posterior and solar cortex, the anterior singular cortex, through the dorsal anterior singular cortex. And a number of other distributed, a number of other areas. And to be clear, this is distinct from the part of my cortex that is the humongulous for my thumb. You would also see it in S1. Yeah. You right. And indeed, what we've learned through this, that there's no one single pain region in the brain. That's another mistake that was made along the way. We all thought we were going to find a brain region. Yeah. Then we could knock it out. Right. Just go cut it out. And it turns out that didn't work. And it's not one brain region that generates the experience of pain. It is a distributed network. It's all of these regions coming together and working in harmony doing what? Generating the experience of pain and then generating a typically a response to that. And let me be very clear because there was a lot of controversy when we and others initially published our papers. We are not trying to take away the autonomy of the patient and the self-report. I don't need an FMI to see a patient and know if they are pain. I can just ask them. And I can use self-report measures to get it. And I do that's another part of the research. Where we're working to build these objective markers, the subjectifying pain, is not to see what they're in now. But can it give us useful information to predict treatment to a particular therapy? Can we use it to predict their future state? Can we use it to predict their vulnerability to an injury or surgery? Those are things that just asking a patient right now. Probably not going to get there. I don't know if you want to go back to the brain. Let's leave. I'd start talking about it. I get a little tangent. Let's go back to the story of these four branches of pain or at least the firsT3 and then kind of how they're how they're how they're periphery and how the sensory component is impacting the perception. Roll with that. Give me a little bit more. I want to build off at that. Okay. So we go back to no septic pain. Right. So tissue injury occurs. I think where I derailed this was in classifying all the different types of pain. But you had okay. Signal comes up. Right. Two signals coming up. The C-Fiber, the Adelto Fiber. The immediate responses to get you out of pain. Right. So that makes there's an evolutionary logic to that. Right. The C-Fiber is not there to get you out of pain because the Adelto did that is the C-Fiber there to remind you not to go back and do that again. Perfect. Okay. Perfect. That is basically your longer term harm alarm. That is saying, Peter, don't go back and do that again. Back in the cave, people days. It would remind you maybe it's best to sit in the cave and let the healing occurrence that is going out and fighting the woolly mammoth through the C-Fiber, Tiber. Tiber because if you fought the C-Fiber to Tiber when you're injured, you got eaten, you didn't get to pass your genes along. By the way, do we have any evidence Sean that there was enough genetic heterogeneity around this that there were 200,000 years ago. There were members of our tribe who simply didn't feel pain and therefore did not pass on their genes because they made poor decisions. Wow. That's a great question. One, I don't know. Two, there was undoubtedly genetic variations that led to behaviors, led to actions, that did not promote survival of the species. Nature takes care of that. Those people died out. I find it amazing to just sit around and dream about how much, how little convergence must have existed, a quarter of a million years ago, in terms of things that just ended up not being good for our species. Like, people who didn't experience pain the same way or didn't have certain filters within themselves. Lots of talk about people who couldn't socialize and how where we could evolve alone. If you didn't have the right set of genes that allowed you to at least be part of some sort of social tribes. Of course, we still probably have people today that have escaped. We clearly have some anti-social folks among us, but they're the exception and not the rule. Anyway, I just wondered if today we're much more homogenous in terms of what a human's response to pain is versus what it might have been. Probably. When you go back through some of the lower animal species, what happens when one of those animals gets injured in the wild? And again, I'm not a animal pain expert, but typically they're set off. They're ostracized. Those animals just die out. What do we do? We come together as a community and we help those people. We developed empathy for pain. I did some studies on that. And that is gotten hardwired into our brains to be able to recognize when people are in distress and pain and to reach out and help them. That was clearly beneficial to our species and conserved. And I also think about certain things like childbirth prior to any anesthetic was obviously brutal. Both in terms of the pain and the mortality. And yet there's no evidence that like people were deciding, maybe we not ought to do this. In other words, the drive for procreation somehow overcame what must have been brutal. Absolutely. And I got to tell you, hats off to have the population that are women, and the women that do this, I can't imagine. I don't want even go there. There is interesting, protective aspects during childbirth that doesn't take away necessarily the pain. But I think some of the estrogen, the estrogens, the estrodyles has not only an analgesic effect, but I sometimes just swear they don't seem to remember sometimes just how painful it was. And yet we do it again. Yeah, yeah. Those are the two things that I joke about with my friends, which is I still don't really understand how our species is here for two reasons. One, women had to continually go back to the world because remember if your reproductive rate isn't in excess of two, the species collapse. So on average, every woman must be able to do this. And back then it had to be reproductive rate of north of three. Right. Every woman had to do this three times. How she did it the second two times after how bad the first was, blows my mind. The second thing is just looking at how stupid adolescent males are, I'm sure you can relate to this. I was one. Yes, as was I. And I look at my boys. I don't understand why males all didn't die from just doing stupid stupid things before the age of 20 because, you know, IMean, even for the age of like 15. So it's like those two things are a miracle to our species. But all the males didn't die and that all the females were willing to have at leasT3 kids. I repeatedly tell Beth that I sometimes wonder why I was not a Darwin award winner. If you had been read by the person. I remember the Darwin or the family. Well, link to them in the show notes, some of my favorites. We have these signals. I'm going to take these signals from the spinal cord because where it gets really interesting is when you take those eight altasy fibers you, you're in the spinal cord and there's a lot of process going on there that will come back to. And they had up to the brain and then they synapse connect in a large number of brain regions. One of the main one is the thalamus, which acts like Grand Central Station in the brain. It's taking lots of sensory input from different sources and it's sending it out to other areas. Some of those areas that we alluded to, the anterior singular cortex. Now, the anterior singular cortex, each of these brain regions has some functions associated with it. The anterior singular cortex is associated with some of the emotional aspects of pain or the unpleasantness of it. For the neuroscientists out there, I'm grossly oversimplifying things. The anterior singular cortex is also a salience detector, meaning it is taking those incoming inputs and its determining is something wrong here, is there an error because in essence our brains are prediction machines. Everything that we're doing, we're forming an expected pattern of what we're going to sense and we're making adjustments when I reach out for my cup. I know where it isn't space, I pick it up. If instead of cold water in that it's boiling hot water and I touch it, my brain is getting different signals and it was expecting that singular cortex as a salience detector is triggering and it's putting into action for me to withdraw. Other areas of the brain include the insular cortex, which lies on this little bit of the outer edge, it can be subdivided into multiple components, the posterior, mid and anterior insula. Let's just say that the back part of it is taking direct information in from the body. But then as you get more and more towards the front of the insula, it's integrating emotional and cognitive nuance to it. It is integrating in your emotional state, in what you're thinking. Now, there's also connections with your, your amygdala, this deep, primitive region of the brain involved with both threat detection as well as reward. And it's connected into the circuit and then also has outlay's into other areas that maybe we'll get to like the hippocampus and the stress response and onward. All that to say is all these regions connected together generate that experience of pain. And at this point in time, I really haven't done more than Renee DeCard has and telling the story because first pass, the brain is still remaining a passive receptacle just taking these inputs, where it gets interesting is we developed descending control systems that come down from the brain that converge in the spinal cord. And what they serve to do is turn down the signals that are heading up. Now, in part, this was first described by Ron Melzak and Patrick Wall and I think it was 1965, the gate control theory of pain. Brilliant, guys. Never had the pleasure meeting them, but, you know, they, they just did some in a work. And this gate control theory of pain, you know, posits that yes, you have afferent information coming in to the spinal cord, but the spinal cord is acting like a gate of opening and closing, turning up turning down pain. And it is altered by other fibers and systems from your brain. So let me give you an example to this. We, let's introduce another nerve fiber type, A beta. A beta fibers are your touch fibers. When you touch or stroke your skin, those get activated. When you stand up, and you stand on one leg, they're also responsible for position sense. They have a heavy coat of insulation around them and they are wicked fast. C fibers, one meter a second, a delta fibers, ten, a beta fibers, 100 meters a second. Fast. That's why you can dance. That's why you can walk because you got those fast reacting a beta fibers. Now, let's go back to your thumb, Peter. You just hit your thumb with a hammer. Sharp jolt of pango's to your brain. Got a little delay. Oh, damn. This is really going to hurt. Hot burning flooding sensation comes over your thumb. What is the next thing that you do? Everybody does this a little differently. Before or after swearing. There you go. A lot of people swear. So it's after swearing. You swear and then shake shake. Okay. You, you're a shaker. Some people or squeeze. Squeeze. Rock some will change. Yeah. You squeeze. You shake it. Sometimes you run on underwater. What are you doing when you're squeezing it and shaking it? Sometimes trying to create a distraction. Okay. Sometimes, though, probably illogical trying to keep whatever humor is in there that's hurting. I salated like a turn at kit. Right. Right. Obviously, if I'm using cold, especially if it's one of my kids that hurt themselves will put cold on, hoping to anesthetize the area, presumably slow the circulation, take down the swelling. Yeah. That's beautiful. And you're talking about longer term things, which are all perfect. Because cold does those things and also cold, by the way, reduces action potential velocities and firing in those adult to the C fibers. But what you're doing most of all when you rub it, you're activating a beta fibers. You're actually not influencing much your A delta or C fibers. Those noces have to fibers. Not really impacting it there. That horse left the barn. That horse left the barn. And that horse is, you got horses still running out the barn. You're, you can squeeze all your wand for the time being and the horses are still head now. And hitting your spinal cord, but where things get interesting is the A beta fibers as touch fibers. They're coming into a slightly different area of your spinal cord and they're sending over projections into where those noceseptive fibers are in your spinal cord. And they have an inhibitory role. That's the take-home message. So the A beta fibers are inhibiting the signals coming in from where you're thumb with a hammer and preventing them from going to your brain. It's a beautiful example of neuromodulation. You're doing your own neuromodulation with that. And we're all hardwired to do that thing. And there's a medical device that takes advantage of that. You're familiar with the 10s unit. Yeah. 10s is T. E. N. S. trenscutaneous Electrical Neural Stimulation. Now, what 10s frequently, what it originally did, there's been modifications of it, is when you turn on the, what you do with the 10s, I know you know this is typically little black pads that you put over the area that hurts. You put an electrical stimulation through these pads. They're activating a beta fibers. And so you do them over here and it's having a neuromodulatory effect back in the and the spinal cord. Pretty cool when it works. And how do you predict patient comes to you and they're experiencing some pain? What are the, what are the clues that would tell you? I think 10s is going to be successful. In other words, I think that activating a beta fibers is going to be a tool that will reduce your perception of pain. Because that's what we're doing. Everything that you do is how do I reduce your perception of pain? I can't take, I can't necessarily take away. IMean, if they have an injury that needs to be resolved, they shouldn't be seeing you. They should be seeing the surgeon or whoever fixes the physical injury, right? In short, yes, I would just build on that that would say my job, our job as pain docs is to help reduce the pain and help them down a path of functional rehabilitation. So absent that second piece, I typically fail. You know, I'm leading them down a road of functional rehabilitation, which involves physical, psychological, social, emotional health. All things you talked about beautifully in your book. So who is the, I hate to use the word poster child, but who's the patient that when you see them, your intuition says, 10s is going to really work for this person? Somebody with, I think, more, it's no susceptible musculoskeletal pain. I tend to think of somebody for whom 10s is more likely to work. Something that has more of a classic no susceptible type of pain problem. Beyond that, it's Peter, it's a trial and error. And that's part of the frustration and pain management and in healthcare in general is the lack of a precision approach. And the very frustrating laborious trial and error process until we get something that works. So we talked about the gate control. We talked about tens. Can I put a bow on the gate control thing to make sure I understood it? Yeah. Because we, it seems like a very important idea, but I also think IMight be missing the juice. Is the idea that 10 people could experience the exact same peripheral injury. If you could map the, um, the action potentials, they would look identical. You could even see identical perceptions, but they have, they could have 10 different gating channels within the spinal cord and therefore perceive pain differently. I just want to make sure I've captured with the gating theory states. You are right. You're right with that individual, um, variability in pain. We haven't talked about the brains role in the gate control, which we're going to get to, but just getting to your question. There's been some elegant studies. Guy name Kim years ago, um, did a beautiful study where he applied a 48 degree Celsius stimulus to 500 people. 48 degree Celsius. I think it's a 121 degree Fahrenheit. Somebody will look it up. And you apply it to the, um, the arm, the hand. And then ask what your pain score. And what he found was a perfect distribution of people who said, not the same people. Ain't nothing. And then they had that's like 0 1 out of 10. Someone like, that's a little playful 2 or 3. And others were like, uh, a little more modern, 4 or 5, 6. And you got all the way up to some people saying, oh my God, you're burning me. You're burning me. Take that off immediately. 10 out of 10. I do the same thing in a medical school demonstration. I can't call an experiment because I'm not getting IRB. But when I teach the neuroscience class around paying, um, I bring in an circulating ice water bath. It's um, and you want it to circulate because if you just stick your hand and leave it in still, you get a boundary. It's warmer. Yep. So it's circulating ice water bath. And I asked them to dip their arm in for 15 seconds. Pull it out, whisper and a research assistance here, what their pain score was. We tabulate that all up and at the end of the class, I show the medical students. And it looks just like that line I showed you, IMentioned to you before. You got some people in the class who say, I keep my hand in their all day. And there was others where like, oh my God, I couldn't even keep it in their all. 10 out of 10. The whole point of that is to drive home one of the key messages in our discussion. The amount of stimulus or no seception may have little to nothing to do with your experience of pain and why that is so important for healthcare professionals to understand is because for so long we have projected our own experiences onto everybody else. So here's another experiment that you won't be able to do unless you get to teach this class on multiple days. But it's to go one step further, which is to do the same thing every day and see how they compare their score from day to day. I'll tell you my experience with that. I do love to use a cold plunge. Okay. So my cold plunge is at 42 degrees with circulating water. So I don't know what that makes it feel like, but it feels like it's somewhere in the 30s. There are days when I can spend 10 minutes in there and feel like nothing is wrong. There are days when I'm not kidding. 30 seconds in my ankles hurt so bad. I want to scream. Yeah. And I think what's different? Like it can't be the circulation in my ankles is better one day to the next. There are relatively a vascular part of my body. Why is it that one day? I can spend 10 minutes and not know I'm in this water. IMean, I know that I'm cold, but it's more like my core temp. But my joints don't hurt. Yeah. And on another day, the throbbing in my joints feels like somebody's hitting them with a hammer. And I'm the same person. So in other words, I, your point is well taken, but I would say there's a second dimension to it, which is even as individuals we can experience things differently from day to day. You're absolutely right. And maybe that's a good opportunity to build on that and introduce more of the brain. So we've talked about the functions of the brain. The antirus, a single core text, being some of the more emotional as primary, somatosensory cortex, the humongulous being more sensory. The insular cortex has an introsceptive state. It's like our internal awareness of our bodily state. We talked about the amygdala. Now let's introduce also the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex, the big thinking part of our brain up here, both the ventramedial and the dorsal lateral, play a key role in our modulation, our cognitive control of pain. And these systems, the prefrontal cortex, the antirinsular cortex, the insular cortex, the single cortex, all have those descending projections back down to the spinal cord. So we talked about the gate control theory of pain in the context of rubbing your finger out here, a peripheral neuromodulation where it really comes into play is when you introduce brain systems, the brain and your emotions, your cognitions, your beliefs, your early history, and that influence on pain. That's where it gets really exciting. And that's sending descending pathways down. So I would argue in part that your experience of cold water in that moment may have been driven in large part by your mental state before you got in. And maybe we'll talk more about the intersection of sleep and pain, but huge research in that space. Your state of anxiety apprehension around this, your all sorts of cognitive emotional aspects way into your experience of pain. And yes, there's also circadian rhythm aspects related to this from hour to hour fluctuations, but those individual differences are fascinating. And that is also an area that our group and others are lab and others are going into is recognizing that one pain score averaged over a week may not give us a lot of information that we need to take into account the within subject, the within person daily variations over time and model that. Now, there seems to be kind of like, I guess I should ask this because I don't know not asserting this is the case. Is there kind of a moral judgment that comes to this at some level like don't we as a society just tend to look more favorably at people that have a very high pain tolerance? So when you go through that experiment you just did with the medical students. If everybody's being brutally honest aren't they kind of looking at the people who score 0, 1, 2, more favorably than those that score 8, 9, and 10? Absolutely. Why do you think that is? Because that's what I'm being truthful I do it. Yeah, that's what society values. That's that was my home life growing up. That's what my father expected. I can't even very working class, you know my father had 12 brothers and sisters fighting for whatever scraps of food and he brought that into my world, our world as kids and you just suck it up and deal with it. And my father had back pain later in life and he would never talk about it would never ask my opinion and when I offered my opinion he would never follow it. Had bad consequences in the end but we value that. That is just the way our society is. Is that a male thing exclusively? I think you need to get some women on the show and ask them. I think I think it crosses actually I do think there is a masculinity aspect so that and I think I could be wrong here. I think that thing is also attractive for women. I think there's a certain attractiveness because that person may be more likely to be a good provider than somebody who is weak and sensitive. But you know we're getting a little out of my wheelhouse on that but you're you're you're absolutely right. I just think it's like a compatibility thing like I know when I do that type of an exercise compared to others. I tend to just feel less pain. I also know my wife does as well. So I almost wonder if that's a compatibility like we both just have a high threshold for that when we're exercising when we're doing anything even recreationally that doesn't matter. My partner might be on say we're now engaged. Is a professor at Stanford, Beth Darnell and she's an ex-altramarathon runner. And I've always admired the fact that she can sit there in front of a computer or work on something untold hours and not move. And I'd ask her like and she's just like listen I was really good with running with a pebble in my shoe putting one foot after another and just work in my way through it. And I similarly grew up in an environment where you know you learn to be tough and you learn to power through life-set-versities. So what is the consequence of this? So we're acknowledging that it is an attractive trait. Yeah. You have a high tolerance of pain. Yeah. Society rewards it and yet by definition as a significant subset of the part of the population call it a third, call it a quarter if it's a normally distributed function. Yeah. Are going to be a standard deviation on the other side? Right. They're going to be in the they're going to be on the side where hey they're relative to people who have a high tolerance of pain. These are people who are going to really perceive pain. And if we just did this through the lens of the responsibility of the medical community, there's a pretty significant consequence to that. Right. Indeed. Now as with all things it gets a little bit more nuanced. We talked about cold for instance. It turns out that some of the sensitivities are modalities specific. So just because you have a high threshold for cold, you could completely flip it on hot or pressure or pin prick or whatever the other modality is. As somebody who runs a pain lab, I've had everything done to me imaginable. I take heat really well. My son Ian takes heat really well. I've had these thermal devices on me where I've been there and ended up with second degree burns to find my seven out of ten. I hate the cold. I hate the cold. I'm a worse one. It comes to the cold. So I live in California. That's why I lived in Arizona. I think there are genetic aspects of this. So we have to be mindful modality specific on top of it. These experimental protocols probably have little bearing on somebody's experience of chronic pain. I was going to say, is there any way to put together a set of experimental lab versions of this to basically generate predictive models of how people will respond to real world pain. And I think where you're going with chronic pain is even more relevant. So for example, why do some people have a discarnieation that leads to manageable pain whereas for others the exact same injury by every metric available to us produces a totally different set of consequences. And what do we do about that? And because this is now where we move out of that decartion model, we appreciate the role of the brain and its modular theory capacity. It's ability to turn the amplifier down. And so if you're thinking about a stereo amplifier, we talked about how some people to a certain stimulus might be a zero or one on the dial, some might be a ten. But what we didn't talk about are people's capacity to now manage their pain cope with their pain. Their level of self-efficacy around their pain athletes learn how to manage their pain and suffering. Where they run into problems is when the sports are over, they're retired. That's when I see them. So there are many factors that predict how well somebody is going to do with chronic pain. They align with a lot of the stuff in your book. So, you know, there's the level of person's self-appacacy plays a role. There is the presence or absence of whether they've got underlying depression, anger, anxiety, something called catastrophizing, terrible word, very important concept, probably one of the most predictive of amplified pain. What about other things you talked about sleep deprivation, any other physical things, exercising, not exercising, insulin resistance, not insulin resistance, type of like what are the other things that might factor in this? Yes, yes, one of the biggest predictors of diabetic neuropathic pain is glucose control. So, you know, one of the first things we do, if we have a person with diabetic neuropathy, which the diabetes, the high blood sugar, as you know much better than I, causes injury to those no susceptible fibers. And also causes injury to the abata inhibitory fibers. And so, we, that correlates with glucose control by way of example, diet plays a role because if you're eating things that are causing inflammation, we didn't talk about all of the stuff that amplifies or winds up those peripheral nociceptors. We treated those as a static thing when they're not. They're dynamic. So, in the face of inflammation, that causes something called peripheral sensitization. You've turned up the amplifier on that nociceptor in the periphery. Sleep, as alluded huge topic. How much sleep deprivation does one need for for there to be an increase in pain perception? Oh, well, let me listen. We're both out of residency long enough, but we both pulled our old nighters. How did you feel the next day? I felt awful, but there's, you know, there's interesting that you felt worst between 5 a.m. and 8 a.m. and then you get this second wind, usually about the time you're operating. Right. And then you usually feel pretty good. Okay. But overall, IMean, it's a, it's a, it's a haze. It's a haze and you're just powering your way through it. And if you think about it, you know, you kind of feel in a little achy all over. Now, it's not that because a lack of sleep, something is changed in your muscles. At least I don't, I don't think there's good evidence for that. What is changed is your set point and your brain and your spinal cord for the perception of pain. You feel like crap. Now, imagine if you're doing that day after day after day and not getting sleep, that really messes up your central nervous system and that modulation around pain. What happens is that changes your set point and it impairs that prefrontal cortex and its ability to modulate pain. When you went through a Peter, your bad episode of backpain did it impact your sleep? Yeah, for sure. You're human. That impact on sleep, ultimately further amplified your pain. On top of it, did you, how did you feel during that? I now decide the pain. How was that affecting, how was that affecting your overall life and your thoughts and your emotions? Total disaster. In what way? Well, IMean, look, there's so much going on. IMean, I'm happy to tell my story because it's a great introduction to kind of the work you've done. So for folks that haven't heard it and I've shared this before and we were talking before the podcast, I don't remember how much of this is in the book because at one point I wrote all of this out. I'm pretty sure much of it got cut out. But when I was in my third year of medical student, I was having just a great old day, wrote my bike to the gym. It was just about to go into the gym and I got off the bike and I feel a pain in my back like I've never felt before and it was enough that I decided not to work out which says something because I would have worked out through any amount of discomfort. I limped home, laid down and said, you know what, I'm just going to sleep this off and tomorrow we find tomorrow it wasn't fine. I was in so much pain I couldn't get out of bed. I had actually called my roommate. We had separate phones in the same house to come and get me up and out of bed. In the next two weeks proceeded to be a really unbearable episode where I was doing an ICU rotation and you know, this is back in the Wild West where I think the nurses and the residents were just shooting me up with Tordall every day, nonstop, getting me through the day. But the nights were brutal and what I now realized happened was I'd had a really significant herniation, a piece of that L5S1 disc broke off. I would later find out it was a five centimeter piece and it had extruded broken off. Was sitting on the S1 nerve route. Every night now I was going to pain, going to bed, feeling as though the skin on the bottom of my foot was being ripped off. So the the only way I could sleep was to put my bag my foot into a bag of ice and take some amount of benedrel that was enough to knock me out. This went on for about another week until the Dean of Students saw me limping along and said, hey Peter what's going on, I told him this was a Sunday afternoon I was studying. He took me directly to the ER. Got an MRI, showed all of this mess the next day I had surgery. As I've talked about in the past, everything went wrong in a series of surgeries and fast forward three months, three trips to the operating room, multiple disc Activis, Laminatimis, multiple levels in theory my bag should be fine. I'm anything but fine. I now have a new pain but this is unlike anything that was related to my back. This is where you come in. I now have a pain that is so significant and it sounds grotesque to explain it but this is all it was. It felt like someone was reaching in my body from my kidneys into my groin and tearing my testicles out from the inside of my body. So needless to say I was out of commission, I did not move. I laid on a floor 247 and to your point, how did I feel? Well, it wasn't just that I was in so much pain that I couldn't do anything. It was I watched my life disappear. So it went from you're not going to graduate from medical school on time to you're not going to get to do a sub-internship in surgery to you're not going to be a surgeon to you're never going to walk again. So by that point, the overlap was how were the opioids that I was being prescribed to control the pain tripping into. These are a tool to numb me to this entire experience. So at this point I've talked about this in the past. At this point I was taking over, I think I was up to maybe 320 milligrams of oxycon in a day which is kind of amazing because if you and I took that today, if you and I split that right now we would die. So that I'm you know that I'm mainlining 320 milligrams of oxycon in a day just to you know blunt the emotional pain of this. I think says what we need to know we can come back to the story of how IMet you and what how my life turned around from that point and it's still a miracle for me to believe I actually graduated from medical school on time despite that all happening now into my fourth year because this was my third year bleeding into my fourth year of medical school when all this was going on. It's kind of amazing. A difficult time. Third year's tough. But anyway so we'll come back to the what happened but that's a long answer to a question which is at some point it wasn't even about the pain. The pain was unbearable but it wasn't the most unbearable part. It was the expectation of what that pain meant for the rest of my life that became much more unbearable. It's a terrible story and I have to imagine one that is probably shaped you moving forward and you know how to begin packed on your life and what you've been doing. I call it the best worst experience of my life. Yeah. More and more best today. The gratitude I have for that is IMean I wouldn't want to do it again but it has been such a positive impact on my life. Yeah well I hope we can come back to that and talk about it more in the influence of all this other stuff that was probably contributing to your experience of pain and the bad stuff going on is a consequence of it and plays a role in like everybody else's life out there and I think there's some key messages there. What would you like to segue to? Before we go into kind of like the ins and outs of what pain doctors can do. Yeah. Let's just talk about some of the bread and butter stuff on pharmacology. Yeah. Right. So how can we navigate our way through what NSAIDs do, what opioids do, what COX2 inhibitors do, what should people be aware of in using these things? Obviously opioids are a remarkably controversial topic but there's probably a nuance to it that's missing from the broader discussion. But why don't we start with a softball like NSAIDs? How do they work? Everybody's heard of Adville, you know, leave nepox and all of these things. Sure. So these medications are psychological oxygenase inhibitors they reduce prostate glandens they reduce what they do is a couple of things. They reduce some of the inflammation their anti-inflammatories. So I was alluding very briefly that there are substances that can be released out in the periphery during injury that wind up that that no seceptor and amplified. Prostiglandins histamine cytokines, interlucons, all of that. This inflammatory soup that occurs after every single surgery, every single injury that we experience. You get this inflammatory soup and it's classically meditated by swelling, redness, temperature increases. And aspirin and a cox to an hip or n-seds do a nice job in reducing that inflammation. Now this is where medical science, you're going to probably be much more informed of me informed than I am on this but medical science has been slowly shifting in its view with this. We have historically thought take these medications in an acute injury, it knocks down that inflammation and all is well and good. Well some of the data was coming out in the orthopedic literature decades ago that people who were taking NSAIDs during total joint replacements were getting non-fusion of that joint to the bone. They were getting failures and then more recently there's been somEQuestion as to whether knocking down the inflammation is a good thing after all that maybe that inflammation is part of the healing process and that by giving an NSAID aspirin were delaying the natural healing effect and causing more problems. So where's the truth? This is tough. One I don't think we have the whole story yet on the NSAIDs. Two I'm a gray guy meaning I don't live in black and white and I'm also appreciated the every medical field has their own lens that they look at in the world and I think we have to appreciate the complexity of the patient meaning if it's perhaps something minor and they can get by without the NSAID and it's not going to change significantly the level of function then maybe not taking it will improve healing. They can't get out of bed they can't go to work but an naperson helps them to do that thing so that they can engage with their family with their friends with work while then heck yes take the NSAID. You know if it's if it's helping with that level of functional improvement. Now are you talking about this through the lens of a acute pain or only through the lens of chronic pain at this point? A little both but I think through chronic pain we start to introduce all the broader the longer term negative consequences of this you know impact on blood pressure your heart impact on your kidneys with long term NSAIDs particularly if you're older. I remember I think it was in your book you took Viox. Yes. I loved Viox. I did too and I still remember the day in oh god it must have been December 2001 when the FDA came down and said no more Viox when I looked at my last bottle and I was like oh god no. I stockpiled it. I wish I did. I called up all the drug reps I knew because they couldn't like give it out and I'm like can you just hook me up and so I ran out of stockpile of that for a long time and you know this is another classic thing if you you could cut this if it's too tangential but you know every field looks at the problem through their own lens here you had a drug that was causing heart attacks. Well IMean in the world's most susceptible individuals at a relatively small absolute rate. I have a whole high-risk discussion with Eric Topel who's like mistake negative. That's right. Absolutely. Net negative. So yeah because I've always won works. It's faulted they should have been much more trensparent about this. Yeah put a black box label on it and we should all still have access to it. That's used in the 50 milligrams use the 25s and you're right don't give it in susceptible people and I think it's a classic again. Yeah they've got thrown out with the bathroom. That's right. And it's a you know it's a lot we all do this we look at the world or our own particular field. It's like with the latest blood pressure guidelines the cardiologists want it really low but it screws up the kidneys and well the cardiologists say you know save the heart screw the kidney. So yeah a great drug wish it was still around. Why do you think there hasn't been any drug that's come close to that like celibrex is a joke like none of the none of the drugs that are in the extra had a valedacoxib I think it was a little bit close but I think if I remember it had a Steven's Johnson a bad rash with terrible consequence I think the drug companies get scared of the lawsuits. So NSA's new ones around taking the version you have a version on dose IMean do you say 800 milligrams of a C of ibutamoren TID three times a day 2400 milligrams would be you would tolerate that for how many days if a person needed it. Yeah you know week to two weeks on that make sure you read it's food in the stomach fluids if you're either older you've got kidney issues you've got GI issues talked to your doc first you know don't just go into this stuff blindly. Yeah it is interesting that we can buy acedimenofin and ibutamoren over the counter and yet they can cause a ton of damage if not taken correctly. IMean the ERs see people with a acedimenofin Tylenol overdoses and you know cause of well you know let's see it here. Now let's talk about acedimenofin for a while when I last tried to understand it there is no clue as to how it worked. Do we to this to this day do we understand how it works? minimally more information and I haven't in full disclosure haven't read up on it a lot I know it has some cyclo oxygenase one impact a lot of it is thought to be central. I haven't tracked it much beyond that. I saw some interesting the side studies where it seems to have some impact in the brain around emotional modulation and so there's a degree of emotional blunting on acedimenofin. Now whether it trenslates into a real world or if it's just an experimental manipulation I don't know but but there's a nice synergy with acedimenofin and ibutamoren because different mechanism of action different organ systems are impacted so you can take less of each when you combine them. What's your take on that? I think you just set it Peter. IMean you set it beautifully. I use those in combination to get the two for to get that synergy the one plus one is not two buT3. So you can take Tylenol historically we would say up to four grams a day. More recently there's been some push to try to reduce that to two grams a day. Clearly if you've got liver dysfunction if you are drinking large amounts of alcohol less. Yeah my go to stack if I am actually in pain like if I'm having like a year ago I had I had to get a crown replaced or sorry I had to get a crown put on a tooth that had an old feeling that broke and it's the funniest thing because of how remarkable the teeth are at sensation but the crown was a little too high okay so what's the impact of that that meant every time I took a bite that one tooth was bearing the brunt of it it was the last tooth I had but right in front of my wisdom tooth and I'm talking to my dentist and he's like yeah Peter it's just too high just come in and let me shave a little bit of it off well I didn't have the time to go in so for two months I did not go in to get this thing shaved off the pain was this is how stupid I am like I couldn't spare the two hours to go to the dentist in a and he was willing to see me nights and weekends this is the most accommodating dentist in the world everybody should have that kind of dentist Tony Pachaco I can't say enough about him and and yet I couldn't make the time so for two months the pain got so bad that I eventually couldn't chew on that side at all so my point is I had to be taking something to get through the day and the stack that worked was 400 of Advil 500 of Tylenol three times a day okay so care me now let me ask you does I be a pro from work better for you than an a person I don't know but the reason I prefer it is that I can line up the dosing with the Obsita menifin because I believe an a person you only take once a day right twice a day okay you're right yeah I wanted something where I could do a T ID instead of BID sure it raised an I ask is I find huge individual variability in response is to NSAIDs okay napper sin works beautifully for me at 500 twice a day I'd be proven not so good at at what dose a 800 three times a day wow yeah with food and water are there types of pains people should be thinking of where these things work especially well and other areas where yeah that's just not going to have much efficacy I don't find it as effective in neuropathic pain it might take a little bit of the edge off no susceptible pain typically as you go to your kind of your no susceptible or your no susceptible inflammatory pain the kind of pain you'd see in a joint those are your typical go to forms of back pain particularly you know in acute situations but also somewhat in chronic and you know I get a lot of patients it's say yeah that didn't do it for me but if you inquire and ask questions you find maybe it knocked it off a little because in our game we're trying to knock off pieces and pieces and pieces of their pain experience the issues with the different responses are very individually based and I think in part it has to do with a little bit what we call pharmacokinetics or where the drug is getting and different NSAIDs confirming a different tissues at different rates so you're saying it maybe we should be empirical in other words try the neproxin try the ibutamoren figure out which one works obviously don't take them together obviously don't take them together the bit your take on messages spot on do you have a concern with people taking a seat of benefit and consuming alcohol do you tell people to refrain from alcohol when they're taking time on all I tell them no more that I I just set a conservabilis and don't do more than like a drink a day you know is that the right amount I don't know but if I tell them one drink a day they'll go do two and they're probably still okay with with that and then I am looking in their chart just to make sure they're not drinking for a or and there's liver issues what are you doing I typically when I'm taking a suit of benefit and I don't drink much anyway I'm probably going to have four drinks in a week so meaning four days a week I will have a drink for three days a week but if I am taking time on all I'm just going to refrain again I don't have any evidence to suggest that that's necessary but it's probably the same it's the precautionary principle it's finest okay I want to talk about muscle relaxants so the other thing that has been a real favorite tool of mine is backlifin now it's not a particularly potent muscle relaxant but it seems to for me and for the patience of mine and whom it works offer something that something really potent like volume doesn't bring all the baggage of of of a benzophe or even a flexural where you can kind of get the drowsiness and frankly a lot of people just IMean I used to even get nauseous on flexural okay but something about backlifin I don't even know it's in me the 20 milligrams twice a day but it actually takes the edge off and where I typically find this beneficial is if I slept wrong and I get a kink in my trap or I've been on a super long drive and my QL sort of flare a little bit and I know that if I had all the time in the world I could go and stretch my way out of that but sometimes I just don't have that time and I need to kind of get right back to doing something awful like sitting and just you know two or three days of 20 milligrams of backlifin BID with a little end said and like I'm as good as new and I save myself the you know the real flare up so what what are you experience with muscle relaxins beautiful case example by the way if you're self of how we would use those backlifin's one of the safest to use it is not habit forming like the somas and others that can be like a barberture a can act and people can get highly psychologically dependent on them the flexorals have a anti-have a try cyclic anti-depressant property about them that may sometimes be helpful for people in various mixed main states but also can cause sedation the backlifin seems to be pretty benign we don't typically use muscle relaxins for long term chronic conditions the data hasn't born out now with that said so how many days are you comfortable with a person I'm comfortable with a person being a backlifin all their life to be okay yeah it's just everything I'm doing I know I'm forgive me if I'm preaching to the choir here everything I'm doing is taken in the context of the person in front of me and the cost and benefit of the treatments I'm providing them meaning there are costs with backlifin I don't mean monetary cost it can cost sedation what doses typically or is it just individual like I think it's it's individual and obviously it is dose dependent the higher doses more sedation we can use backlifin intratheically we put in intratheical pumps for backlifin this is a beautiful life-saving minimal surgery that we do for people with spinal cord injury and tractable spasticity because to get the spasms under control with oral doses you just can't get there so we put thread a little catheter into the CSF and we deliver backlifin that way now it again is a clen relatively relatively safe medication but I'm always evaluating long term is this person getting benefit from this should we be talking about dialing it back and trying to win and if they're not getting benefit then why should they stay on the medication and I know you do the same types of things in your practice so we use it we can use it in cute subacute we'll use it in some chronic conditions as a trial what's a trial month two months okay and then we monitor data on every single person and what dose are you comfortable up to 20 milligrams three times a day yeah up to 80 milligrams I believe is kind of the upper end I don't usually get there okay you alluded to nirontan earlier yeah and you alluded to the fact that it played a role in my recovery because once we got the big stuff out of the way I still had a couple of years of peripheral nerve injury and the only way to put the fire out in my foot was nirontan and unfortunately it was initially it required four grams a day I was taking a gram four times a day or something like that and the good news is it worked the bad news is you're pretty much always tired so I was very happy over time to get that dose down and I think within 18 months I was completely off the nirontan and low and behold never experienced although interestingly maybe once every year I get like an enormous surge of fire into that same foot literally one shot of flame that lasts seconds and it's gone but if essentially never again right is nirontan still a very powerful tool in the use of niropathic pain you alluded to other drugs like antidepressants as well in addition to a rather impotent antisysium ed but yeah what else what else do you have at your disposal for this type of pain the beauty of nirontan or gabapentan and it's cousin pre-gablin which was introduced immediately after gabapentan's patent ran out so conveniently very convenient lately both have the same mechanism of action they work on the altitude delta subunit of a calcium channel in the spinal cord in the brain that's a little too jargoning and technical but think of them as agents that turn down the signals that are in the spinal cord being processed and in the brain so the really not impacting your nir about how here or in your leg um they can be very effective the beauty of these two drugs is uh there's no lethal dose like the only way they could kill the rats when they were studying it was to drown them in it yeah I used to say or hit them over the head with the tablets and I would tell a patient somewhat jokingly the only way you can be hurt taking the drugs if you're struck by a truck that's carrying it um it's a little bit more nuance than that because there are side effects yep you can fall asleep driving you can fall asleep driving I tell people don't operate having machinery don't go you know doom buggy riding don't blah blah blah there is an elderly patient in particular uh I warn them about falls because you can get a little unstable now pre-gablin can also lead to weight gain right doesn't it also increase the appetite both well it's more I see water retention I see a little peripheral edema in both and they also both enhance sleep especially pre-gablin and so there's there's a little bit of an added benefit to patients who are using these to also put the pain out at night when it can be most noticeable um there was actually a study I don't know if I'll ever be able to find it it was sent to me that actually suggested pre-gablin didn't just make you drowsy which was obvious but but also promoted appropriate sleep architecture I don't know the data on the sleep architecture and that would be something I'd be putting out to you or some of the sleep experts um I have uh I have taken it uh after surgery and uh I find that it makes me sedated I don't find thEQuality of the sleep IMean I can be totally wrong on that but no well we both can be a good experience that's it that's it it could just simply be my experience the truth is uh I do tend to when I dose it I'll dose lower in the day and then I'll wall up a little harder at night for the very reason so let's imagine gabapentin you know maybe in the day 300 300 600 at night and I'm trying to tie trade that so that one it helps some sleep because you brought up an incredibly important point which is during the day we've got all these modular toy things we can do around our pain distraction for instance other coping strategies at night you're just trying to get into this relaxed state and that is the worst time for somebody with chronic pain and so the gabapentin and sometimes other agents can help with that so yeah I do use it to help people sleep no lethal dose uh max is out and around 900 to 1000 milligrams that it does because it's it's taken up by an active trensport system in the small intestine once you take more than about a thousand milligrams the rest of it just passed out your backside pre-gablin is different it has a what's called a linear kinetic profile simply meaning the more you take the more the gets in your system so the only times I will typically switch somebody from a gabapentin if they're getting benefit is when they've maxed out the dose they're getting benefit but there's no point in giving a moral switch to pre-gablin where I can drive more into their system and again you're using these for the most recalcitrent neuropathic pain typically I'm using these for the most recalcitrent pain in general so that's an important point while I can speak to parioperative pain acute pain subacute pain chronic pain Stanford we tend to see we're a tertiary referral center I tend to see we see people after they've seen everybody else and so by definition what's it we didn't even do this I'm sorry we didn't define chronic pain but how would you put a definition on that there's various definitions something like to put a time frame on it which I think many of us believe is a little artificial it's noT3 months or six months it is pain persists beyond the expected time of tissue healing so it is nuanced it's context specific meaning if you have an angle no herni repair or a prosthetectomy which you know should heal up pretty quickly and your pain should go away pretty quickly but if you've got pain after couple a few months that's starting to get to that point where I'm a little worried something's going on from a chronic pain but if you had a total knee replacement that is a massive massive surgery and you're gonna have pain for quite some time so I wouldn't call that I wouldn't call cronicity for a total knee right makes I'm okay okay okay context specific this gets into also some of the whole issue around opioid prescribing and these rigid time frames for surgery and and what have you but persistence beyond the time of expected tissue healing antidepressants in their role in pain management yeah these are cradably effective agents not necessarily for their antidepressive properties they frequently work through modulating a couple neurotrensmitters serotonin and noroprenephrine and to varying extent we find that the classic what we refer to as SSRIs a serotonin the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors haven't been as effective for pain as the older dirty drugs of the tricyclic antidepressants we call them dirty which simply means they act at multiple receptors they hit multiple systems so these tricyclics hit the serotonin and noroprenephrine systems and then they also happen to be pretty potent sodium channel blockers why the sodium channel blocking property is important is when we talked earlier about the peripheral nerves one of the main drivers of an action potential is activity around the sodium channels you block the sodium channels the action potential stops remember how much you gave me of how much sodium that's very how much light it can back then I hope I hope it wasn't toxic uh we'll come back to the story it's pretty funny I'm looking forward to which which TCA's are the are the popular ones everybody dot you know there's I think there's about nine what are your top two or three yeah that's the thing we all get comfortable with our top two or three of any class and so minds it might go to his disciplinary nortriptoline and amitriptoline um they're broken up into different categories based on mainly side effect profiles so the a treanor triptoline what was it um amitriptoline or yep yep so elevals an older trice cyclic that has a lot of histamine release a lot of sedating properties I would never give that to an older guy with a big prostate because he couldn't pee and he'll be very angry with me I will never give that to a young woman who's looking to watch her wait because she's gonna get the munchies and she's gonna put on 10 or 20 pounds and she's gonna hate me have I had that happen yes and I still embarrassed to this day um but if I have some is it offset by GOP one agonists in the modern era oh you know this was 20 I learned my lessons I haven't I haven't run that experiment that's a great idea but I typically use the amitriptoline when I need some sedating help at night for sleep and pain because a dual the dual action I like the disciper mean because it has less of that histum that sedating property and I'll tend to go to that and the nor triptoline and you can titrate blood levels for instance like the nor triptoline and those drugs so where do they work they work in the brain they work in the brain stem one of the classic areas down deep in the brain stem is a raw structural ventral medulary region where descending pathways are coming down and some of the key neurotrensmitters are serotonin nor upper nephrine so we're not necessarily using these drugs for their mood changing properties we're using them because they hit the same systems as they do in pain and that's the beauty of them and that's some of the messaging we have to give patients when we prescribe them an antidepressant is like okay and you know Mrs. Jones, Mr. Smith we're not doing this because we think we're you're depressed and you're spending yeah these are great great pain drugs but they were never FDA approved why were they not FDA approved because they're off patented there's no money to be made yeah if not not FDA approved drug approved for pain is which you may yeah thank you thank you for everything approved for something else you're absolutely right okay well this brings us to opioids which I sort of saved for last because of the well there's actually more drugs I want to talk about but in terms of like the off the shelf typical stuff that people think about so a lot of hay has been made over this there's no question that opioids have been overused and abused and there's no question that elicit use of these things has had a devastating impact on our society but it would be difficult to say that the field of medicine would be better off having never had an opioid to you know we just talked about surgery for example very challenging to deliver medicALCARe in a hospital without opioids so thEQuestion becomes what is the most responsible case for oral opioids which by definition are meant to be used outside of a hospital not inside a hospital and as a pain specialist I would imagine few people are better equipped to navigate the nuance of that question yeah it is a very nuanced question I think a little preamble first I don't take money from either the opioid companies I don't take money from the litigation that's ongoing because there are tens and tens of billions of dollars at play right now yeah I don't take money and I am not pro-alpoid I am not anti-opiod I am pro-patient I view them as a tool I view them as a tool much like the other medications interventions mind body physical rehabilitative complementary tools that we use they have a particular place I have a personal deep appreciation for the destruction that these agents can cause I come from a family very deep in addiction very deep I've lost close family members to opioid overdose I've lost close family members to alcoholism I am personally petrified of these drugs and I have gone through surgeries that the surgeon said you can't get through this without an opioid and I'm like I'll be fine because my approach is avoidance with that said I have learned a long time ago not to project my personal experiences onto my patients that had to come through age wisdom whatever it is true prescription opioids were over prescribed they were over marketed they were you know there were bad actors doing bad things it came at a time but it's it's not that simple story I sometimes get frustrated because I feel like you can make really simple sound bites out of this complex societal issue when it was a perfect storm that hit yes you had a letter to the editor of New England Journal saying that nobody got addicted to on a like 38 patients or some nonsense Purdue and others ran with this and I get that and they did bad things you also have to put things in the context of what was going on in society there was growing awareness of pain as there should be there was growing pressures to do something about it people have brought up the pain as a fifth vital sign is an example and people have different opinions about that did it have bad consequences yes did it have good consequences hell yes run the counterfactual do you want to go back to a time when we're not asking patients after surgery they're paying do you want your mother your daughter back in that time I think the answer is clearly no but also there was other pressures and Peter you were you witnessed those first hand what was going on back in the 90s and the 2000s and after surgery there was this massive push to get people out of the hospital and put them in their home we were replacing care in a hospital with care in the home in the hospital we had time to see their trajectory we could titrate their opioids or whatever or get them tuned up dialed in and then send them home now surgery overnight your home let's give you a bucket of whatever and the reason for that was surgeons and docs don't like getting called at 3 a.m. for pain control so pressure to put people out in the in the home environment on top of it docs get lousy trening for pain like what is the average seven hours I think in medical school that's by the way 40 hours of pain so great if you've got a dog not so great for a patient so you got this pressure and by the way not only on top of that but now you've got the introduction of patient satisfaction scores I have to imagine in your private practice you don't have to measure press gaining in patient satisfaction scores but in hospitals everybody does at least they did I think they're coming to their senses and so one way of addressing the satisfaction give more opioids so there's and there's more there's many many many pressures that came to bear that helped create this problem of which there were bad actors out there by the way the perfect analogy to this is the mortgage crisis in 2006 to 2008 or if you took a zero-th order view it would be really easy to blame one of the entities but it is actually a perfect storm right I have a slide yet on the opioid crisis I call it the perfect storm yeah I you're absolutely right and in the end and here I'm going to be a little bit reductive when it comes to the docs roles in this I'm going to borrow from my friend professor Keith Humphrey's there are three kinds of physicians in the out there there are the majority of the physicians doing the right thing for the right reasons there are the next group which is a much smaller group physicians doing the wrong thing for the right reasons and at the very top of that pyramid a little group you got physicians doing the wrong thing for the wrong reasons bad those people at the top take away their license put them in jail but you had a group of people here in the middle that were doing the wrong thing for the right reasons that they either didn't have the right education they thought they were helping people they did they contribute to the problem yes have they gotten educated have we yes I didn't answer your question though and let me now circle back and and I hope you'll forgive that little bit of siloquie on my perspective of that 20 years I don't use opioids is a first line age I never almost never end of life cancer but usually by then they've tried other things before they're getting to us and I will use end of life cancer panel use opioids liberally has needed now just one thing but you are not taking care of somebody in the acute phase of expected pain typically is that correct in other words that guy that just had a knee replacement he's being managed by his surgeon correct you know frequently we have an acute pain service and the hospital that sees about 30 to 50 patients a day based on what when is a patient being when is the big gun of your team's expertise being brought in for a post surgical routine case versus not when most frequently when the outcome is not simple so when the surgeon needs some help when the internal medicine doc needs help and it's beyond their comfort you know when we brought pain in for every case when I was in residency was anytime we did a thoracotomy was a non-negotiable yeah pain was consulted before the case just for people listening a thoracotomy we didn't do these often because a lot of times by the time I was in residency we did minimally invasive surgery in the chest yeah but sometimes you had to actually make a huge incision under the ribs and that's very painful we just you know you just know this from experience that that's such a painful experience you cut this huge incision in the intercostal muscles you put ribs spreaders in you crank these things open so you can do this big operation we just know those patients are going to need an epidural catheter and we want that in before surgery not after yeah and it makes all the difference in the world so pain was a part of that response I don't remember us routinely bringing pain in otherwise but things have changed I'm sure in 20 years so today for a general abdominal case or a general orthopedic case are you brought in preoperatively yeah yeah these days there's a lot of movement towards these RS protocols and enhanced recovery after surgery and so fortunately the field of medicine is moving more and more towards a team-based healthcare model where you know surgeons pain docs anesthesiologist nursing rehab or all working in a collaborative manner they're putting together protocols to what is the best optimal approach to prehab a patient before surgery move them through the intraoperative and then pariooperative period and it's gotten better and better and better can we still improve it yes but the acute pain service does get involved particularly as you alluded when we put in peripheral nerve catheters or epidural catheters and this is where we're running that local anesthetic the numbing medication that stops the nerve impulses to provide pain relief after surgery and so yes we do get deeply deeply involved in that acute surgical pain space and then also with internal medicine docs and the hot wind patients are admitted into the hospital for whatever cause so if someone's listening to us and they're going to have elective surgery at some point like I want to plant to see in their head for someone who's going to have the knee replacement the hip replacement the colonis is to take to me the api whatever yeah should they be requesting this of their surgeon should they say hey I want to be diligent about my recovery I want to minimize my use of narcotics do you mind calling in a pain consult so that we can I can just have a team of docs who are exclusively thinking about my pain because let's be honest yeah the surgeon I got enough to worry about I got to make sure you didn't leak that that anastimosis is fine that you're not getting a wound infection your pain is literally like third or fourth on the list of my concerns for you to have the best outcome you are right and if patients listening to this a person's listening and they have the ability they have the word thought to go to their doc their surgeon and ask what will pain management be like is there an opportunity to interface with an acute pain service particularly if they're taking opioids now for a chronic pain problem or even if they're not taking opioids for a chronic pain problem so we will see them in our clinic before surgery we will put together a pre-surgical plan for them which will often include a regional anesthetic approach meaning those nerve blocks or the catheters we sometimes involve intravenous ketamine to augment we will put together the whole plan communicate with the anesthesiologist make sure there's a good handoff after surgery and then we will follow them afterwards and then we will typically follow them outside the hospital and help the surgeon out with the medication management and the pain management all of this is not just solely to reduce pain but to put that person in an optimal state for rehab for functional coverage how ubiquitous is the patient controlled anesthenous analgesic device the PCA that we use everywhere okay so it's still so people are still typically getting out fentanyl through a PCA you know immediate post-operative phase fentanyl the lot more keen okay dilotted yeah yeah no the PCA is a very common tool and one it puts pain control in the hands of the patient two studies have been shown that PCA delivered medication opioids they end up taking less than if it's nursing and the goal is we want to get you off an opioid even oral before you go home is that generally the state of objective of the medical system now is whatever opioids are going to need let's try to deliver that to you in the hospital I wouldn't say necessarily because I think there are some surgeries that are going to clearly require prescribing an opioid after surgery remember the name of the game is get people out of the hospital and have the care take place in their home and people are going to need some degree of pain management and analgesics and those analgesics can be Tylenol NSAIDs if it's more than you know mild moderate pain it may involve an opioid so how are you thinking about that how are you thinking about extracting the value of the opioid and minimizing the risk of long-term dependence what we have learned is that there are vulnerabilities that people bring to an injury or surgery and being placed on opioids that set them up for more likelihood of persistent opioid use and we've characterized we and others through research studies have characterized many of these factors so some of these factors include preoperative depression and anxiety higher levels of catastrophizing I early adverse child events so a history of PTSD history of physical sexual psychological trauma all of these sets someone up to have a higher likelihood of persistent pain and persistent opioid use now you will note all these things I said most of these things I said people would normally put under the psychological umbrella the key message that I want to give people and I think I think people I think everyone's getting this is when we talk about psychology and psychological factors we're talking about neurosciences we're talking about the brain and we're talking about specific brain systems regions networks so we did a study several years ago this was led by Jennifer Haw Ian Carroll was a key player leader on this and we found that higher depression scores preoperatively predicted much more likelihood of persistent opioid use after surgery and how are you screening for this what tests are you using back then we used something called the back depression inventory which standard instrument we don't use that anymore there's more modern tools I thought what was cool about this we did a factor analysis on the original paper and you can break the back down into different components of depression and hedonia cognitive level what we found is it was a particular factor that drove almost entirely that prediction of depression self-loathing it was feeling like really bad about years so if you had someone who just suffers from not that hedonia is anything but unpleasant but if they're only experiencing anodonia but no self-loathing you would say well the risk isn't as high yeah you know conceptually your argument holds but now I'm going to come back to a lot of the things that you write about which is the danger of drawing inferences from small population studies and generalizing that to the rest of the world yeah especially without randomization because what you really would like to be able to see is you take a whole bunch of people in you get their incoming metrics of anodonia disthymia self-loathing you categorize all the arms and tentacles of depression yeah and then you randomize within each of those to with and without opioid strategies and then you IMean this is a very complicated thing to do but if you want to know the answer that's kind of the way you want to do it that's exactly it unfortunately there's not much will to do that in society these days even in the world we live in today where we understand that for a non-zero potentially non-trivial segment of the population the introduction to opioids that ultimately destroys people's lives is delivered by the medical system I was on the Institute of Medicine panel now the National Academy panel called relief and we did a report called relieving pain in America and I remember sitting around back in 2010 and we were talking about the state of pain in the country and where we needed to go identify a perfect vision and also identify what are the biggest research questions to ask an answer and I remember really vigorous discussion here and the one that I put forward and others put forward is we need to better understand what is the long-term effectiveness and safety of prescribing opioids to people with chronic pain meaning we need to figure out for whom opioids work um today we still don't have an answer to that question and there's very little will to do it because the whole message in the scientific communities basically find non-opioid choices so there's not a lot of interest in funding the studies to figure out for whom it works there is a lot of active interest still mainly through data driven studies to find out who's at risk but that type of study that you're talking about and others that are of longer term and bigger consequences I just don't know when they're going to get done who's going to fund us this is a little unrelated but I remember this when I was in residency there was one of the attendings I don't even remember who who it was but he was one of the he had this belief he used to quote this study and I don't remember it but it said that if you injected bupivicane into the injection site so as sorry the incision site so I'm going to I'm going to make a midline incision draw my little line inject bupivicane so for the listener this is a long acting sodium channel blocker wait some long period of time like ten minutes yeah then make the incision go about do your surgery and then immediately give that patient a seat of benefit and I'd be profan immediately post operatively and keep them on it around the clock you could eliminate opioid use and he was convinced that the only reason surgeons didn't want to do this was because nobody wants to inject and stand there for ten minutes with your thumb up your ass waiting for the bupivicane to seep into the tissues and maybe it's anecdotal but it really seemed to work right like it really seemed to work that you would do this in good olhoney or repair or you know at the time some small laparotomy or whatever it was anything and if you were willing to put that bupivicane in and sit there and wait and I'm trying to think we might have used epi with light a cane as well so might have been a little epi with light a cane plus bupivicane or something like that and you had to be super do diligent about keeping the acetaminophen and ibutamoren level if you ever heard of anything like that all the time yeah IMean I think he was ahead of the ahead of the curve now whether it completely eliminates any likelihood of opioids after sorry that's a little bit too strong a state just reduces the requirement right I strongly believe that he was practicing good medicine and he was doing it ahead of his time now the idea of using a combination of light a cane and markane and epi as you well know is light a cane short acting yep so it's going to work pretty darn quick and so you can get going with your surgery while you're while the markane the bupivicane's kick and end the epi is going to not only provide him a state it's going to reduce bleeding at the site but it can teach the local contain which means you have to use less bovie which means less tissue damage like and I could be sort of miss maybe he was using epi with bupivicane I don't remember but IMean you throw something there there there and I think I have an asturgence these days and my sense is that's becoming more and more common practice that there's a greater appreciation of the role of this not concept of preemptive preventative analgesie anesthesia I think it it provides some benefit there was a big hoopla on this like 20 years ago when everybody thought we were going to find a way just to basically eliminate post operative pain through these methods that's presumably didn't pan out it just didn't pan out yeah but look a 50% reduction in opioid requirement post operatively would be enormous huge absolutely and where are we getting back to your your question I think we're at an interesting crux in research and clinicALCARe where we're gathering more and more high quality data to better understand these vulnerabilities and I think we're we're going to be moving to the point of putting these into clinical decision support tools that can inform the docs and help them to assess a risk of the patient you know so that you can have an informed conversation with someone like you are at likelihood of having persistent you know opioid use because of what you bring yeah I shared with you do patients receive that well um that's a hard discussion to have with a patient I would imagine I guess a little bit is about their expectations you know the challenges when the ones who've had multiple surgeries that have been on opioids they're expecting opioids it's all about expectations a lot of his expectations I think the more naive person those go a little smoother um if you are professional explain to them but also allow them to make their own choices you know don't say we're not going to give this to you yeah that makes sense but here you are in an increased risk and that's always the discussion I have with patients whether in the acute space or particularly in the chronic space so let's talk about a couple other things that are kind of related to this but did distinct um let's talk about um acupuncture what do you know about it well let's talk about through the lens of chronic pain yeah yeah yeah all right clinically some people get better some people don't get better I cannot yet predict who is going to respond and who's not going to respond is it a part of the work that your department does yeah we actually have Dr. John T. Kong does the acupuncture she's a pain doc she does acupuncture and my view of acupuncture is a mode as a treatment as a modalities if you can afford the wallet biopsy and it doesn't cause you problems then give it a try and you say wallet biopsy because the insurance doesn't typically cover it they do more so now on Medicare and I think that the rules that went into place recently helped with that for older patients I don't honestly know if it's trenslated down to the commerciALCARriers so Medicare is covering something commercial payers are not well it's possible okay yeah I is historically been hard to get that uh covered so not with standing I like the I see a wallet biopsied and heard that before um in your experience where do you see it being most successful what type of pain what type of clinical presentation yeah I've had some successes and back pain musculoskeletal pain migraines that is oddly um and it's highly variable I studied this I had a really large program project grant to look at cortical mechanisms of this and uh predictors and you know we're putting in a paper now which is a prediction model of real acupuncture versus placebo acupuncture sham how do you do placebo sleep acupuncture because you you don't sure but not in the appropriate spot well that's one option and it turns out that many of these acupuncture points over life peripheral nerves and so when you you know twittle the needle or apply acupuncture are you doing a peripheral nerve stimulation I don't know but this is a striding or needle that looks for all intensive purposes like an acupuncture needle it causes a little pin prick but it doesn't actually do acupuncture and it's been shown to be a good placebo what do I know about the mechanisms again uh don't fully understand I know that there is increases and peripheral adenosine that is released with acupuncture that has an analgesic effect at the primary no seceptor I know that cortically in the brain there are brain systems that are modulated with acupuncture but heck if I know exactly how it works there's and we still don't have good ways of predicting who's going to respond and who's not going to respond but that's rather common amongst all of our pain treatments but uh you know again pretty safe you know absent some risk of infection you know make sure that the facility you're getting at practices good hygienic approaches preset how do we think about acupuncture differing from dry needleing yeah I think you need to well I think you'll want to get a true acupuncture specialist on to because I know that to dry that so like in California I think technically you're it's not legal to dry needle but you can't acupuncture I don't even understand the difference you're using the term dry needleing from an interim muscular standpoint I don't know if that's where you're going maybe so I see acupuncture refers to just going after a nerves specifically well it's an acupuncture point okay it is a Chinese medicine list of acupuncture points I'm way out of my wheelhouse here folks when I think of dry needleing I tend to think of that in the context of trigger point injections which we do physicians do and that we're taking typically like a 30 or 27 gauge needle we're putting it in trimuscularly into a trigger point muscle it's where you get those naughty muscles and you can do dry needleing and what that does is it causes relaxation of the muscle acupuncture is really quite different from that next question on chronic pain what is the role of cannabis in your experience here is it is it friend or foe and again I'm sure there's a nuanced there are nuances this is another one where uh liable to get some hate mail on either side of this here's what I'll tell you one the verdict is way is still way the heck out there you look at well controlled randomized trials most there's very few of them by the way but some a neuropathic pain that show analgesic benefit over short period of time with cannabis you look at population level studies Australia did one they did not show benefit with cannabis we collect data one of my other areas of both research but also clinicALCARe is I built a learning health system that captures high quality data on every patient that comes in and so we deeply characterize or phenotype them and we looked at people coming in on cannabis not on cannabis bottom line people coming in on cannabis and to Stanford or Warsaw and they stay Warsaw now there's all these limitations to observational studies no matter how well you conduct them I let me let me distill it down to some talking points there's a huge number of cannabinoid receptors in the human brain that are playing a role in analgesia so I'm absolutely convinced the cannabinoids are playing a role in pain relief one two the forms of cannabis that we take are dirty meaning we don't know the dose we don't know the ratios they've not been well studied and they've not been studied in different groups a major part of that is because it's a schedule one drug which means that the DEA says that basically high abuse potential and no medical benefit and it takes basically an active congress to study cannabis I don't prescribe it at Stanford I don't screen people for it at Stanford if I did and if we kicked them all out I wouldn't have anybody in the clinic IMean we're in northern California that's interesting so you can't study it I would assume you couldn't study it with federal dollars because of the federal DEA restriction I would have assumed because it's legal in California if you were using non-federal dollars you could study it in a state like California you can't study it with federal dollars night I will support okay funding of cannabis the regulatory controls you have to go through hard crazy I see because it's scheduled one the laboratory it's it's actually more demanding it's than how you would study cocaine we used to make jokes UCS after some nice cannabis research and the the word on the street was is that they would deliver the cannabis dobe's in a brink's armored truck with guys carrying M16's now I think it's got it's gotten better but it's just been challenging to study this and I I'm firmly of the opinion we need to here's where I'm going to upset people I firmly believe we should make it a schedule to a schedule three drug if for no other reason to study it with yeah less friction what you said yeah perfect okay there's a condition you've already alluded to today that I am sure everyone has heard of and yet if you asked most people to define it they wouldn't be able to define it and so we're going to start with what it is why someone might have it what is the prevalence are their false positives I'm talking about none other than fiber my algebra yeah yeah what was historically a garbage bag definition fiber my algebra is a condition of widespread bodily pain that impacts people above and below the waste the diaphragm it's associated with early morning stiffness fatigue mental fog often you know some GI problems it is was historically based on American College of Metology definitions based on tender points and a lot of an out of 18 places but that's been replaced by now criteria which involves multiple body sites affected and a symptom severity score the key thing when the audience hears well first of all it's fiber myologist syndrome and whenever the audience hears syndrome what they should trenslate that to the definition of a syndrome is a constellation of signs and symptoms that define a disease but we don't understand the mechanism so fiber myologist is a syndrome we do not understand its mechanisms we know that historically it tended to affect women more than men about 80% ish or so women with a newer definition we're picking up a lot more men the cognitive aspects of it are really a problem it's also associated as I alluded to with sleep disturbances they get this weird what we call alpha wave intrusion into their EEG which means alpha waves are typically in light awakefulness so when you're supposed to be in deep sleep or REM sleep your brain is in kind of a light alert state instead and so they're not getting a rustful sleep this is a syndrome that's caused untold problems particularly for women what's the prevalence according to the current definition i can't tell i I should know how many millions there peat that's an that's AI should know how many millions and i don't what i i can tell you just to give a frame of reference um chronic pain we think there's 50 to 100 million americans with chronic pain that's a huge range and it depends on the way you ask thEQuestion um if you ask it more stringently it's 50 million if you ask it more liberally it's a we know that there are about 8% of the population or a little over 20 some odd million with something called high impact chronic pain this is a big one and this is where i spend a lot of my research and policy work on these are the people that has substantial restrictions to their pain in activities a daily living these are the really challenging people of that 50 to 100 million the most common chronic pain is low back pain at about 28 percent neck pain 16 percent headaches around 16 percent societal burden of chronic pain is terrifying it's astounding we spend over half a trillion dollars a year in chronic pain and the reason why in part it's not more appreciated is because we have parceled it out we've broken it into different categories you know with heart disease we lump it into heart disease cardiovascular disease even though it's all these different sub components with pain instead we categorize it as it's either you know it's back pain it's musculoskelet pain it's migraines it's abdominal pain and it gets disdeluded out but when you put it all together you're dealing with a half a trillion dollars more than diabetes heart disease and cancer combined fiber myology again i'm escaping the prevalence many millions of people huge societal burden it is historically a disease of history on a housewives is how they were mislabeled tragically and we're having now a greater appreciation for what it is what's affected what we have learned is that there are brain systems that are clearly abnormal in the processing of pain and people with fiber myology we find that for the same pressure stimulus if you apply something like four kilograms per square centimeter healthy people will give a range of reporting in certain range people with fiber myology much much higher here's another interest i think this is an interesting pain concept to introduce and talk about it there's something called conditioned pain modulation in the animal world we called it diffuse noxious inhibitory controller denic cpm okay think back to when you were a kid your arm hurt you walk up to your buddy you say hey man you know and he's like how you doing it's like well my arms kind of hurt in a lot and what would he do hit you he would hit you of course hit it you're other arm he'd stomp on your foot and like while they held it back there this is a boy only thing like i can't imagine girls did this but yes it's of course this is what little boys do this is what little boys do i was guilty of a lot of that but then you'd say to your buddy i don't you feel better and the truth is you did because pain in another area reduces the primary pain site it's called condition pain modulation we're all wired it is a network predominantly we think in the brain stem involving some of this paracoductal gray rostral ventral medulary regions labars first described this in the mid eight mid seventies in animals so we all do it we all have it it's just endogenous tonic inhibitory tone that you can activate when you get caused pain in another site unless you have fibromyalgia if you have fibromyalgia particularly if you're a woman with fibromyalgia you you have impaired cpm you don't inhibit now is there a high overlap with depression anxiety and fibromyalgia and if so which is the peracoductality yeah the good sugar and we used to think that there was a high preponderance of anxiety and depression with fibromyalgia and i think the current data doesn't support that there's any higher prevalence than particularly any other pain conditions i think you tend to see more the anxiety depression broadly speaking and things like low back pain i think what you see more of in fibromyalgia is fatigue, unrelenting, fibro fog is what they call it and what is the lead disturbances and so what is the management for these patients is this a curable syndrome or is it a syndrome that is meant to be managed like HIV? yes and no what do IMean well one we don't know exactly the mechanisms there's different prevailing thoughts one thought again is it's a disruption in your central brain processing a pain through reasons unknown there are some that believe it is a disease a condition of small fibroenoropathy because you can do punch biopsies little little skin biopsies here and what they find in some subsets of people with fibromyalgia is those cfibres that there is alterations abnormalities of the cfibres in the skin and that is synonymous with a small fibroenoropathy that neurologist typically see now that's caused by what yeah that's the thing is this infectious what people think is going on so fibromyalgia is frequently preceded by some event something traumatic that traumatic can be physical motor vehicle accident but it could also be some emotional or sexual abuse it can be an infection we frequently you know also hear that story so there is some insult that people will frequently identify getting back to your question on managing this we frequently use the same medications that we've described before but we rely on more of those brain module at the TCA's are the big another one like the locksetine which is in the class of antidepressants but it's a little clener fewer side effects it's a serotonin or a peniferin re-uptaken hibiter this is actually a drug that got FDA approval for pain and so we go to this a lot uh one of the drugs that I have studied with Jared younger who's now at UAB is a drug called Lodosanal Trek Zone this is a fascinating drug and it's got like this underground reputation out there that's all over the forums and the reason for it is because it's been around for decades and off patent there is zero money for any pharmaceutical company for what is now trucks on now truck zone when given at 50 milligrams is used to block opioid receptors it's an opioid blocker and so we use this in the treatment of opioid and alcohol addiction because it blocks the rewarding experiences of alcohol or opioids and so it's used as a treatment for addiction 50 milligrams aT4 and a half milligrams one tenth of the dose it has been shown to activate to block toll like four receptor on the microglia now I just introduced like this really technical concept so allow me to briefly explain the microglia are these cells that hang around nerves but are not neurons and when I was in medical school few years several years before you what I was taught was these microglia were like the warm fuzzy blanket that propped up the nerves I don't know what you were taught but they provided structural support to the nerves what I learned is that was only part of the story that their key neural immune modulators and so what IMean by that is in times of stress injury fever these microglia get activated they release all sorts of inflammatory mediators chemicals that sensitize the central nerves responsible for pain pain trensmission pain perception so you give low to us and I'll truck sound it blocks that it blocks that neuroinflammatory soup and in some patients Peter this drug's been magical like magical I give it in four and a half milligrams I'm silly question why not five like four point five has a lot of specificity to it was there some reason why it came in at such a dose all right here's my story Linda walk and and Mark Hutchinson did some of the early work in the animal studies on this and showed this microglia effect and they did it at a certain dose and so what we did is we did a milligram per kilogram just a stabler 70 milligram 70 kilo person 70 kilo person thank you and we geT4 and a half and so when people ask me that I'm like wow it does make a sound pretty smart doesn't it there's no difference between four and a half and five yeah so what are the other areas where LDN is just captivating the world complex regional pain syndrome it has had a that's a very tragic pain condition that is a neuropathic pain condition we see a fair amount of I've got a clinical trial I'm just wrapping up on that using Lodos and I'll track on funded by the RSDSA association and another is actually multiple sclerosis they've used it in and they found some reduction in reoccurrences of MS I think they did that you you CSF or UCLA but it's in these weird neurodegenerative type conditions where there's things about now I've had some wacky really wacky patient responses if IMean I can share one if he is disartheir through a key can't speak he's got weakness he has hemibody pain burning pain this is that central pain okay the lamic pain so he comes to me several years later can barely speak at all he's tried everything let's try Lodos and I'll try why does he come to a pain doc because he's got terrible pain okay so he wasn't coming to you for the speech issue no no he has a speech therapist it's not getting any better he's a couple of years out stroke of stabilized so it's this burning pain on half his body half his body I trial him on four and a half milligrams of LDN he goes away comes back a couple months later pain is improved but not only that he's now speaking and throwing a few words together for the first time in like census stroke unlike what the hell I bump up his dose you cannot hurt yourself on this drug you know I know you know this it's also I go to nine one out ten well because it's easy to take two capsules yeah he comes back a few months later he's now like talking in sentences and I'm like I said are you sure this isn't due to your speech therapist and they swear up and down absolutely not he I go on up to like 13 and I go up to 13 and a half and now he's having conversations and how does his pain massively better on this and really remarkable effect I cannot the only way I can explain these things is you know in a stroke you've got like these you've got dead tissue you've got live tissue you've got these intermediate zones and somehow with reducing maybe inflammation you end up with yeah more functional brain somehow if that model makes sense which it at least two we logically does something about that inflammatory zone in the middle between what was clearly gone and we're not and not is poisoning the part that's still okay right it's so what is the downside of this meaning what would one need to be mindful of in trying and approach like this the beauty of this drug is the only side effects that I've typically I see 20 30% of people get vivid dreams they get technical dreams not bad dreams not my not nightmares but there are dreams just take on a more colorful nature everyone's on well see somebody who they say it activates then we tell them to take it to ours before bedtime and if it activates some a little bit take it in the morning instead so here's a silly question yeah what's the scenario in which inflammation of the glia is a good thing it's a good thing after injury and after an infection because it mobilizes all of those repair cells to come and clen up the mess the problem that we think is going on in pain the switches don't turn off and go back to normal and indeed that either which you do beautiful intro is one of the things we think is playing a role in fibromyalgia they got an insult activation of this neuroimmune neuroinflammatory system and health these state it turns off and fibromyalgia never turned off I guess where I'm going with this is we think that at least a subset of people with neuro degenerative diseases and you mentioned multiple sclerosis but we think this is true in at least some cases of Alzheimer's disease that neuroinflammation is a part of the pathology so would there be any efficacy to a trial there in either an individual with MCI, mild cognitive impairment or as crazy as the sounds as there are reason to consider it prophylatically in high-risk individuals with the caveat that hey by the way if you happen to get an infection like this would be a good time to stop it and ride it out and get better I think the short answer short answer is yes a little bit of the long-eranswer is everything I know you know this everything we do is weighing risk and benefits yep this is one drug I am hard pressed to come up with significant risks we have we have decades and decades and decades of experience with this drug in people with addiction at 10x the dose at 10 and how long are they typically on that drug lifetime so meaning for for a subset of individuals just putting them on the party dose of 50 milligrams of meltrex on keeps them free of alcohol and opioids for life because it's so blunts the pleasure center yeah the the problem is is all the addition all I just know is that it's hard to keep people on this because they can just stop it and go back and use yeah you know so that's why you've no you have to want to be off you have to want to be off they have injectable versions of this it's not called divotrol is it it's it's an injectable under the skin that lasts X number of days months but yeah we've got a lot of long-term data on this and from a pilot standpoint with informed consent obviously and just you know I would view that as a kind of a novel treatment in patients that one could try out monitor do some objective measures and see what see what you get I wouldn't say that I want to be careful I wouldn't say that for a lot of the things that we do because there's real risks with a lot of the medications that we provide a lot of the procedures we do not only that there's big costs that come with them where is this I'm going to make a plug here I have no relationship too but we get our stuff out of ballmarr pharmacy in Colorado why they're compounding pharmacy they've got all the certifications oh the reason is you can't go to safeway or Costco and get this you can't get low dose milk racks on there you mean you have to it doesn't be compounded at 4.5 you're saying you're right good and so we go through this pharmacy because they've got good customer service they take patients credit cards over the phone and they will ship it to you immediately and they're very responsive you can probably find it in your local area at other compounding pharmacies it usually runs about $30 a month so it's basically a free drug insurance doesn't often cover up because it's they consider an experimental but it's basically a free drug so it's a bucket day yeah yeah so I it's one that I use more and more and more because of its safety profile and it's potential forgetting me a home run yeah my my wheels are turning on I'm very curious to see if anybody has looked at LDN and and and and and and and and and any of the neuro inflammation stuff because look we you know we see the relationship between herpes and plex virus and Alzheimer's disease between shingles especially ocular variants of it and Alzheimer's disease we know that there is some relationship between inflammation and this disease yeah and and we know that that's obviously not all paths pet cross through that right there there are lipid mediated paths metabolic paths vascular paths but I think you know you very difficult to make the case there's not an inflammatory path towards that condition and so interesting to think about it is and I need you know just as a ideally a good scientist tell you that not everybody buys and to the microglial model that I'm describing there are friends and colleagues at Michigan Dan Klaw brilliant brilliant guy who is very much in disagreement with me who believes that even at these low doses you are antagonizing the opi-dergic system and an essence kind of resetting it in these chronic pain states so that you're normalizing the endogenous tone and you know what he could that's the fun thing about science and why we try to keep our ego out of it the truth will come forward what's the evidence for the inhibition of the the toll like receptor is that in is that in in vitro yeah and here's the thing yeah it is in vitro uh Linda walkins markuch and did some really nice work in that and showed people have had some difficulty in replicating it but I have a hard time even you know we we know the mechanism I think seems pretty solid but when I look at the clinical conditions that it has been applied to and shown benefit IMentioned multiple sclerosis all sort of colitis I believe is another one and these weird neurodegenerative things I have a hard time understanding why mild antagonism of opioids is going to have an impact on those conditions and why do you think you see IMean that's an interesting one well it's another one of these weird degenerative through a central effect yeah yeah yeah I don't have a good answer for you on that I'm just spouting off some of the headline and the studies that I've read where it's been used I I will have to go and look just for kicks I get back the hotel room and just see about the whole mild cognitive impairment all time or aspects of it I totally don't treat these patients but it isn't intriguing ideas isn't it yeah isn't it so when we met 25 years ago how big was the department at Stanford in pain division oh we had about 10 to 12 people on it and this is all the physicians and nurses the trenees it was tiny tiny tiny tiny we were in this small little clinic and today probably a 13050 with a factor of 10 or more and we've grown to be I think the largest academic pain center west of the Mississippi we one of the top in an age fund it's really come a long way it's been really exciting to see the growth and and the careers and the people we've helped out so I'll I'll finish the story of how we met so I'm in this state of um total hell um in addition to all the stuff IMentioned about you know this incredible pain I couldn't even stand up literally couldn't stand and if I did I had to be punched over and so at the time I was dating an anesthesiology resident and she was the one that said hey we just need to get you in this pain clinic like we just we just got it we got to break some stuff like this is this is going nowhere you're circling the drain here kid and so I think she was at the time doing her she was in her last year of anesthesiology so I think she was doing a rotation through pain maybe that's that's that's probably how you know she she we easled me in there so I come and see you in clinic by the way at this point my mom had flown down from Toronto to take care of me it's not like I could drive or do anything right so my mom drives me into the hospital come in and see you you hear the story we'd ruled out anything that required any more surgical intervention in other words I'd undergone another MRI I'd had a flexion extension film it I wasn't surgically unstable and in fact where the original injury was didn't even seem to be what was driving the pain now so you said look the first thing we're going to do is we're going to give you an IV light a cane drip to see if we can just calm these sodium channels down did it do anything so you said well how much you weigh I said I weigh 80 kilos you said okay we're going to give you 400 milligrams of light a cane intravenously and I said Dr. Mackie I just took my boards a year ago that's a toxic dose you said don't worry we're going to do it in a cardiac monitored room you will be on an EKG and we will be able to defibrillate you if you have an arrhythmia so I said go for it so in 20 minutes I got 400 milligrams of light a cane didn't touch the pain did tried something else didn't touch the pain by now it was eight o'clock at night wow and you said okay the only thing left to do at this point is to go in there and do a series of injections at every single facet joint every single dorsal route every nerve route every dorsal route ganglia the entire length of your spine yeah I will not be able to diagnose what is wrong because I'm basically going to stop all the pain but then we will chip away at this over the coming months and I said great can we do it now you said no it's I had a clock at night we don't have an anesthesiologist I'm the only one here I said you're an anesthesiologist you said yes but I'm the one that's doing the procedure so I said well I can't we do that and then you said well we won't be able to give you any sedation and I'm about to stick 45 needles in your back and I said I don't care that's how much pain I am in right now so we go into the OR and you proceeded to put I think you know how to court his own you know be pivicane and you let me up up and down the back and two hours later I stood up for the first time in three months I was completely pain free this was remarkable so we get home it's midnight I say to my mom I'm not going to bed I'm going to go for a walk because like I hadn't walked in three months and you know the campus loop of Stanford very well I ran it yes yeah I walked it until the morning it's a four mile loop it's I just walked around and around and around till nine o'clock in the morning came back home went on to develop a planner fashion items because when you don't walk for three months and then you don't stop walking but put that aside and you told me look you're going to probably feel okay for a few days and then the pain is going to come back well it actually turned out to be two weeks that I was pain free and then the pain came back and over the nexT3 or four months you repeated comparable procedures but with more and more precision I e narrowing in it what the problem was and it my memory serves me correctly it was mostly in the T12 L1 area though those and I think the ultimate diagnosis was look you lost so much disk space at L5S1 through the multiple surgeries if you look at my MRI today I basically don't have a disk at L5S1 that you've now developed this facet arthropathy that far up and that's where those nerve roots are going into kidneys and testes but what was amazing was these injections allowed me to go and do rehab which I took on like vengeance and basically rebuilt the strength in the musculature of my back and so within nine months I was like back to nine months of meeting you a year of the injury I was functional within two years I could get to the point where I forgot about it for days at a time like I gave an example I could actually sneeze without bracing wow that was something I couldn't do yeah for a year I couldn't lean over the sink to brush my teeth that's how weak I'd become like you you know just the just the moment arm of your torso leaning over I couldn't do that I had to fully brace and support myself to just brush my teeth so you asked like what was the lasting impact of that well one of and I've told this story many times and of course my kids know it well one of the lasting impacts was my absolute love for parking as far as possible from wherever I'm going because when I was going through this they wanted to give me a wheelchair parking thing yeah and I was like I don't want it you know it's just a psychological thing it's like I don't want it I don't care how far I have to walk and so now you know my kids know you sort of celebrate your legs by parking far yeah and in many ways that became part of this idea this thesis I had of this centenary into cathlan this idea of like what are you trening for your trening for life life is your sport and that can be something as mundane as being able to walk to the grocery store if you park if there's no spot near where you need to go and can you push the cart to the car and all that kind of stuff so the net net for me is it has been incredibly positive um again I'm incredibly grateful Sean to you because again had I not been at Stanford had I not had you know that girl friend who I won't name her to embarrass her although I think she's done the faculty at Stanford by the way you know I just think there's a lot of ways that story could have gone sideways so I so I feel incredibly grateful and the final part of the gratitude is that I would go on to Hopkins for my residency in an an emergency room that serviced some of the most opioid addicted people on the planet and based on my own experience with that I can say I always had a sense of humility about what they were going through I always looked at it as oh god I I feel your pain that is awful and I and I could have been there wow but by the grace so that's that's been my experience with it which is 90% good that's a great story you know I Peter I I listened to that and in one hand I remember it and another hand it's been so yeah it's one of a million stories you could have been talking about bob yeah as the doc and I'm listening to this and I'm like wow yeah that is the kind of thing I would have done you know late at night and just try to take control of the situation get it under control just put the fire out just spray the hose yeah because normally to be clear to the audience I would never approach that anacronic situation like that it lacks all specificity you can't learn anything from it but I remember you just being an extremist and we had to do something to help you so let me ask you question Sean how common or uncommon is my story because when when you meet a person like me is there a party that thinks we're never going to fix this guy like this guy is gonna this guy's life is over he's on 320 milligrams of oxy yeah he hasn't walked in months he's in so much pain the lethal dose a lie to cane did nothing is there a party you that thinks this is a this is a chronic pain patient this is a guy who's gonna be in chronic pain the rest of his life or do you look at a guy like that and say no no we can fix this what I usually look yeah I usually think of it is I'm confident we can really help them I don't know what help means curing is such a strong word and every once in a while we can cure just eliminate make it go away never comes back like my case like your case which honestly I didn't even know about until recently I was lost the follow up lost a follow up I'll tell you maybe and just a little bit like how I did find out and yeah you know why I don't use the word cure maybe like a surgeon would use the word because I don't want to set unrealistic expectations with patients but I don't give up you know I've never hit a point in my career with a patient where I've ever said we're done like I got nothing I got nothing you know it's we've got so many tools available to us now back when we first met we had a handful of procedures we had a handful of medications gabapentin new kit on the block opioids and says some tricyclips but that was about it and by the way that also that notion contributed to the opioid crisis because we didn't have tools now there's over 200 medications that have shown to have analgesic properties we have over 200 procedures that we do for pain scores of mine body therapies scores of complementary alternative therapies and physical rehabilitative approaches like the toolbox that we can drop on is so much larger often the problem is not with all the tools we have it's trying to figure out the right tool for the right patient the right context I frequently focus on getting people back to a good quality of life and giving them control of their life and their pain rather than a promise to eliminate pain in the acute setting it's free it is often it's eliminating pain because in an acute parry operative acute injury situation you just want you you need to eliminate or significantly reduce it before you can get people moving which was kind of in your case um yeah I I got to tell you I was I was tempted because IMy memory of this was a little vague I almost I from moment I thought maybe I just look up my records on epic and just see what's what and like no man that's what gets you fired so I didn't I thought I I'm glad you filled in the the memory gaps and I'm just I'm literally just so happy for you can I ask you somEQuestions about it all sure we kind of maybe build on some of the things we've been talking about so to what degree so one of the so some of the stuff that's going on when you were in this is you were in distress clearly there was a lot of catastrophizing going on if I can drop on that term you cut me off if I'm going off in tangents catastrophizing is this concept it was introduced by Albert Ellis in 1962 he was a psychologist and he also like the neologisms so he created a catastrophizing he created the word off-alizing, off-alizing didn't stick around. catastrophizing was not related to pain but got used for pain has three factors to it. Amplification of pain, rumination or repetitive thoughts about pain in its sense of helplessness or loss of control over your pain. Check check check. Yeah it's natural there's nothing like people we got a lot of controversy in the field on this term because it has such a pejority of an impact and unfortunately some of the docs have weaponized it against patient or your a catastrophizer tragic but it has real neurobiologic consequences because when people catastrophize when they have a loss of self control when they have rumination it negatively impacts these prefrontal cortical circuits that IMentioned these cognitive systems so that they can no longer downregulate your pain. They have abnormal connections to hypotherlamic regions which are key and hypotherlamic but to a terraridrenaline axis which I know you're very familiar with and so what you you know in an acute situation you get a release of cortisol for stress response you know this is a surgeon it's great it keeps us alive chronically terrible and so you get this alustaric alustatic overload and it starts to thin out that brain region you're no longer able to modulate and it's just worsening cycle that you get deeper and deeper and a lot of what we do in pain is we try to break those cycles and it's not one thing like I used the interventions the procedures to help break an immediate cycle to get you on a path we do this with other patients similarly and then it's learning skills. That's the very important point that I think shouldn't be lost on this which is the the breaking the cycle isn't the cure it sets you up to go after the cure. IMean I had to go through two hours a day of rehab for six months. Yeah well IMean I had to learn how to move again correctly. I had to strengthen the muscles that we're going to make up for doing what my spine would no longer do but you couldn't do that if you were in pain so you had to learn to do that and you had to be at least pain free enough to do it but not push yourself too hard that you would reactivate the injury like there was a there was a balancing act but then you know and you'd be able to sleep all these things and you had to be able to clear your mind and get out of that catastrophizing loop. Yeah that's exactly it and you had the resources to do this I was reflecting in your book and the early chapter you described a friend's mother I think Sophie and you told the story and maybe it was in the original version of it it got trimmed out and the edited but when I read that story who of this woman who shoulder injury and then went down this bad path. Yep can't golf can't garden can't do anything. All and it doesn't get mentioned in the book again may have been left out of the editor but all I'm thinking was pain all I'm thinking of is this poor woman probably had severe severe pain that was untreated and it put her down a spiraling path and what happens in these situations. Well one of the things we're learning more and more is social functioning so we call pain a bioscica social model but we tend to skip over the social small us but it turns out we've done a lot of data analysis on our own patients social isolation social functioning plays a key role in your overall pain and quality of life and you talk about this in your book from a social functioning standpoint. So you know my guess is she invariably withdrew she became deconditioned she may very well had a lot of fear of avoidance around moving her shoulder which set you up on a worsening spiral and what I think about and when I think of Sophie and I think about people as they get older that we need to manage your sleep we need to manage all the things you put beautifully in your book but I think we we we also need to help them better manage their pain so that they can have the function and do all the things that you you say so nicely in your book I don't know whether what your thoughts are actually I was going to say that I was somewhere recently where I was asked to define health span and health span is squishy to define because there's like a medical definition that I've repeatedly said I think is insufficient right so the medical definition of health span is the period of time in which you're free of disability and disease so not very helpful and I prefer a more functional version of health span and unfortunately it's too long for me to rattle off but one of the lines is freedom from pain yeah so that's you know just as it's important to have strength stability um a robeck efficiency peak a robeck output explosiveness IMean all of the things are going to reduce as you age but the longer you preserve them the better but one of them is freedom from pain yeah yeah you know the data on elderly people who get a hip fracture and then it's like spiral immediately downhill to death yeah the listeners of this podcast are not uh they're not strengers to those things oh I'm sorry if I'm repeating things not a real but that particular one is so IMean it's it's so tragic yeah and I just keep thinking if we could better help get their pain under control and address them from that holistic you know that standpoint and just get them back to a level of functioning would this story be written differently I'd like to believe it would I hope it I hope it will um yeah you know when you went through all of this you you get through the rehab like did you feel a greater one understanding of your pain what was causing it and the nature of your back and what you could do and it's safety yeah and it's actually been yet another benefit of this experience is the ability I now have to help my patients yeah so if you just look at the population and understand the ubiquity and frequency of lower back pain and you realize I don't remember the numbers but like let's say a third of people are going to go through some bout of lower back pain in their life um a number of my patients have also been in the loop of chronic lower back pain right and for these patients one of the most powerful messages I can deliver to them is learning that a setback is not permanent so part of the journey because remember it's not like in the nine months after this injury got better I never had another setback no within that period of time I would have days where I felt bad again now fortunately I never went back to laying on the floor for days that I never experienced that level of discomfort again but there were many days when I was very uncomfortable and it would wax and wane but over time and with every time that I would recover from one of those cycles my confidence would go up yeah the ability to know that this is going to pass and I'm going to have to make some adjustments yeah and I'm going to have to not sit and I'm going to have to change the way I lay and I'm going to have to do these exercises a little bit more that's okay this will pass and so I actually just got an email from a former patient he's not even my patient anymore and he said to me hey Peter just want to let you know man I have never forgotten what you said about this and I just had a big setback last week and this would have normally taken me down the spiral to hell and I hear your words telling me it's okay this will pass and he's like you know what it's a week later I'm already on the mend so there's no difference between the this not impacting physiology right it's impacting the psychology and the psychology is what goes on to impact the physiology so again I think of that as I tell patients this is not going to be a monotonic improvement right it's going to look more like the S&P 500 where if you step back 30 years yes it's monotonically going up look at it for a given week not at all yeah can go down it's it's quite volatile now the volatility will decrease over time but it never goes to zero yeah that's a great great story and clearly you've it's helped you be a better doc and help people you know I listen to your story and everybody's story obviously is very different and personal I have my own variant to this and you know I I don't talk about this much because I tend to be a little private with these things but I suffer from cluster headaches and all my life as far as I can remember I would get these headaches it was like a bomb going off in my brain how often every two years every two to three years it's a classic fall spring cycle and all through my teens my early adulthood I get these two weeks I'd be in just terrible the most insane pain I've ever had I've broken a lot of bones and sports nothing like trivial compared to that and nothing I would do would work I occasionally go to the emergency department they say it's a sinus headache and they give me on a histamine and they'd prescribe them and sure enough they worked because it always went away in a couple weeks right I remember in residency getting one of these and the midst of cardiac anesthesia rotation and barely able to get the patient to the recovery room and I just went into a call room and I just hung out the thing and the thing is nobody knew what they were I didn't know what they were but I was scared every time he came on I thought I had a brain tumor I was convinced and I thought this was going to kill me and you get really scared that it's never going away you eyes catastrophized after the end of like a couple weeks I'm like this is never what the hell am I going to do I can't work like this I can't live like this then I become a pain doc and I'm like well shit I got cluster headaches and how are they treated now well first of all just just to let people know what a cluster headache is it typically manifests as headaches that last anywhere from upwards of a couple hours they can occur eight times a day to you know every other day they tend to have these weird characteristics with their underclass of trigeminal autonomic cephalages fancy term for simply meaning that you get eye tearing redness in your eye I get what I refer to as a sticky eye sensation like my eyelid gets heavy in a droop's I get my nasal congestion but one of the major characteristics is extreme agitation extreme agitation meaning you know Beth and you know would say well you didn't do better to lie down like now it doesn't matter and I just pace you pace and you pace until it goes away um so what I did you know in the period of all this fear I learned every damn thing I can learn about cluster headaches every single thing what how many people get these or presented the population it's under rare condition it's one of those rare ones that affects men more than women but women do get them you think I would know the prevalence of this too but less prevalent in migraines yeah okay yeah less prevalent in migraines common treatments for these um there's there's a board of and there is preventative and what the preventative are like calcium channel blockers that you you can take a board of is you know the typical migraine medications the trip tans so I have stockpile so of you know trip dans a high flow oxygen so you know I knew I was getting one it's before these happen I get this pro-dromal phase with weird appetite sleep gets disrupted I know and a sticky eye sensation I was giving a talk at the nap of paying conference and I knew they were coming on so I threw a tank of oxygen in the back of the car and metal rescue it now if I can get it in time if you can abort these things in time you can save yourself several hours of absolute agony and you can catch it in like a half an hour so the long and the short of it is it was through that journey of learning that I became informed and I developed self-appacacy so when I got these attacks when I knew what they were I no longer had a huge amount of fear that would further amplify things I was fearful it was a brain tumor I was a fearful like I was having a subarachnoid bleed right I knew what it was it didn't change the sensory dimensions of the pain it didn't change the agitation that I knew even if I didn't catch it it was going away in a couple hours and that gives you control so when these happen I know I'm prepared I know it's going to be a shitty two weeks and I buckle up but I know how to deal with it I know I'll come out of it and it makes a huge difference in quality of life and that's you know what IMessage is I would try to give patience is it's about learning as much as you can about your condition being informed and putting that to use and ideally giving yourself a degree of self-appacacy over your health and when I listen to your story it had parallels there in that that journey that you have and you you've clearly used it it may be tried to say make you a better person but yeah and yeah I have a lot of empathy for uh people is a consequence well Sean this has been this been a great discussion um I think we're we're we're certainly better off today as a species having a medical discipline that is devoted to pain we have the luxury of caring about this now right you know there was a time when just not dying was the highest priority and now it's it's we need more than that it's not just that we don't want to die it's that we want to be able to live pain free not to be confused with discomfort free I'm still a big proponent of discomfort as I'm sure are you we should be out there you know working out hard experiencing discomfort but but chronic pain can be inflammatory to the psyche it's not something I would wish on anybody so it's great to know that that since my time is a patient there that department has increased log fold and I hope that's true and trust that it's true around the country so thanks for the work you're doing thank you Peter I uh you know it's been 20 some of your since we've seen each other and if I can just say that I remember when I I saw you you were kind of an intense guy and I've melod have you? I've melod since then I remember thinking to myself this guy is either gonna crash and burn or he's gonna do something really awesome and then decades go by and I get this phone call from Ian and he's like you know dad Peter just gave you a shout out on one of his podcasts about how you helped him and he's like how do you feel about that and I said I'm just so happy for him it's like I had no idea that he's done so well for himself and and and you have you know you are yes you're seeing one patient at time and providing great care but I think this format is reaching so many people and this is what we need more of we need more Peter at he is we need you like delivering these messages that are empowering people because you're you're making a big impact out there and I just appreciate you inviting me on to spend some time with you so thank you. Thanks Sean.

=== FILE: 348 ‒ Women’s sexual health, menopause, and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) [W0XW6av2wLQ].txt ===

100% of people are heavily impacted by what we just discussed. They misinterpreted the data so drastically and scared everybody with so much fear that you actually have an entire generation that has forgotten how to prescribe hormone therapy. When you took estrogen and progesterine or estrogen alone, you had a decrease risk of colon cancer, you had decreased risk of fractures like significant decrease of fractures. Decrease of diabetes, we saw a decrease in overall mortality, a decrease in cancer specific mortality. The reality is this is half the population. This is not niche medicine. If a penis tripled up at age 52, we'd probably have a vaccine sponsored by Pfizer. Right? They created biagra. They would create this vaccine. No one even tells me. I love that analogy. There are two hormones we've talked a lot about, but there's a third that we haven't doesn't get enough attention in women. And of course that's testosterone. I don't know who decided that men get testosterone in women have estrogen. Like we have both of the hormones. We love to gaslight women and say, well if you have your period, your hormones are normal. And the reality is, that's not true. I know there are people in the Medicare system who are going to be interested to understand that. If everybody in Medicare, eligibility used vaginal estrogen, we would save Medicare between 6 and 22 billion dollars a year. They're going to their doctor for cultures. They're in the ICU with sepsis. This is a huge economic and mortality problem that we're dealing with and no one cares. We just got done saying that that study didn't show that. So why is that box labeling still there? We're killing women by trying to protect them. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Rachel, thank you so much for making the trip out to Austin. I have been looking forward to this episode for a while and I'm willing to go on record predicting that this will be a very popular episode given the nature of our discussion. I am so thrilled to be here. I have been nervous for quite a long time but I'm super happy to be here. I almost don't know where to begin. But it might not be a bad idea to just give people a little bit of a sense of your background. You are a urologist by trening and maybe help us understand how you're trening in urology led you to what you're doing today because most urologists wouldn't be doing exactly what you're doing. When we think of urology, we think about, you know, prostates. We think about kidneys. We think about bladders. Yes, but what you forget Peter is that urologists are ultimately thEQuality of life doctors. We deal with urination problems and we deal with sexual medicine. No one cares about erections and orgasms in libido. Quite the way that urologist cares about and when we're board certified, actually it's not a gender thing. We're not penis doctors only. We wear board certified to take care of everybody's genital and urinary tracks. And so what the unfortunately society has led us to know a lot more about the men's sexual health and men's genitals than female genitals. And so my background, I trened in urology really because I was interested in women's health but I also was interested in sexual health sexual medicine. And I didn't like delivering babies. I didn't like OBGYN. It just didn't fit well with my personality. And what I love about urology is that we can see everybody and we can really dive deep on quality of life issues. And the magic of urology is also that you really can you get to know your patient. It's not like, you know, when you did surgery, you take out someone's appendix and you never see them again. Maybe you do one post-op visit. Urologists have deep relationships where both surgeons, but we actually care about the medical side of thesEQuality of life issues. And so as I was going through medical school, I really realized that talking about sexual health quality of life issues, that was fun for me. I was good at that. And in medicine, you kind of gravitate towards what is easy, not what is hard. And so it's just been a joy. And really, I've been working to further the field of urology to make us better at taking care of women. And so really, I do a lot of educating and teaching to my colleagues about how we really need to care about the whole, you know, like everybody. I really mostly want to talk about it from a female standpoint today, truthfully because I think this is where there's just a death of great information out there and where I think there's an abundance of garbage information out there. So while I appreciate that your breadth of knowledge will cover both sexes, you'll probably notice kind of a bias in what I want to talk about vis-a-vis women specifically. So let's start with perhaps the biggest and most obvious difference between men and women. And that is from an endocrine perspective, women go through this period called menopause, which is a rather sudden and a abrupt loss of their sex hormones. And that's, you know, to be contrasted with the way men's sex hormones kind of decline over time a little more slowly. So again, the listeners of this podcast are highly area-dite and they won't need like the lengthy dissertation, but just give us a quick overview of what the heck is happening in menopause. Why is it happening? And then we can get into maybe what some of the symptoms are before women might really notice them. Yeah, well, you know, I certainly did my research and I am not a car person, but I know you are a Formula One guy. And I got a very interesting email last week that said, Dr. Rubin, my wife is seeing your practice and she, her libido is now like an F1, Formula One race car and I'm like a 1988 Honda Civic. What can you do for me? And I think that really my analogy I really like to look at is sort of the gas tank analogy. This idea that men, as they age, you know, sometimes we see a decrease in their gas tank. They're feeling low, they're feeling down, they've got erectile dysfunction low libido. Whereas women, age at age 52, their gas tank is empty, right? This is a castration event. We don't have many castration events in men's health. And so menopause is sort of a, your gas tank is officially empty. There's not much in the tank. Perry menopause is this time where it's very erratic. The gas tank is over full and then it goes to empty really quickly without warning. And so I like that analogy because I think it's helpful when we're talking to women about the reason you don't feel like yourself is because there's just no gas in the tank. So we see the ovaries are no longer producing estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, the way that they were during your reproductive years. I love that analogy. I've never heard it before, but it absolutely replicates what of course we see clinically, which is in Perry menopause. Why do we sometimes when we're measuring a woman's labs say every three months see periods where estradile is through the roof, FSH and LH are low and three months later it's completely flipped and of course with it go symptom. So can you explain why there's this, you know, if we have kind of hormones running like this during premenopause, they're like this during menopause, but it's this trensition is nothing like linear. It looks kind of like the stock market actually, it goes up, it goes down and even it's not even just checking every three months. If you check it every 10 days, you're going to see a fluctuation. I'm obsessed with looking at the menstrual cycle. I'm obsessed with talking about numbers here because it is so fascinating and we are not taught to think this way and so I have a lot of curiosity about it. So for example, when you're in your, let's call it healthy reproductive years and by the way, nobody is the book, right? We think of that you talk a lot about continuous glucose monitors. I would love continuous hormone monitors and unfortunately I know there'll be a lot of unintended consequences in bad things that would come of you, but I'd be very interested because the book says, our low. So if you have your period that you're bleeding, that's day one, your low is not zero, right? In fact, it's probably somewhere 40, 50 is probably what the low should be of estrogen. That's true, that's true. And that's, you know, a peakograms per milliliter as opposed to testosterone, which we do nanograms per desoliter as you know. So, so, probably let's say 50 is your low. Then you go at ovulate and that's in your mid cycle and usually it's about 150. Let's say ish, maybe it's 200, 300, whatever it is. Pregnancy or level is 3000 or higher, right? It's very high. And so if you're in your normal reproductive cycle, you go from 50 to 150. So let's use the gas tank analogy. You're at a quarter, 10 get 50 and you go to threEQuarters tank at 150, then down to a quarter tank, you can drive wherever you want to go, you know, during that time. What happens in Perry, Mana Pause? And it is this chaos and erratic sort of fluctuation where your body is just wanting more hormone than it has your brain, your FSH is telling your eggs to do more than they can, sometimes they over-shoot. So now you are overflowing gas. We've seen Estr, I had a lady come in, you know, her day one, her estrogen was 200 and her day 10, her estrogen was 900, right? So this is his wild fluctuation in Perry, Mana Pause. And what I'd like to do now, just is make sure that anybody listening who wants a more nuanced overview of this, we're going to link to a video that IMade a couple of years ago where I walk through the ovulatory cycle. And I draw the graph of estrogen, progesterone, FSH and LH, according to the nomenclature you're using by days. But let's also have you do an explanation now of the role of FSH and LH on the brain, because you've already referred to that. And what the feedback cycle looks like with estrogen, I just want to make sure people are following the physiology you're describing. And that video is so fantastic. We actually were talking about it before doing this podcast about that video. And I said, you know, if you asked most OBGYNs to draw the menstrual cycle, many of them wouldn't be able to do so. It's incredibly complicated and it's so confusing and we think our doctors know everything and unfortunately they don't. And so what happens is estrogen, you know, again, you have your period, your lining of your uterus is shedding, your estrogen is kind of it. It's all time low. And again, just to make the obvious statement, it's because most of the time when a woman ovulates, she does not get pregnant. Right. So that's why it's in this non-pregnancy state, right? You didn't make a baby, you're shedding the lining, your estrogen's about 50. Let's say to make it easy. Now it's starting to up, up, up, up, up and you're developing this follicle, right? So this egg is developing and then as your, you know, the LH is sort of your brain's sort of marker of, okay, it's time to ovulate. So that's when you pion a stick and you're trying to check if you're ovulating, it's checking your LH levels. And so you're going to see this increase in LH, that happens again. Everyone's a little bit different, but it happens kind of mid-cycle day 10 to 14, you know, somewhere along that again, you're all just not gynecologist. And so you get this LH surge, the egg pops out and it is the shell of the egg that creates the progesterone surge. So you actually don't make any progesterone really in that first half of your cycle. And then after ovulation, we call the second half the Ludial phase, which just means, you know, sort of that's when progesterone is around. And so you get this surge of progesterone when there is no fertilization, that that shell of the egg sort of evaporates and then you lose your progesterone and it is that withdrawal of progesterone that causes the uterine lining to shed. Now again, this is very confusing for people because hormones through that time, your ester, your progesterone goes from very, very low to after you ovulate, very, very high. And it's that cycle every month. Now, estrogen again goes from 50 to 150 back down to 50. That's what the book says. I don't know about you, but my patients are not all on the book, right? There's sort of- Yeah, a lot of my patients don't read the book about what their physiology is supposed to do. It's very disappointing. I agree completely. And so we're super interested in this is really trying- because we care about how people are feeling, right? And so everyone- you know, I'll say, IMay say this a lot during our conversation is there's the book answer, there's the Instagram answer, and then my answer sort of somewhere in the middle, right? Is how we sort of talk about it and understand it. And so again, I think the numbers are helpful for people to see when you're pregnant, your estrogen's 3000. When you're sort of regularly ovulating, it's 50 to 150. Perry menopause, it could be zero, it could be a thousand, and down to zero in two seconds. So let's talk about why. So why is it that in Perry menopause the fluctuations in ester dial level are so dramatic? I think it has to do with the fact that you have a limited number of eggs, you're sort of getting to that end of your, you know, sort of bucket of eggs that you're born with, and sort of, and that's again controversial on the internet. And then so your body is really trying to do what it has always done, and it's just having trouble. It's having trouble recruiting the egg, ovulating, you don't ovulate every time, sometimes you ovulate twice, you know, or push out two eggs sort of in this Perry menopause cycle. So we can sometimes see really like high elevations, which can come with symptoms. And that's the challenge of Perry menopause is sometimes you have symptoms because you're too low, sometimes you have symptoms because you're too high, and sometimes it's that fluctuation. Like again, we'll go to the car model. You're driving a hundred miles an hour on the highway, and you go to empty gas tank immediately. That is not good for a car. That is inflammation. That is irritation. That is a lot of, you know, that is a lot of Perry menopause symptom. And so maybe to extend the analogy, part of the reason why a woman during this period of time can experience these enormous surges of estradile is if you think that there's say, a tank in the gas line, and you really, really want to squeeze the, the, the lever to get as much gasoline as you can in the car, sometimes you overshoot, and just you got a whole bunch extra in there, because again, you're, there's, there's volatility in the, in the follicle release. I know you would like this analogy. Yeah, no, I love it. You're welcome. The one other thing I want to talk about, because it's going to come up later when we get to HRT is, do you buy the argument, which is, the argument I have found most appealing, as to why women have varying degrees of sensitivity to the dramatic reduction in progesterone that they experience in the last quarter of the cycle, once the lining shed. So we talked about how, of course, during the Ludial phase, we're building you know, progesterone levels are rising. We're building up the enemy trio lining in preparation for pregnancy. Again, most of the times that's not going to happen, lining shed, progesterone crashes. This is what's referred to as, you know, obviously, PMS, and some women are somewhat unfazed by that, you know, and other women that's a big deal. And so thEQuestion is, is this about central receptors of progesterone and varying degrees of sensitivity? I think is a really important question, and we see this clinically all the time, right, in that if you give somebody, say, micronized progesterone or e synthetic progesterone, say, in birth control, you will see a wide variety of reactions to these different medications. And so I would say it has to probably do with the GABA receptor, right, and the metabolites of progesterone and how the body, you know, how the receptors in the brain sort of use these molecules. And so I think we just don't know enough about, you know, I tell my patients all the time, I wish, oh my gosh, we've so much work to do in women's health. We have so much research, we need done. This is why I come on this platform, not because I want to be on this platform, but I need smart people to be listening to this, to ask the research questions and to do this research, because clinically we see this all the time. You give it, you know, somebody, and I will pull up, put up that menstrual cycle with my patients and say, when do you start to have symptoms? Are you having symptoms when your estrogen is falling? Are you having symptoms when your progesterone is falling? And can we sort of hack the system to help you feel better and how are you going to respond to it? Because when we give someone micronized progesterone, I would say a third of the patients love it and guzzle it like it's candy and they're the happiest people in the world helps their sleep, they're just as anxiety changes their life. It's absolutely life-changing. A third of the patients are like, I don't really notice, it doesn't bother me, I've got no, you know, it's fine like it. But if you come, I need to take it, I need to take it, I don't need to take it, my uterus, no problem. And then you've got a third of patients who are very sensitive, right? The progesterone. And even within that third, it is extreme. IMean, we see progesterone allergies where people have horrible reactions to it makes me too sleepy, it makes me feel bloated, I don't like this. And so I don't as a clinician and an interested researcher, like I don't know exactly enough to be able to spot who those people are ahead of time. We've established now what's happening? We've established that during the period of parry menopause, the one consistent thing that's happening is inconsistency. At some point, we get to the place where the consistency returns, but now it's a new norm. And that new norm is, you don't make estrogen, you don't make progesterone. The signal from your pituitary, FSH and LH, begin monotonically rising, rising rising. And so, you know, if you were to do the blood work of a woman in her 60s, who had never been placed on HRT, you would see a very high FSH, a very high LH, usually above the labs cut off for measurements, you know. And then Estrodial and Progesterone non-existent. Let's talk about all the reasons why that woman that I just described in her 60s, who is now 10 years out of any hormones, what are the risks to her physical health, mental health, emotional health, the whole picture of her health, cognitive health, everything. What is what is she worse off for at that period of time? So I think there's a really important question in the sense of what is the risk of taking hormone therapy in that patient? And what is the risk of not taking hormone therapy in that patient? And so I think it's super interesting because we love talking about the risks of medication, but we don't spend a lot of time time of the risks of not taking medication. So if we think about that woman as she gets older, she certainly will have the microbiome in genital and urinary changes of not having hormone. So as a urologist, this is the actually one of the things that one of the couple things that will kill her, right? As the u-lose hormones in the genitals, which are very hormone sensitive, the bladder is very hormone sensitive, you change the microbiome, you decrease the acidity of the tissue, the bad bacteria grow, your risk of urinary traction infections increased drastically. So she may get recurrent urinary tract infections or pelvic pain. She may develop osteoporosis, right, which we know more people dive hip fractures about the same with dive hip fractures as dive breast cancer. So the risk of not taking hormone therapy, when you get a hip fracture as all of your listeners know, you're going back to the life that you lived is very challenging, right? Or you die. And so there's also the risk of we know dementia and Alzheimer's much higher in women and we can argue the data and I don't think we actually have good data about whether hormones are, you know, when to start them and if they're actually protective and how they're protective, but we also know that heart disease is the number one killer of women and we know that things get worse as you get older. So I think there are significant risks to that person and from the mental health perspective, I think there's no question that we see worsening of, now I will say, Perry menopause from what I understand of the data is actually worse on mental health and can actually love a lot a little bit once there's less erratic hormones. But again, an empty gas tank is still an empty gas tank and so we see a lot of challenges, you know, sort of in this time period. We talked about obviously the risk of dementia, talked about the risk of osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, colon cancer, right, all of these are risks that are pretty clearly going up in the absence of hormones. So do you want to talk about the history of HRT? IMean, you know, it was a largely normal practice in the 1960s. They, you know, certainly had some fits and starts, right? They initially were just replacing estrogen. Figured out pretty quickly. IMean, within a few years that if you only gave a woman estrogen, you were going to run the risk of endometrial cancer going up because the endometrial lining just continued to get bigger and bigger and bigger and you eventually developed hyperplasia, which presumably became metaplasia and ultimately cancer. They figured out pretty quickly how to combat that if you just oppose the estrogen with progesterone, you keep the endometrial lining in check and this largely became the standard of care through the 1980s and into the 1990s and this was largely validated by epidemiologic observations, which showed that women who took hormones did significantly better. Now, people who listen to this podcast are well aware of how critical I am of epidemiology and it's certainly very easy to make the case that in the 1980s, women who were taking hormones had a healthy user bias, right? These are women that probably had better access to health care. They were probably more health conscious and as a result, they were probably doing many more things to improve thEQuality of their health. So the NIH did something that I think made a lot of sense. It was the right thing to do, which was they said, look, we can't rely on this epidemiology. We need to do a randomized control trial. They did it through something called the Women's Health Initiative, which had two components, a nutritional component that was asking a question about low-fat diets and then a component that was looking at the HRT. Would you like to pick up the story as to how the study was designed? Maybe talk about some of the potential pitfalls of it and ultimately how the results of that have been misunderstood and misinterpreted for so long? The fact of the story hasn't been made into a Hollywood biopic mega drama. I don't know, right? This is a big deal, a billion dollars of our resources went into doing this study and there are many things that we learned that were helpful and useful and this huge set of data that we're still using today to extrapolate information from and there was a lot of good that came from it, but there was a lot of misinformation and just really bad marketing or really effective marketing you could argue because what is so wild Peter is that when this study came out and they did a press conference. Before the study was published, they did a press conference. Have you ever seen the NIH do a press conference? That Matt Lauer talked about or that was made it on you, you know, like good morning America, like they did a press conference. I remember I was in medical school at the time, like I remember sort of this happening and they said, okay, this we had to stop the study early. It is increasing the risk of breast cancer and increasing the risk of blood clots and cardiovascular disease and we have to stop the study and everybody this there's different statistics out there but people say about 40 percent maybe of women were on hormone therapy at the time overnight it went across to nothing. You're talking billions of dollars of an industry went to nothing and the people who are prescribing the hormone therapy were like this doesn't make any sense. I do this. I've been doing this for 20 years, 30 years. I don't have a clinic full of people who are dying of blood clots or heart attacks or who get breast cancer like this is not my clinic whose clinic is this and then over the years, you know, then they published the paper and as we talked about or, you know, before we did this podcast is that they misinterpreted the data so drastically and scared everybody so with so much fear that you actually have an entire generation that has forgotten how to prescribe hormone therapy and this is where the nightmare that we're living in today because now we realize that the data was misinterpreted. So if we talk about and again and the WHI was one medication, one dose, that's it and it was a sort of birth control pill style kind of hormone therapy so a synthetic estrogen and a progestin it was not sort of the what we call you know more and we can talk about the marketing term bio identical but the FDA proved products that we used today like Astridile and progesterone their different medications that we used today and so you're talking one medication, one dose and we are still practicing fear-based medicine 30 years later whatever it is saying like we don't practice any other medicine like this. Well there was one study about surgery 30 years ago and that's the way we practice medicine, right? We evolve we learn new things. So what it is show let's talk about the good. When you took Astridin and progestin or Astridin alone you had a decrease risk of colon cancer, you had decreased risk of fractures like significant decrease of fractures, decrease of diabetes okay that seems like a good thing. This is in the hormones we don't even really prescribe anymore right? We saw a decrease in overall mortality, a decrease in cancer specific mortality and then when you looked at the cardiovascular data over time and again I'm a neurologist I'm not a heart expert but you saw there was actually no difference right? It actually wasn't so scary. Now as you get older we know birth control pills can cause blood clots so we do worry about giving a birth control pill to grandma because you can increase blood clots right? That's true. I agree with that. When it comes to breast cancer the most fascinating data that didn't make the press conference. Women who were on the Astridin alone so they didn't have a uterus so they didn't need the progestin therapy. Had a decrease risk of getting and dying from breast cancer right? And that didn't make the new estrogen was never this, even in that study that put the box labeling on all the products it's not true right? So then when you looked at the estrogen and the progestin groups there was a fear that there was an increased risk of incidence but not mortality from breast cancer and even when you look at that data there is questioning of the fact that the placebo group actually was more protected by breast cancer because many of them had been on hormones in the past and when you use a correct placebo group the the lines actually go together and so you're more of a statistics nerd than I am but the reality is there was no difference and so we scared an entire generation of people away from hormones because of a bad misinterpretation of statistics. So Rachel I don't know how good you are at sensing a person's blood pressure from across the room but if you were able to sort of project your your your vision into my carotid artery I see a bulgey. Yeah you you'd notice that my my blood pressure is up it I'm probably at 180 over 120 right now. First off I think that was a remarkable succinct summation of the WHO. I'm only going to repeat a few things. Bec not because I didn't think you did a great job you did but because sometimes hearing it twice highlights the egregiousness of this study. Shout it from every rooftop you can find. And truthfully I have friends, female friends and I have patients who to this day are paranoid about hormones and I just I want to offer yet another opportunity for them to sort of understand what's going on. So this was a study that had you know two parallel arms right one where women without the uterus were just randomized to either this synthetic or equine-based estrogen versus a placebo and then one where if you had a uterus you got MPAASynthetic progesterine and the estrogen. As you pointed out the elephant in the room here was the one finding that got all of the attention was that in the women with uterus group if you got the synthetic progesterine and estrogen you had an increase in your incidence of breast cancer. It turned out it didn't actually lead to any change in mortality from breast cancer but there was an increase in the incidence. Now the number is really scary if it's given in relative terms. It was a 24% increase in the incidence incidence for the listener meaning getting breast cancer right. So you had a 24% higher chance of getting breast cancer if you took the two hormones. On the surface that sounds devastating but again as people who lose in this podcast know we always need to think in terms of absolute risk. And relative risk doesn't mean that much if you don't understand absolute risk. So if I said to you Rachel I have a treatment for you that is going to fix a hundred problems but it increases your risk by 100% of getting hit by an asteroid. Would you take the medicine or not? Well you'd have to know what your base level risk of getting hit by an asteroid is and given that it's almost zero doubling it doesn't mean anything right. So the absolute risk increase for these women was 0.1%. So to put that in less technical terms it meant that you will even if you believe the results of that study and you've offered a great explanation for why the actual results should bEQuestioned but even if you take them at face value for every one thousand women who were put on HRT an additional one got breast cancer though she didn't die from it at any increase rate to the women who didn't get the hormone. This to me is and I'd like you to push back on this although I'm worried you won't be able to because you share my bias. This is the greatest injustice imposed by the modern medical system in our lifetime. You are not going to get pushed back from me on that. I think women's I think that this is a disaster. I just got back yesterday from teaching at the largest internal medicine conference ACP the American College of Physicians and you're talking more than 20,000 internal medicine physicians. I was asked what a wonderful thing I was asked to give a course on female sexual dysfunction and it was wonderful. I talked a lot about menopause. There was no other menopause content at this course. There was no courses. How to prescribe. Given everything you've done my colleagues and myself have done to bring it into sort of just popularity. Patients are coming in asking questions and there wasn't even a course to learn. I can't say that's true for GLP ones or any of these lipid lowering agents or all of the things that you've been pushing. The problem is you now have a you have a brain drain I think because the doctors who prescribed hormone therapy either retired or died right and there was no one they taught ahead of them. Now I was very lucky. I had very good mentorship and incredible experience but we are now trying to make up for a last time to tren people how to write prescription. It's not enough to say hey the WHI was misinterpreted and we've done a bad thing for people don't know how to do this and it's not a small, it's a huge problem and the reality is this is half the population. This is not niche medicine. The fact that menopause medicine is the tiniest little room of subset of gynecology which it should not be under gynecology, right? This is whole body medicine and yet nobody seems to care. Yeah it's really interesting to hear you say that because you're highlighting something that's as dramatic and potentially more dramatic than the thing I've tended to focus on. I've focused more so maybe I just take for granted that I got lucky and I had amazing mentors and they taught me how to do this stuff but it's also the nature of my personality to just be endlessly curious and show up in somebody's clinic for two weeks and do this. I've tended to focus on the lost generation of women, right? So I had my analysts do this analysis two years ago and I don't remember the exact numbers but the analysis was calculate for me or estimate for me the number of women who were deprived of HRT because of the WHO and calculate the excess mortality that was achieved through that injustice, through hip fractures, cardiovascular disease. We just went through the entire list, right? So calculate the number of lives that were lost the amount of disability that was incurred because to your point even if you don't die from a hip fracture 50% of survivors never regain the same level of function and I didn't even know how to quantify all of the sexual side effects that women unnecessarily endured all of the vasomotor side effects that they unnecessarily didn't even try to quantify that because I don't know how to but that's the thing that I focus on and again it's personal to someone my age because my mother and my mother and law are in that category, right? Like they're the ones that got absolutely screwed by this system. You're highlighting something equally and potentially catastrophic with potentially a greater impact which is we failed to tren a generation of doctors to do anything about it and if that's not reversed the problem doesn't get much better. Yeah IMean the data's very clear on this right less than 6% of internal medicine OBGYN or family practice doctors get even an hour of menopause education in their trening. Do you remember learning about menopause in your medical school? Zero. Zero. One minute. I didn't learn one minute of it and so here's the... I did learn that hormones were bad. Oh yeah you were right. So there's this so because you are taught hormones are dangerous or the bodybuilders take the hormones the snake oil salesmen take the hormones right like we don't talk about this in real medicine right so you actually have everyone says it's not my it's not my it industry it's not my thing I went to this internal medicine conference you know yesterday and all the internal medicine doctors were saying but this isn't this isn't my field like I don't feel comfortable right and endocrinologist was standing there saying I don't feel comfortable doing this I think you're a hormone doctor like that is what you do it is so embarrassing I've been asked to speak at multiple academic centers to teach on hormone therapy and every time I'm like is this real life I am a urologist teaching hormone doctors about how to prescribe hormone therapy and it is real life and this is why I'm so loud about it because we have to change this we have to change this on a big level because I need the ICU doctors and the pulmonologist and the card in the you know the heart doctors and all the doctors to know that menopause affects their organs right colon cancer why aren't why aren't GI doctors talking to women that estrogen prevents colon cancer why are we checking dexas at 65 like why are rheumatologists not prescribing hormone therapy I found out recently that psychiatrists because I do a lot of teaching about how to prescribe hormone therapy a few of us are very passionate about it and I was like sit with me I will teach you how to write the prescriptions I've had psychiatrists tell me their malpractice insurance will not cover them if they prescribe hormone therapy and I said wait a minute you prescribe post-partum depression drugs which are pregesting based right you do reproductive psychiatry which means birth control is a part of what you do and you're being told you're not allowed to prescribe hormone therapy when hormone therapy is one of the greatest antidepressants in the history of medicine it is insanity we're living in a nightmare yeah so let's talk a little bit about how we go about doing things so there are two hormones we've talked a lot about but there's a third that we haven't yet talked about that is very linked to these two hormones doesn't get enough attention in women and of course that's testosterone so before we get into how one should think about replacing hormones can you talk about the relationship of testosterone to women's sexual health and what's happening to testosterone levels during this trensition from parry to menopause because of course this I want to bring this into the HRT discussion so it's super interesting and I'm very passionate about this topic and so I think it comes from this idea that I do testosterone for men all the time right I'm very confident I love prescribing testosterone for men's sexual health for and actually very interestingly enough when we prescribe testosterone for men remember their gas tank doesn't get empty it gets low right it's off label right we are doing off label testosterone therapy and men unless they have client filters or some you know significant medical problem like we're doing off label testosterone for men and it's very understood it's talked about the FDA jusT3 weeks ago remove the labeling on testosterone therapy saying it no longer is a cardiovascular disease risk so that's a great news right so the thing about women in testosterone is it's actually not a menopause thing testosterone is an age related to client so in your 30s you're starting to drop your testosterone and testosterone I don't know who said who decided that men get testosterone and women have estrogen like we both have all of the heart like we we have both of the hormones sorry interrupt you probably heard me make this point before because you alluded to it a few minutes ago we measured testosterone in nanograms predestilator we measure estradiol and peakograms per milliliter if you normalize those to the same level women are shocked to learn that they have ten times the amount of testosterone in their body that they do estradiol at peak estradiol we way more right and I love sharing that right when you put everything in the same units we are testosterone driven beings both of us right are testosterone driven beings and so it's you know again and we don't teach this to OBGYNs no OBGYN knows what some do but but very few know about the role of testosterone in women's health and so we love to gaslight women and say well if you have your period your hormones are normal drives me insane this women are told this all day every day is well you you can't possibly have a hormone problem because you're getting your period regularly and the reality is is that's not true why because if no one taught that that curve that curve we were just talking about testosterone is nowhere on that curve and so we know there's a peak of testosterone around ovulation right that is nature's way of saying let's make a baby we know that we know that your libido goes up around ovulation because your testosterone goes up and so there is this age related decline in testosterone and here's another big problem we give women birth control pills all the time how does birth control work by the way birth control is high dose hormone therapy we love hormone therapy in birth control but as soon as you become menopause everybody's afraid of hormone therapy it makes no sense so birth control is high dose I would argue you know sort of the hormone therapy we're talking about the WHO that is more synthetic that has side effects that have issues like that so birth control turns off your ovaries and it adds back a final ester dial and a synthetic pregestin it doesn't add back testosterone so we are botching testosterone for women sort of for along the life cycle to be honest but if you take someone who's never been on birth control their testosterone starts to drop in their 30s so what are they complaining about it's not just a libido thing we know their testosterone receptors all throughout the genitals and the urinary tract so we see women have an increased risk of UTIs we see an increased risk of pain within her course or pelvic pain conditions we see there are some studies that indicate potentially depression and anxiety can increase because we do think there's a testosterone effects on the brain but we have global consensus and I don't know if you've read the news lately Peter but like we don't agree on too much as a globe but there is global consensus that testosterone and women works for low libido and so specifically the data is on postmenopausal women that's where the global consensus is but there is data in Perry menopause and much smaller studies on before that so but the consensus is it works but everyone has emotions about testosterone I don't know I didn't think testosterone was appealing but apparently it is a feeling for people because people hate talking about it and again nobody taught you how to prescribe it so people are and there's no FDA approved products for women except in Australia it's approved by their their governing body and so you have a lost art of knowing how to give people back testosterone when they are symptomatic and I think this is an area where women sometimes are also a bit concerned about what happens if I take testosterone because testosterone understandably has conjures up images of all sorts of things from large muscles big moustaches lots of other things so so how do you talk to women about this we we enjoy having these discussions and and also acknowledging side effects right like the most common side effect we see in women is acne right and and I don't think I've ever gotten to the point where I've seen any of the really dramatic side effects but I do tell women I say look there's a decent chance if you were shaving your legs every five days you're going to be shaving them every three days that that's that's a chance if you were kind of susceptible to acne growing up you might get a little bit more but it will have to back off um but how do you how do you talk about the risks of testosterone therapy I love talking about this and I'm actually grateful for celebrities because just in the news in the past few weeks Hallie Berry says she's on testosterone Kate Winslet says she's on testosterone therapy and they look pretty amazing to me and they don't look androgenized at all and so I actually want to do this study it's something my research team's working on is I think I have more patience who never start testosterone therapy because of the fear of side effects then actually stop testosterone therapy because of the side effects that's my sort of observation in doing a lot of this now when we talk about side effects I tell them think about a foreign teenager they have these great libidos but they have some oily skin acne you know but that's when you get really high with your doses we really don't see it clinically yes could you I tell them to put the I I use FDA proved to testosterone for men just a doses kind of one tenth the dose in a way they rub it on their leg because if they do get hair on their leg people are used to having hair on their leg and so they shave it they wax it they laser it whatever it is that they do with hair would leg hair um I don't have that many patients stop for acne oily skin again I think there's that fear when you get really high in the dose so I'm not a pellet a promoter or user because you get super physiologic levels and I can't take it out if you get a pellet put in and so if you have deepening voice or clitoromegally or you know a hair issues these are the challenges with some of these super physiologic levels but when we're using sort of reasonably dosed like topicals we really see magic happen and and I can't tell you when we get estrogen and progesterone right for our patients it is by adding that third piece that testosterone because your ovary does three it probably does more than three things but at this point estrogen progesterone and testosterone when we add that testosterone piece I it's wild although the patients come back and they say me wow I feel like me again it's wild right that's the piece wow I didn't realize how badly I felt wow that was the missing piece I hear it over and over and over again I can't not want that for all women right I can't not want to give them that as an option on the menu let's just finish the swing on on testosterone do you prefer than to rely on the topical version of which would be like an androgyl type product and just dose it at a much smaller dose yeah that's typically how we do it and how our guideline sort of look at it so is wish the international society for the study of women sexual health fabulous organization you can find any doctor to help you with menopause and sexual health by going to their website they came out with a really lovely sort of how to practice guideline that they took from the global consensus and they do recommend using sort of that FDA approved testosterone for men and using it at appropriately doses for females so I like test them which is sort of the one percent generic testosterone gel I brought I'll show it to you I brought it for you to show you it's a it's a five milliliter tube of gel our male patients would use the whole tube of gel rub it on their chest every day I very few men who do that by the way they injections orals those are much better and so I tell my patients use a blob or a point five ml so they can put in a syringe if they want to and dose out that point five ml they take a blob they rub it on their calf every day and so just don't use the whole tube should last you about a week or 10 days that's kind of it's an ish right like it's it's not an exact precision science but the patients can figure this out it's not that challenging and I I will say this and I think I've colleagues who disagree with me on this and I would love to know your experience I think testosterone I think for men too but that's my bias it takes a while to kick in like I will tell patients like you need to do this regularly and I think it's gonna be three four even five months before you're gonna really wake up and say wow this is working oh my gosh like someone just walked across the street and I did a cartoon style head turn with my eyes popped out of my head oh my gosh I initiated sex wow that orgasm was easier to have right it's these are the things that patients notice I also get patients telling me there's stress and continents is slightly improved why because of your reads for a has to stoster on receptors and we know that for all genders and these these are kinds of things my patients will report but I think I don't know what do you think I think it takes a while hmm it's an interesting question um IMean I definitely agree that that's true for some people that said I've also seen people who within weeks report feeling better now the challenge here of course is the only way you could understand this is through blinding right we just don't know how significant the placebo effect is and and therefore it's hard for me to to discount or know what we do because we have studies on testosterone which show IMean within my observation yes I want to ask you another question about netesto so netesto for the listener is a nasal formulation it's an FDA approved formulation um we've in theory it seems like a great idea then practice it has not really paned out just based on its messiness it's it's a gel a nasal gel we've had women use it vaginally you know nausily like what's your experience been with it so it's getting harder and harder to find these days and so I think similarly we've been interested in it and people have played with it before this idea can you do you know one squirt into your nobody likes to squirt things in there it is it turns out and so it's a challenge now I also any of these topical testosterone formulations a lot of them have alcohol in them so I don't recommend putting them on your genitals directly um but I do think it needs to be studied for this you know it's it's challenging finding the formulation of testosterone that is low enough like from the male side because we have lots of formulations for men that is low enough to kind of give an appropriate dose why isn't a female formulation being made buckle up buttercup so here we go we had a billion dollars that was put into it a billion dollars and a five-year study that was done at the FDA and it showed it was safe it showed that it was effective it showed that it was fine it wasn't that's here's the the TLDR on testosterone is it's not that serious right we wanted to be serious again not a feeling we wanted to be like all about aggression it's not it's not a feeling like it truly isn't um and so they did five years of study a billion dollars went into it and the FDA came back and they said oh women have breast tissue so we're gonna need five more years of data and another billion dollar study and every company was like I'm out right the benchmark was different for women men six months and this was a real goal post move yeah they just keep moving the goal post everywhere they move the damn goal post okay I talked about the labeling on testosterone being removed that it does in worse than cardiovascular disease why because they did the traverse study that your listeners know about that proved it the box labeling on estrogen products which says that estrogen causes stroke blood clots heart attacks probable dementia like we just got done saying that that study didn't show that so why is that box labeling still there we're killing women by trying to protect them why do you think this is happening if you if you if you try to steal man the case for the other side where where are they in their thinking on this I think medicine has a humility problem and a a deeply ability to say hey we didn't we didn't know what we didn't know back then we're learning and we're adjusting they don't like to say I don't know they don't like to say to evolve in their thinking and for some reason women's health comes with so much bias and it is the amount of money that goes into women's health research is like worse than it was 10 years ago right like like this is a paternalistic IMean I hate to put sort of sociology on top of this but what like again when I I as you know I spoken with one of the PIs from the WHI and I think she is by far the most honest broker of that group and I don't have good things to say about that group I really don't but I also can't even wrap my head around their thinking like I can't steal man their case I wake up in the morning and like how is this real life like we met okay I'll give you an example we met with the chief for the administration chain we met with the the I think it was the the chief medical officer of the FDA we were someone high up at the FDA it was a room full of parry menopausal women I was like yeah we got this it's a room full of parry menopausal women and we presented our case about vaginal hormones which is basically micro dosing hormones and they prevent UTIs by more than half when you use vaginal hormones you treat the genital urinary syndrome of menopaus and we said to them we said you're labeling this should not have the same label of all estrogen products you should remove the labeling and they said well we're really going to need industry to come at us to remove the labeling I said you didn't need industry to put the box on why do you need industry to remove the box but we no longer have industry in this field in any significant way because the WHI destroyed that industry so we have a huge problem where you actually don't have any money to his women's health I think Pfizer completely fired their women's health division saying yeah we're gonna look at allergy now you have entire department we did a study once on pelvic pain we were really in botulinum toxin and pelvic pain and I was on the call where they said oh we have a new CEO now and women's health is no longer priority like I heard those words so we do have a paternalistic problem we it's true and unfortunately it's not getting any better I usually do not subscribe to to theories like that I usually find myself thinking there are alternative explanations and we're just pointing to the most sensational ones but it gets hard to dismiss an argument as follows right which is if the tables were turned and the WHI was really the you know MHI right the men's health initiative and it produced equally idiotic results would we be in the same place we are today or would men have said oh hell no to the traverse trial right there were two bad studies that were done horrible studies that made no sense that showed testosterone had some dangers so they the FDA threw that box labeling on sit oh my gosh within minutes they created the traverse trial it got done in five years and within minutes when it was finished and it got published in the New England Journal of Medicine the box was removed and by the way the traverse trials not even a great trial like I've been so critical of the traverse trial I think you could have come to the same conclusion of the traverse trial if you knew how to read all of the data before and actually don't think the traverse trial added much but anyway yeah but that's the point I think totally because you could look at data oh there was an increased fractures from the top testosterone causes fractures that makes no sense we know that's not true we know testosterone helps bone mineral density and so you can make the same arguments of how you look at these studies how these studies are designed the flaws of them you're going to do a study for five years why are you giving people gels you know is that the right thing so why are we looking why do we care what the people of the women's health initiative said 20 years ago why is that even news right and why can't it die and because you don't have enough people like you standing up you don't have the internal medicine doctor standing up and saying this is wrong because they're not teaching it right you don't have the OBGYN saying this is wrong because they're delivering babies and women are dying in childbirth women's health like men up has health in particular is important to nobody right and when it's nobody's problem nobody takes ownership of it yeah IMean I do believe this is going to change and I and I don't know who said this but it's it's a it's a great quote that said funeral by funeral science makes progress and so you know that's not a that's not a that's not a great explanation for what's about to happen temporarily because you know it's going to be a while before everybody who held that belief in their in their soul is no longer around but it it does give me hope that a new generation of women will come along and take ownership over their health and and and look I've seen a change in 10 years IMean 10 years ago when I was prescribing hormones to women you cannot believe the fights I would have with their other doctors and I don't mean like you know we weren't fist fighting but they were scolding me like how dare you you know and they but but but it came with an arrogance of in at a lack of willingness to even look at the data now which I found ironic right it's like if if you want to scold me you better know as much as me and hopefully more but the this this sort of arrogance of I'm going to scold you but I know nothing and I'm not actually willing to have a discussion with you because I'd be like great let's let's turn to figure two in the jam up paper and let's look at this and look at the appendix and look at the supplemental data like are you seeing the same thing I'm seeing can we at least agree on the fact no we can't and it's so fascinating because I would never I would never tell my I do sexual medicine so I look at the whole patient I look at everything and I would never say to them hey you're you have to stop this beta blocker right now because it's causing your erectile dysfunction right I would never tell a patient that though the beta blocker may be worsening his erectile dysfunction but I would never say stop this medicine it's kill it's hurting you right I would talk to their doctor I would have a conversation but there's something about hormones that doctors who know nothing feel very confident in saying you can't be on this you must stop this without even having that curiosity of huh I wonder if the person who prescribed it actually knew what they were talking about and it is it is everywhere right we see this all the time now let's talk about the flip side because the unfortunate nature of everything we've just described is you create a fringe movement and unfortunately I've seen a lot of doc on a box hormone practices that are I believe putting women at risk and I believe are doing bad things to women in the name of doing good and I don't believe that these are inherently bad individuals I think they are I think they're ill informed I think they're just not that bright and maybe some of them are just actually charlatans and they're seeing an enormous opportunity here as a general rule I tell patients be very very suspicious of a doctor that is selling you hormones be incredibly suspicious of any physician who has their own compounding pharmacy within the practice and is giving you compounded formulations and also making money on it talk a little bit about the I don't want to call it the dark side but just kind of the fringe side of this world so I would argue that people care about their pain points people want to feel better people go to anyone who tells them here's you know there's a whole supplement aisle at CVS that makes all these wildish claims that we're going to help you with everything and the reality is is I just got done saying you're kind of colleges and your internal medicine doctors are going to in that 10 minute visit tell you that you don't need this this is not going to help you and so enter the fringe people the snake oil salesmen the people who are doing wildly inappropriate things that doesn't mean the hormones themselves are bad it just means we have a marketing problem here if we're not doing it and helping people people are you know they hear their friend did it they hear their their neighbor did it and they said I want what she's having right this is why we call ourselves the menopause see this is why we teach so loudly is because we're trying to bring it back into medicine and evidence based medicine and say you can actually do this quite reasonably in fact there are many FDA approved products that work you know much better that are more regulated that are totally safe you know here's what they are they should be covered by your insurance you know and giving them that knowledge because the problem is is when no one is right it's too quiet no one is giving people answers no one's even looking at thEQuestions so then the fringe people take over and are unfortunately doing very inappropriate thing you know what we see this with men's health too right as a urologist we see shot clinics and all these wild PRP clinics and testosterone pellet clinics and compounded pellets and all of these things because my colleagues we are not doing enough to take care of men's sexual health and so these clinics exist to prey on those patients who deeply want to connect and get their answers right which is why my colleagues and I are even loud about it on you know for everybody yeah the number of online testosterone clinics is mind boggling and you know a lot of them are prescribing I think second tier drugs right and you know what I say I say you know with these things is the people who need it are not being offered it and the people who don't need it are abusing it right and that is true for hormones for everybody because they just they just talked about this the last men are pause meeting less than 4% of women are on hormone therapy right now less than 4% that's worse than 4% of eligible women who would be really be required less than 4% that's worse than 10 years ago it is so bad out there I need so I did the same calculations you did when I was on my Uber on the way over I said how many women are over 40 it was something like 84 million according to AI right and I said okay and there are about 3,000 people on the men-upos society website that doesn't mean everybody knows what they're doing or that they all do the same thing but divide 84 million by 3,000 it's a big number and we can't see patient panels of 27,000 people like that does not the math doesn't math there so we need people to step up and write the so who should be writing estrogen prescriptions who every doctor who sees a woman of that age every doctor who sees a woman of that age and so who actually does nobody let's talk a little bit about the playbook I want to tell you how we do it and um I don't I'm not saying we do it right because I don't think there's a right way to do it but IMostly want to hear how you do it because I bet you're way better than than we are. Maybe we take a step back and explain we've already alluded to it twice but I just want to make sure people are understanding this if a woman has a uterus you have to protect that end of me trail lining so even if she's in the camp women who don't notice being on progesterone you have to be on progesterone. We'll come back to IUDs and progesterone coded devices and things like that and let's just talk about the way you get progesterone so the progesterone's the easiest of the lot here right. Is there any reason when giving oral progesterone to use anything other than micronized FDA approved progesterone orally? What's the lovelies we need at toolbox because not everybody responds to the same thing I love micronized progesterone and it's a fabulous product so yes I think it's my go to first line sometimes we need to put it vaginally instead of orally to help with some of those sedating side effects so you can avoid sort of going to the brain if you put it vaginally and so we do find that cuts down a bit. The deer going to start orally. I typically start orally. We're going to start at 100 milligrams depending on your grams. Estrogen I typically start with 100 milligrams some people say you're going higher with your estrogen you may need to do 200 milligrams of progesterone that data is not very clear and so and there's really two ways to give progesterone you could do it every single day right so typically 100 milligrams every day and then some people in a lot of data shows if you do it cyclically like 200 milligrams you know 12 to 14 days out of the month in another way to do it. Both are fine but when we see many patients right they feel better doing it 100 every day because it can help us sleep an anxiety reduction. And do we believe that 100 systemically is sufficient to oppose estrogen? I think that's the way I think there is not enough data there and we need more I think if patients bleed it's a nice tell that maybe they need more progesterone I think there's some interesting that I've learned that some people say if you take it with fat or you take it with something to eat it absorbs better because my you know progesterone's absorbed very well which is why we always had synthetic progestins you know in the first place and so we're still learning sort of the capabilities of micronized progesterone but according to most menopause specialists out there they typically will use 100 milligrams every day or 200 milligrams 12 to 14 days of the month. So the only thing that we do I would say front there is while we start women at 52 a hundred we will generally take them to 200 if tolerated and if not keep them where they are at a hundred but we find women who are in that one third to one half group who are very positively selected towards progesterone they feel fantastic at 200 the most notable improvement is sleep. So would you agree with that that's the thing that most women are just over the moon we have well-sleeved together it is it's so fun to get to get to get sicker and mood improves. And then of course now so now let's talk about the other subset of women and this is a real subset. No question. I would say in our population it's it's about 10 to 20 percent for whom if you bring progesterone in the room something goes wrong. Their mood really changes now it can in some cases become depressive but more commonly what they tell me is and I'm quoting them this is not me saying it I become a raging bitch and I'm worried IMight kill my husband so for those women we think progesterone's a bad idea and we then use a progesterone coded iUD so are you doing that or are you using a repository at that point? Yeah you can do either right you can say hey try taking this vaginally and see if that goes away right see if you're no longer feeling anger or bloated or you know have irritability and so vaginally can be an option we love a progesterone coded iUDs right they're great in perimenopause why because people think that you just kind of like lightly like dance into menopause it is like bloody murder healthy and right like you can be terrible you can bleed the whole month you can bleed heavy you can bleed when you're least expecting it so the iUD is very nice because it will stop bleeding and so you throw an estrogen patch on and some testosterone and that's your really great perimenopause plan now you can still take it and get birth control which is very important right and so you can add micronized progesterone to the patient who gets good sleep even if they have an iUD that doesn't add danger we love that right so we love iUDs for this population there's another others and then there's the synthetic progesterons which you can use as well I've seen people do things like slimmed which is a birth control a progesterone only birth control pill at a patch into testosterone to that as well now again a synthetic progestins sometimes can have mood side effects as well so they're not completely benign for all people um there's another uh i don't know if you've used this at all in your practice uh it's called duovey have you heard of this yes so it's just a um it's an oral estrogen but it also has what's called basodoxafine which protects the uterus but is not a progesterone based medicine i wish they were separate i wish we could just give basodoxafine alone any pharmacy so it didn't necessarily have these these oral estrogen if you don't have to now it's again oral estrogen is not evil um you know i'm a sex doctor we know that trensdermals a little better for sexual function so that's again why i'm a big fan of trensdermal products as well but that's kind of another option for progesterone uh people get uh historic demies for lots of reasons of we've had patients do that who really don't tolerate progesterone and then you can just use estrogen only are you referring women who are on what potentially might be a low dose of progesterone to their gyan for endometrial ultrasounds on some regular intro roll just to look for hyperplasia or anything like that so we really don't like to look for things um the nice thing about endometrial cancer from what i understand again i'm putting my urology hat on i'm not a gynaecologist it bleeds so if you now if you bleed um then if you bleed and you just started a new hormone therapy it's probably okay now for me i like to know if there's any structural things going on to have a polyptoof a fibroid is your lining super thick you know if you're in parry menopause you still should be bleeding right so it's that challenge i don't go looking for things that aren't uh bleeding because i don't necessarily want to find things um and so so no that at this point there's not necessarily a reason for routine surveillance because if you're lining is say six millimeters and you're not bleeding um are you really gonna put that woman through a biopsy and through a hystoroscopy and those have significant you know pain and and problems that go with that as well anything else you want to say about progesterone i think we covered a lot of progesterone now i think do you start it can confidently with the estrogen do you like to start one before the other i like to start one before the other in general because i like to people to know what's doing what i agree because you know when you just give when when someone comes to see us is give it all to me yeah it's always a disaster every time it's a one time it worked well for me but it's pretty much a disaster so i like to stack it so as we can and again you're not going to cause and endometrial cancer in in three months of using just estrogen and you're talking something that takes years and years and years to develop and even that data is not that clear cut so i'm not worried about me causing a uterine cancer now often again we'll start with the estrogen because i feel sometimes you'll start with progesterone if sleep is the major issue but i find like the vasomotor symptoms are so um it's such a big deal to get rid of those so i do like often starting with estrogen and then slowly adding in the other ones yeah that so i'm really happy to we're following your playbook already so yes we almost always start with estradial and we muck around for a while till we get it right and that's why i saved it for last by the way because it's the hardest in my opinion in my experience to get right then we fiddle with progesterone and then testosterone if they're not already on it but to your point some women are coming into pairing menopause already on testosterone okay let's talk about estradial um there are two other estrogens estradial is e2 but there's estron e1 and there's estriol e3 now the FDA only has a battery of approved products around the second estrogen which is the dominant estrogen there's no FDA approved product for estron and there's no FDA approved product for estriol but there are plenty of compounded opportunities around that in fact the most common of them is referred to as biased by estrogen which is an 8020 mix of estriol and estradial um what is your take on why that product exists do you view that as a reaction to the wh i IMean how do you think about it yeah i think as you said it right there i think that what happened happened is the women's health initiative happened in hormone therapy all went into the to the under the alley it went to the alley and i think one of the ways that these alley docked back alley doctors did it was saying oh we're using the safer version we're using this compound and we're gonna make it 8020 and we're gonna use the more safer option by the way i haven't seen that data uh you know and there is no data on biased in large trials that's gonna really tell me what it does and so and we're gonna just use this um and that's what got people through for a while and i don't actually blame those people if they had no alternative right if i were in the middle of the desert and i had the options and i was having horrible symptoms and i had the options of nothing or a biased cream like i'd probably slaughtered the bias cream on me but we don't have we're not in you know it where we are now we have lots of options we have FDA proved options and they're covered by insurance most of the time so i tend i don't prescribe it because i haven't needed to now if i have a patient who comes into me and they're feeling great and they have no problems do i have to change them we'll say well do you want to save some money like we could change you to a different formulation that's an option sometimes i'll even check if they're having symptoms we'll check their levels and i don't know if you find this but their ester dial level is essentially zero it's less than five and i'm saying listen i think you're just using fancy lotion i think you're paying a lot of money to put nice lotion on you and i don't know that it's protecting your bones and if we're using this to protect your bones or to stop your hot flashes or to help with your sexual health maybe we use the formulations that are a little bit better studied and that you know i know our absorbing in your body because i can prove it so that's my i know what's your take on that we don't use it at all i have used it occasionally in the past probably about 10 years ago um largely in women who were terrified of HRT and to your point it was viewed as look if you buy the argument and this is a biochemical argument there's no there's no human data that that demonstrate what i'm about to assert but if you and and again i say this because one can look at a whole bunch of biochemical charts and tables and talk themselves into anything being true but there's there are biochemical arguments to be made that estron and in particular one of them at tabelites of estron and i think it's four hydroxy estron the is the is the estrogen that is driving breast cancer so in an estrogen sensitive breast cancer given that you have so many estrogens is it more likely that one is responsible than another and and so the answer is oh you know some of the data suggests it's four hydroxy estron well estriol has no biochemical path to even get there in other words the there are no series of enzymes that can convert estriol into four hydroxy estron and of course there are pathways that will turn estriol weekly into estro diol so maybe you get a little bit more so in every all there's a long one in a way of saying you know no no no reason at all from an evidence perspective to use it we don't use it have not used it in a decade but that that was my half-baked argument in certain situations and in fact i did use it once in a woman who had breast cancer was adamant that she needed hormones symptomatically she really seemed to want it very badly and i felt that this was a reasonable compromise for what it's worth she got insanely better on the biased so how much of that was from the estriol how much of that was from the estro diol i have no idea when i teach this and i i do a lot of teaching of physicians holding their hands saying you can do this you can write these prescriptions and one of the things that i just keep coming back to is the sentence what are you afraid of right and i love that because when someone says well can i do it in this patient what do you afraid of can i use this product what are you afraid of and it forces i think in menopause medicine the reason we're all struggling is we're not yet at an algorithm or a playbook as you say that it's a one-size-fits-all what's so sexy about this field is we actually have to use our brains we have to use our brains we've to talk to people we've to get to know what's bothering them and we have to do the right tools for them which may be different in each person and so then it becomes you have to also understand what your patience afraid of right because that is the only thing that matters is what you're we take risks all the time i took a risk taking a car to get here right we take risks i with you ever drink alcohol you are taking a risk right we all take these calculated risks and we all have different calculations and so i love to push people of well if you were to use this so so patient comes in on biased uh is that safe well what are you afraid of am i afraid i'm going to hurt this patient i don't think i'm gonna hurt them necessarily but i don't know what's in that compound i don't know if the top of the bottles the same is the bottom of the bottle i don't know if it's good for her bones i don't know if it's absorbing in the way that it should be but i do have studies on FDA approved ester die all right and and then it becomes what am i afraid of with the with the patients well what are you afraid of about the ester die you afraid of cancer because you know that the women's health initiative people who used ester gen had a decrease risk of getting and dying from breast cancer our patients don't know this right yeah and you you mentioned this earlier i think this is one of the biggest limitations of you know how i talk about this thing medicine 2.0 which is very few people are conditioned to ask thEQuestion what is the risk of not acting uh you know we we we we we we have a reasonable idea of what is the risk of doing x what is the risk of doing y although in this particular example we seem to get that you know patently wrong but the what's the risk of not doing something is is very significant so let's talk about all of the different ways in which a woman can get ester die all through an approved tested chemically sound means yeah so um a little bit of nomenclature here right there is systemic ester gen right so when we're talking about hormone therapy whether you call it hormone replacement therapy the new way we talk about it is menopause hormone therapy or if you want to just say hormone therapy is totally fine we're talking about hormones for your whole body right uh estrogen for your hot flashes for your bone protection um uh for your skin here in nails right that's estrogen that's systemic estrogen but there's this whole other topic which i hope we talk about later because it's my favorite one which is local vaginal hormones which are to treat the genital and urinary symptoms of menopause and those are pretty much safe no i'm going to say they are safe for every human on earth including your 99 year old mother and law in the nursing home who is potentially could die of urinary tract infection so this is kind of the two separate areas and i think thEQuestion you're asking me is let's talk about systemic estrogen with systemic i and we can let's come back to that as we talk about genital urinary yeah because i got a lot to say about that one so systemic estrogen has a toolbox right we have patches we have gels we have rings which go vaginally um we have oral uh ester dial right um we have um those are the big ones there are injections that's kind of an old school way that i kind of use sometimes injections of ester dial valorate or sippianate um and so each one has pros and cons um and it's nice to have the toolbox because not every uh product works for every patient and the key is is getting it right for that patient because you need something that they're going to do and that they're going to do it for a long time because these are not things that you just you know do for a weekend let's start with the oral so we have an oral formulated estrogen um we don't use it that much i'm trying to think used to use it a bit more than than we did now honestly sometimes i would use it for women who were we were struggling to get the dose right on something else and i just needed something to get them through the weekend and it was like okay just i want you to just take a milligram of of of of of of this ester dial tablet tonight while we readjust your cream or your patch or whatever when are you using oral ester dial so i don't use it much um but that's not to say that it is there isn't useful i think it is actually very useful i don't need to underused right for example people are used to taking birth control pills they're used to taking pills they like pills you're doing for a a healthy person uh with no major risk factors of cardiovascular issues taking an oral estrogen really is not going to increase your risk of blood clots or heart attacks or anything like that at any significant worries some level it's no more increase in risk of blood clots than a birth birth control less it's less yeah so given the ubiquity with which women are on birth control pills where it shouldn't get into blood is not proportion yeah so what is your what is your advice to or what is your patient selection criteria on that in other words who are the women that you would say i don't want you on oral is this just factor five laden is this women who are obese like where do you sort of say uh the risk is a little too high so i tend to always start trensdermal and again this is my sex doctor hat because we learn from this study called the keeps trial where they looked at oral estrogen versus trensdermal estrogen and uh it's a fascinating trial but in that trial they found that um yes there's a slight increase of blood clots right with with oral estrogen but sexual function is better in trensdermal and that's because of what happens to sex hormone binding globulin so when you take oral estrogen we talk a lot about first past metabolism through the liver it goes through the liver the liver lots of things go through the liver when you take medications um in this one in particular it can pump out more clotting proteins so if you're at any risk of blood clots just like birth control pills right if you're at any risk of if you're a smoker if you are overweight if you have a genetic predisposition to blood clots we're not going to use an oral hormone product does IMake sense is that helpful um now i want to paint this because this is actually an area where i would love to see research i was speaking at a Harvard testosterone course with a morgan Tyler uh and mochera who you've had on the show and and i was speaking about women's testosterone use and um the speaker who got up there um to talk about a trensgender hormone therapy talked about sublingual estrogen you get referring to sublingual estrogen and i got up to the micro i ran to the microphone i said what are you talking about i've never heard of sublingual estrogen there's no product who what are you saying and he says you just take an oral estrogen tablet and you put it under your tongue like a tick tack and you let it dissolve and it doesn't go through the liver and it works fabulously to increasing blood levels and i said oh my god this is it this sounds amazing and it doesn't drive up SHBG presumably because it's not going to deliver the liver which actually if you think about it logically i love logic here because we don't want to use we love logic is it will if you take an estrogen ring and put it in the high dose estrogen ring and you put it in the vagina same thing you absorb estrogen vaginally so what's the difference there right a sublingual estridile so i think it's fascinating i don't have many patients on it but i would love to see data sort of looking that direction because it's cheap oral estrogen is cheap uh you get lots of doses you can dose it you know does that mean you can get away with a lower dose you can get away with a lower dose absolutely you must right because of that upper dose effect so how do you dose it then so again i don't have patients on this and i haven't seen any studies on this but i i think you ask this guy yeah absolutely how does he do i think they typically again trensgender hormone therapy is just much higher doses so my guess is one or two milligrams b ID is probably what they do if i were playing with it i would probably be nervous and i probably do 0.5 you know and i check levels and i do twice again this is not what i do in my clinic just as we think through what are you afraid of right what are you afraid of with this it's pretty fascinating stuff okay um let's talk about the peniply of topical ways you can do this creams patches what are the challenges of using these things how do they limit women's activity levels IMean i used to have this whole talk i would give women about what i thought was the best way to maximize the absorption of the cream and what i wanted them to do before they put it on and i wanted them to have a shower and i want to do two exfoliate their inner thigh and i didn't have this whole like routine that was probably so elaborate that it decreased compliance because like yeah yeah yeah so i thought that is not a series but i thought it was not a series but i thought it was true right for men and testosterone they we often find the topicals do not it's some they absorb beautifully and you get these beautiful levels and they feel great and then you do have a population that just doesn't absorb well through the skin and unfortunately we don't know who those people are right so it is i always tell patients that like i'm gonna here's the menu and we're gonna tinker we have to tinker to get it right for you because you're not like anybody and so patches a lot of people have heard of patches they like patches they make twice weekly patches and they make once weekly patches i find the twice weekly patches are much better tolerated and my patients like them better what's nice about patches is you have a wide variety of doses that you can play around with and so i always when i start patients on hormones i typically choose like a medium to medium low version because if you go too high initially they get breast tenderness and they get really annoyed with you and then you have to backtrack so i always like kind of tie trait up a little bit as we need to so patches are nice but for some people they don't stick well for some people they don't absorb well for some people they feel that they kind of drop off if you change it twice a week they feel like they get in a little lower we also notice women who use the sauna who are very very athletic and exercising like crazy you just haven't adherence physically and adherence problem yeah and there are people who are allergic to the adhesive so we see that as well so that's so some people are patch you know they love patches again you have to have a menu if you're going to a doctor and they give you one type of hormone therapy and that's the only type please run right they need to know the menu because you are not a you know it's not a one size fits all right so there's gels and there are number of different gels there's gels like the brand name is diva gel goes on your thigh there's estrogel which goes on your arm there's eva mist which is a spray sort of an aerosolized spray that goes on your arm gels can be really nice because it's every day so it's dosing every day the challenges sometimes they take a little bit to dry so if you're a busy person and you want to rub something on you want to run out of there I find gels not everybody wants to do something every day so again it's you got to get to know the people of like what do you what do you what do you like to do what's your routine you have to get it into their routine and sometimes you gotta work up to it and sometimes I have patience right they'll they'll use patches but when the summer time hits and it's hot and muggy they'll switch to the ring right or they'll switch to a gel like they'll those kind of what's the case for not just using the ring all the time oh so I love the ring so there's just two types of ring now this is important yeah it's really important because your pharmacist sometimes messes this up so there are two FDA proved rings now a ring just like a birth control ring you set it and forget it you put it in the vagina the vagina does not feel it like a tampon you don't feel it and it just stays in for three months at a time and it's sitting right up against the cervix it's not like a diaphragm where you have to place it or a menstrual cup or anything like that you just kind of push it in there and it just settles in and finds a place by the way if you have penetrative sex most people don't take it out they don't feel it like there nobody's bothered by this thing so this ring goes in there stays in for three months now there is a femoring which is a high dos ring which means if you have a uterus you need progesterone to protect the uterus and it comes in two doses 0.05 and 0.1 then there's an e-string which is a two milligram like localized estrogen ring that is you do not need progesterone if you have a uterus because it's just treating the genital urinary syndrome of menopause so it's not trening your half flashes, subprotecting your bones it's not going to help your night sweats but it's going to prevent UTIs it's important that you know the difference because the pharmacist sometimes won't and he'll give you the wrong ring which could be catastrophic if they think they have a systemic ring but they have a local ring so the ring is lovely just dose is the only difference between the two right yeah they look a little different but yes the reason one is just a high dose and one is a load but it's the same frequency yeah both three months okay I thought you changed the e-string more frequently but good to know okay no three months now there's a company right now studying a product and I'm not it all affiliated but it is a one month ring that has both estrogen and progesterone in it which is very interesting and I'm curious to see where the research goes with that and it's a one month ring so so the issue with the ring I love the ring now there are women who you you show them and they're like I am not putting anything in my event like no I don't want that there are women who've used rings for birth control they love the idea I will tell you and we've been hoping to publish on this clinically again I don't know about you but my patients don't listen to the book they don't read the book and they don't follow the FDA curbs but my patients it peeders out like it literally stops working that last one everyone's a little different but I have patients where that last month they are dragging their half-flash it went on just swap it every two months so it's expensive so a lot of times insurance doesn't cover the ring it's about a hundred eighty dollars cash price when you use an online pharmacy called trensition and so it's expensive sometimes they'll slap a patch on or a gel at the time to sort of overlap so they'll change it early or they'll add a different therapy or they'll stop using the ring altogether it is like perfect for like two months and then it kind of and we'll check levels again there's the book answer the Instagram answer and the doctor who been answer this is where checking levels is actually helpful I would love to you know I'm sure there are a couple of my patients that would actually volunteer to do this where we just do twice a week levels for three months while they're on a product while they're on a ring it just watch the curve it's incredible right because you will see it you'll check it you have a point one ring in and you should expect estrogen levels of 60 70 something like that and you'll see an estrogen level of like 13 and you'll be like oh my god this is not work right and they'll complain of hot flashes night sweats you know sort of their symptoms will come back and so we see a lot of ring issues with sort of dosing for that purpose and then another problem is if you have any kind of prolapse so as you as people have babies everything's can kind of prolapse and so people can the ring can fall out during bowel movements other things like that if there's not enough space in there so I had an ultra marathon right I can get expensive it gets expensive so I this ultra mirror this is where checking levels is beautiful marathon runner comes to me you know she loves her ring she's doing great she messages me oh my god I feel awful something's not right I've just like I don't feel like myself again I said oh you know where are you in your ring you know where are you in the cycle of your ring we talk about it so let's just check a level see what's happening sure estrogen was undetectable I said okay we need to change this ring and she messages I can't find it she can't find the ring it's not there she probably had a bowel movement didn't it fell out she didn't notice and then her sort of levels dropped so it's where the detective work kind of helps you kind of figure out what's going on with your patient so the ring is not perfect for everybody but I love the ring you know if you're in Perry Manopause and you have an iUD a ring you put a little testosterone you know every morning you know it's a mate like it's really a set it and forget it sort of you get vaginal estrogen systemic estrogen you get your pregesting from the iUD you add a little topical testosterone low very low maintenance and completely solution yeah and not that expensive like you can do it relatively inexpensively two things I want to talk about on the lab front we've talked a lot about labs so not sure if you share our our view on this we are really fistidious about using LCMS for estradile we do not want to use the Eliza based assays at all are you pretty meticulous about that or do you find that you're just happy checking any estradile I typically get the sensitive estradile level yeah that's what we get for everybody in same with the testosterone as well so let's maybe make that a PSA for people both physicians who are out there and patients we have seen that if you do not use the the LCMS assay right which is the very sensitive the liquid chromatography assays the results can be meaningless and IMean truly meaningless and the reason is that the Eliza based assays are so susceptible to interference from other molecules and there are some really known obvious supplements that completely obscure the findings so buy a tin which is in a lot of things will IMean render a non-LCMS test irrelevant but I think there are other things that were just not fully aware of so you know it is worth splurging and paying the extra maybe it's five or ten dollars be the cash price difference on that test but absolutely make sure when testosterone and estradile are being measured if you're the physician you actually have to go through the hoops and make sure you're ordering the LCMS test and if you're a patient you should be asking for it so we're going to get a lot of hate uh just so you know we get a lot of hate there's a lot of um there's a lot of disagreements uh when it comes to hormone therapy how to properly do hormone therapy had a check for hormone therapy and one of the places and it's funny because I truly believe and for anyone who's going to say mean things about me on the internet from this podcast I truly believe that actually most of us agree on like 98% of this like truly we want women feeling better many of uh most of us believe the data that hormones the benefits outweigh the risk and so I think 98% we agree there's the 2% where there is uh disagreement and part of it is also in the what we don't know yet right like the the unknown and the curiosity and sort of things and lab testing is one of those issues the book says never check labs if your doctor checks labs they are really doing something wrong you should only care about symptoms and then you have sort of the fringe that are doing all saliva-based testing every minute check labs do you know all these expensive labs which I do not agree with again the Instagram answer the book answer the doctor who an answer of sort of there are reasons to check labs and I do find labs similar to you my curiosity with labs is so fascinating when you can capture this perimenopausal fluctuations and show the patient the reason you feel so terrible is because your estrogen was a thousand and now it's zero and that hurts now do I need numbers to to to to to know that that's what's happening it actually helps patients quite a lot for them to look at this and see the data um what is your take on that because it is a very controversial issue I'm surprised but this is you have to understand I don't spend any time paying attention to the buffoons in the periphery on this topic so you know I don't like the term even I don't like the whole terminology around functional medicine I don't buy into the idea that you need to be spending and an ordinary amount of money on esoteric nonvalidated labs um again I think you can you can go to lab core you can go to quest you can go like any clear approved lab that knows how to do an assay correctly is all you need um our view and what we tell patients is the symptoms are the most important things but the numbers help direct my thinking this is how we manage thyroid this is how we manage sex hormones you know and and and to be clear like there's again I you know there's a character chair of the Dunning Kruger curve that I just find so helpful right so for the folks who aren't familiar on the x-axis you have experience right and on the y-axis you have confidence and in the in this sort of character version of the representation of this curve you initially have a huge spike which then falls into a valley and then a slow rise and of course the huge spike is referred to as the peak of Mount stupid followed by the valley of despair and the slope of enlightenment and it's just important for people to understand that when you are on instagram and youtube disproportionately you are seeing people at the peak of Mount stupid which is to say they have very low experience in insanely high confidence and these are the ones that are telling you that TSH I'm making this up as one example TSH must be between 0.4 and 1.9 and if it is any bit above 1.9 you have hypothyroidism and you need to be on armor thyroid or naturethroid or whatever and and and it's sort of like no none of that is correct okay and you just have to take care of enough patients for enough years to get humbled enough to know that whatever you think you know with rigidity is probably wrong you see don't my gray hair that I've grown it's true right and and I find you know what's so again that humility of medicine is I have made a car I am famous and my patience love me because I spend a lot of my day saying we don't actually know this is a data free zone here's what I think here's how we're going to use logic here's the tools in our toolbox but there is that ability to really know the data so well to truly understand there's a lot we need to figure out and that's why I have a research group and that's why we're trying to answer thesEQuestions because we have morEQuestions than we have answers but I also need to get my patience feeling as good as possible and that is it's a dick ding to be honest yeah so here's what we do we focus relentlessly on the symptoms and we care what the estradiol level is we also think the FSH is a very helpful marker so if a if a woman's FSH is 78 and her estradiol is 40 I'm inclined to believe she needs more estrogen especially if she's saying I think I feel a bit better I'm just not sure like to me that says I'm going to go more and by the way with the labs being where they are I'm more inclined to push a little bit but again nothing tells me I've given her too much estrogen more than her saying her breasts hurt and that's the advantage of doing it with these short-term estrogens because I can pull it back really quickly so I don't know if that answers your question but I would consider myself an essentialist on labs kind of a minimalist essentialist but neither not an absolute is to any other direction and I love that and I think it's so re such a reasonable and logical like the logic there it makes so much sense to me so we're totally in line with that and that's why again it's very confusing for our patients on social media because they want the exact answer right and you're not going to find your exact answer from one doctor on social media right oh my gosh you said that I have to use an estrogen gel but I use a patch should I switch to a gel and it's not again it's not that serious there is a menu if it's working for you and you feel like you're getting what you need now it's good to get educated and learn about all the different options so that you can see what's right for you but I think expecting that one doctor gives you all the answers is not going to happen so anything else you want to say about systemic therapy before we go and talk about local therapy in the context of genital urinary symptoms of menopause yeah I think we haven't spent a lot of time really talking about the symptoms of menopause right what are we treating why do people have why do people need systemic therapy and I think you know I'm often saying that menopause has the worst PR campaign in the history of the universe why because we think it's for old people and we think it's just hot flashes and we think hot flashes go away there's actually not enough education like we can argue about E1 E2 but the reality is doctors don't even know the symptoms of menopause patients don't even know the symptoms of menopause right the person who was doing my makeup this morning she's like I just feel awful I feel like an old person I'm not sleeping I'm not fun anymore I can't drink I can't you know my joints are achy and as it welcome to you need hormone therapy right like I'm always teaching no matter who I'm whether there's a cab driver a hair stylist I'm always teaching but this idea of of of you have hormone receptors throughout your whole body it is a whole body experience so yes there's hot flashes and night sweats and by the way hot flashes are not just a nuisance that is a neurologic vascular genic probably event right the worst your hot flashes the worst your risk of cardiovascular issues and things like that joint pain is a huge one I never thought as a yearologist I would treat so much joint pain never in a million years did I think I cared about joint pain and yet patients come in all the time and say oh my god I don't get out of bed feeling old I don't feel creaky my joints recover again after I exercise and again am digastank inflammation when you I think hormones are natures a joint fluid if you will so so almost like break fluid right go back to the car analogy and we are gonna work it heck out of this mind so it's really cool so your eyes knee lubrication your ears need wax your vagina needs lubrication your joints actually need lubrication and so think of hornet teenager you've got oils oily skin so so hormones create these oils vaginal lubrication oil for your skin there are hydrogen receptors in your eyeballs right in these myobian glands so so I think of hormones like fluid so as you lose the hormones or the hormones go too high or too low it dries everything out and so you get joint pain you get frozen shoulder you get plantar fasciitis and now it was recently published on by Archmai Khalid Vonda Wright the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause right this idea that so many women in their 40s and 50s everything starts to break down it's because the gas tank is empty and that inflammation increases it's such a simple and it's such a simple analogy so what are the symptoms you've got muscular skeletal symptoms sleep issues mood issues bleeding changes um obviously low libido orgasm problems or rousal problems pain with sex increases like crazy um I sent you a list here what am IMissing you've got you've got a list there uh irritability very common one um I think the one that I was gonna ask you about is brain fog and depression um this is one where I think this is AI think this is a very unique one because it's one that gets easily dismissed as something unrelated same same more about those it's it's one of the most common symptoms and all women start going to doctors in their 40s like like doctors you I know you're listening and you get so many people and every day you say oh it's probably hormonal but you're not giving them the solution you're just telling them it's not cancer so the neurologists are seeing all these patients to rule out um you know a cognitive decline or all these other issues but really it's that brain fog because your brain is filled with estrogen receptors this is crazy researcher okay I don't know if you've had Lisa Muscone on but here's this researcher from Cornell neuroscience researcher who says hey I want to study Alzheimer's I want to do this this is just in the last couple years and she goes to her lab manager and says okay what's the assay for estradile and the brain I need to look at estradile receptors in the brain and the people at Cornell was like that doesn't exist she's like what do you mean that doesn't exist she's like how can we not look at estrogen receptors in the brain so she gets um Maria Shriver to give her a giant amount of money who gives her a huge amount of money so she now develops this assay this is only within the last couple of years she just published in nature very early findings that what would you expect right your body is efficient it's not going to do things it doesn't need to do so the hypothesis was that as menopause gets later and later the estrogen receptors in your brain are going to down regulate why have receptors around when there's no estrogen to feed the brain what did she find the exact opposite right that actually even up to 65 she stopped looking past 65 because she's like there's no way that's going to matter the increase in receptor density the older you get and it correlates to brain fog and irritability you can sort of correlate all these symptoms my reading of that was estrogen is so important in the brain that it has to upregulate the receptors as the estrogen level goes down and down and down and in other words it's a lot like the way the brain is treated for glucose the body will if you you are fasting the muscles will within days become completely insulin resistant it's their way of saying every molecule of glucose that that liver spits out better not go into the muscle it better go to the brain and so you look like you have diabetes in an effort to save glucose for the brain and I think that's what's happening with estrogen and could you argue that weight gain in menopause is evolutionary so that you make more estroner what up right that goes to the brain because it wants every more so that it can get right so this idea of hormones matter for the brain deeply right this is very important so it's fascinating research but you're going to see a lot of again think of a receptor as perimenopause is happening the receptors are full now they're empty then they're full now they're empty now they're have full now they're empty it is this is why we see ADHD pop up in perimenopause all these women are saying I have now new diagnosed ADHD it's real why because your brain is is having a panic attack because it's just trying to figure out some stability here which is my actually in empty gas tank so in menopause when you are totally empty the brain fog gets better right because there's stability of hormones and so on but if we just all I'm saying it's just adds some estrogen right to just keep the receptors happy the other one that we didn't talk about was the urinary symptoms so both urinary and continents and then the higher prevalence of UTIs you veluded to it a little bit but just maybe finish the swing on that okay so this is my favorite topic in the history of topics because we used to call this problem initially it was called senile vagina that was the initial yes there was a papers written on the senile vagina then it got up I don't even understand what that means it an old vagina I suppose but then it got changed to vulva vaginal atrophy or atrophic vaginalitis that was the terminology that was used to be unfamiliar with the time before that I was seen on the scene of vagina check the history books very fascinating so vulva vaginal atrophy was sort of the common name of this okay as you get older the vagina atrophy is it travels up it shrinks up you know again if a penis tripled up at age 52 we probably have a vaccine sponsored by Pfizer right this is this is they created by agra they would create this this vaccine no one even tells me so you're saying if by the time a man became 50 his penis became a shriveled up useless organ you you you're you're saying that the medical system would have probably done something about this you might be on to something Rachel I I I know what I'm talking about so this is right so so so this is the thing we just told we just called a vulva vaginal atrophy and we said well if you have pain with sex or a little vaginal dryness here's some moisturizer here's some lubricants here you go if you're really bothered really bothered you got me really bothered then there's the thing called vaginal estrogen that we could give you now here's the crazy part of this is it's not just a little vaginal dryness the vagina and the bladder need hormones right babies don't have hormones and that's why you see it's red it's irritated they're these small little labia manora diaper cream was invented right to because it looks so painful then hormones had they pee their diapers all the time the genitals morph and change with hormones right puberty happens and you have a change of the genital in urinary system and and so what happens is as you lose hormones it goes in reverse and so it changes the microbiome though the hormones keep the tissue acidic it grows the healthy lactobacillitis it is the vaginas supposed to be acidic it's supposed to be able to fight infection and without proper hormones you lose that ability to fight infection so you see urinary frequency urinary urgency vaginal dryness increase in leakage increase in urgent continents and recurrent urinary tract infections which can and do kill people okay we've known this since the 90s in the New England Journal of Medicine actually this was on estuary all they looked you could reduce the risk of urinary tract infections by well over 50% we have known this all along and yet and that was with topical estuary all yeah interesting yeah I wasn't unaware of that and yet there is no FDA approved estuary all formulation despite that fact yeah correct I think it's available in Europe so we so the name got changed in 2014 okay 2014 a bunch of people got in a room and they said you know what this boba vaginal atrophy thing that's kind of a bad name because it doesn't describe what's really happening to people so they changed the name to genito urinary syndrome of menopause g sm now there was one urologist my mentor was in the room and they almost didn't put the word urinary in it and he fought and he yelled and he's here this is the power of one person to be able to change the whole world and they said okay well listen to you we'll put the word urinary in it and I'm so glad they did because the urinary problems are the things that kill people right people are dying of urinary tract infection in fact a large amount of money goes to medicare expenditures when it comes to urinary tract infections and we published last year that if medicare patients use vaginal estrogen which is safe for everybody and $13 a tube we would save medicare between six and twenty two billion dollars a year billion just say that again please because I know there are people that are in the medicare system who are going to be interested to understand that okay so when you when you do a low dose local vaginal estrogen or dha product you can reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half they're safe to use if you've had a history of blood clots breast cancer whatever medical problem you can come at me I can tell you that it's safe okay it will not only help with lubrication help with pain with sex help with urinary frequency urgency leakage but it will reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half it's also inexpensive and covered by ur insurance if everybody in medicare eligibility used vaginal estrogen we would save medicare between six and twenty two billion dollars a year and in my opinion that is a conservative estimate because of how many patients are getting urinary tract infections they're going to their doctor for cultures they're in the ICU with this is a huge economic a more bid and mortality problem that we're dealing with and no one cares IMean again I always try to come up with this steel man and say is it that they don't care or is it that they're unaware or is it that they feel that it just needs to fall on the shoulders of somebody other than themselves so I think we have a marketing problem I truly believe this is a marketing problem because let me tell you but okay let me push back not because I don't agree with you but I'm just gonna put put my my hat on that says the opposite right so maybe I am too attuned to this but I feel like there is nothing more talked about right now IMean look at what Hallie berries doing look what Oprah's doing look what Gueneth is doing IMean there are so many very powerful very influential women that are talking about this why is this not in the zeitgeist right now it's getting better but again they don't know how to write the prescriptions okay so let me tell you you think there's not enough physicians talking about this then if it really comes down to prescriptions if it can't get them it's on over the counter if you can't get the prescription or if you don't go to your doctor saying that you need it we had an Instagram reel just yesterday that the patient said I sent my friend went to her doctor said she was having pain with sex asked for vaginal estrogen and her gyna colleges said and I quote you need to think of other ways to change your relationship from now on it's not in the cards for you what does that mean meaning you can't have sex anymore right and the fact is it's not about sex is about urinary tract wait a minute yeah this is impossible for me to fathom a woman went to her gyna colleges and said I'm having pain within her course yeah this woman any idea how old this woman is in her 60s okay and the gyna colleges said didn't didn't you think this gyna colleges doesn't know about estrogen honestly I don't know any more it's incredible right so so okay so we could argue via agra 1998 via agra comes out via agra changed the world billions of dollars what is via agra is a pd five inhibitor it relaxes smooth muscles of the penis increased blood flow gives you a rigid erection so it helps with a rousal for men okay if you take it micro dose low doses it can also help with bph or urinary problems right we love via agra we love cialis wish it was in the water we should study it in women um if this is the problem though because I didn't medical school oh I'm gonna talk about that but but I will argue we've had via agra for women long before we've had via agra for men and we've known about it since the 1970s and via agra for women is vaginal hormones what do vaginal hormones do they relax the tissue they increase her rousal they increase lubrication they increase orgasm they help with urinary symptoms so they do everything via agra does and they permit urinary tract infections via agra doesn't do that so you're talking about better than via agra it's inexpensive now it didn't use to be so when I got out of my trening a tube of estra is with five hundred dollars wow because of people like mark Cuban and good rx and I've I've talked to mark Cuban on my dms in twitter and he knows more about vaginal estrogen than ninety percent of doctors but this idea of of it's not expensive a tube of estrogen is thirteen dollars right and you're saying that the reason that this price has come down is I know mark is a very hard liner against the pbs did mark basically take a sledgehammer to that yeah they changed they changed they changed they get and so it's incredible oh my gosh it's incredible and he understands it's he he literally understands the nuances of why vaginal estrogen is so important that's great I can't get doctors to do that I think he's he's incredible and so so so we've a marketing problem we have a product that is better than via agra for women it's been around longer than via agra it's inexpensive it's inexpensive what are we missing what is it's marketing we're not telling the patients we're not telling the doctors and we have a box labeling that says this product causes stroke heart attacks blood clots probable dementia breast cancer and needs to be taken with progesterone not one of those statements is true not one okay so we went to the FDA and says you got to remove the box this is not you're you're killing people and the FDA said we're gonna leave the box on this is a nightmare right so so can I can I just tell very personal story I promise it will take long so I was just spent my mother just died in November we spent six months in the ICU in Houston Texas six months my mother nobody was shipping an ICU for six months it was absolutely gut wrenching horrible time for me my mother had been on vaginal estrogen because you know of course I'm gonna one heard of prevent UTIs for many many years you know she's 70 year old woman many years so she gets into the hospital has a trensplant has a catheter and isn't doing well is on ECMO and very sick for very long time and I said to the doctors I said I know this isn't the most important thing in the world but I'd like to restart her vaginal hormones because having a catheter being in an ICU and being a immunocompromise my mother's risks of a urinary tract infection are incredibly high and a urinary tract infection is going to kill this woman so I would like to restart her vaginal estrogen and because menopause medicine is a tiny little field in a tiny little corner they looked at me like I was an insane person I said what do you mean you can't this is this is like your mother is very sick right now I said I know my mother is very sick right now and this is one thing I can control I sort of did a do you know who I am because I'm on the guidelines committee for GSM for the American Urologic Association so for the trensplant team I had to write up a whole I wrote up a whole S bar of like here's why it's important years the research here's all the literature here's the citations and they said but it'll increase her risk of blood clots I said no it won't vaginal hormones don't increase your risk of blood clots you're talking my it's like hydrochorded zone cream but compared us saw you measure all right those are very different things so then they went to the ICU team is an oh can't give this to her and increase her risk of blood clots had to convince them then the pharmacy they finally got them to write the prescription I had to teach them how to write the prescription pharmacy wouldn't dispense it why it increases the risk of blood clots it says so right on the box so I had to call and yell right I'm trying to run a practice in Washington DC my brother and father are trying to advocate with me because they know that this isn't they also follow me on social media they know this is important finally the pharmacy dispenses the tube of estrace there's no applicator the nurses don't know how to give it I had to show them and teach them how to give my mother who is on ECMO and you know ultimately passed not from a UTI thank goodness but but had to show them how to dispense I had to do all this being one of the leading educators on this topic what is everybody I'll still and guess what the teams changed every week we had to do this every week and to teach them why this was important and how to do this vaginal hormones should not be gynaecology it should not be a small subset of menopause medicine we could save Medicare between 6 and 22 billion dollars a year if people understood this if the box labeling weren't on there IMean I I it is so personal at this point and yet it is it is it's it's it's horrible well I'm very sorry to hear that that story both at the personal level but also at the the the sort of meta level of what is implied I want to clarify one thing Rachel if a woman is on a high enough systemic dose of estradyal does she also need later in life local estrogen maybe even not later in life so we find that systemic hormones are not often enough to help with the genital and urinary symptoms and the most doctors don't know this and you're not again what are you afraid of you're not adding any systemic risk it doesn't increase if you're estrogen level 70 on your patch and you add a vaginal estrogen her estrogen level is going to stay 70 you're not going to get that systemic absorption but you are going to reduce your UTI rate significantly how is that he been done it's a great question it's a very much expert opinion and and when the guidelines come out in the next couple weeks or actually when this the think of how intr it I think of how easy it would be to do a study where you took a group of women they were all at systemic target of estradyal and you randomized them to a placebo vaginal cream versus an estradyal vaginal claint cream you could follow these women for a year if they were in a susceptible enough population and you would get a very clear answer as to whether or not you're getting additional UTI protection and if the answer to that is yes just imagine the implications there at that point it becomes malpractice you're definitely and you are you're getting more you we know and we just publish the study that dha does the same thing it reduces the risk of UTI is by more than half why is dha doing it so dha is a fascinating so they've looked at a lot of oral you probably know this data better than I do oral dha the data is all over the place right because your adrenal adrenal reaction to the tata so but when you put dha vaginally it is this idea is that your vaginal enzymes convert it into both estrogen and androgens and what's so fascinating is we know that the vagina the vulvar vestibule the clitoris the bladder have androgen receptors so us using just estrogen in this tissue maybe missing the whole point we probably we do have patients that benefit from having an androgen in the tissue as well and the only FDA proof product we have is intro rosa which is vaginal dha now it's often hard to get for patients if I could get it for everybody I would it's fabulous because the tissue needs in these androgens so it's it's it's um the data is very good it's just we've just started using it so I don't have a lot of experience with it. It's going to change so there is some data not a lot but there's data that shows someone with urgency IMean give them vaginal estrogen switch them to dha it'll help those people who still have urgency. You think it gives you the same UTI protection? We we published on this so we just published in the menopause journal that it shows the same decreased risk of UTIs by more than half so that was a very proud publication that we just put out and so we use it frequently what's nice about the product it's a nightly product it's dha and palm oil so it's very moisturizing very lubricating and my mentor Irwin Goldstein published that actually it also helps the tissue called the vulvar vestibule. Do you know what the vulvar vestibule is? Well I know what the vulva is and I know what a vestibule is but I don't think I know what the vulvar vestibule is. It's okay so I'm obsessed with homologs. Homologs are sort of this idea of how one part you know I'll give you an example the penis and the clitoris are exactly the same. Yes, sorry they're homologs of each other right the head of the penis and the head of the clitoris homologs the um your rethra right they're all so so it's what part of the body and one is the same in the other so the homolog okay of of the labia sorry of the scrodo skin is the labia mature. Okay you're with me the prep use or the hood right they every every the clitoris and the penis both have a prep use or a hood to it um the so okay so there's a line that goes down a penis that goes down the the penis and the scrodo I'm do you remember what that's called? Meadie and rough uh you got it raffae yeah okay so the median raffae is the line that goes down the penis and the scrodo I'm straight line right in the middle what's the homolog in the vulva? I just learned this. Oh well it must be the vestibule. No. No I don't know. Close labia manora okay so it's skin it's echoed arm right so it is skin right and we're split open so if you take the median raffae and you split it right that's your labia manora which very hormone sensitive I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm very pot I'm not on tick talk but I am trening on tick talk because I talk about the labia manora shrinking and disappearing and menopause and the internet has broken because of it so the labia manora is very hormone sensitive tissue that we do not study and we know almost nothing about but it resorts in menopause inside the labia manora so if we cut into the median raffae in a man and we do this when we put in penal implants or we do your rethral surgeries we get to the male your rethra so Peter your outside of your cheek is skin right the inside of your cheek is different tissue right you agree one more sensitive one's thicker so the the skin of the of the median raffae is very different than the skin of the tube of your rethra you agree for sure so if you split open the labia manora you get to the urethra and that is the vulvar vestibule so the tissue that surrounds the urethra in a woman that goes all the way around and I will show you nerdy anatomical diagrams when we're done here because I need you to know this that is the female urethra it's called the vulvar vestibule it is made up of endo dorm so we think of the cervix as a trensition point but the most important trensition point that affects sexual health and a woman is when you go from echo dorm of the labia manora to endo dorm of the vulvar vestibule and then pass the hymn is mezo dorm okay it's fascinating anatomy why is this important super compressed it's super but it's so important because if you push with a q tip on the labia manora they'll have no pain if you push them on their vulvar vestibule they'll say that's my uti that's my interstitial cisitis that's the pain that I have with sex it is rich in hormone receptors it is so this is why 50% of women go off there endocrine therapy for breast cancer because they have urinary symptoms pelvic pain symptoms and it is all sourced in a body part that no one taught you in medical school and I did that on purpose because I knew you wouldn't know it because no one is taught how to examine it they put a speculum in and they bypass it completely and they are missing the problem so my back to the dha this tissue has estrogen and testosterone receptors in it so sometimes estrogen is not enough to help this vulvar vestibule tissue and so dha there's some data there's one paper to suggest that dha is enough and this is the one time that I will compound a product for a woman otherwise I use FDA approved products in my practice and I compound basically the amount of estrogen and estrogen top vaginal topical cream the point of 1% and I will use a topical testosterone point 1% different than the 1% we talked about for libido but a point 1% they rub it topically on this vulvar vestibule you cure pain with sex you help these uti symptoms interstitial cisitis goes away so many patients it's miraculous sorry tell me again point 1% t and what was the percent point 01% ester dha and we typically use like a versibase or a methyl cellulase base no but I would love to see that studied right I would love to see it's the base it can be usually a methyl cellulose or a versibase there's a base called a lodge that a lot of people are using right now again I am not a compounding junkie in any way this is a miraculous compound that gives like literally wool if you have a patient who's on vaginal estrogen systemic estrogen systemic testosterone the sapirai self pain with sex is still kind of hurts it's always the vestibule and the pelvic bone is super interesting isn't it fun um there are three other questions that I want to ask you going back to hormones postmenopause um and these are I'm saving the three most contentious questions for for last on this topic question one I buy your argument this is someone's posing this question to not me I buy your argument that hormones are safe but I am now 56 years old I finished menopause at 49 isn't it too late to do anything about it yeah so we have this idea in menopause medicine called the timing hypothesis or the window idea right so thEQuestion of the timing hypothesis is what are you afraid of what are we worried about worried about blood clots we're we don't want to hurt people we're worried about cancer we're worried about blood clots we're worried about heart disease but thEQuestion is is does the hormone therapy that we use apply to the data that we have and I would argue it doesn't and so there is a level if we don't know what we don't know but even the timing hypothesis using prem pro which was the medicine used in the WHI is under question so Susan Davis from Australia just wrote a big paper questioning the timing hypothesis and say actually when you look at the data really closely even it doesn't really hold mustard we shouldn't really be forcing people to like say you cannot start hormone therapy after 60 so I think this is where shared decision making really comes into play of what are we treating what are we trying to care about your bones do you care about your sexual health do you care about you know sort of your mental health and do you want to see a hormone therapy helps with these things now hormone therapies indicated for three reasons vasomota symptoms hot flashes night sweats that sort of thing prevention of osteoporosis which to me is a green light so anyone should be offered hormone therapy because who wouldn't want to prevent osteoporosis and the thing I just talked about a lot is the genitaline urinary syndrome of menopause so anybody of any age and I'm talking even parie menopause and premenopause vaginal estrogen or dha is safe and really helpful to prevent UTIs and should be used absolutely everywhere throughout life throughout life okay now I'm going to ask another question that is the extension of that question but I think your logic is going to hold the same which is the hedging strategy which says not only use as little as possible for as short a duration as possible says you really need to stop this after 10 years right IMean so even if you were lucky enough to catch a woman through parie menopause and you know you got her on hormones by the age of 49 now that she's 69 you got to stop it right definitely not so that's really the there is no data to suggest stopping and in fact stopping it all of your bone gains that's right they all go away quickly by the way that was the argument put forth to me with one of the authors of the WHO is by far the most willing to can see that mistakes were made right which was okay yes I will concede that the ester dial is doing amazing things for the women's bones but remember they're going to go away when you stop the hormones as though that was a necessary thing to do so keep them on right and again this idea of if hormones if it's not broke don't fix it by taking a woman off of hormone therapy you actually potentially could be disrupting any plaques that are there you could be causing vasospas like there are all these things that could happen and so we really don't want to take women off their hormone therapy unless there is a reason to and the only reason I honestly see is if a woman has an active cancer that you are going to target hormones as a target for your treatment of cancer that's not to say the hormones cause the cancer but we have a target sometimes because all body parts have hormone receptors and we have used hormones as a target for our breast cancer therapies and some other cancer therapies is that helpful does that does that make sense yes and it actually does tails perfectly into my third critical situation which is how do we manage hormones in women who are at risk of breast cancer from a familial standpoint who have been diagnosed with DCIS which is not cancer but increases the risk of cancer so that's kind of a subset of the first group and then in women who actually have breast cancer or have a history of treated breast cancer so I would imagine you see women that fit into all three or four of those buckets how do you handle it yeah so first we take a long time at my clinic and we get to know each other and we really try to dive into the data and say what do we know what do we not know and I always tell people you can't take hormone therapy because Rachel Rubin tells you to take hormone therapy you have to do your own research figure out what you you know what you're interested and so I have a lot of colleagues who are talking about this you had Alvram Blooming on your show and he has a great book called Estrogen Matters he's an oncologist who's questioning a lot of this research we have amazing colleagues of mine like current men who is a gynaecologist who had breast cancer as a young person there are 20s and now takes hormone therapy and talks a lot about hormone therapy and teaches courses on hormone therapy and breast cancer so I am always learning about well what data so I don't like fear I don't like telling women they can't do things with their body I like understanding well what are we afraid of and so when it comes to the braka patients if you do surgical menopause on someone and they don't have cancer and you do not give them back hormone therapy you are trading one problem for another you may give them extra life from a breast cancer perspective but you are shortening their life from a bone health and a cardiovascular disease perspective that is very clear so the other problem is the DCIS if you are not going to give someone endocrine therapy of any kind and they're done they have surgery they're done there is no reason why they can't take hormone therapy and then when it comes to active breast cancer there is a lot of emerging questioning in this patient population and again thEQuestion is if you're allowed to get pregnant are you allowed to take hormone therapy and that's really the pushback that we give some people and I think there's a lot of data that we need here but we need to be asking thesEQuestions I'm a urologist to stop when I came out of my trening it was testosterone fuels prostate cancer now 10 years later it's you have prostate cancer sure we can give you testosterone no problem if you have metastatic disease we target testosterone so we're going to use castration level androgen blockers but that doesn't mean if you have localized disease that you can't have testosterone therapy so we think of testosterone and prostate cancer as a saturation model concept and I actually think we need to be using that model potentially when it comes to breast cancer and have more logic and understanding unless fear it's marketing prostate cancer is testosterone sensitive prostate cancer but we don't cut off testicles for the fear that an abnormal cell will happen in a prostate all a lot of breast cancer is estrogen receptive breast get not all of it right but some of it is that doesn't mean that estrogen causes cancer is that helpful like I think it's a it's insanely helpful and of course it echoes exactly what Ted Schaefer said when we spoke about this after discussing the traverse trial which was I think to me the most telling thing that Ted said was look if I have a man who's got a gleece in 3 plus 3 means he has prostate cancer and we are going to follow this and if it becomes a 3 plus 4 he's we're going to actually have to take this thing out we'd put him on TRT if he needed it and his argument was exactly your argument on the pregnancy side which is the reason we would happily give him TRT is let's just assume he's a man replete with testosterone would we castrate him during that period of time of observation of course not so why would I not give him testosterone if he needs it even though he actually has prostate cancer and this is again where that patriarchal divide happens is we're willing to take those risks and focus on quality of life when it comes to men's health we castrate women with the mere thought that they may develop an abnormal cell in their body and completely ignore their quality of life and all of those things that go with it and that women are more than breast tissue they are so much more than their cancer risk and we have to understand and actually have these reasonable conversations with women and what I say is your oncologist is not in charge of you they don't tell you they give you advice they are so that's like a pit crew let's go back to our car model you have a pit crew but you get to decide who's on your pit crew and who fits into your pit crew but it can't be just one doctor you may need someone to talk about your sexual health you may need someone to talk about your menopause hormones you may need a bone doctor you may need a you know a heart doctor so you need to collect your pit crew but with one doctor says no you can't do this with your body I don't like that termina I don't think it's fair anymore and when you give women information about how their bodies work they make great decisions for them they can look at the menu and say listen I'm most worried about Alzheimer's and I've looked at the data and this is what I choose to do or hey I'm more worried about osteoporosis listen my grandma died not sorry my grandma broke a bunch of ribs raised she had Alzheimer's and osteoporosis and my grandpa hugged her and she broke a bunch of ribs like that's not how I want to age right so what do I care about I don't want to get osteoporosis I don't want to get dementia and I've seen all the literature hormone therapy sounds pretty good to me right like and that's really the key I think there's a lot of people on social media maybe negative about hormone therapy but if you look they are on hormone therapy themselves they will say they have an estrogen patch on I'm sorry I don't because I don't pay any attention to social media there are people out there saying they're anti HRT but they use your chart so I don't what's their argument what are they talking about this idea that we are overselling HRT that not every woman needs HRT and I'm not suggesting every woman needs HRT but I want every woman to be offered the menu right I want them to know what they are like like just like I want people to know how to exercise and lift weights and eat healthy here's the menu if you choose to smoke and drink and do drugs that is your choice but I want you to know that the menu exists does that make sense sure what do women need to be aware of so not every woman can come and see you right not every woman has access to a doctor who has the breadth of knowledge that has select few do in this space so A how can women find practitioners near them and what do they need to be aware of what are the exploitative practices out there that they need to be mindful of and not get dupped into sort of some you know either dangerous therapies or you know just overly extractive therapies there's danger on both sides there's danger going to the doctor for 10 minutes and saying oh that's not safe you don't want to do this right and there's dangers of going to the very expensive pellet clinic that is going to overdose you and charge you lots and lots of money so you need I like being somewhere in the middle and getting a few opinions here right so this is where opinions can be following the a bunch of people on Instagram don't just follow one people follow a bunch of people if you like books there's tons of books now on menopause right there are some of your favorites so IMean you've got Mary Claire Haver is the most popular book called the new menopause either herish has a great book called Pick Your Menopause type there's been a hot and bothered as journalist wrote a great book on Perry menopause Jancy Dunn Tim's in Fidelityll just wrote a book about menopause who's also a reporter so you're getting a estrogen matters is a great book right really great book so this is there's a lot of books now thank goodness you know there's one called the menopause manifesto there's great books on menopause there's also podcast now there's great podcasts out there there's great Oprah just did a special on you know there's there's documentaries on PBS now so menopause is having a movement so you can't have this excuse anymore of oh my doctor doesn't do this go find a different doctor they're telemedicine company and what's the what's the website you remember post dot org is the menopause society website that doesn't guarantee you have someone who knows everything but menopause dot org means somebody took a test and put some effort into saying I care about menopause I I'm on that website but is swish isswsh.org is the women sexual health society so people who we care about menopause and sexual health so that's a great place to find a so those are two websites that can help you find someone again you have to advocate for yourself because no one will do that other than you and so I think the more you educate yourself the more you can find the right people in your pit crew we're gonna fill that gas tank and get you where you want to go do you feel that there are too many women that are still getting their hormone therapy in the in the sort of dark alley with with sort of highly sus individuals and if so what would be what would be a clue that you're in that camp because there's nobody that's in that camp that knows it right so what what who or what are the I want I want a woman who's watching this who's not getting great medicALCARe but thinks she is to maybe get a bit of a hint as to what that might look like I think this is a problem when your doctor only has one type of men when your doctor says no you can't have anything that's suspect if your doctor says you can only have this really expensive product that has to be inserted into your butT4 times a year and you have to pay me thousands of dollars that's extremely suspect compounded by me if you say you have to pay lots of money for this special compounded product that's safer and more effective I call red flag on that situation if you have to give very expensive saliva testing labs and they're making you pay a lot of money very suspect again that doesn't mean you can't do it if it's working for you and you're happy you have body autonomy you do what you want but know that there's red flags there I think the pellet industry we I have a big problem we have an FDA proof pellet for men okay it can be FDA proved I don't upset with a pellet as a concept if the pellet companies care about women do the studies go through the FDA show me it's safe if you believe it's billion dollar industry if you believe that it's the greatest thing in the world show me so that I have that so that I can start using it because I'm gonna because the FDA is a pretty good compounding pharmacy so do the work go I have my beef with the FDA hello you need to take that box labeling off estrogen products especially vaginal estrogen but if the pellet companies deeply care about women which they say they do do the work that everyone takes advantage of women all the supplement companies all of these they take advantage by promising these things to women but they don't do the work of science so that's what I ask is is just do the work Rachel as expected this was this was a fantastic discussion and I think it adds to what we're trying to do in this podcast which is really have nuanced and deep discussions about important topics you know not every podcast I do gets to impact that many people some of them impact nobody they're just really esoteric but they they they they fit into my curiosity window but but this is this is kind of a topic that really impacts almost 100% of the population because 50% of the population is who we just talked about but the other 50% of the population would be hard pressed to say that they don't care about at least one person in that other group so again 100% of people are heavily impacted by what we just discussed can I say one thing real quick is that I'm I'm also a men's health doctor and I lecture my neurology colleagues and I say and you talk about longevity and here are the things you can do for longevity I think you're missing one point and that is that men who are divorced single or widowed have horrible health outcomes horrible whether you look at mental health prostate cancer cancer outcomes horrible they die sooner so if you want longevity if you want to keep living how do you you have to keep people partnered and when do people get divorced between 40 and 60 that is the age of parry menopause and menopause menopause is killing men it is killing men because it changes their marriages and it leads to divorce which leads to death so I give this lecture of if men's health doctors if doctors truly cared about keeping men alive they would do menopause medicine because that is the most one of the most important ways to keep men alive so that's my other argument for you to focus on this and really make change here and I'm just I can't thank you enough for this platform because it is everybody's problem. Rachel thank you very much for the work you're doing and thanks for coming today. Thanks for having me

=== FILE: 350 ‒ Injury prevention, recovery, and performance optimization for every decade [CFXe36Bh4dQ].txt ===

You keep talking about making me a kick ass 80 year old. I want to be a kick ass 40 year old. Yep. What's the flaw on that logic? If I'm going to be an awesome 70 year 80 year old, I kind of have to be an awesome 45 or 55 year old. We're going to be doing things now that make you crazy strong to help your lean muscle mass, the burns your fat, all those health risk things, but you're also going to be way more prepared for whatever life throws at you. As a person listening to us, who says, look, man, I've been not getting better. But how do you help that person think about whether or not there's an underlying structural problem that needs a surgical intervention or a more direct intervention versus you're not being instructed to do the right things and or you're being instructed to then you're not doing it. I think your rehab clinic needs to do more than just offer services. They need offer a plan. The magic word of capacities, what's all about. Are you building me back to what I want to do? If you're someone like me and you who part of our CD involves probably walking on uneven surfaces one day. Yeah. All of your trening should account for that. If we're just doing bicep curls and calf raises, it's like I'm on these railroad tracks, but the minute you make me go sideways or rotate, it's trouble. What I always tell people to do is like, look at your kids. Like if you go to a coffee shop with your kids, I guarantee one of them will run and jump off a rock and do a twist and land it. When was the last time one of us did that? The pathway back isn't necessarily pain free or injury free. It's more of a trajectory that's going to get better. Pain does not always mean injury. Pain is your brain telling you, hey, I don't like what's happening here, but it doesn't always mean your broken or busted. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Kyler. Wonderful to have you. Yeah, thanks, Jeremy. I want to kind of give folks a little bit of a sense of what you and I came up with a few years ago in the throes of my recovery from shoulder surgery. And why that kind of gave us this idea to take two things that seemed quite unrelated at the time, which was my recovery from an injury, coupled with this idea that I'd been marinating around this idea of a centenary into Catholic and a marginal decade. And why we decided to kind of put these, the best ideas or the themes of these together. So how does that sound? Sounds great. All right. So let's see, you and IMeT4 years ago as soon as IMoved to Austin. Yep. And we were kind of just, I don't even remember what we worked on because I think it was just like preventative stuff, right? It was like, yeah, you really wanted me to come over. I think initially just doing some DNS stuff, like some routine maintenance things. And somewhere around this second or third visit, I was like, well, what's going on with this shoulder? And that kind of kicked off this whole conversation because, you know, in my world, this idea of just doing one technique or providing one service isn't really a complete approach. That's right. So you're right. We were probably a couple months in maybe. Yeah. And it was clear that I was nursing this bad shoulder. And I knew what was going on because I had torn the laborum before the diagnosis I remember was actually made in 2009. I had my first Arthur Graham in 2009 for folks listening, who don't know what that is. And Arthur Graham is an MRI where prior to you going in the scanner, the radiologist takes a needle about yay long, right? Like four inches long. Shutes the needle into the capsule and injects contrast so that it really allows the MRI to show the laborum and how much it's detached from the Gleenoid Fossa. And so it was, it was patently clear at that time. I had a torn laborum. It was significantly torn, but not as torn as it would be, you know, 12 years or 13 years later. But I had largely avoided surgery by, you know, doing as much as I could to strengthen the the rotator cuff. And frankly, I was afraid to have surgery. Right. That was the bottom line. Is I didn't want to trade one problem for another, meaning I didn't want to trade pain and instability for immobility. And I saw that as the trade off. Again, folks listening probably recall that I had a podcast that did a sit down discussion with who is the amazing surgeon, Alten Barron, who ultimately did the repair. But what I was most impressed by in that experience, which turned out to be wildly positive, was that immediately you and Alten started working as a team. And maybe you could talk a little bit about what you guys decided to do in the sixth, I think it was eight weeks we knew prior to surgery. We scheduled it such that you could do something before them. What was that discussion like? Yeah, IMean, Alten did an amazing job in a lot of ways. But one of the things as a rehab professional that I really appreciated was how he didn't want to just cinch down that joint to wear his liability was so covered that that shoulder would be strong. But you lost a ton of function. And I think that is one of the key things that he did for us was he did the right amount, he put the staples and the sutures and the right places to where that shoulder would be functional. And we got to your shoulder well before it became any kind of more significant structural compromise. So it's really important window to do so. But I do remember that conversation because you had a date several months out where you're like, IMean, I have to use my arm a lot. I need to be strong. Yeah, it was it was I basically I needed to be able to hunt in September. Yeah. So we backed out of that said the surgery needs to be no later than March. It was January. Yeah. And then thEQuestion was, should you do the surgery right away or do you use two months to pre-have? Yeah. And so tell me how you thought about that. Yeah, no. IMean, that conversation was one of my favorites because I've done this before where if we know the big picture goal as well as the near term surgical date and then we reverse engineer, okay, I want to check off a certain amount of things pre-operatively to where that joint is ready. And essentially, the most simple terms, what you're looking for in that situation, especially with the shoulder because it's such a mobile joint is you want to make all the muscles around the shoulder just awesome. But we need to do so in a way that doesn't make the surgery, you know, more complicated or injure you more, right? And so we did a lot of things where we did not only use technology like BFR, but we also used very aggressive approaches on your core stability, though you're scapula, interacted with your ribs and all these things haven't effect on how my shoulder moves. And if my really mobile shoulder that has a torn laborum isn't stable and doesn't have a support infrastructure around it, you're always just going to ask for more pain. But what the best thing about that is the day you got the surgery, we jumped on it really quick once things were healing from the surgery itself. All those other ancillary things were actually functioning really well. So now we only had to really target the shoulder itself because the rest of the human was really strong and ready. Yeah. And so the things that I remember which are probably fewer details than what you remember is one, how much rotator cuff work we did ahead of time, particularly around superspinatus. So we really got that muscle as strong as possible in eight weeks. And that's, you know, anybody who's gone through that type of rehab, which I'm sure many people listening have, it's uncomfortable. IMean, you're burning a little tiny muscle that you're not used to working that hard. The second thing that I remember and hands down the most important thing was what you and Alton decided to do postoperatively, completely shattered everyone's understanding of what we do with these patients. Right. So the traditional view is, especially this wasn't a slap tear. No. This was a complete, like the entire laborum was hanging by a thread. And normally, as you said, a surgeon's primary objective is, he, I'm going to make sure that this is never unstable again. I'm going to cinch this down really tight and you're going to be in a sling for four to six weeks. And that's going to give it plenty of time to heal. All of that sounds great. But you'll never regain your mobility. You'll never regain the range of motion. You want the healthy range of motion you had. And frankly, you'll probably atrophy away. Yeah. And so Alton said, no, we're going to have you out of a sling in 24 hours. And I was like, how is that going to be possible? Right. And yet we did. And again, there's no way he could have done that if you guys weren't partnering on this. So how was that even possible? And why does that fly in the face of everything we would think of? Well, I think the broader picture here is what we touched on, the liability and it's really difficult for modern physicians and rehab pros to integrate. Professional sports try to achieve this as well. But they have time constrents and all these other constrents with how many people they're working with. So ignoring all those layers, I think the most important thing is to know, all the I had these conversations in detail. And he was really specific about, okay, did we get the trening we talked about? Is that supersponatus, the Seratis anterior? All these other muscles that help stabilize are those like really good? And I had some metrics I was able to discuss with him. And he felt really confident in the stability of your shoulders. So if we're speaking to a general population, I would say that no sling or sling decision was based on what we knew exactly what we did. The other thing is that you followed everything to a T. One of the big complications in rehab, athlete or not, is our people following the rules. Are we going to take this athlete or individual out of a sling? And are they going to forget about it? And all of a sudden go reach for the cereal? Or are they going to follow the rules? And you were definitely a rule follower. So he and I had a high confidence in minimizing the risk. Yeah, and that you know, truth be told, I learned a lot of that the hard way from my first orthopedic surgery back in 2000 when A, I'm not even convinced I received post operative instructions. And if I did, I didn't read them. And I was breaking every rule there was. So yeah, I was, you know, the stakes were higher here in a way. And I think I was very mindful. For example, you know, people myself included when you have surgery, you tend to go on YouTube to learn all about it. Right. Right. And I'm like, okay, I want to see everything. I want to watch the post operative. I want to watch the rehab process. And so one of the big milestones you see for people with laboral surgery is when they do, when they basically can dangle the arm and, you know, rotate like a lightweight. Yeah. And you know, all of them was really clear like, you're not going to be doing that for a while. Right. We're talking about range of motion. Right. Without stress on the repair. Right. And very early on, preoperatively and post, we were able to do very general but targeted isometrics where there wasn't complexity and the joint itself. But we were loading the tissues in a very articulate and specific way. And that's how you, again, put this support structure around it. I was kind of described as like the role cage in a car. Like we want all the muscles around that to be ready to absorb force. So those joint structures that are getting the staples or whatever else in there aren't stressed. Right. We don't want to yank on those things while they're healing. Yeah. So in parallel to this, right, I'm continuing to sort of refine my thinking around the idea that we're all going to have this marginal decade one day and it does come across a sort of a depressing thought. Right. Like nobody really wants to think about the idea that there will be a day when you knowingly are unknowingly enter the final decade of your life. But at the same time, you know, to act as though it's not true, won't make it not so. So I think it occurred to me that the more deliberate we can tren for that last decade as though we are athletes, the more we can enjoy it. Because as I watch people in the final decade of their lives and I've had the both privilege and cursive seeing a lot of it, I believe that the thing people complain most about is what's taken away from them physically. Yeah. Now there are lots of people in the last decade of their life that are lonely because, you know, they were miserable sons of bitches and their family, you know, they don't have family or friends. Yeah. All of those thing, there are many people whose cognition has failed them long before their body has failed them and that can be very distressing. But if, if I'm really thinking about this in terms of large numbers, more than two thirds of people, I would say in the final decade of their life when they're really thinking about what's impacting thEQuality of their life, it's this, it's the physical part. That's the thing I've lost that IMissed the most. And sometimes it could simply be freedom from pain, but more often it's restriction of activity. Yeah, totally. So you, IMean, but IMean, that's my biased experience. You see much more of this. Tell me what you think. Yeah, it's a really analogous to the Proathletes I've worked with as well where it's really interesting to see these mature athletes who've been playing their sport eight or 10 years and they're starting to kind of look this reality that their career is going to be over. And they start recalibrating how they tren because they start thinking about the long term and what's really fun for me is when they start to get that perspective of it's not just about this weekend, it's about the long game here. And I think to your point, a lot of people out there have the best intentions and they're maybe even working hard, but there's no precision. It's nothing's accounting for their specific details, their nuances of their joints and how they move and how their body feels when they move and they're trust in their body and all these variables, right? And a lot of people are either want to put in the effort and don't know where to start or a lot of people are putting in the effort, but it's not calibrated. Yeah. And I kind of even began to observe that in myself, which was their word, a lot of activities that I was doing where I was doing them because I'd historically always done them. Yeah. Right. Like we fall in groove. This is a type of exercise I enjoy doing. This is a turk type of workout I enjoy doing. And then I had to kind of take an honest assessment of some of these and say, okay, for every activity, just like for every investment, there's a risk and there's a reward. And the way you might think about investing in your 20s is probably different from how you maybe should be thinking about investing in your 60s or 70s or beyond. And similarly, the risk and reward changes over time. So for example, when you're 20, the risk is just inherently lower because you have better tissue. Right. You, you know, you, you, you, you, you, we could go through all the reasons why inflammation, so that's since like everything that changes as you age reduces tissuEQuality. And younger people, I'm sure you see this all the time, can just get away with doing things incorrectly. In fact, I, I, I, would you agree that sometimes some of the most gifted athletes actually have horrible patterns of movement, but because they're so gifted, it doesn't seem to matter. Yeah. IMean, specialization is one, right? Some people just born jumpers and then you tren it. They, they practice it when they play and they get better and better jumping, absolutely. But more over it, it's almost like we're set up for failure, right? We're set up with this baseline norm of I could bench press 225 when I was senior in high school, but then that individual is not accounting for the 20 years of lack of, lack of activity, lack of practice. They, they've, they've at your feet. And then they jump right back into the gym and then they hurt things where they feel like they quote, can't do it anymore. And the reality is it's all about capacity. It's like if you don't use it, you lose it. And a lot of us aren't really thinking about what if I actually actively lost from an activity standpoint. Is it jumping? Is it mass? Is it strength? All those variables that you spoke to? But I definitely see this a ton on the injury and pain side, right? Injury doesn't show up out of nowhere. It has reasons why it shows up and it's compounded by emotional stress and all these other kind of multifactorial things when our brain perceives threat, we feel pain. Absolutely. Sometimes that's a physical threat. Like I even jumped in a long time. I started jumping, all of a sudden I wake up my killies' sore. That doesn't mean I ruptured my killies. But it does mean I was not prepared for that movement because I kind of been on the shelf for long time. And so I think a lot of people with that investment strategy analogy is fantastic and they should really incorporate that is making sure they're accounting for all the buckets that their body needs to do, not just with what they want to do, but what we know people need. Right? Demographics, Western society, age, all these things play a role to like if you pull up to step the stats. A lot of people will have a high risk for low back or high risk for an ankle or whatever. Yeah, the jump is a great example because if I go back to when I was in my sort of trening peak, right? So basically age 13 to 20. Yeah, call it those years when I was trening a lot. Jumping was an enormous part of what I did. Yeah. There wasn't a day that I wasn't jumping. So for example, I was skipping rope 25 minutes every single day and lots of those are doubles. Right? So you really up there, absurd amounts of plyometrics. And then from basically 20 to my mid 40s, didn't jump at all, right? Like not a single jump. Yeah. And that became one of the realizations was, oh, you've lost a lot of tissue liability. Yeah. And so as one example, now something that I do a lot of is like low level jumping. Right? And you're right. Like sometimes I get really worried. I'm like, oh, man, I don't want to have an achilles rupture. Like that is the middle-aged man in general. Yeah. Like I'm playing soccer with my kid and I'm just waiting for it. Yeah. Right. IMean, again, in my private practice to see this all the time. But what I always tell people who is like, look at your kids. Like if you go to a coffee shop with your kids, I guarantee one of more run and jump off a rock and do a twist and land it. When was the last time one of us did that? Right. And that's why they say maintaining play and always playing games. And and now and actually increasing that to where it's randomized games. Right. Like you're actually reacting to things because there's a neuroplastic effects as well. It's right. Just for the tissues like rehearsed load on the achilles in the foot. If you go and get a job and you drive to work and you sit at your cubic all day and you drive home and you didn't jump, that times five or 20 years it's going to cause a lot of lack of capacity and your tissues that you don't want to like learn the hard way. That's right. Because all I'd been doing in the intervening 25 years was swimming, cycling, hiking, which is fine. But it's not jumping. It's not reactive and it's and so again part of what made me start to realize this was as my kids got old enough and I was now playing sports with them. When you play basketball, soccer and baseball with kids, you realize exactly what you just said. It's not a predictable movement. It's never the same movement exactly three-dimensional short-long, quick-slow. Yeah. A lot of variables there. Which actually gets to this the idea that people listening to us are probably very familiar with, which is the centenary into cathlan. Have you give me some of the things on your centenary into cathlan? Yeah. I think for me wrestling with my kids, which means getting down on the floor, having the flexibility, wrestling with my grandkids, wrestling. Yeah. That's big. Just like play. Right? Because I'm not a child driver. Yeah. Well, yeah. We're depending on the kid. Yeah. If they're my grandkids, maybe. But that's definitely a goal of mine is is that bonding that you get when little kids are wrestling on the ground and I saw my dad recently doing that and I thought that was really cool. He's over 70 and he's on the ground, messing with my three-year-old and it was just cool to see. That's how I added that to my list. I was like, that's really cool that it was hard for him. It wasn't easy, but he got down there and he could do it and he didn't suffer from it. That's one of mine for sure. As you know, I fell in love with rucking over the last couple of years. I want to be able to really crank out some mileage, especially national parks as I get older. I'm not looking to be an ultra-marathon or per se, but I really want to be able to hike long distances, probably with a pack on it. What's, so if you're in your marginal decade, how many pounds would be your expectation? Do you want to be able to do, you know, give me some numbers. How many miles? How many pounds? Yeah, I think my numbers will be a little distorted because I'm pretty big guy. I'm 63 over 200. So I should be able to carry at least 20 pounds without worrying about too much for four to six miles. Okay. I like that, cool. Yeah, IMean, I want to be reading this on what kind of terrain. So I would like to be able to not to technical, like I'm not thinking boulders and rocks, but I definitely like to go hills up and down dirt track, all that kind of stuff without having to worry about it. Okay. What else? Another one is, I grew up being an athlete. My youngest seems to be the more inclined to be an athlete. So as I age, I want to be able to hang with him as long as I can. So that means throwing hitting a baseball as long as possible, who knows how their career's will evolve from an athletic standpoint. But odds are they're not going to be pros. I really want to keep that base where I can keep playing with them as long as I can. But to me, it's all about being able to still play with the grandkids because families, one of the most important things out there. And if your grandpa sit there and could do cool stuff, I think that serves as a great role model. Whereas if you're suffering from an injury, you're not healthy, then they want to hang out with you. But at the same time, kids want to go do stuff. And I don't want to be left out. Yeah, I agree. I think as much as I think there are probably examples where, you know, the wise old grandpa or grandma can sit inside and tell stories to the kids. IMean, there's value in that. But I think there's even more value in going to their world. They typically don't want to come into your world. You'd have to go to their world. So you have to be able to go fishing, like, and again, people listening to us who have young kids should not waste the opportunity to observe what young kids do. Yeah. And yeah, there'll be different technologies in 25 or 30 years. But I think the principles will be the same. Yeah. The kids like to play. And therefore, playing with my kids today is giving me a dry run of what I want to be able to do in 30 years. Yeah. And if you are building up these areas of need or you're accidentally letting these certain athletic kind of movements fall by the wayside, all of the sudden you're like, oh, man, I can't do that anymore. You know, I love coaching my kids basketball team. And one of the other kids in our team, their grandpa was out in the court with us one day. And you know, he was, I think 74. And, you know, he wasn't, you know, doing a wooden milledunk or anything. But he was moving and he could shoot. And every kid there, their eyes lit up. They're like, Grandpa can shoot. That's crazy. That was a cool moment, you know. And that's why I put on my list of just playing with kids. Might be my whole CD. I, you know, my wife might have some different to say about that. But I think for me, it's like, if I can play and if I can do all those things, then I'm, I'm doing pretty well. When I first introduced this idea of the centenary into Catholic on to, to, you know, the first of our patients. This is before, of course, we started 10 squared. Yeah. Um, one of the bits of pushback I got a lot was, you know, especially from people who were like in their 30s and 40s. They were like Peter, yeah, I'm not that interested in like 80s and 90s. Like I, you keep talking about making me a kick ass 80 year old. Like, yeah, I want to be a kick ass 40 year old. Yeah. What's, what's wrong with that? What's the, what's the, what's the flaw on that logic? Well, it's to me, it's everyone's drawn to this high performance. Be awesome right now, right? And that's like a boom best strategy, right? You might pull it off, but you're high risk. And eventually, you'll hit the wall if you're, if we're a race car, right? But if we're thinking long term, then by default, if I'm going to be an awesome 70 year 80 year old, I kind of have to be an awesome 45 or 55 year old. Like we're going to be doing things now that make you crazy strong to help your lean muscle mass, the burns your fat, all those health risk things, but you're also going to be way more prepared for whatever life throws at you. And if your buddy talks you into going skiing or going to do a volleyball game or whatever else, you're going to be way more ready for it. If you're thinking long term and building this crazy robust foundation, rather than chasing the newest technique or the newest technology. Yeah, the analogy I used with people at the time because archery is something I enjoy is that, you know, what we're trying to do is tren you to be exceptionally accurate at 100 yards. And you're telling me that you don't care about 100 yards, you just want to be accurate at 40 or 50 yards. And I'm telling you, trust me, if you're an ace at 100 yards, it's like shooting fish in a barrel at 40 yards. And this is where the analogy is actually has a deeper layer of truth, which is that's a very non-linear thing. 100 isn't just twice as difficult as 50. It's like four or five times more difficult. And similarly, you know, to be really fit and healthy at, you know, in your 90s, is a dramatically more demanding feat than, you know, just to be a fit 50 year old. Yeah, there's a lot stacked against you, plus like variables that we're not prepared for or we could roll our ankle, but give me somebody who's strong all day. And if they spring their ankle coming out of the bar, they're actually going to spring it less odds are, right? So all this like insulation and capacity we put around us with the individual goals is crucial to prevent injury. And these injuries can stack up and cause a lot of trouble. And then we get less healthy. And that's how you get these multipliers where I was on track to be really good, but this knee arthritis or this multiple meniscus repairs I had to get because I wasn't stable caused me to actually lose my hiking ability. And then I'll send my gut less healthy. Let's fast forward a little bit, basically as I'm kind of getting better from the shoulder thing and realizing how fortunate I feel to have had this experience where, you know, I've known Altan for a while, then IMet you. It's this kind of great connection. I sort of say, hey man, what do you think about this idea of we kind of build this separate little business that just focuses on the trening piece that's outside of my practice, outside of your practice, but integrates it with everything that's necessary to tren a person for the marginal decade. So you bring in all of the cardio trening, you bring in all of the strength and conditioning, you bring in the coaches to integrate the whole thing. So okay, we're doing that now. Of all the things we do in 10 squared, I still think that your domain is the hardest for people to wrap their heads around. I think people understand, oh yeah, you guys, you guys will help me get a high VO2 Max. And you'll boost my zone two and you're going to make me stronger and bubble how do clients look at you? What are they on? What are they? What are they? What are they? Figure is going on with you. It's funny you say that because it always takes them like the assessment takes you know two days and we're looking under the hood a lot in a lot of different ways. And it's funny how they evolve like their perspective of it because you know what I was kind of forced to do in my career was become this, you know, I had I had experienced working with teams and all that other stuff, but I kind of became an offseason person for these athletes. And by default, I had almost become a strength coach, not because I wanted to that was my goal, but because these athletes needed that bridge from I'm injured to IMight be injured to hey, I've got the green life for performance. And that spectrum we're always all humans are moving up and down that spectrum based on our recovery and all these variables, right? So what's been fun at 10 squared is I get to do all the assessment I want and it's not really a clinical assessment, right? On the one hand, we're of course looking at things that either have pain or that individual member has had a previous injury with and we're accounting for that and we're making sure that's on track or could be improved and we add those things, but then I also get to play around and look at what else is weak? What is this individual at risk for? So one example is we have a client who loves to surf. He's got a shoulder issue. So by default, surfing and swimming on a surfboard is a different position than a traditional freestyle stroke. So we had to make his shoulder uniquely robust in certain directions. And so that's part of his strength program. One of my biggest pet peeves in the rehab world is when people give someone 30 exercises that are really tedious and boring and no human sticks to that. They might do it for a week or two, but if it's not bridging to what they love and what they want to do, and we'll get there. So if we can bake in, having making ensuring that all the strength trening won't make them worse, and then also make sure that we're baking in their little corrective exercises or improving the gaps, that's where you make a huge difference into how someone feels, but also how they can perform. So what are some of the things you see that, and I'm not asking this to be critical of what other rehab professionals do, but as a person listening to us who says, look, man, I've been kind of not getting better. I've had fill in the blank injury, so I've had tennis elbow that won't get better. I've had lower back pain that's just not getting better. I've had shoulder pain that's not getting better. How do you help that person think about whether or not there's an underlying structural problem that needs a surgical intervention or a more direct intervention versus, you're not being instructed to do the right things and or you're being instructed and you're not doing it. Like how do you walk somebody through that tree? Yeah, that's obviously to have you lived with law details. I think the first rule is the medical community, so your orthopedic surgeon or your neurologist and your rehab pro have to be in sync and have a relationship. And how often is that happening? IMean, it's very rare. Like what's really interesting is the philosophy and the individual just spirit of either the surgeon or the rehab pro, they have to be kind of committed to the service oriented field. Like if they're just doing it for money, they're going to do scale and they're going to do like the PT mill that there's four clients with one therapist and that therapist is probably doing the best they can, but they're just kind of outnumbered, right? And they're not accounting for this four different people all at once. So first off, it has to be one on one, right? Like you cannot tell me that you're rehabbing you the same way you could rehab my grandma who had a shoulder issue. Wait, are you saying that let's go sound like an ignorant question. Yeah. Are you saying that in some facilities, one PT will work with multiple clients at the same time and put them through the same workouts? Yes. Even if they're they have, even if they'rEQuite different. Yes. Oh yeah. Typically it's a very cookie cutter approach. I see. And usually it's an insurance model thing, where you know they know that these certain exercises and putting ice or stem is going to be reimbursed by the insurance company. So the PT clinic is going to do that on everybody regardless of what they need. So that's one of the biggest pitfalls is it's never one on one. It's not custom. IMean in the same way I've had pro athletes come in and we're supposed to do shoulder rehab that day and the night before they did a ton of stuff to their shoulder. So I guess what? I'm not doing anything. Right? Like they actually need to recover that day. It needs to be customized, right? But to go back to your original question of how do people navigate this world? I think your rehab clinic needs to do more than just offer services. They need offer a plan. Right? This idea that, okay, this is what I offer. I offer cupping or dry needleing or whatever it could be. One service doesn't ever fix anyone and it definitely doesn't increase their capacity over time. The magic order of capacities what's all about. Are you building me back to what I want to do? So if your rehab clinic is a bunch of passive modalities on tables and a bunch of texts do an ultra sound and stuff, that's a red flag for me because they're not going to build you to get stronger and stronger. Number two is the orthopedic needs to actually be hunting down that physical therapy. So excuse me, a lot of times when I see the orthopedic world is they have to give their clients something for rehab guidance, right? Because they're not totally sure if their clients going to go to rehab can they afford one on one and all these other factors. So they give them this handout. Well a lot of times this handout is from 30 years ago and it's the same five or six could kick out our exercises, but then there's no accountability, there's no nuance. So there's just a lot of holes in this path to try to get your shoulder or your back or your knee from it hurts. Do I need surgery or not? Built all the way back up to you. I can do whatever I want. Now is this taking the extreme example of the other end, right, which is professional athletes. So you work with a lot of them. You work with golfers, football players, basketball and baseball players typically. Is there any other type of athlete I'm missing? I've had some incidental tennis people. It's okay. A lot of runners too. Yeah. Now some of those athletes come with deeper pockets than others and come from leagues where, you know, or so. So when you're talking about, you know, the NFL players, for example, is that problem completely solved? No, not at all. And there's a lot of environmental problems, right? So one of the biggest issues with all these people and I know I have friends that work with all these professional teams that are great and they're kind of handcuffed because they only have their athlete for so long. So you all of a sudden get this multiple cooks in the kitchen problem where even if everyone has the no ego and the best of intentions and their most science-based people, they're still not sure, okay, what'd you do last week? What are we trying to do? Are you in a contract year? Like there's so many variables for pro athletes. So in a weird way, a professional sports is wellness upside down, right? It's how can we get the most out of this athlete, this commodity for their contract? And that's not really a long term play. And so that's what's been really interesting at 10 squared. As we've had some pro athletes approach us with like this idea of, hey, can you guys be my reliable, like you're invested in me only and be my oversight? Like where are my gaps? Is this okay? Should I play through this pain? Because there are times you play through pain, there's times you don't, right? But the most important thing is this idea of having one person driving the bus who knows all your variables. Because if someone comes to us and changes their sentientering to Catfly, like they want to change one item, like hey, I really want to start doing jump rope every day. And then we look at their testing, we're like, look, you're high risk for Achilles. Let's begin your program. Some really good, articulate smart strengthening to get you there, rather than just hope it works out. So how do you guys do that? So, I never, I didn't ask her in advance if we could do this. So we might have to edit this out of our discussion. But can we use my wife as an example? So my wife is a client at 10 squared, right? Great example. So, so Jels are runner. Yeah. Like a little deer runs runs runs run run. Yeah. And so, so I don't, I'm pretty hands off. I'm very hands off anything that has to do with her. I'm already my design. Can you, can you tell us a little bit about her? Yeah. And, and what did you learn when you did an assessment of her? And how did that impact how she works with the other members of the team on the cardio side, on the strength and conditioning side? Yeah, other than saying that she's a saint for having signed up with you. You want me to talk, okay. Yeah. So, Jel was a great example of, she had some pain when she showed up. And again, I'll just talk about a detail and she can delete if she wants. But, Jel's a really great example because she had some pain when she showed up. So my job immediately is evaluate that pain. Is that a structural insufficiency? Are we worried about a real injury here? Or is that just an annoying nuance, right? Based on the testing I did. So, I did my clinical exam, but way more detailed than I normally would in my private practice because the 10 squared we have the time. And we want to remove confirmation bias. So, we don't want me to say, oh, your hamstring hurts, let's order number eye. Like, let's test it six ways and in a smart conservative way. And if all six of those indicate that, then we're going to do a number eye. Right? So, with Jel, we saw some proxmal hamstring issues. She's, of course, like you mentioned in Durin's athlete, her profile, her demographics, her running history, all pointed to there might be a tendonopathy there. And then based on my testing, it reinforced that. So, I said, let's get an MRI. Let's really evaluate this tendon because we knew in the near term within a year she wanted to run Boston. And as a injury person, I saw this as, look, she's okay now, but it hurts. Once we start stacking up her mileage, that thing's going to get in the way. Well, there's another detail here that I do recall, which obviously you recall as well, but it might be worth pointing this out to the listener. So, she normally only runs one marathon a year. Right. Last year she ran to, she ran her Boston qualifying marathon, which I think was Chicago or Houston or something like that. Yeah. And then got into the London marathon and went and ran that seven weeks later. Yep. And started to get for the first time ever a little bit of knee pain. And the other knee, the other knee, the side that was totally okay. So, can you explain why you didn't think that was a coincidence? Very much so. So, that story kind of perked my ears up, right, that history. And I saw her for an knee pain and brief to get her through London and that kind of stuff. But the way runners move, a lot of people don't appreciate, but running, even though I'm moving straight ahead, is technically a unilateral or single leg rotation propulsion drill. Explain what that means because it's counterintuitive. It really is. So, golfers are actually the same. They're single leg actually rotates to create that torque. So, what happens is my favorite term that's out there right now is called the spinal engine, which is really speaks to this reciprocal movement of the spine on top of the pelvis. And then my feet through the ground. So, those three domains, if you will, work in unison to propel me forward. It's a lot like with sailing, like you put the sail relative to the wind and it points me into direction. Yes. And so, all three of those domains have to work in sync. And so, when I all of a sudden see an athlete like Jill, she wasn't new to running. She definitely added her volume in a short window, which is a great recipe for injury. But that right knee flaring up told me, okay, there's something going on at either her feet or her pelvis that's not in sync. Because she essentially, with her mileage overloaded that right knee and created a repetitive stress injury. So, that's why I was saying earlier injuries don't just show up for fun, right? The great Almighty Bubbed and say, Jill, it's here right knee pain today, right? And so, whenever you see a story like that, and then you do the evaluation. And the way her pelvis was rotating, the way her core and her spine were set up. And also the way that left hamstring was affecting her motion. She was basically dumping into that right knee over and over. 10 miles for someone like her, no big deal. You stack up two marathon's pretty close with that much mileage. All of a sudden that right knee really flares up. And so, the right knee flare was actually an indicator of something else going on functionally. And it wasn't only about making her knee better, which is what traditional medicine does is like, okay, rest it, ice it, mocks, cam, treatment, rehab, chiro, whatever. And then the knees better. And then traditionally, those people go run again and three or five months later, it comes back. So we need to look at these asymmetries everywhere else, not just the side of pain. And so, if the knee is caused by the hamstring, what do you think is the cause of the hamstring injury? And why are women, middle-aged women, so susceptible to this injury? Yeah, great question. I think, demographically, you know, a lot of middle-aged women, it's getting way better, but don't strengthen ring number one. So the health of their tendons and the muscle fibers and the mass of the muscles just aren't normally as high and as strong as someone else, especially if they're an endurance athlete, right? Because typically, runners nowadays know that they need a cross-trened, but how they're doing and what looks like it's still a big gap in my opinion, right? So using the word cause is always tricking by my canics, but because it's always kind of like the snake eats the tail. They're all kind of intertwined, but the most simple way of describing it is that tendon overuse and what we found out with her MRI is that she had a true tendonopathy damaged to that proximal hamstring tendon, as well as one of the hip rotators that inserts on the same site next to that hamstring, had a little damage in irritation. That area was a byproduct of the way she was rotating through her pelvis and the way that spinal counter rotation was happening. Jill has a tiny bit of scoliosis, which just sets her up for that asymmetry, and so her brain subconsciously was basically forced with the decision of, do I jam my right low back or do I really try to pull with that left hamstring? And that combination over time created a little frame in the tendon. And the other thing I would add to this, which I suspect any woman listening to us, whose had kids will appreciate is even though Jill is tiny, she said her body never went back to pre-pregnancy. So if she talks about how she used to run before 2008, so our first child was born in 2008, and she ran a bunch of marathons before then, and then she's run a bunch of marathons since, and she weighs the same. This is not like, you know, she's been very fortunate in that regard that her body weight has changed my period of time, but she says she cannot buy a mechanically do what she used to be able to do. Now, when I hear that, I assume her pelvis was mechanically changed by having kids, and she feels it, but she can articulate it, nor can I necessarily, but she just says there's something different. I don't run, she felt like she used to float. And now she feels like she runs. Yeah, right, she's colliding. Yeah, I could definitely see that and I think a lot of women feel that way. My wife had the same experience. I think one of the biggest crimes in modern medicine today is that, you know, a running back, if we blow an ACL, we know exactly what to do, and there's a protocol, and everyone's like, okay, and eight months, this athlete will be back, but women, everyone cares about the baby, right? The baby's born even the mom cares about the baby. They sacrificed their own body just to make sure this, this little creature grows up and gets everything in needs, right? And so this focus on what women need the first year after is very lacking in my opinion. I hope somebody's listening to us, by the way, it's thinking of another type of a 10 squared, which is like, absolutely. What are we doing for women immediately post baby? Yeah. And again, it's, you know, vaginal and c section is too totally different operations or too don't you think too different? But there should be really robust, you know, rehab paths to get them back in amazing shape immediately as opposed to, yeah, well, we'll come back to this in 10 years. Yeah. Well, IMean, the complexity of what they deal with is fascinating, right? Because not only do they just add weight by adding this human, the relaxing hormone creates areas of stress and laxity that will shorten up and tighten up over time. Yeah. But it affects different women differently. Some women's feet change, right? In that environment of more relaxing and caring more weight, the arch and the foot gets affected. And so, in a way, I always look at it, it's like, okay, all these areas suffered a little bit of what you might call as an injury. But let's look at it, like, okay, it's a natural process. But how do we account for all these layers? Like, no one out there is telling women to do foot strengthening when there are two months pregnant, right? But they should be. I wouldn't have thought of it until you just said it now. Yeah. No, IMean, literally women just like we did for your shoulder. If you've found out your pregnant, you should start doing some foot strengthening things, some core stability stuff, making sure your motion. There's a ton of things you could do. Pre-hop, right? And then after, obviously, you know, God willing to say how goes and get the baby good. But then you start trying to strengthen the right way, you know? And I think there's something about the pelvic floor that is absolutely decimated in pregnancy or delivery, more to the point. Yeah. And I deep down believe, no pun intended, that that's a part of what is gone wrong in her hamstring. And I see this in many of her friends, right? Yeah. Because they'll come, you know, this is like very common complaint is that is, and then it doesn't present as even a hamstring injury. It presents as either knee injury or a high, like an Istio-Tuberosity pain, which is like the sit bone. And they say, oh, I just, I don't, I'm not, I'm not going to sit. I want to sit. Oh, yeah. One of my favorite words, the exercises down. He called me and he's a hip-ortho, great guy. And he's like, hey, you know, you got to help me out here. My wife has the same issue. And she's been doing traditional PT for like eight months and it's no better. And she's about to fire me, you know, because she's like, what are you doing? You know, but it's a very common thing. And that's what's been really cool for me to see these pelvic floor specialists that are rising. It's really cool field. A ton of expertise with it. I am not an expert in pelvic floor binding means. But like you touched on the pelvic floor is very much a big player and how we pressurize our interbdomal stability. It's basically the flooring of that whole canister that we're supposed to create with proximal stability. And so if the diaphragm or the pelvic floor is in doing its job, then our body's going to immediately start to compensate and create rotations and tilt around things. Let's, let's talk for a minute about the, the core. Like, again, I hate the term because it's so misused. But the way we talk about it is probably most closely aligned with how DNS thinks about it, dynamic neurmuscular stabilization. So maybe just say a moment about it through, through the lens that we think about the core as a cylinder. Yeah. Um, as opposed to quote unquote abs. Yeah, exactly. I think that's the starting point that I wish everyone could, automatically understand is that if you have a really prominent rectus abdominus that's six pack, that has nothing to do with how you stabilize your trunk, especially if I'm doing things in multi planes like tilting and rotating. So it's not just your oblique see there, but it's the deep stabilization system that not only pressurizes with our diaphragm, the pelvic floor, but it's also all the small muscles up and down my spine, including like multi-foot eye. Do all those muscles kick on and create stiffness in the right way at the right time. I think a lot of times people are accidentally overcoached into thinking they only need stiffness because the, the second step to that is, okay, now I can activate that deep stabilization system. I have that bracing. I'm pressurized. I'm using my trensverse abdominus. All these other structures down there. Now can I do that with motion, right? And that's where you start looking at someone kicking or running or throwing, like that needs to be a dynamic system, not just a stiff system. And I think a lot of people, they don't have the first one. So they see a ton of these exercises like the DNS three month or dead bugs or whatever else you want to call them that create kind of deep core stabilization. But they don't see the next step after that, which is, okay, now how do IMaintain that pillar and that strength and then I get a free shoulder blade or a free hip to move. And one of our shared clients, he had a lot of ridiculous nerve pain from a disc issue. And he was convinced, you know, he had some of that. But one of the most fascinating cases for me in recent memory because with him, we were able to actually find a trigger point that referred pain that mimicked that ridiculous nerve pain. So when we literally pressed on his glute minimus, he got referral that he thought was a tribute to his back, right? So that was it window towards, okay, that's a muscular issue. That's not your spine causing trouble. And then we gave him these stabilization drills which helped that glute just kind of relax for once. What we see all the time in the clinic setting is muscles are meant to be a muscle. My bicep is meant to contract in relax. It's not meant to be a shoulder stabilizer. But if my stabilization isn't doing its thing, then that bicep and the trap and all these other muscles try to help. And that's where we lose freedom of movement. But because your body is essentially perceiving a little threat, a little instability, and so it tightens other structures up. So then I see people coming in our office saying, will you try needle this or work on me or do soft tissue work? And you're like, yeah, but that's going to be the good of the stretch place. That's going to be a six hour benefit. But if we activate this deep stabilization system and get all the parts moving in unison and in sync, all the sudden those movement problems go away and you're much more robust and strong. Yeah, there's so much I want to say on this and I don't want to lose the thread, but I'll sort of say two things that that seem unrelated, but they'rEQuite related. The first is, I wish there was another word for stability that didn't imply static. Yes, because stability and we just we we we sort of think of that as things that are not moving. Yeah, right? So rigid, stable, etc. But the true way to appreciate stability is kinetic stability. That's why in the book, which I know you haven't read, but if you do read it one day, no, I'm not too busy. I know. In the section of the book where I write about stability, the analogy I use much against the desire of my publisher who hated it was that of a race car. Because you can think in like, how does a race car explains stability? But if anybody's driven a race car or if you haven't, if you can take my word for it, one of the fundamental differences between a race car and a street car is that in a race car, you're trensferring much more of that horsepower to the tires than you are in a street car. In a street car, a lot of energy seeps out because the chassis is not very stable. Right. And you might say, well, why? Well, in the case of a car, it's because it's more comfortable. Yeah, you know, race cars are not being optimized for comfort, they're being optimized for performance. If you're optimizing for performance, you actually want more stability in the chassis and the suspension so that you're trensmitting more force to the tires and the tires to the surface. And similarly, when you think about an individual who has stability, they are able to trensmit force much more directly to the outside world and they are able to receive force more safely from the outside world. Yeah. And that's why like no matter how long you ever gave me, I could never throw a hundred mile an hour fastball. And it's not that I don't have this strength. I'm sure that if you put even the, you know, even if you put a 20 year old version of me next to a picture, I could out, I could have outdone him in every measure of strength. But I didn't have this stability to be in motion and stabilize the capsule of my shoulder and trensmit force like a whip through my arm. Yeah. And so you wouldn't look at a picture and thinks that's stability. But it's remarkable stability. Dynamics stability, absolutely. And there's a ton of analogies I've heard over the years. I'm not a car expert like you, but one of the ones I've used a lot in my practice is, you know, for while I had this really old truck that we were working on. And it was like a mid 80s Chevy kind of thing. And when you turn the wheel from, you know, my hands are at let's say nine and three, it wouldn't turn until my hands got to like 12. The steering on that thing was sluggish, right? So that dynamic stability, it wasn't very good, right? Whereas like an F1 car, a go car, that thing moves with the micro movement. So if you trenslate that to the human body, anybody listening, if I said, hey, do a skater hop or you leap laterally from one side to the other, how you land and how you can you stick that landing or are you falling over as you go? Yeah. So, and there's a million variables involved there. But the big ones, of course, are your rate of force, like can you absorb that? Can all your tissues, the arch, the killy, the IT band, the hip, your core, can all those tissues kick on at the same time to create stiffness. Number one, and a precursor to that is where's your balance? Like to generate that first force, where you organized or did you have to like throw your head in the hands a weird way to generate the force? But now I'm not in an optimum landing position. So what a lot of times you see in youth athletes is people rush to put strength on them, but a really good strength coach can put strength on a college athlete, you know, in eight weeks, right? But do they have speed? Do they have organized movement? Are they quick in all planes of motion? Is there balance really good? Because now my nervous system, my software is ready to absorb all these things. And then you put strength on top of that, that's a great athlete. And a lot of these genetic people that are just naturally really good, they have some of that kind of underlying ability to where they can land and organize well. And then later they put strength on. You know, pick a sport and you can show me somebody who was really athletic and they weren't really big and strong, but you can put the strength on later. And that's one of my biggest kind of personal passions is these like 14 to 15 year olds who just get buried in the gym and then they tweaked their back. I had one local team where it was a golf team and about 30% of their athletes had a stress fraction in their limers mind. Oh my, what? Yeah, it was absurd. How was the strength coach not getting fired? So I reached out to the head coach and the strength coach and to give all these people a little bit of a past, they're not really equipped because they're managing 200 kids. I think it's just a bad setup. Right? You have 200 athletes that you're supposedly managing a program for. And you're not watching technique whether or not you know what you're talking about. It's a whole another argument. But like the idea of, okay, we're going to do a high performance on a 14 year old and put strength on them. But no one's watching technique or teaching them the foundations of lifting. While at the same time, they're 14. We should be making them quick athletic and coordinated first because that's a platform you want to build an athlete on. You don't want to make a kid really slow but really strong when they're 15. Right? Because you can't tren. It's really hard to tren speed as you go there. Yeah. What is it that you see? So when a client comes into 10 square and you do an assessment, how do you gauge how far they are away from being able to do the dynamic movements? How are you engaging? What are you testing? What are you looking for to say? Yeah, this person could start doing plies. Like for example, one thing I love doing. It's kind of one of my, I don't have this on my centenary into Kaiflan list because we're being so strict about that only having 10 things. But I have kind of a side list of things that I want to be able to do. Like I want to know how late in life. I can maintain certain metrics. And one of them is how late in life can I still do a broad jump of my height. Cool. So why is that something I enjoy doing? Because it combines two things. It combines the concentric strength and power to be able to leap. But even more importantly, and at least as difficult is it requires the eccentric strength to land decelerate really quickly. Yeah. So how do you know when you look at someone if they're ready to do that, for example? Yeah. So we did a ton of work. And the literature and the science is out there to a degree for you stack things on top of themselves. So you start with isometric. And you progress people to more kind of in explosive or compound movements. Right? So let's assume that I don't have any injury risks at all. And you would determine that based on just my history? No, a testing. Yeah. A history testing, demographic risk. There's a lot of variables we look into for having concern about like musculoskeletal injury. That's number one. But yeah, every person is different that way. And we've had people come in who've had multiple surgeries and injuries. And then we've had other people come in who they're high risk for injury. But overall they're pretty good package to work with. Right? There's not a medical concern, if you will. So ignoring all the medical side of it, you basically, I really like following the principle that the exercise is the test. Because we basically look at everything abouT4 to five different ways. But if I watch someone do, let's say a wall squat. So just to be clear, people understand a wall squat is just the level one. It's isometric. Isometric load. It's what we all used to do in like high school practices, where a burned your claws and your patella tendons. And we can even set you up to where you're on the right position. So that's going to tell us a comfort with the position number one. Right? Can they even get there? So tell me what is failure constituted by pain or not doing it for a certain length of time? Which we said we have has a qualitative and a quantitative associate. So thEQuantitative we have minimums or it's either time or percentage is a body weights for every test or distance is like you mentioned on the broad jump. But then there's also like how does it look? And then the how it looks one is the vague part of the movement world. So you're going to have your coach and myself both looking at it. But then we have other ways where we're confirming that with our motion capture machines, with our force plates, with our videos that analyze the movement. So there's a lot of ways to confirm. You can also see these things kind of cross over, right? So how does someone do on the double leg versus single leg? It gives us a really nice window to okay, where is the lack? Great example, two leg really strong. They're solid. We put them on single leg and they're abnormally less functional and weak and do have the range. So I'm immediately thinking okay, there's a balance control issue here. Because on two legs, I'm really stable. But on one leg, I'm significantly less stable and it's much more complex for the body. And so if there's scores, even though they're strong and there arEQuads have the capacity. But when they're on single leg, they're they're not strong and they can't stabilize. That gives me a window right away as saying this person has a major balance risk or things like that. And in the case of that individual, do you not progress them? No, we find their floor and we build from there. So some people will have really cool robust, you know, Instagram where the exercises for one region. But in another area, we're filling in gaps. We're building foundations and we're basically building them up from wherever those floors are. And the key for us is this big grid we have where we have every category movement we care about and then we build them from their floor. So what I always kind of, I'm really visual person. But I always say, okay, we have this baseline floor. Maybe for their upper body pole, they're on the third floor, they're bad ass they're killing it. But then their core stability in one plane is like in the basement. Like I'm worried about a lumbar stenosis or an nervous you. So that takes precedence first because I don't want this person to experience pain. And I want to build them up to where they're all on the first second, third floor of the building. Okay, so let's go back to jail for a minute. So we have this diagnosis, which is, okay, we've sort of figured out why your knee is hurting. We now have a radiographic diagnosis, that completely comports with what's being seen on the physical exam and symptoms. These are stubborn injuries. Yes. So what's the, what was the next step? So the next step was immediately, you have to have a part's approach first. Right? If I have a damage part, we've got to make sure does that need an intervention or not? How are we going to address that? So with Jill, we knew her foundational like underlying movement patterns or disfunctions, if you will, that were contributing to that. So we put a package together for her program, that was all of those underlying structural functional issues that didn't make the hamstring worse. We started building those right away. While we considered play the rich plasma, and she actually ended up going for it to create essentially regeneration of that tendon at the damage site, which she did perfect with. We had to have a lot of come to Jesus conversations about, you cannot run too soon. If we're going to go through all this trouble and financial costs, we want to make sure that that can heal as much as it can. So everything we did in her programming was to ensure we didn't flare that up. And then conversely, we really communicate with not just the strength team at 10 squared, but also her physical therapist off site and her running coach. And all of us had to put together this six month plan where her running coach didn't actually flare it up, right? Because he does have a window to everything we're doing. He definitely needs to talk to the PT as did we to where she could quote, get medically cleared. I should know this because I live with her. But I don't remember exactly how long she actually had to stop running. And IMean, I know that it was right after the first and second PRP injections. But does eight weeks sound about right? Yeah. So because of her timing for the race and she wants to run Boston, we had a little extra runway. So the more healing time you can get the better, we have a lot of people who are like really impatient dying here. If you're a pro athlete, you might not have that luxury, right? But that's what's been fun for me about 10 squared. I don't have all these environmental constrents. I could just get to look at people. When you're trening for an event that's 30 years from now, you got to take short cuts. Yeah, let's take a breath and be really detailed, right? And so with Jill, the PM and R docks and the physiatrist will always kind of give you different amounts. But usually two rounds for her issue. So you do one round of PRP, basically do nothing and then you do another round about two weeks later. And then you slowly let that heal and you start to add physical therapy. So with Jill total time, we were doing a ton of stuff around the area of the injection right away. Like that's imperative. You don't stop everything. You just protect the area and you tren everything else. So that is going to be one of the reasons why we get a lost success with her. And then back that up with, we really did targeted physical therapy for that site to promote the healing. So the physical therapy side, they're using a ton of things like BFR, dry kneeling, we're necessary. Everything you can just help those parts heal, foster that growth hormone, foster that protein synthesis, build that muscle up without a lot of force and the tendon, all those things that a traditional physical therapist that knows what they're doing, they can crush that. Yeah, and she for eight weeks had to swim. Yeah. So she was pleasantly open-minded. It's hard for every athlete to not do their support. I get that. But I've delivered that medicine over and over for a long time. And so she swam. So she didn't lose any true cardio, right? She yes, she lost a little bit of running strength. But someone with her background and her base and then keeping everything else really strong, she's going to hit the ground running and she's running now and doing really well. And so I always say I have two athletes. I've athlete that I've encouraged. Like it's okay. Those tend to be more of your traumatic acute like ACL type people where you got to show them in the lab and show them in the gym that it is okay. Keep pushing, you're good. And then I have the other athletes where you have to hold them back. Right? And so Jill's going to be that one like, let me go, let me go. And we have to play back cop just enough where science supports that. So where she doesn't flare it up again, because we need her to have a nice smooth progression. I'd rather her be really balanced and athletic and strong and feeling good on race day, not like a bunch of junk miles in that tendon and the knees starting to hurt her again and stuff like that. All right. So let's pick another type of client that you'd see at 10 squared, which is maybe somebody who comes in who doesn't have a great trening history. Yeah. They don't have, they've never really been an athlete. Right. Um, and, but, but they, but they, the thesis really resonates. They sort of go, you know what? Like I get it, man. Like this is like I feel fine now. Even though I'm not particularly athletic and I'm not trening a lot, but I'm young enough that it hasn't caught up with me yet. You know, I'm in my 40s or whatever. Yeah. Um, but I now accept that when I do my test, like because those people don't typically do very well on the assessment because it exposes, you can't, you can't hide from not having done the work. Yeah. Um, so how do you think about like where to start when there is so much work to do? So you talked earlier about, you know, this is on the second floor. This is on the first floor. This is on the penthouse. This is in the basement. We're going to focus on the basement. What do you do when everything is first floor basement? Yeah. So great question. I think number one we got to build the habit. So that's a big part of this is when your coach is basically in contact with you every day as much as you want to help bend and twist and develop that formula, to swear that person is actually encouraged to do it. They enjoy it. They like it. I've had people tell me, yeah, this core stuff makes sense, but I just hate getting on the floor. Okay, we got to pivot and change the program, right? Because if I just try to convince you to do an exercise that you hate doing, it's not going to last. That's number one. Number two is we want to really mitigate the risks of injury because those just you get some momentum going on the psychological habit side. And then, ugh, I pulled my hamstring. I'm devastated, right? So we got to get those foundations going. But then usually we look at the medical risk side. So some people, the CPAD test was terrible, right? Their VO2 numbers are bad. You know, in our society, you got to have a good heart. We want to get that off the table from a risk factor. So we'll probably really put that routine cardio in in a manner in which we don't flare up the things that could create an injury. So one client we had recently, he didn't know it. He didn't bring it up. He's never had leg or foot issues at all. But his testing, his calves, he's a big fall risk. His calves were crazy week. His balance wasn't good because he didn't have strength and he's definitely a high risk for an Achilles. How old is this person? 52. You wouldn't expect to see that in somebody so young, right? Yeah, but he just poured himself into his career and really successful, really smart, cool guy. But he just hasn't trened a lot of and he had kind of a health scare, which is what motivated him to get organized. Let's get this stuff right. You know, it's interesting to see his really successful, like analytical brain, use that scare to be like, okay, I got to get, I got to get sorted out. You can see he operates his business the same way, right? Problem identification, what's a solution? Problem solution, problem solution. So with him, he didn't know he had any of these risk factors, but he was a textbook for having a fall or blowing out his Achilles because of the weakness and the lack of capacity and strength he had. And if you were to handicap that, like, how many years away would he have been from something like that being quite likely? Is it something he's going to have before he was 60? Yeah, he's definitely in that bucket of he could have been, you know, it's a little fear of injury, but like he wasn't set up to like having to change direction quickly, or maybe trips off a curb after dinner in New York, right? Like he could have had something like that easily, right? Bit guy too. So, you know, top heavy, just like me, big tree fall hard. So with him, he wasn't even aware of that weakness, but the last thing we're going to do is give him a running program, right? Like we got to design his CPET stuff and his VO2 max trening and his own two trening around these inefficiencies with his body. And so the workout in the gym needs to link up perfectly with those risks and also what is the most important thing for him right now. It's not difficult to communicate to clients because did they ever feel like, hey, I'm not doing enough? Oh, yeah, a lot of people are overwhelmed, but what's been really nice is the data, but then the calibration. And so what's been really cool with some of our clients we've had for several months now is consistency is always the name of the game, especially when we're playing the long game, like we are. And with someone's going on a two-week vacation, we want to know, where are you staying? What is the gym look like? We will change your workout so that you can keep doing it while you're on vacation. And if you tell us, look guys, I'm going to be really active in the day. I kind of want to decompress. I've been working in my basement garage really hard for three months. Great, let's take care of the total human. Let's give him a 30 minute, like, small thing to where you can almost have that lightning of like the mental load, just decompressed, but he's still making gains and he's still building that up, right? That's what's been fun for me that I almost never got the chance to do, even though I wanted to with some of my athletes because there would be so many variables in the way. With this, if we get a video of your gym and we know, okay, they don't have a bench that goes to incline, but we do have TRX and they have a treadmill that goes to incline, but they don't have a bike. We can change their workout to where they keep marching along and it's an agreeable way for them. And it's not just like, oh, I was on vacation, I didn't work out for two weeks. Because you can also actually, if you don't work out for two weeks, we go backwards. That's a bummer. Yeah, this idea about foot reactivity is so important, right? I think, I've been much more attentive to it in the past couple of years and I've noticed the number of times when I've lost my footing and regained it. I've never had a fall. It's never resulted in anything because it's been it's been caught. But I keep thinking to myself, like, this is the type of slip that can be devastating. And I don't know how long I'll, like, I don't know how long because these are really type two fibers that are doing it and the type two fibers atrophying as we age. And is the jumping, is the types of jumping things that we do sufficient to preserve it? Like, what, you know, if you're someone like me and you who part of our CD involves probably walking on uneven surfaces one day. Yeah. So being at whether for you it's rocking for me, it's maybe going out and hunting or something like that. Like, you're not walking on pavement. Right. And you're not even just walking on, like, beautifully manicured grass. Yeah, it's slanted to the side. It's like pebble gravel. Yeah. Like, you're always going to lose your footing somehow and you have to be able to regain it. What are the most important exercises that you need to be doing to maintain all of the characteristics of tissue and nervous system to preserve? Yeah, I think the best way to answer that is more principle based. So I think number one is we behave in a three-dimensional space. So this idea of only doing calf raises my toes pointed straight ahead, insufficient, right? Because to your point, there's going to be moments where my toes are out or one toe is out. So we want to do all these strength exercises and multiplanes emotion. And that doesn't mean even in a static position. But that's like a lunge, lunging to the side, lunging backwards. Like, you want to tren in a three-dimensional space number one. So all of your trening should account for that. If we're just doing bicep curls and calf raises, it's like I'm on these railroad tracks. But the minute you make me go sideways or rotate, it's trouble, right? So three-dimensional number one. Number two would be to get motor unit recruitment, right? To really make sure that those muscles are firing, you need to do really heavy loads or things that are really fast, right? To get that nervous system to like wake up and respond. The problem with that is not of a lot of us are ready for that. So what usually start with is really long hold isometrics. So we put you in these different positions and find ways to resist that and pull and create stiffness and remodel those tendons. So we're essentially making those parts ready to start going into the danger zone that is explosive powerful movement, right? I don't I shouldn't say danger zone as much as I should say like this is an ask. Yeah, risks zone. So these heavy overcoming isometrics they call them. One of my favorites is that mid-diple is kind of a standard in the sports science world where you have a bar and you basically calibrate the machine to where the bar is about the mid-diple and it's almost like the very top of a deadlift and you just pull but the bar doesn't get to move. And the sensory input is like the four stacks and they're measuring your balance your force and all these other cool metrics. But holding that over time we're now isometrically loading the heck out of my grip, we're loading the heck out of my shoulders, we're getting into my feet, my quads, my hips and I'm just holding that for time. That sets all these up. And you just do this with a super super heavy loaded bar that's too big for you to lift. Not necessarily you can actually do an empty bar but you pull it up against the safety bars in the rack or something like that. I symmetric thigh pull is the thing to look up. But there's a lot of ways to load these heavy isometrics because that gets your tissues ready and you build that up over several weeks and that 10 in a dab and now it's ready to resist force. And then the way you bridge that is you start doing deloted plyometrics. So now maybe we do some sort of like a band assisted pogo where I'm actually pulling on a band ahead. Oh sorry, overhead. You're pulling down on that band. It's essentially lightens me right because the band's going to pull me back up. And now I get to tren that speed and that quickness through the ground but it's not my full body way. And so that's a great way to bridge from okay now I've got the parts ready. Now can I d-load the amount of force and tren the speed. Once I've got the speed going in the parts, now I just get to become an athlete and do body weight and beyond. And so that's where you see these really high level athletes, even at early ages, their treners know how to build that paradigm up and bridge it across to where you don't get any injuries along the way but you get a really springy force resistant person. So so many of us like we touched on initially don't tren pogo's, we don't tren plyometrics, we don't play like if you go out to the local men's and women soccer league, how many people there over 40, not very many right? Now there's a lot of reasons why that is but we're not playing games and we're not reacting to stuff. And so we need to make the gym at safe space where we can recreate these things and essentially test out these movements so I don't lose it. And maybe just to even things out so Jill doesn't think I'm picking on her injury. Let's talk a little bit about my limitations. So the thing that's probably been my biggest source of nag in the past 12 months has been foot ankle. Like let's talk a little bit about those injuries, why they're occurring. And again, they're not debilitating. They don't actually prevent me from doing a single thing. But because I'm sensitive, I just want to know, like hey, like is this a harbinger of something? And so what's your assessment of what's going on in my, and how would you even describe it? Would you describe it as my ankle? Would you describe it as my you know, nivicular tailor joint? Like where is the actual issue in me? So with you without getting your foot out, you have a very mobile foot. So you know, you're swinging back around, like the swimmers have really great mobile feet, right? Like show me a soccer player who had their foot strapped and cleats for 10, 20 years versus a swimmer, like very different setups, right? So it's really speaks to how tissues adapt over time. So your feet have a ton of motion in them. They are not restricted. You also do a lot of barefoot work in the gym, which is helpful for you. Your feet are actually pretty strong, too. Like if we test your big toe and your smaller toes, you don't test outside the normal limits for strength requirements. But your biggest gap is that multi-positional stiffness and that ability to create force absorption through your tissues. And you're actually set up for that because you can move so much, right? You don't find those in-ranges, either the boany in-ranges or those tendons can't grab because there's so much play in that pattern. So what you accidentally do all the time is you'll go on a rock or you'll go on a hunt where you're off-road and you're getting all these angles, you'll slowly flare up a tendon and tendons are notorious for not hurting. And thank you for not telling everybody the last cause of injury. I would never. Just for the listener. I don't know why, but I somehow decided two months ago to pick up a pogo stick. Never done it in my life. It's somehow decided. Is that in the bonus since you need a cat on for you? It's like I'm going to add another activity. Pogo sticking up and down the driveway. Yeah, that goes in the bucket of you should have called me first. Like what? IMean, you survived. Second I started. I was like, oh, not a good idea. I'm just got your feet not at the other end. You know? So because your feet are so mobile, tendons are notorious for they don't really hurt at the time, but they hurt like crazy the next morning. And what you always routinely say, which is really common if you're playing or fasciitis, or pateler tendonitis is when I first get up, it's really stiff and creaky and soar and hurts. And that's because tendons love blood flow. They love movement and they love motion. And so all those chemicals that come with inflammation, if we're just sitting around or sleeping, that's the opportunity to get stiff and really sore and achy. So with that kind of symptom pattern, you're not really lost on what it is because that's classic tendon, right? You can walk, we can load it. There's no like failure. So we're not worried about a muscular stren or any other damage, but that tendon gets really hot and spicy, especially in the mornings, if you're not creating that stiffness. So we started doing with you is just that. And just to be clear, we are nine or 10 weeks ago, since my pogo sticking debacle. Yeah. I no longer have, it's no longer as bad, but every single morning when I get up, there is still incredible and sharp pain right at that tendon. Yeah. Why is this taking so long? Well, tendons are one of the slowest things to heal. And I guarantee if we really zoomed in and looked at all of it, like you probably have a little tendon-opathy in those tendons, little damage here and there, that could be contributing to that irritation. But the most important thing is understanding the tendon-stake months to regenerate. And if, you know, you and I have had a pretty consistent attack with it, but we finally got you on a really good like rehab program you're doing yourself where we're loading the heck out of it with these isometrics and we're building the load more and more and we're loading those isometrics in different positions. So one of the ones we do with you a lot is that front foot hover, but you're actually planar flexing. So where you're driving, you're doing as much of a calf raises you can in that split squat position and then we make you hold that while you do that split squat. So it changes the whole angle in the relationship. But it's a complex movement. So we've got a plate in front of me. Yep. Just basically finding a bump of the plate. So we're two and a half three inches up. Yep. The my front foot just, you know, ball of foot and toes are on there. I'm in a split squat. Yep. And what am I doing with that front foot? I'm lifting it. Yes. So to plan to flex. Yeah. For you, the goal was really trening. So your toe off was one of the problems. So what happens with you is when your foot, you're actually your heel lands, you're driving your body forward, your foot's behind you. You would do like a little bit of a rotation out and create like a little bit of a whip through where it wasn't nice and pure rotation rolling through the foot in the toe. It was kind of complex and putting extra stress at the ankle. That times 10,000 steps a day will really, you know, pick at that 10 and make it sore, which is why you wake up the next day So what we're trying to do is put these tendons at different lengths and then putting a lot of load through them and then the complexity we're adding isn't necessarily at that joint, but we're actually adding motion and complexity above with the lunge and also the requirement of you having to stabilize, centrally having to stabilize centrally in that mid-party or body while that foot is locked in. So someone with a really mobile foot, you tend to really use that foot for everything and that's how you spice up those tendons and I'm essentially putting that foot in a position where that tendon has to heel and it has to get stronger, but then I'm making the other parts of your body reach that complexity and meet the demand. So this is the second time I've had this flare up. Right. This is the first time I had it was probably a year and a half ago when I really started increasing rucking volume. Yes. Was that unreal? IMean, this was caused by kind of an acute incident, which was the pogo sticking where I clearly over plantar flexed or dorsy flexed. Yes. I guess we saw that extreme dorsy flexion that did it. What do you think was driving it on the rucking side and what is more importantly, what does this mean for me? Where do I turn? Yeah. How do IMake it? Because right now it doesn't matter. If this keeps happening and I'm in my 80s, this is the difference between reacting and not reacting and being able to get around a knot. So how do I prevent this from being a lifelong problem? Yeah, that's a great question. So I think the pogo, that dorsy flexion, or bring your toes up, the pogo, when it's a sudden like a cube force like that, you probably also just create a little bit of a joint irritation. It's analogous to jamming your finger. If you move those two joint structures together really hard quickly and your body can't absorb that force, that'll get a lot more sore than if it's just kind of a slow repetitive stress like the rucking. The pathway is, and you've noticed the relief, like when we do the manual therapy and things like that, that's a nice short term, like off feels a little better, a little less pain, great. But the bigger picture and the ask of your body is teaching it, how can it respond to this and how do I build that force in those tendons to where not only is that tendons start to regenerate and heal, but then it's also ready to react to all the things you do. So knowing for you specifically that you love to use those feet and the more barefoot you are, like you're more likely to do that, we need to do a ton morEQuick work with you that's deloted to tren all those tendons. IMean, there are so many tendons in the lower leg and the ankle. We need to tren all those tendons to get quick and stiff in different positions so you don't jam the joint or create a stress in the tendon. Should I be doing less barefoot activity? No, I don't think so at all. I think that's a pathway to frailty. Like you want to stimulate their sectors in the bottom of your foot. Do I want you running on like a river like barefoot with a sharp rock? No, because that's going to cause other problems. But I think having you barefoot makes your foot in mobile and strong, but then if we piggyback that with this specific type of trening for where your gaps are, it's a huge payoff. Let's look at the other side. Most people don't have your situation. More often than that, people have a really rigid foot that's weak and stiff. So we're actually going with a whole other direction where we're trying to get motion in the foot. We're teaching that foot to separate rear foot and forefoot. And how do those people present? What's the pain or what's the injury they present with? Interestingly, they actually get a lot of symptoms up the chain. So that foot isn't, you know, our foot has so many bones on and all these articulations where we're supposed to comply to the ground. If that shock absorption goes away, like let's say I'm wearing these big goofy running shoes that they sell now, that have the rocker where it's all just like patching holes in the boat rather than optimizing movement, if we have a foot that is stiff, those force factors go up through the body. So now my knees, my hips and my spine have to figure out that force distribution because one of my best shock absorbers is the foot and ankle. If that's not doing this job, everything else pays the price. So I see a lot of people wear, like let's say the solace is weak and they're lower part of their calf so that control of their tibia as either walk or lunge isn't there so that ankle just kind of locks up and then they send all that force to their knee. That's why like one of my favorites is anyone with a chronic knee issue, I'm going right at that foot and ankle first because of the foot and ankle isn't up to the task that my knees take a beating. So I don't want to jinx myself and I hope I'm not doing it by saying this. Is this why despite all the crazy stuff I've done, all the miles I ran growing up, never really had a knee issue but boy do I get these feet issues? Do you think IMean it's a good theory but absolutely yeah, like you're really good wide mobile feet, like your knee is gets to be a knee, right? If that rotation that pivot joint that's supposed to happen at the ankle isn't like pronounce to the amount you want and it isn't mobile enough then that knee and that force factor is going to happen at the upper tibia and the femur where you now you start to get these little moniscous things that showed up out of nowhere. That torsion happens has happened somewhere. Let's talk about something that you touched on a few minutes ago which is around sort of fear and we see this a lot. We see this in the medical practice where we have patients that are you know where we're overseeing all their trening and I sounds like you see this at 10 square as well where you have clients that are just coming in for obviously the trening pieces of this. So is there any kind of common thread to this or does it come in all walks of life? I've seen it in former athletes who are injured but the injury is so bad that they just can never quite get back to you know they injured the back and then they're sort of like they never quite want to go back down my path especially if they've had multiple re-ingeries. Yeah. I assume you see this in people who are not necessarily athletes so what do you think is going on there and how do you how do you kind of work up the confidence to to accept that the pathway back isn't necessarily pain-free or injury-free but it's more of a trajectory that's going to get better. Yeah I love what you just showed there. The graph is it's always going to have peaks and valleys and you know when your brain perceives the ret whatever that could be maybe you're you know your dad heard himself playing football so you're scared to play football right but when your brain perceives the ret not only is your heightened awareness up right your nervous system is kicked up but we're more sensitive to pain so certain things hurt more when we're ill or when we're stressed then if we're not right and if we stick to just movement themselves a lot of people are afraid of certain movements because it hurt me in the past or they heard it could hurt them or maybe they just haven't done it long time so they're nervous about it right so you can actually empower people if you show them there's a rational reason why that that fear could be there or why that pain is there pain does not always mean injury pain is your brain telling you hey I don't like what's happening here but it does always mean your broken or busted another thing to think about is your image isn't always like a death sentence right like if we MRI 100,000 low backs there's going to be wear and tear especially if we're over 30 years old same goes for every other joint in the body does that mean we design your whole clinical plan around that no we really need to think about okay how much is there what do they want to do what are their strengths what are their weaknesses all those things we already spoke to so when there's fear involved you really have to address that because the individual needs to know that a you have a plan form that you understand their fears and then b we got to count for those fears in one way or another so IMean this is not data but in my private practice the amount of low back like flare ups just your traditional backspasm not a surgical candidate just like high back pain but no damage the amount of those people that have come in when their wife spots going to labor or they they're worried about getting fired from their job where they have like an emotional mental stress in their life the amount of those people is infinite like I've had thousands of people come in and go in my back flared up out of nowhere and then you start to dive in like what else is going on and they're really worried or stressed about something so what the goal there is you can't always fix those external cultural psychological emotional things but we can address them and identify them and sometimes they need therapy they need other things to address those but more importantly we need to empower that individual and give them rational reasons why you're like hey this might be why you've cleared up in that glute or in that mid back and this is what we're going to do about it and if you outline those plans for people and give them the tools now you've equipped them to actually help themselves this whole game of I'm going to take an extra review and look oh there's one little bone spur but now I'm going to scare you into like a 40 visit package to my car practical and it's something that game needs to go way fast because the only thing you're doing is making people feel more frail more afraid and you're actually only helping the bottom line of your business you're not helping that individual so it's really about empowerment with education what is it that you would see when somebody comes in that would make you say actually we need to immobilize you or we need to you know like what is that something that's only going to be on an exam where you see a motor weakness for example a mobilized how like put them in a boot or you saying well let's just let's look at lower back so if somebody shows up with a lower back complaint to you what's going to make you say no actually the answer is you know seeing a surgeon or complete and total rest or you know how are you what is kind of your algorithm on people presenting with lower back pain yeah IMean lowbacks are great so number one is and for the neurons out there if there's weakness or you don't have bowler bladder function and things like that right away get a value weight right because the way nerves work if if there's pressure on nerves it could at over time create permanent damage now a lot of nerve pain is sensory right that electrical sciatica type stuff it's that tingling and that weird thing like that but the real number one that you look at is do they have weakness or do they have loss of some sort of you know control foundational control right that's when you got to get integrated with neuro and orthos right away um if we don't have that now you're in the like decision making domain right so this means you you're going to do the rectal exam make sure your tone is there yeah exactly okay that's definitely on the longest of things I refer out for okay um so if you're in that kind of mechanical low back pain or even some disc nerve issues but no weakness now there's a ton of strategies we can do almost as a first diagnostic step to see how your body responds now what IMean by that is we're not going to do some crazy aggressive therapy or treatment or manipulation of the spine but we're going to do some sort of intervention like muscle work or Mackenzie exercises for discs which are highly researched and really effective to see how the body responds to those things if your body responds in a positive way even for two hours that's a great indicator like let's keep going down this road because even the best surgeons that you and I have both talked with about mutual clients they'll say let's give this little time and see what your body does things can heal the natural process of the body can take care of themselves so a disc bulge one of my favorite examples actually is a disc herniation she confirmed on MRI she would do a Mackenzie protocol which again is fantastic scribe for people what that is so Mackenzie protocols are really great system that um you essentially put the patient in various positions and you do these like gentle arching or pumping and you're basically trying to take pressure off that disc to where slowly over time that bulge can re-center and balance out can people do these by themselves you need to be yeah okay you can go and we can link to where people can go and look yeah Mackenzie protocols fantastic their website has a database where people can find people in their town so if they have nerve pain it's a great place to start because all those Mackenzie practitioners know what I just outlined too like this is a Mackenzie thing this is not but what's fascinating about Mackenzie sometimes even in the room they'll get a reduction of nerve symptoms while they're and so nerves provide very like productive information like you can trust symptoms of a nerve really well so if I get what they call a centralization meaning I'd satac pain all the way down the leg and then you put me in this one Mackenzie position and now it centralizes to the hamstring that's a great idea that's a great diagnostic indicator exactly and so just because that individual might have an MRI with a disc herniation that does a mean it's an injection or surgery right away obviously part of the decision making is what is there what are they having to deal with in their life what is their timeline all those other factors but if you can encourage a hot disc patient to wait and and make sure that they're actually letting things heal and run their course they could be much better off and forward at 10 weeks. Some will always the sign of a great spine surgeon right just once you rule out the acute weakness the thing that is a surgical necessity yeah the ones that want to wait are generally the better surgeons yeah we've chosen the better side for sure yeah but this case I was going to talk about earlier she's at fast anyone so confirmed discerningation and then she had an annular tear which basically the annulus is a part of the disc and it best analogy to describe it is she had like a little thing that was a equivalent of like a cuticle they're just kind of peeling off so traditional protocol we started to turn on Mackenzie's great lady we're actually still friends but she was really hurting so we worked with her for like two three weeks and every time we put her in that Mackenzie position it hurt her worse and it was local pain but the ridiculous symptoms reduced so long story short what we learned over time she went back over to another place try that for a while didn't work the disc herniation was actually taking care of itself but that annular tear was still sticking out creating extension base pain so after about a year of rehab her body was able to scar up and that healed and it was fine but it was really interesting to me was she needed Mackenzie's early but then we actually had to cease the Mackenzie's because we were jamming that annular tear and so then we were storage is more pillar strengthening dynamic neuromusco stabilization all those other things so it's like different things at different times played a big role IMean when we it's just it must be amazing how often we all encounter hopefully not personally but professionally people with lower back pain like this statistics are sort of you know I don't I can't imagine there's too many people listening to us who don't have personal or indirect experience with it either obviously through themselves or through somebody they know closely there is something about it that I can really relate to being nerve-wracking it really is it can be terrifying and and and and also demoralizing I think is how I would describe it just demoralizing when you lower back hurts in a way that I don't it's not the same as if you're shoulder elbow knee or hip hurt no it's different IMean the best analogy is I spray my wrist you know IMight have to wear a brace or something but I can generally function I can go to a movie but when your ribs or your back is hurting not only are those muscles much more big and powerful so when they react in spasm they're really good at it right like these small muscles my wrist when they react in spasm I go that's kind of sore but the low back IMean that group of muscles is really good at freaking out right the type one fibers postural stuff a lot of detail the other thing is you can't do anything without affecting you right you sitting in a movie hurts walking hurts IMean these people it's a fixed them constantly and that's a big part of the rehab story is finding these little winds where they can actually do something and it either does get worse or have a verbid makes them feel a bit better um the human body is meant to move so you think it's a scalable IMean I feel fortunate that you know we're able to take care of people where we have the luxury of doing this very bespoke approach and yeah you can you can you can integrate your strength in conditioning with your cardio with your PT rehab and all that stuff and it's all it's all great but like do you see a day when this could all be app and AI driven where any any person out there with any set of lower back symptoms could be provided with the feedback that they would need to to take care of themselves if they execute absolutely how would you get the feedback IMean is that basically is it just I just said you have good enough image recognition software that is that would that be that would that be a necessary step that if you were using such a device like an app you would have to be able to set up your phone on a tripod to be able to able to capture you doing it because the advantage of being able to do this the first few times with an actual person like you is thEQueuing is so important a lot of these exercises are not um there's not natural yeah well especially if you're that person who's suffering from that injury then odds are you didn't perform these exercises well subconsciously so that's what's set you up for it right what is interesting is the the video recognition software is getting fantastic I've demoed a few now where they're like the AI is actually watching someone do movements and saying hey you know this was too far out that way or whatever but that also goes in the bucket of everyone moves differently right like my femur length is different than yours so the angles with which I'm going to lunger can be a little different and so this idea that if you take principles and you know the symptoms and then most importantly you know how people react to really conservative loads that almost tells you more than did their tibia rotate three degrees or not I could care way less abouT3 degrees of tibia rotation based on AI software and care way more about you know what I did these lunges in this setup and we activated some neuromuscular reaction to where my glute fired a little bit better my knee felt way better right and then when people give us that good kind of qualitative feedback now you know how to trim up that program so I think the AI part of it's going to be more that it's going to be less about oh what degree did it move but more about how did you respond to each drill that's safe and then we go from there right yeah agree and that's where trening the AI is much more nuanced and complicated 100% yeah image recognition is one thing but it's yeah knowing what to do with that information yeah knowing am I going to do an overhead dumbbell in a dns three month and all these other nuances versus the legs right like there's certain cases that I'll do that one for one and the other for another and it's it's really a matter of knowing what you got to start with and then we test it a little bit and then we test it a little bit more and then now comes our dictated by how do they respond to that exercise and why did you kind of gravitate towards this IMean we didn't really get into kind of telling people your story but sure you know you went to Cairo school yep but then you immediately went out and did a sports medicine thing you yeah and worked with the New York Giants why did you just opt into kind of the role you're doing now which is much more in the PT rehab space then it is the what people I think assume of traditional Cairo practice which is here's a here's a 40 adjustment schedule you know yeah and like I'm an a crack and again I I don't have a point of view on that but yeah what drew you more towards the the side of things you're on now yeah IMean I think it speaks to a bigger thing which I'm really degree agnostic in the sense that I hope someday in the future there's like a more clear certification or degree where there are Cairo's and PT's and frankly strength coaches all three of those people I would trust way more to do rehab and get someone better like who would I send my mom to I would send my mom to all three of those people if they have certain skill sets and like approaches right independent of degree or yeah credential totally because you know the Cairo degree was my baseline trening that's where my license is and all that but the traditional view of Cairo is with the manipulations and the adjustments like you know that's 5% of our week at my practice right we are practicing we have Cairo's and PT's but you can't really tell who's who because everybody's doing what we call as active rehab so one of the things I always tell people I don't care what their degree is but if you're going to rehab clinic and it's one to one relationships so it's not group but it's one to one and they've got a bunch of weights in there as well as the traditional bands and stuff now that's an indicator okay these guys are going to build me back up to something actually strong not just like make me coming here forever and do rehab purgatory why I do the same micro drill over and over right like we got a build over time so I'm really agnostic to a degree but yeah that said my story I basically tried to create a residency for myself right out of Cairo school and back then it was really manual therapy based I learned a ton we were I was by far the lowest guy in the total poll which we all know that works a lot of time a lot of learning but I was there to soak it up and everyone always thinks that like pro sports is the top right and it is in a lot of ways but it wasn't really for me in terms of an official team relationship because I just didn't like that personal schedule and it was pure chaos like you spend a week fixing somebody up and then they go out there and get blasted again you know like oh that's bummer it's kind of like when my son builds his tower magnetiles and his sister knocks it over it's like the look on his face was me every Sunday you know so I really enjoy the off-season side I really enjoy more of the project and I really like realized early on that when you're only doing pain relief manual therapy work there's a lot missing right we're not building people up right so that's when I just started doing this deep dive as much as I could learning from as many people as I could about the foot and balancing and her muscular trening and all these other things to where you know it's a compliment and my private clinic when people like what are you like we actually have people coming off it's now we're like I need to go see my carpactor later and one of my other docs a bit like well I'm a chiropractor like what I had no idea they've seen this for years so we're probably supposed to identify ourselves better but the regardless for solve problems what is the role for what most people think of when they hear chiropractic right the adjustments yeah like what does it do well IMean I I guess like I don't want to ask you to sort of be critical if that's the word of a profession that you remember of it but the fact that you aren't out there doing it 24-7 suggests either you think it's really really valuable but it's just not something you want to do or you don't think that it's valuable enough and so how would you how would you advise somebody that came to you and said hey Kyler I have injury x my neck my back whatever um I got this awesome package of 40 visits for x no more dollars with my local chiropractor I see him for eight minutes a week twice a week actually it's really special um uh do you think that's a great plan? No and the way I would describe it is IMean I've benefited from getting adjusted myself like things get out of whack right like things get stiff you sleep on a plane where like that's a real thing but it's a tool in the tool belt and the really good practitioners have a bunch of tools and so I could say the same thing about chiroprat adjustments as I could dry needleing or active release or um a colonel taping like a million tools out there the really good practitioners have a huge tool belt and they know when to use which one at what time yeah so just throwing cupping at somebody and hoping their muscles get better it's insufficient in the same way I'd say just adjusting someone over and over it's not enough there's more that could be done and so what I get asked a lot especially now that I'm older like oh my friends I've accumulated over the years like I didn't account for as I got older there'd be morEQuestions exponentially because they're all getting sore and hurting but what I always tell them is I need someone who's got a bunch of tools in their tool belt I need someone who's going to literally treat your case um as something unique every time it's not just like this oh we everybody here signs up for twice a month like that's a big red flag for me and I really want everyone always building towards more strength you have to be adding strength that's what makes things stick that's what optimizes movement that's what makes people feel empowered unless frail and frankly builds them more of like a moat around themselves to where if they do step off a curb weird or they sleep weird on a plane they're less of a triage patient they're more of just like almost sorted it but they still work out and the workout helps it so isn't safe to say then that whatever the suite of underlying modalities are from adjustments to taping to cupping to needleing to active release to manual that you name it the goal of all of these and the more of them you can utilize the better is to create a window in which the individual is safe and out of pain so that they may do the work to retren a movement pattern and increase strength. Yep is that if you were going to do some terms absolutely we say that sometimes about even horizontal injection like I don't like people racing to get a horizontal injection but if you tell someone that's strengthened and that really hurts when they do a lunge they're going to look at you like your jerk so at some point we need to do something to get that pain down so then we can open that door and run through it and running through it with strengthening and making them stronger okay so let's kind of put this now all back together right we've kind of gone really deep down one of the three pillars you now have basically two things you're trying to do you're trying to do everything you're doing in concert with a broader agenda of creating a precision trening program not an exercise program not a workout program a trening program for an athlete who sport happens to be life and you have to be able to do it with the strength and conditioning coaches the cardio coaches and then the other thing you have to do is you have to do this remote because most of the tense-quiet clients are remote because you said they come to Austin for two days they do a whole bunch of assessments they go away for six months then they come back some of them go away for less but yeah you know a lot of them they just they go away for a year and they come back in two months because they're out of the country and it's just not easy for them to be here so how are you able to do this remotely what are the challenges and what what enables it to to to make sense yeah what do they need when they're back home yeah that's a great we get that question a lot because even you know before 10 squared like some of the athletes I would manage you travel a lot like a couple my golfers you know they would call me and say my back hurts from the hotel room and I had the luxury of knowing so much about them and how they moved and what their body looked like I could take all that and then be like well what are the symptoms we rule out the scary medical stuff and then we try some exercise right and we were able to get a lot of results for these athletes and they're about to tee off and two hours and compete right so we've taken out model and if we know when we were designing the assessments that 10 squared one of the biggest themes was we need enough time to know as much as we can right like a lot of people want it to be faster but we're like we need to have that initial step needs to be so in depth that we are certain about all the factors of how you move and where you're strong and things like that when I have that certainty and I'm not flying blind and someone calls me and says you know what my knees really sore after doing these exercises we either hop on a zoom and just talk real quick and I can actually test them on zoom because the exercise is the test so many people think they need a doctor to do like a lockman's test and pull on their leg the story the profile and then how they respond to the exercise that is the test and so we can program exercise is really effectively in a remote way to kind of probe the fence or test it and if it responds the right way we definitely can fix it quickly I had to climb this week it showed her his bugging him we did a zoom call took about 20 minutes we have our library attend squared I fired him off a few exercises he message me like feels up better he didn't have to go to doctor he didn't have to go anywhere now obviously if the story was different and I was worried medically I'd concierge that in the sense of I'd find him some a local and refer out but if I'm not worried medically and if we think it can respond to load we're gonna load it and a lot of times people are shocked that we can make their neck tension go away with an exercise in the same way that if they traditionally got on massage or something they'd get that relief it has to do with what your body does when things are off and if you load it it'll actually respond more because your nervous system's involved as well I want to tell a story on that vein that I is one of the most incredible experiences I ever had this would have been in 2018 or 2019 and I had kind of the first flare up I'd ever had of my lower back since 2000 right when I had my bike surgery and all that nonsense so I'd got 18 maybe 19 years maybe it was early 2019 without a single flare up and then it happened I get the flare up and at the time I was working with this guy it was my first person I'd ever met who did DNS and so I had already learned about intribedominal pressure we were doing all stuff in fact when I went to see him my back was totally fine it was actually I had 10SL though I had this 10SL though and he figured out pretty quickly that my 10SL bow was completely due to my scapular instability and my chief complaint was when I do a lot of pull ups my elbow hurts sure like that I'm in play tennis right yeah so we had fixed all that but I kind of was like this is amazing like I want to know what else is going on and then independent of that I get this lower back flare up and so I'm in there seeing him on one day when I'm in honestly like about the worst pain I'd been in in years by the way his trening by the way is also a chiro so he's a chiro by trening who probably hasn't done an adjustment in 20 years sure just doing DNS and I'll never forget the exercise he had me do because I was like I don't know how this is going to work dude yeah so he laid me on my back and he had me get into like an imaginary leg press position you know those old school leg press machines where you're pressing up yeah not the one where it's on a slope but the the rack moves vertically super old school yep so I'm on my back I'm in that position and he is now laying on top of me so he's got his pecs basically on my feet sure and he's queuing me through really good intributional pressure and isometric contraction pushing yep and low and behold my back is getting better and we're doing sets you know 10 second 20 second 30 second and at some point I'm getting so strong like we need more resistance so now we go and build a makeshift thing under the squat rack where I'm on you know I forget I was on a Smith machine or a squat rack where basically now I have infinite resistance kind of like how you described it with the partial deadlift yeah and I am getting to the point where when I walked in there I wouldn't have been able to push 10 pounds away from me that's how much pain I was in and now I'm convinced I was pushing 600 pounds of force against that immovable bar yep and I've never felt better sure and I couldn't understand how that could happen yeah how is it that I could not walk but limp into that guy's gym that day in so much pain and spasm yep and in our later I feel like a million bucks sure how could that happen well two things one thing in your story is you know it really speaks out pain is inhibitory right like when your brain is perceiving that threat in that pain it starts to just kind of it goes in a preservation mode right where it's like look I'm not going to have you run the fastest 40 year life because I don't trust all these movements I'm trying to figure this out I always my analogy is like it's like that hand on the buzzer with family feud where the brain like whenever it feels threat it's like I'm going to hit this buzzer and I'm going to send you a pain signal doesn't mean your damage it's just like I'm hovering and if you're really stressed or it's a really high level pain it's like I'm going to do it first sign of trouble right yeah so number one it just really explains you know your story is that kind of effect but then it's like okay how do we get the brain to take the hand off the buzzer what loads can we introduce to make these muscles like one term in the in the musculoskeletal world or reciprocal inhibition so if I'm going to contract my bicep like crazy my tricep almost has to eventually get enough signals where it can't fire right your brain might be trying to fire it and it's got this co-contraction going on and there's that protection going on but the more stimulus you give that bicep eventually that tricep has to let go so what he was doing is he's putting you in very specific positions to where you had to load something where neurologically your brain says I'm going to turn this other thing off and I got to actually meet the demand of this force because force is how your nervous system responds and so he was loading one direction so much that eventually that QL or whatever else could have been spasming with you had eventually kind of melt them like go not only were you now activated and stable and feeling stronger but that muscle was in this inhibitory contracted state and then I let go one of the things I say in my private practice all time my first five years out of school I was working on thEQL like my thumb has got scars from it I don't touch thEQL anymore like about eight or ten years ago I realized you don't even have to beat someone up so much and it weird way these kind of exercises are more gentle they're more therapeutic and they're more active they're active so it's long term like you're tapping into that nervous system and so demoing an exercise or having someone do a very specific exercise based on the profile and their symptoms is actually a great way to make someone feel better and you just got to give them the right stuff again it's it's it's I consider that one of the most profound experiences of my life from a physical perspective and also in how much it changed my point of view about what back pain is and isn't and I don't want to suggest for a moment that if you're sitting you're listening and you have back pain that's the answer going find a guy to do that but but I'm saying that there's so much more going on than we realize and so much of back pain is not surgical and so much of back pain can be healed with retrening a movement pattern and and getting our nervous system to kind of get out of the way I have a lot of clients that come in and they're like look I'm nervous about the kind of thing or they they have some fear around it they heard stories whatever right so I'm like they're like can you help my neck though absolutely because there's a million other ways to cook this recipe to where we normalize the motionier joints we make the muscle strong again we re-establish the relationships of your shoulders and your scapular neck there's a million ways to make someone feel better with exercise where you don't have to do aggressive therapies I don't care if it's stem cell or PRP or prolo or dry needleing or caro it doesn't really matter exercise needs always be the answer and you can do therapeutic exercise actually doesn't lot for people that drops the pain too and so walk us through the framework because you've got it I love your framework for how you approach me so what's the framework yeah so first off you know kind of that bifurcation we talked about earlier where you know are doing need a consultant orthopedic or neurosurgeon right that's number one so we're gonna make the decision the story the incident what it looks like like if we're talking me if you know their soccer player they twisted it really weird yesterday it's all swollen on the joint line I'm more worried about the joint if conversely if it's a runner where it's been kind of often on for a long time no acute incident no joint line swelling the pain is kind of vague those are two very different presentations so ones gonna be more like orthoconsault ones gonna be like let's let's tinker around as a rehab pro and see what we can do right so that's the first bifurcation is basically playing doctor and being like what's the right path the other thing I really want to encourage is that the best orthopedic surgeons in the world like you spoke to earlier they don't want to do surgery or inject everyone right away they're referring out all the time and a lot of clinics nowadays have like a physical therapy clinic in house and there's all kinds of constrents with that and the best orthos don't just give someone a list of every pt clinic in town they're actually referring to different clinics based on that clinic strengths and experience right some clinic specialized in running some specialized in strength trening like if your orthos specifically searching out different pt clinics that's a huge win it's a great sign they know what they're if they just give you hand out and they're like go call somebody that means they think all pt's the same and all rehab's the same and it's not right so that's number one once we've got past that bifurcation of knowing that it's a rehab case then the protocol really turns into what is the safest and smartest way to create a change maybe it's a manual therapy maybe it's trying to make maybe it's one of those treatments we spoke to earlier or maybe it's a strategic load that decision is a lot of times based on the patients comfort like how you read the room are they they like cattle rancher dude who wants to push through pain and they're gonna go back to work tomorrow or they someone who's really scared because the pain is high right we got to build trust we got to get them some sort of pain relief to show that we're medically being responsible and making sure we're going their eye direction but then once we've created that change then we start to load it a lot of times if I have a joint that I know is permanently compromised let's say someone with total knee replacement I'm not gonna actually beat up the knee a lot traditional insurance base rehab is gonna go after that joint because that's the code that's associated with it and they know they're gonna do that really well what I'm gonna go for first is the foot the ankle the hip and their pelvis in general because if there's a lot of low fruit there I can enhance the pelvis strength or the foot strength and I can actually buffer that knee to where it doesn't have to work nearly as hard and those people get a reduction of symptoms overnight kind of this was really a ton of fun enjoyed sitting down with you it's not normal that I sit this far from you but at a distance you look just as great as ever devastating as always thanks a lot

=== FILE: 351 ‒ Male fertility： optimizing reproductive health, treating infertility, & navigating TRT [RCGX5J3VQj0].txt ===

If you ask me, what's the theme for today? It's a sperm matter a lot. Alright, so now let's talk about the guy who comes to see you. He's been on exogenous testosterone for three years. Presumably there are no sperm. I would bet 95% confidence that he would have no sperm in a scene. So what are you telling him now? How are you going to solve this problem? Oh, this is a very important point. So 80% of conceptions naturally are at home. A curl when sex is front loaded as opposed to reacting to ovulation. Tell me about the impact of cold plunging and sauna and hot tubbing on fertility for men. 20 minutes on 140 degrees, three times a week, would probably make you zero. What paternal age do you worry about? National guidelines for sperm donation, 40 is considered older paternal age, 50 for sure. Right? If you look at risks too off spring, tell me what your impression is of the effect of any or all of the above on fertility. You double the stress and a man in testosterone level will fall. And then the sperm production falls for a whole different reason. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Hey Paul, thank you so much for coming out to Austin. Peter Atia, the man, the myth alleged I am. It's so excited to be here. So this is in many ways I guess what's going to be part one of a two part series I hope to do on fertility. And given the complexity of it, I think the most logical way to do it would be to break it down into male fertility, female fertility. And there's obviously going to be things we talk about that'll overlap. But I was trying to think about the best way to start this. And the first thing that came to my mind was, can we just explain what's involved in conception? And maybe do it through the lens of the sperm. But like how much of a challenge is this? IMean obviously there's an enormous evolutionary pressure for this to go as easily as possible. But what is actually involved? So what happens for a sperm to fuse with an egg? What are all the things that are standing in its way, so to speak? IMean there are a lot of, so reproduction is an incredibly highly evolved millionaire process. And remarkably, conserved among mammalian species, even among land species and water species of animals. The giant is cervix's, uterus's. And thEQuestion is why is it so much work for a sperm to get into the vagina, especially in say water? And then have to go through a cervix and then the immune system and uterus is very active because there's a hole in the woman to the parrot name to the abdomen. So it has to be highly protected. And then you have to go through the uterus so there's an attention 12 inch swim, which is equivalent to about a 20 miles swim for a human. Based on the size of the shark. And how much this is they have to go and they do that in minutes, which is crazy. So it's an interesting challenge that nature has kept in place for a million years and I really respect evolution. And it is why we're here for, you know, eat sleep reproduce. So it's so basically, with ejaculation, the penis is shaped to fit into the cervix. So everyone wonders, it's getting to the right spot. It's also interesting that the semen is collagulated and then it liquefies. And that's because there's a lot of species of lower phyla that they have to leave as soon as they have sex. Otherwise they get killed, like praying mantises and black widow spiders. So you've got to get out of there as a guy. So our ejaculates and humans are sticky. By the way, is there an evolutionary explanation for that? I have no idea. Yeah, why you went to that? I don't know why onEQueen bee and the bees in the hive die after mating. I have no idea why that's an advantage. But I guess females are prioritized in the evolution. And that makes sense. So there's a the anatomy is perfectly defined. So a lot of men think they're having trouble placing things. But that I usually don't worry about it because the cervix and the penis, it expands. It forms a seal. Then there's a crypt sperm have to go through a crypt channel, which is only a few sperm make. It's a 100 million sperm may start out. Maybe 5 million make it through the first barrier, which is the cervical barrier. The vaginal fluid is acidic. How is it? How is it? 5, 5, and that's seen when there's a page of seven. It's all buffered. So it's soon as that's as a hostile environment. So it has to get out of therEQuickly. As soon as it liquefies, there's sugars in there and then they go through the cervical path. So 5 million will make it one out of 20. What amount would it? No. Yeah. One out of 20 makes it through the cervix. Then a hundred make it to the phlopian tube and then one will make it to the egg. Literally only a hundred. Right. So we've set large studies in the 50s where he had had women have sex before his Correctemies. And then he swabbed different parts of the reproductive tract. These are young women for different reasons, not in fertility and found these numbers. And that's the basis for our move to technology from 5 million moving sperm is when we start doing inseminations of versus sex, etc. So those are based on the kind of numbers of sperm that reach the uterus and reach the thing. What's really interesting is this some fascinating research. Everyone thought the van guards sperm wins. Yeah. So it's the phelps sperm that's going to be covered. And there's a company in a hot-abost and called Eric's biocentus and I'm consulting with them. Disclosure. But they've discovered that sperm work in failing says. So because the immune system is so vibrant in the uterus, the first round of sperm gets through the sex and typically absorbs the immune systems. And it's a CREATS FCR receptor. And by the way, we've referred to the immune system a couple of times now. What is it? Is it just a bunch of antibodies? Are they B cells? What is it? It's a barrier. They're sites like there's T cells, B cells and antibodies. It's a full immune risk. Absolutely. So it's a specific immune response. It's anything for anything. Wow. IMean, you think about it. And there's also a mucus plug that exists for 28 days a month to prevent anything going through. Because it's a hole into the woman's body and parrot nightisers there, right? So this and this cervical mucus thins and that's the let's sperm through for two days a month. Incredibly detailed, perfectly orchestrated system. So it looks like the first round of sperm get through the cervix, get into the uterus and they get demolished. And they're failing, like a Roman failings. And maybe a second round goes through and they get demolished. And they're secreting the FCR receptor in the immunoglobulin. Because that's what antibodies bind to. So the female antibodies bind to that. And we don't know how many failings is go through. But then it's like a, it's like a, I run up the middle and then eventually, the predisposed sperm for it. And immune systems deactivated and they get there. It's a while that's a hole in the way. And that can be measured now. And there's actually going to be an assay available to look at whether you're doing this. And it's, they're calling it a sperm cycle almost like ovulation, spermulation. But it's an hour and a half cycle when the failing system is working sperm, our deactivating the immune system and then maybe they don't. So there are groups of, there are jaculates, which is a group of sperm, some of which do this well and some of which don't. And that can be a whole reason for infertility. If you're not able to deactivate the system, you're going to, you're not going to be able to get through because the immune system is active. Let's go through those numbers one more time. About a hundred million, a jack-a-later at the cervix, you're five million get through to cervix into the uterus. Yep. 100 to five hundred to five hundred get to the thlooping tube. And one gets to the egg. Wow. Let's go to thEQuestion. Why do you need so many sperm? But the classic answer used to give is they don't like to ask for directions. It's meant to like to ask for directions. But this is probably why. Let's also define what makes up the ejaculate because we've talked about the sperm. So how a sperm made because an important consideration for a sperm is it can only have half the genetic information contained within all the other cells in the man's body. So when does that take place? So the testicle makes sperm. It takes about 60 to 70 days. And it's a process called myosis. So in a car assembly line, you want everything to be the model T assembly. You know, mass produced, you want it all be the same in myosis, which is unlike myosis. You want things to be different and to be a little easy peasy. So you get what's called recombination. And so that's the source of evolution. So the chromosomes blend in a different way and separate a different way. And through that process of a couple of those, you get half the number of chromosomes, which is required to join the other half. But it's not always the same half. Correct. Yep. And it's Lucy Goosey. It's not the same. It's what it started. Yeah. A funny story, which I think I've shared on the podcast before, but if not, sure someone will be amused by my stupidity. I had to take the MCAT before doing any of the pre-med stuff because I had studied engineering. And then I decided I wanted to do medicine. But didn't want to spend two years preparing. One year taken the post back and then the MCAT and then doing it. So I was like, I'm going to just wing it and take this MCAT having never taken a biology class since high school. And I didn't even, I think I took one by, I took freshman biology, right? So I am studying my heart out for this little MCAT test. And the physics and the chemistry are fine. But this biology thing is killing me. I bought this cheap study guide. I didn't have the money or I didn't want to splurge for the official study guide. Like there's an official MCAT study guide. But the thing was like 60 bucks. But there were these knock-off books for 10 bucks. I was like, either just as thick. So I buy one of those. And every time I encounter the word myosis and my toses, I assume it's a spelling mistake because I bought the knock-off book. So I'm treating it as the same thing. Every time I see the word myosis, I'm like these guys. They just misspelled it, idiots. It's my toses, my toses. Finally, on the night before the exam, which I still remember, it was August 17th. Was the day I took the test. I realized they were too totally different things. Big things, they might go ahead. That realization might have got me into med school. Because I think I barely, I think I barely got a 10 on the biology section, which was, you know, it's hard to get into a good med school if you get below that. So anyway, to this day, I get such a chuckle out of the confusion of the nomenclature. But again, just to explain for people, my toses is what happens when cells are dividing in our body. Constantly, where they're trying to create a perfect replica of the entire suite of DNA. So really, to my knowledge, the only time we're undergoing myosies is in the creation of an egg response. That's right. Now, remind me, do, do our women born with all of the rags. I feel like that's something I vaguely remember. You're going to have, you'll have a guest, yes, 5 million eggs at birth. Okay. 1 million, no 5 million eggs at conception, 1 million eggs at birth, and you basically ovulate a thousand in your lifetime. Okay. So by the time you're 45, you're out of eggs. You actually ovulate, you ovulate one a month, but you actually produce 10 a month. So you'll lose 10 for everyone. So there's a lot of waste, but there's no their stock in a stage of perpetual space. Really just boom, you know, and they get older and they don't evolve really. And then they mature when they're asked to at that time, but sperm are constantly renewed. So if you look at that, just a mass space problem because the testes are, IMean, if we, if we did, if we did the same thing women did, would we just have to have an enormous set of testes? Is that the reason that we continue to repeat or why do you think out of the box like that? So I'm not sure of, you know, is a whole issue of, you know, what's the source of human evolution? It's really sperm. Yeah. Because they're constantly dividing. They're constantly influenced by the environment. And they're throwing off mutations in epigenetic changes. And what's most interesting for me for this talk is that whatever happens in sperm happens to offspring. That's an interesting point, right? So it's trens generational. Yep. So what does that mean? Does that mean that the father is more likely to pass on environmental stressors than the mother? Probably, yeah. And that's definitely been shown. Hmm. Okay. So let's go back to it. So the sperm is the actual cell. Where does it get the little tail from? And what's the, what is the other part of the cocktail that is, so one of the most, a magnificent trensformations of a cell in the body is the making of a sperm. It starts with a sperm and a colonial stem cell, which looks like other cells. That's from an colonial stem cell is actually the first and the bottom of a tube. It's there's 12 stages of tremendous analysis. That cell is remarkable. It's actually the human male embryonic stem cell. So I've a patent on that cell. Hmm. Because if you take that cell and you put it in a niche environment like a embryonic stem cell, it'll become embryonic almost like in its, it can become multi-potent. Disgusting. It's a blurry potent. Yes. Multi-potent. We don't know about puripone, but you can form tumors. It's form bone, you know, ex-isome, mesodermaxidr, xodermen, and adermium. You can do all three layers of the body with that adult, sperm and a colonial stem cell. Is there any other cell in the body that is capable of that? No. IMean, there are stem cells in the bone marrow that might be stem cells in fat. But none of this, none of this. We showed the capability of cell is magnificent. And so I I think it's, you know, it's the source, like women have eggs and embryonic stem cells. That's the male embryonic stem cell in my opinion. It hasn't been taken advantage of yet with cell-based therapy, but it is really incredible what this cell can do. And a man potentially has access to this cell his entire life. Yep, and thongs he's making sperm. So that starts out and it usually reproduces my�otically, and then, in puberty, it'll go down the path of myosis, which is a couple steps more than my toastes involved with myosis, but it's the having and the mixing up of the chromosomes and the newness of the genome introduces mutations and stuff. And most mutations are bad and some are good. And we, you know, you don't really think about that. But we can have a long talk about genetics versus epigenetic. Actually, let's focus on that first second. I hadn't considered that. So when the cell that is becoming a sperm undergoes myosis and it divides, what's the fraction of times when this becomes an anniaploid sperm and explain maybe to people what anniaploid is? And what's the process by which that thing gets discarded? So if you look at healthy human sperm for chromosomal content and what's correct and what's incorrect, probably 2% of them are off. They're still being made. They're just off because it doesn't really, it doesn't really click the system to negate it. We don't know at what level of chromosomal abnormalities the system will say this is not bad. This is absolutely defective, yeah. But I would say if you look at making a sperm, it's very logarithmic. You're probably looking at one out of four that are being made, go through the epididimus, which is the next 10 days, which is a collecting duck after the testicle where it matures, get to be genetically modified and you'll see these zones, different epidimus zones and things like that happening. And there's a lot of post-production modification, not of DNA essentially, but I think there's a filter going on where a lot of the bad anniaploid becomes out because if you look at the chromosomal abnormality rate and testicular sperm before it goes through the rest of the system and compared to a jaculate, it's higher. It's 2 to 3fold higher. So something is getting into filter? Yeah, and just so folks know, when we say anniaploidie, we mean you don't have one copy of each chromosome. You either have none or you have two or anything that's not one is bad. Right. Yeah. And when anniaploidie occurs in the fusion of the sperm and the egg, is it, do we know, I guess we can figure out pretty easily, if it's maternal or paternal in origin? Mm. If you look at the embryo, it's kind of hard to tell. There are some markers of paternal and maternal origin. It depends on where you're going back in my toes to some myosis. So they can sort of ascribe it in the embryo. In the sperm, you're really going to have to look at the sperm. And if you see a trenslocation, some characteristic change in sperm, and you see it in the embryo, then you know it's paternal. Yep. Okay. But not usually. And, you know, 98% of sperm are typically normal in a guy with infertility. It might be 95%. Here's an example. If you have a patient with Klein-feltre syndrome, yep. A male with an extra ex chromosome in every cell in their body, or a trensgenic model with that feature. So this is a man who's x, y instead of x, y. So 47 chromosomes, not 46. Yep. And theoretically, he kind of has a distinctive look, right? 10% of the time. Oh, really? 90% of the time, even men with Klein-feltre is you'd never know. Okay. So that's the board question. That's the board question. That's the M-cat question. Yep. So the, all right. So in these men, if you look at their sperm and you ployty, right? So every cell in their body and in the mice, the trensgenic mice, all have an extra ex chromosome. Yep. Only about 10% will have it in the sperm. Meaning they will produce an x or a y sperm. Just like everyone else. The only difference is they have a two-thirds chance of producing an x, and a one-third chance of producing a y. I'm assuming that a 50-50. We know that. That's math. That's math. Yeah. So biology is not math, I remember. Yeah. So the, and I do Klein-feltre space in just a day that I've heard it on, and they're not doing pre-amplotation genetic diagnosis of the embryos that they're going to create from their sperm, because the chance is not that high. So it goes from in mice 0.1% chance in of normal men having x, x, y, sperm, or x, an anti-plate sperm and abnormal sperm. To 1%. And humans it goes from 1% or so to 10%. But 90% are still, that's remarkable. That's amazing. It's remarkable how efficient this is. I interrupted you. You were in the process of explaining how we actually make this sperm, where the tail comes from, and the whole thing. It's all done in the testicle. Yep. It's an amazing machine. Weird question we should maybe get to is, why is it out in the breeze like that? I think it was temperature related. But why? Why? Why does it need to be a little cooler? Yeah. Yeah. We probably have ourselves in the field for years. I would guess, because I like to make things up, that it's so energetically demanding, that it's giving off more heat in the process of creating something that is going to be so efficient to be able to swim 20 miles effectively. And that's very glycoletic. I'm assuming, right? Like the amount of anti-plate that must be generated. That's a lot of fun. It's a lot of fun. That's like, you know, for an electric motor in each wheel. Yeah. So that would be my guess is you just, that's not the date of the test. It's an overheating problem if you try to keep those guys inside. And I think overheating could be trenslated to talk to the date of stress, which is a cause of a lot of infertility. Anyway, it's, we don't know is the answer. Right. And it's an interesting that, you know, overhearser inside. So men get in hot baths and they're cooked. Women get in hot baths and they're okay. So it's funny. I had a buddy over who shall remain nameless. And he does not have kids, but he would like to have kids. And we, we saw on the other day. And he went up to my freezer beforehand. I didn't really know what he was doing in there. I thought he was getting a drink or something and he came down with ice packs. And there's two companies they do that. Yeah, he so he basically, we were sitting in the sauna and he was in the sauna, but he's got ice packs all over his groin. And I immediately understood why. I'm usually doing that. But yeah. Yeah. We'll come back to whether or not that's an important strategy for men and the sauna who want to have kids. Right. So the complete sperm, the first half is called sperm, eo genus, sperm out of genus is the whole process. Spermio genus is when you go from the round cell stage and you get half the number of chromosomes and then you have to make a tail and then hold motor assembly. And that is the most profound trensformation of a cell in the body. It takes abouT3 weeks to go from that stage. And we're learning now. It's a lot of it's vitamin A driven. Three weeks of the six or seven to make a sperm. And then it goes, then it's complete and non-model and it's packaged. It has give us some size comparison. Before the tail is on, what is the size of that cell? Probably similar to a, you know, a lymphus half the size of a lymphocyte. Okay. Or half the size of a red blood cell, a couple of micron. And then the tail makes it, 35 micron tail. Yeah. So really magnificent engineering feat. It's got micro two bills in the middle. And there's these sort of links to the tail. It's like a kite and the engine runs and it tail lags. And it's a remarkable 300 genes control movement of sperm alone. You know, there's mitochondrial DNA in there, all that stuff. It's just wildly compact. 10 times more compact than any other cell in the body. From mitochondrial density standpoint, from any, from a cytopazic standpoint, a nuclear standpoint, it goes from histones to proteimes. So the DNA is condensed a lot more because it's got to go on the road. Right. So it's got to be packaged really well to survive outside the body and be in good shape. Because it's, you know, it's the, it's the trensgenerational. So a lot of energy in that. And then during the epidemics, which is a collecting duct, which most people don't know about. Sorry. One other question, where is the ATP or carbohydrate rate or whatever the glucose stored in the sperm? Sword probably in the cytoplasm and in the tail. Okay. It's like a, you know, when you think about a rocket ship with its payload, it uses a solid fuel, obviously, as opposed to a liquid fuel. It's packaged for that one shot. I assume it's the same here. There's no trensporters to bring glucose in or anything. It has its solid fuel and one shot go for broke. A try. Yeah, it is a lot like a rocket, isn't it? It is a lot. So that's going to bring the physics in, the physics. So then there's two week period where it stays in the epidemics, which is a, basically a 35 foot tubule with estrogen and there's a lot of post-modification of the sperm. The epidemics is 35 feet if you stretched it out. Ah, flier. And just for folks, 700 feet of tubules in the testus. The epidemics is on the back of the testis of the carbohydrate. It's a carbohydrate organ in the back. Yeah. And this will come to this. I'm sure later, this is prone to infection and that'll probably factor into maybe some of the issues that deal with fertility. Yeah. Okay. So epidemics has been relatively understudied, but it has actually become very important epidemics, ohms. And there's a lot of modifications. We don't really understand. I wrote the chapter for our textbook on reproductive physiology. And it really is a lot of work in the 50s and 60s, but now we're being understand, like DNA fragmentation and thEQuality of sperm is driven by the epidemics. A lot of thEQuality of sperm, not the shape and stuff like that. And things that have based on its residence time within the epidemics. And what other environmental influences that occur there, because the epidemics is not as walled off from the body as the testuses. Imminologically, in other words, it's more susceptible to drugs, exposures, heat, et cetera. Testuses very walled off. Very little happens in the testis because the serotonous cells that line the tubules have a blood-brain barrier, blood testus barrier. Same as the brain. It's highly protected. As protective, yes, Harvey Cushing at Yale did that in the night late 19th century. It took brain dead patients and injected them with die, methylene blue, I think. And the blood brain barrier came about when it, nothing went into the brain. And nothing went into the testicle. The two areas of the body that were completely immune from normal trensport processes. Well, let testus barrier. So the two things that we know happened in the epidemics after production of sperm are motility improves. So sperm begin to learn progressive motility. So they start moving forward as opposed to not moving or moving at circles, which is important. And the most curious thing is they learn how to smell. And meaning there's basically a chemical signal that they need to be able to track to, which I'm assuming is the egg. So the follicular fluid. So they actually detect follicular fluid. So if you take testicular sperm and inseminated into a uterus with insemination technology, it'll just be killed. If you take an epididimal sperm and you do that from the top of the epididimus, it'll maybe run in circles and it'll be killed by the immune system of the female. It has to go through that whole epididimal cycle. So it's at the end of the epididimus where it's stored. And that's how many weeks? Two, ten to ten to fourteen days. 600 million sperm live in a bucket, a pot of soup called the cod epididimus. And you ejaculate from that pot, which tells you a lot about sperm quality because it can get old. But that's sperm, if you put in it, will know exactly where to go and it'll move forward. Because it's like a shark sensing blood in the water. One part per billion of follicular fluid can be sensed by a sperm. So that's incredible. So it is literally an olfactory sense. It's a smell sense that sperm have for the follicular fluid. So they know exactly where to go. Again, it's, you have to wonder how many years it took to perfect the system, right? You do have to wonder, do we know what the chemo receptor is? Yes, it was published in Nature recently and something that's really interesting. So it's an olfactory type receptor. Do we have anything else that we can, is there any smell, Peter? Yeah, is there anything like what is the most noxious thing that we can smell with our nose and at what concentration can we detect if? No idea. Yeah, because I wonder just for comparison. Give me a minute. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I've always thought about this. If I like to hunt. And so anyone who's ever bow hunted, especially, knows that animals can smell at a level that we can't even fathom, right? They can smell us literally a mile away if the wind is just blowing their direction. So it's always seemed to me like we have really, really insufficient noses, right? We were given lots of superpowers in many ways, but smell wasn't really one of them. I think I would agree with that and it also say that if you, if you block a sensory bank of the five yet others increase remarkably like I'm Braille. IMean, I'm a micro surgeon, I, this doesn't matter as a lot, but I can't do Braille. Or hearing, I think you can crank it up. If you lose a sense and you see that with people who are deaf from you. In terms of your ability to see and I don't think seeing better is really the issue, but hearing and smell, I think it can crank up. So one part per billion, this is kind of remarkable. So you mentioned that at the base of the epididimus is basically the launch pad. How many are stored in that half a billion? Half a billion. So five ejaculations. Yep. Okay. That's a pot. And what's the time to rebuild that? You mean to fill the data? What's your data? Which you fill? I don't know. And the rate of the reason I ask is if, if we're going to come to this, I'm sure, but is there a frequency of ejaculation that is too much that if a guy is say ejaculating every single day is that insufficient to get a complete replenishment where if he's having infertility, you would say you can't move it to every other day or whatever the number is? So that's a great extrapolation of the pot of the pot of soup idea. And so on that note, I would say typically we recommend every two days of abstinence between Essex every other day is too authorized. Right. But not for the semen alphas. That's for conception. Okay. Because depends on what old you are in your biology, but most men need a day or two to refill to recharge completely a day or two. So that's why we do that. That's why recommend that. That's sort of a generalization. Some men are fine every day. Okay. I had a guy once who had to banks burn for hepatitis treatment. And he was like, Mickey Rork. He had a wooden leg and he was about 50. And I said, you're going to need to abstain for a couple of three days to do this semen alphas. So we could stamp I want it to be optimized when he looked at his partner. He goes, and she looked at me and she goes, he grabs, he grabs him and says, he can't do that. He's every day, he can't do that. I'm always going to do. So he was panicking. He had to hold off for a day. I was like, I said, often I have sex. He said twice a day every day. Like, look, so that was great. Then I had one man wonderful orthopedic surgeon at Stanford. And I asked him on my questionnaire. I said, how often do you have sex? And he wrote 0.001356. I was mad. He divided once a year. Well, 0.00 weekly. 0.00155. I was like, you know, avogadro's number right. Like, which man he was so frustrated that he was. It was a beautiful way to say that. It was the point zero zero one three five five. Yeah. So anyway, the. Yeah. So that's so there. For a similar analysis for diagnostics for infertility, when you, when you abstain longer, your sperm count will rise, but your motility will fall because it's older. So there's a, you know, there's a there's a max curve that you're optimizing for, which you would say is three days would be about right when you're not going to gain that much. You're not going to lose that much motility after that. It starts going. So there's sort of biological variability, which we try to minimize when we do the semen analysis. So two to four days of abstinence. That's a different period than what we're recommending for sex, which is every other day. And that's based on knowing the journal paper where you looked at, they looked at, I think 700 couples and they had them keep diaries. It was a Boston based paper. Keep diaries of how they had sex when they got ovulated and when they got pregnant. And then they said, do what you don't really do and then give us the diaries. And then they evaluated them and they found that having sex, say, ovulation is they 15 of the cycle. When they started having sex on 9, 11, 13, there were significant pregnancy rates. And every other day was the optimal interval. But even five days before and three days before there were substantial pregnancy rates before ovulation. But if you waited to ovulation and then had sex, that's about 20% of conception. So when you get the kit, don't react to it, predict in front of it. So front load the sex. Very important point. And why is that? Is that because there's a reservoir effect in this uterus? It's managed sperm survival for a day or two. So an end-on distress. If ovulation is day 15, how could a day 11 sperm survive four days? That's, it's nurtured once it's passed the vagina. But how many of them are surviving? Is it literally the lone wolf or is it the last hundred? Maybe some of this sperm bind to the oviduct and wait. Where is it remind me where the oviduct is? The uterus and then the philloping tubes and that's the oviduct and the oviduct is right below the where it is. They bind to the end of the phillium and just park. There's no egg. They'll just sit there and they'll walk. So again going back to our moon analogy, this is after you've done stage one stage two stage three. You're now out of gravity, right? Like it's actually not an energetic problem anymore. Right? You're not quite death, yeah, that's right. You've escaped the hostile environment. In this case of gravity. So now it's fun place. It's the right pH. It's warm. So do we have a sense? This would be a very interesting experiment of what is the longest duration that a sperm could survive for conception. In other words, to do the experiment, let's just make it as a thought experiment. You had a large number of women that you knew were going to ovulate on day 15. And then you would have them, you know, intercourse on day seven, eight, nine, ten. You create a histoplot or a distribution of what's the frequency of pregnancy across those things and kind of ask like what's the bottom fifth percentile, which is the theoretical possibility. And then the same thing after, right? You want to develop the value curve of the whole thing. But we know that once the egg is ovulated about eight hours and then it's over. Oh, this is a very important point. It really needs to be front. If it's only eight hours of survival, this is after ovulation, but eight hours instead, if it's not, this is a very, very left-tail curve. Correct. I did not know that. I don't want to sperm there ahead of time. So 80 percent of conception is naturally her at home. A curve when sex is front loaded as opposed to reacting to ovulation. And most of the apps that are available nowadays will tell you them. Peter, you're drawing a graph. I am. I have to draw. And it looks like it's algebraic. This is incredible. Okay. Yeah, just this is, it's easier for me to think about these things graphically. And to think that it basically shuts off at about eight hours. So I give some, some more physiology. I, there was a study that showed how long it took to make a sperm. And it was published in science, I think, in the 60s. And they gave men, uh, trudyated water. They gave men, yeah. They gave men radioactive hydrogen. Trudyated water. Yeah. And then they biopsy their testicles, which would never be done nowadays. But I did it all different. I gave dooderated water with a, with a group at Berkeley. And we gave healthy men, uh, durated water for a week. And, and then we checked with the first sort of dumb question, why didn't they just measure the ejaculate? Why did they have to biopsy this, the testicles? Why did they just want to, to swan in the bus from out of Genesis? But we didn't, we had a little bit of a section. It's a torture, the guys. But they weren't, I don't know. What, that's wild. But that was the best data. And we did dooderated water, which is not radioactive. And we could measure that. So we gave them, a dose. And then we watched their ejaculate weekly. Yep. And we looked for when they rated the hydrogen showed up in the, in the DNA. And it was an average of 74 days. So normally say three months to make a sperm. So somewhere we're 42 days. And that's making that's going to the epididymus and getting ejaculated. So that's, you know, so I'm so, we talked about maybe two months in the testis and two weeks or a week or two in the epididymus. And then maybe a couple of weeks to ejaculate. And this was all the average 74 days. So actually, it changed the timeline enormously to a much faster one. That. So 74 days. So when you do anything to a man for till, you wise, you, you're not going to expect to see anything change for at least two and a half months. And when you talk about full replacement of that seam and it's probably, it's probably in the being 90 days. When it's all replaced, the pot is replaced. Yep. So that's a limitation of what we do. Because 42-year-old women want now. And we have three to six months. When I did a study on fixing varicocials, which is an infertility problem in men, it's surgery. And I looked at the mean time to conception. It was about seven months after repair, which is two cycles of sperm production. So let's now define infertility. Again, we've been using this term quite a bit. But I suspect that actually has a formal definition. So one year of inability to conceive after having after after six, using six. Okay. So. Doesn't have to be timed in, of course, just has to be whatever the couple does when they think they're trying to conceive. Okay. When someone shows up in your office, is it usually after they've gone down the rabbit hole of trouble shooting the female partner or are people doing this in parallel? There's a large bias in Western worlds about how infertility is evaluated. And it's a complex, the reasons are complex. But I would say my practice is not typical. So most of my patients have been through a lot before they come to me. And typically, I think Keith Jarvis' data was good in about 23% of men get a formal evaluation for infertility before couples go through IVF in North America. And how does that differ from the rest of the world? Let's say from the biggest sense studying the rest of the world. But there are countries like Germany and Spaniard single ensures and government pays. And it's also recommended by society guidelines. Like American society, reproductive medicine, WHO, etc. That both partners get evaluated simultaneously. But the bias is female gets very evaluated for lots of money. And the men typically may get a C-men analysis, but may not. And it's very complex reasoning there. It's a different beast. You know, they're not part of the problem. They refuse to do it. There's a lot of denial. It does get at your masculinity a little bit to get checked out and things. So it does go deep for men. It can be a little bit of a problem. So I would say that lately with large ensures coming in progeny, may even and things like that. You're seeing a lot more men up front, which is fabulous. And we can have long discussions about the biomarker concept why that's good for a field. And good for men's health. And good for longevity. Okay. So let's talk about your work up. What do you do when a guy comes in and what are the things you want to know about him? So getting a guy in is a great. Usually they're dragged in by their partners. Usually the partners come along to make sure they show up. For me, it's one visit. So we do one visit and I do everything else where they are, where they are. I don't ask them to come in a million times anymore. So it's a very different kind of practice. But I try to get everything done in one visit because when you get them there, it's rare to get them there. And the physical example, so you do a history, a very thorough history, which is usually preceded by a questionnaire. I give 200 questions. And that has all the hot baths, stuff, and all the exposures they have. And they have to do that before they see me because I think it's a really important part of it. If you could pick one an multiple choicEQuestion, what matters the most is probably the history. Hmm. History of paternity matters. History of exposures matters. Etc. Physical exam, very important. One to five percent of male infertility can be due to a major medical issue, test this cancer, diabetes, things like that. So physical exam, varicocials is very important. You could be missing a vast difference. One in five hundred men have perfectly normal testicles, but no, they have a natural vasectomy. It's congenital absence of the vast. They're going to be sterile or infertile. Can you explain what that we haven't talked about? How have vasectomy works and why a guy still ejaculates, but is infertile? Explain what the vast difference? How the whole thing works in the plumbing? Right. So we asked, we didn't enter that question. It was the what's the seamen consist of? Yeah. So it's about 10 percent vaso fluid with sperm. It's about 80 percent, some of the vasco fluid, which is an accessory sexically and in the back of the prostate and about 10 percent prostate. So typically during ejaculation, prosthetic fluid, which is clear and sticky, will grease the barrel of the rethra, sort of pre-com. Then during the ejaculation process, the pellet of sperm gets pumped from the vast difference into a chamber called ejacatory duct. And this happens quickly. And then the cellanovesico is like a bladder contract sends it into the prosthetic urethra between the bladder and the the outdive world. There's two valves. One is the bladder neck. It closes and one is the urethra sphincter that we pee through and that opens and it gets forced out with muscular contractions. So that happens in seconds. Yeah. So therefore if the vasove runs is clipped, you're getting essentially 90 percent of the volume. You're just missing the 10 percent of the volume that contains the payload. So in 3,000 men I've done vasectomy zone at 30 years, two men have said, my volume went down and I said, really, one of them banks sperm and he had a similar analysis before and after and he did go down by 15 percent and he noticed it and I said, good for you, what do you want to do now? But it's so can be noticeable, but not usually. And so the colors are saying, the opacity is the same, the whole process of liquefaction to same viscosity, etc. So physical exam, do you need an ultrasound? How are you able to detect if a person is congenitally missing of as diverse? Pure physical exam. What you feel it? Interesting. So my fingers can feel two and a half millimeters and the vast difference is like piano wire. IMean, it is different than anything else in the cord. So I did a study of third of my men with absent vass were were only found out having procedures until I saw them. I usually just do the exam, but it is an expertise thing. Yeah, yeah, it's not like the PCP can figure this out. You have to be doing this all day every day. Yeah, I think you need to be trened on that. But if you're well trened, it should be a purely a physical exam. How what percentage of men are congenitally missing? They're one 500, one 500. What's common genetics, these in America is cystic fibrosis. So the big implication is these kids, these men can't conceive naturally. They have a natural use sperm retrieval techniques and IVF, but they definitely have the chance of passing on cystic fibrosis to a child. Why is that? Because the congenitally very interesting biology, but men with cystic fibrosis, the most common genetics in America, have no vast difference. Okay, so what's the venn diagram of cystic fibrosis and congenital lacking vast difference? The genes for that were discovered. It's a, you know, chromosome 7. There's 17, 1800 mutations of maybe 2000. So they clone the genes and got the variants in late 80s. And then they found that there's another group of men who are perfectly healthy to not have cystic fibrosis, which is a major metabolic disease with a short life expectancy better now. Those men had absent vast difference in the absence of disease. They took the genes set, and looked at them and they were the same. That's not as many. So you have homozygous or heterosygous. So you have a carrier, cystic fibrosis, we'll have an absent vast, but a full-blown CF patient, cystic fibrosis patient, we'll have no vast difference too. So it's a form-frust of cystic fibrosis, but it doesn't have all the chemical and metabolic side effects. So in other words, when you identify a man who does not have CF with a congenitally absent vast, there's a very good probability. He's a carrier of CF. Yes, and you can use you to find it, which we can genetically test easily. Okay. Yeah. And then you have to worry if there's a 4% chance in America anyway that a partner might carry it. There are two carriers. You have a 1 in 4 chance of having a very affected child. Yep. So that's the big concern in my practice. And I'm proud to say in 30 years we have no CF children. Okay. You know, it's all about good engineering and doing it right. So that's the vast difference part. What else on physical exam are you looking for? So cancers, infections, epidemitis, yeah, tell me about epidemitis. Obviously anything that interferes with that section of the journey is going to be critical. And so remind me, is it EBV that we typically are measles, moms, what's the infection, moms, moms. Okay. But that's typically, yeah. So among viruses in the world, there aren't many that get into the testicle like other things. Very little gets into the testicle similar to the brain. But the mumps virus does it about a third of the time when you're a child with mumps, you know, the parodid gland infection. It's a glandular disease. So it really only matters when you're puberty and you get mumps. And then it goes to lots of glands to go to your pancreas and cause diabetes. It can go to the salivary glands and then go to the testicles. It's some kind of, there's an open time open, open, open, you know. So just one more reason why everyone should really get the mmR vaccine when they're a child is like, we, you know, not with sending the tragedy of the DNA of children dying from preventable diseases. But this is, this is another non-lethal but significant complication of the flu. And it will cause viral necrosis and a deema of the testus. And then similar to a brain, it's in a calvarium, right? The brain is in a fixed base. So when it swells, you've got to do something because it can die if it swells too much. Testicles of fixed cavity with the tuna galogenia. And so if it swells too much, it necrosis. And then you get fibrosis. And then you get sterility. And it's, you know, I've got techniques where I can find sperm and lots of these men, really the pockets. But most of it, you're belating the testus. It's going to scar and die from eschemic necrosis. So Zika Ebola, these are, IMean, the CDC called me when these were coming around Zika, you know, Zika's been trensented to semen because of the, and it's definitely issues with a child. And when these, when these pandemics were curing Ebola too, I got to call that the air was an Ebola patient who survived when did the Institute survive the hemorrhagic fever. And then a year later, trensmitted Ebola to a partner who trensmitted to six other men. And it was another outbreak in South Africa. Meaning the patient that survived Ebola, the virus managed to survive in the testies, somewhere. Okay. But it was trensmitted sexually a year later when he was well. When he was asymptomatic, he had already developed immunity. Right. So there are, we don't know about tests, but we know that mumps will do that to the testus, but their Zika is also persistent in the semen. But in that case, you have to think they would, wherever the virus hung out, it had to be very, very immune privilege. Yeah. Or at low levels, like low viral loads, where there's no disease. I'm not sure. But these are, of concerning cases. But then it was trensmitted at a low viral load and even lower viral load. Right. So it's tricky. Yeah. And there may be bubble with your glands. Maybe it's some of the skull. It's hard to know. But yeah, it's getting away. So, but most viruses don't go there. So the big one would be COVID. Right. What, what did COVID? There was a big deal about the AC receptor being in the lung, being in the testicle. And maybe COVID infection would make you sterile. There was one Zika paper in nature that looked at if you'd infect mice or there's rats with Zika that testicles shrive up and they get infertile. And that caused a huge scare in the field. But we really didn't see it. Maybe see it and see if we don't see it in fertility. And what is it about the Zika virus that does this? We're not sure. Why did it in rats? But it's a blood testus barrier thing. It's an amazing barrier and nothing really gets through, including viruses. But mumps does only a puberty. And Zika does. Zika doesn't have animals, but we didn't see it in humans. But I thought you said that Zika was leading to an insufficiency in cases. Yeah, but that could be seminal. That could be just in the semen itself. Not in the sperm. Like Ebola is probably seminal. It's not testicular. It's not on sperm. It's around sperm or in the fluid. That's the conclusion so far. So COVID, the big worry, was when this Chinese paper came out like, oh my God, it's going to the lung bind to the AC receptor. It's testicle has it too. It's going to make men's sterile forever. And there were cases of infertility with bad infections. And was that just the fever, which jiplocky does it even after a flu, or was that COVID specific? And we didn't know a couple of colleagues did some papers. One which impressed me was at out of cedars was a bunch of men, maybe not reproductive age, and died with fluorid COVID. So they got autopsies. And they looked for virus in different locations in the body. And I think out of 10 men or seven men, one had it in the testicle. So these are men with the words of infection. The highest viral load you can imagine and only one of them had it. So I believe that there is a risk of it. But at it's say in the thousand men, I've seen since COVID, I think there were two cases that I would say were unexplained. Where men were either fertile or had normal seeming quality had a bad COVID infection, maybe hospitalized, and three months later, sterile. So I think there's a low and tell me, first season right there, what is the phenotype of their sterility? Aside from the presentation that says I can't get someone present. So sterility means no sperm in the semen. And typically, if you measure the signals to the testicle. That's literally what it means. I'm sorry. Okay. So literally no sperm in semen. They stopped. Okay. I understood. Yeah. So it's a primary problem. So the third thing we do, history physical semen analysis is a third. Fourth would be hormones. And that's what we check in men too, because production of sperm is driven by the brain. So nothing happens to sperm being made without the brain telling you what to do. Same with eggs and controlling it's all. A homostatic mechanism with negative feedback. Classically, antibiotics to our users. Yeah, which I want to talk about in detail. Can we go back to semen analysis? You're looking for obviously the count and the motility. What else do you look for? So in the semen analysis, there's several features. I consider it sort of a poker hand. There's a volume, how much of the semen volume. There's a count concentration of sperm. That's numbers per mill. And then there's motility, which is percent motion. You do a forward progression. So how good is thEQuality of motion? And typically, some measure of shape called morphology. There's three liquid issues. Liquid faction, a glute nation, uh, in viscosity. And then you look for other cells that aren't sperm. They're called round cells. And you're going to be puss cells or immature germ cells that are early ejaculated early. And presumably you want to see fewer of those. Right. There's a number of less than a million normal. Okay. So if you ask me, well, how do I look at a semen analysis? That's a little different. I look at that as a poker hand with each card as a meaning. But they have a look. So if you said, what do you mean by that? So if the volume is low, that's one of five things. You're always going to find something. It's at the collection error. I call it first samples and drone. Guys not good at it. Right. You know, it's like, okay, I've got to put it in the cup. And I got to stop doing what I'm doing. Okay. You know, so, so you do a second sample. And then there's low testosterone can cause it. There's an apps and vast difference, which means you have an apps in some of us ago. There's a jack toy, a structure. And by the way, do you ever have that on one side and not the other? Or is that always okay? Yeah, that was very, very low segmental. Yeah. And so there's five real issues. So when I see a low volume semen, as a surgeon and as a doc, IMean, I'm going to find something. So that's really good. Other than that, the semen analysis, I think I've been published as saying it's a blunt instrument for fertility. Unless it's zero, you can't really say much about their fertility because people can see it all levels. And people are there. Are there, you know, obviously you rattled off a whole bunch of parameters that you can access there. But are there certain null states that don't exist where everything is amazing. But this one thing is horrible. Like do you see scenarios where everything is remarkable? Perfect. Motility, but bad morphology or specific morphology. I'm sure you haven't isolated. You do see isolated things. Right. So one of them is called, I call it syndromic sperm shape problem. So you can have a perfectly normal semen analysis, count motility volume progression, and the sperm looked terrible. And so there are rare conditions, one in 5,000, where you might have globos with spermia or two tailed sperm or pinheads sperm. So if you look at shape, 4% should look normal, just terrible. We've all discussed about why 4% of human sperm being normal is normal when 99% of animal species in the wild have normal looking sperm. But it's all a construct. Right. It's all a construct of who someone decided what normal is. But in men who have large abnormal forms like 4% of normal, if they're 1% normal. And you look at the abnormalities. I'm sure I'm still confused on that point. Are you saying that in a, you would consider it perfectly normal if only 4% of the sperm are more phologically perfect and 96% or not. And that means the 96% that are not could be pinhead could be double tail, a more fissive tapering in it. Going back to the original. That's a math petition. That's not a great number. Is it? No. And if you look at marine species, 99, 9, 9 look perfect. If in the wild. Yeah. And presumably that's because they're environment is so much more hostile. Like they're doing this all in the ocean. I don't know, but it's, it's amazing that we're that good with the sperm. But again, it's a construct. It's like putting stars ordering stars in the universe, Cassiopea. Someone named Kruger said, this is what our normal sperm looks like. And but we know that two tailed sperm have double tailed. IMean, it might be the two tail might not be the worst thing in the world. It's just extra rockabusters. But what about the pinhead? What is the pinhead and why? There's no nucleus. It's a tail. So that's a true problem. Yeah. It's like a little tiny head and moving along. So if you, if you, if you rule out, if you, if you give some buddy credit for their two tails, what's, what is your normal go up to from 4%. Oh, it depends. But maybe 20. Okay. So they're still 80%. But they will fail. They will fail. They will fail. They're going to be amorphous, the heads of a little rounder, heads of a little narrower. Those are called stress patterns. Some things like hot baths and varicocials and smoking will do that. We just do that bad. All right. So in the case of 1% normal, you've got to look at the 99% because that's not the story. The stories and the other, the other chunk, right? Yeah. And if they're all looking the same, then it's in drumic and then you have a problem. I see. So the more homogeneous the abnormalities are, the more likely that you have a peculiar ideology. And that's hard to fix. IMean, they'll fail with sex. They'll fail with inseminations. They'll fail with IVF. They'll fail with IVF and XC. And sometimes with global subspermia where they're called lollipopsperm, they just have a big round head with no acrosome. There's all nucleus and there's some of the components. They'll just bounce off an egg. They'll never work. They'll never do work naturally. And to get them to work with IVF, you have to single sperm inject them into the egg and then shock the egg with calcium to a calcium or pz electric to get it to sort of to actually fertilize. Because it also introduces the sperm is important with fertilization. Not only has the bind, but the calcium channels are regulated by and what shuts to doors to polyspermian and egg is calcium activation. This is the reason why even if you launch a hundred sperm at an egg, it's only one that can get in because the first guy that breaches sets off the calcium channel that shuts the, IMean, the star wars space analogies here are just phenomenal, right? Million years. Yeah. Yeah. Million years. No more breaches in the whole. So there's so more biology can matter a lot, but it's very rare. So I'd say twice a year in my practice, I'll see this because everything's failing and everything looks normal and they ask me what's going on and I'll look at it really closely and say you have this issue and there's not much we can do to treat it. Now we're going to try sperm sorting technologies which are on new in the market, microfluidics and things like that and I've been throwing that at them. Sometimes it works sometimes it doesn't. And is that something that we know the genetic underpinning of? We're getting their PLZ's A to deficiencies. One of them recently discovered that that runs the calcium channel which tends to be associated with certain look like locals of sperm. Yeah. So it's like coming around. Think about that for a second from an evolutionary perspective. That that's Paul. That is the single least desirable genetic mutation you could acquire. Yeah, unless you're not making sperm. Yeah, but this is a dead end to the genome. Right. Right. So does that mean it is only an and acquired mutation never inherited? IMean it can't be inherited presumably unless it's home as I guess but even still. That's one of the 50 we throw off in each generation, 50 mutations. Yeah, that's just incredible. I think what I would like to emphasize in this podcast is how fluid evolution actually is and it's sperm driven and it's trensgenerational. So if you ask me what's the theme for today? It's a sperm matter a lot. A lot a lot more than we've given them credit for. All right. So let's talk about so basically just rounding out the seamen out houses, physical on the seamen analysis, what if motility is the problem? So I look at in my poker analogy of the hand, if you have anything looks good but the motility is low, I think of short-term toxins. So not severe severity. So things like exposures, so medications, I think about habits, pot, smoking, hot beds, I think about behaviors, lifestyle, I think about so I look for an exposure in that individual. Basically picked up on the history. Varacocille is an exposure, things like that. And if the count down and the motilities down, I think of a large severe exposure. So there's a there's rural flushes and there's fortified and there's two of a so I would think of more of so my goal when I see that seamen analysis, see that patient is to figure out if he's not normal. Why? And by the way, do you get that analysis the day he's in the clinic with you or is that something you follow upon an appointment with? Pretty much have it in my hand when I see them either. They give it to me or I get one, I want that there because that's when I look at them I'd like to have that in front of me to say, what kind of poker hand are you playing? And this is something that's standardized and automated through my go microfluidics. How is the how's the assay actually done? So the guy ejaculates and it takes it to a lab. Oh, IMean how's it used to be done manually? Okay. And now it's done with the hemsatometers and like it's done with machines. Okay. Peter assisted seamen analysis does most of them in IVF groups. So it's really standardized. Oh yeah. Okay. I like the you know I like the bespoke suit. So I like the hand made seamen. So when I have mine repeated I usually have someone do it by hand because there's observations I like which is hey, you know what, one percent more foology but all the others look like this. Those comments are incredibly valuable that you don't really get from a computer system that's seamen analysis. But it's faster and you don't have a lot of human effort involved with a computer. Are they using AI for this yet? Yeah. IMean some people are for sperm selection a little bit. But yeah, there's a lot of stuff to help out. And now it will be really helpful for a morphology to standardize it because one man and Kruger in South Africa correlated bad sperm shape with IVF outcomes and did not find that they were good when the sperm looked bad. That's what the four percent came from. But it's really hard to do that every time and do it well because it's so hard to do. Well, helping AI and she learning can help standardize the look. Because sperm, you know, it's just this hard. Yeah. Given how good AI is at image recognition. This should be like this should be a one foot pot. Yeah. Okay. You mentioned hormones. You were obviously alluding to LH and FSH. What else are you looking at testosterone? Right. So it's a abnormal amounts of sperm. Yep. You need a proper amounts of testosterone and FSH. Think of it as a flowering a plant. You need the water. You need the sunlight. So if testosterone and FSH are key to getting normal amounts of tea, testosterone, you're going to need LH, which drives it. Same in women. You know, these are all named in women and females. So that signaling is really important. So there are cases of genetic infertility like common syndrome or men aren't making any sperm, but they're just not sending the signals down and you can just give them the signals with injections. Sorry. These men are not making FSH and LH. No. So they have virtually no testosterone. Right. Okay. Norse sperm. But you can give them the signals. Yeah. So H, C, G, FSH injections and they will be fertile. Oh, so if you gave those guys, so is the problem in the pituitary not the hypothalamus? No, it's it's the alfactory node in the hypothalamus. So they don't smell either. So could you give them chromid and would they make no? No. Two turns not not working. Yeah. It's the G and R H is the G and R H is not to a turn. Okay. God. So what about estridile? Does it play a role? Yeah. So estridiles often estridiles sort of a mild poison for male infertility. So everyone needs estridile level. Female hormone levels testosterone gets converted to estridile. So that's a byproduct of it along with DHT. And then estridile goes back to the brain and is a feedback. So if it's there, the brain knows how much testosterone it's making. So if there's too much estridile, the brain senses it's of negative feedback, senses hate. There's too much of this. So let's make less testosterone. So it will lower your testosterone depth higher. So when estridiles made it gets metabolized differently than testosterone, it goes to the liver or to fat. And a Roma tases converted to something else or testosterone gets converted to female hormone and romates us. So you can get high levels being obese or having liver dysfunction. So alcohol, you know, how it calls, roces, hepatitis. It'll rev it up and it'll make a lot more estridile level. And there's some medications that do it too. And that will act in lower your testosterone, which will lower sperm production because you're not watering the plant. If you correct for testosterone, so in other words of the guy has normal FSH, LH and testosterone, is there an estridile level by itself that is problematic? Not usually. Okay. So it's really only high estridile in the context of suppressed testosterone. That's when you would act on it. If you see that there's a low count and that testosterone's low. And you could say you need to lose 100 pounds, which is the the key secret for everything, right? But you can also give a Roma tases inhibitors like weight lifters use to keep their levels down. Okay. So those are four big pillars. Anything else besides the history exam, the analysis and the hormones? And then to usually do two semenalces, three weeks apart or more, to get a sense of things because it varies quite a bit. So a lot of a very important point is that the semenalces, any feature of that semenalces vary by 50 to 100%. So never make a decision on one semenalces. It's really hard. Yeah, especially if it's the first one as you said for all the right. So I could do a lot of consulting for the FDA and they do, you know, they do medications and reproductive age men and they're trying to show the semenalces that are going to the FDA and they're saying, can you help us interpret this data for the FDA? I said, garbage in garbage out. IMean, there's so much variability. You really can't say anything. It's really hard to get. So you have to do at least two samples. And it's still very spider. There's interobserver variability, who knows the semenalces. There's biological variability on wetter systems like so that's the big problem with studies. So what percentage of drugs that are going through an FDA approval process are having a semen analysis as part of the evaluation? I don't think many. Why is that? Because usually the indications aren't reproductive age men and women for some of them. If they do, they'll do animal models. They want to human states to do animal models. They'll do beagles, so mice and beagles and if there's no fertility effects, they don't really look at semenalces and those, they'll look at fertility effects in animals. If there's nothing there, then they'll probably not require human studies. If there's any suggestion of a problem in the animal models, which is a million dollars of work. So if you ask me why I patented this amounting on your stem cell, I want an in vitro test for humaninfertility that we could use instead of animal models. Save the animals, save a million dollars, do an in vitro's manager and this is model and see what if there's an effect at all. It just seems to me that in this day and age with people reproducing at older and older ages, we shouldn't just assume that because we've developed a drug for blood pressure or diabetes that it's not going to be used by people with fertility. I'll give you a silly example. Have GLP1 agonists been tested for fertility? Okay, well, because it's sort of an off-label use of a diabetic medication. But it's no longer off-label. It's an on-label use today. But it looks like it might be out of the limit. But even if it was on label, IMean, I just using that as one example of a drug that was initially approved when we thought, ah, this is going to be for people who are not having kids, but the truth of it is, you're going to have lots of people that are trying to reproduce on many of these drugs. Absolutely, and you know, there are 80,000 chemicals out there that have our not been studied reproductively that are commonly in used in industry. European commissions are a little better off. They've screened them and they've warned about them, but America. Why isn't? I don't know. It's attention to detail. It's one of those things that just doesn't, I don't know. Is it under the purview of the FDA or the EPA? Probably a combination or maybe everyone's thinking it's the other person's job. I'm not sure. But they're untested in there out there. Well, why don't we just talk about some of those things then now? So this is, I'm sure, kind of a contentious topic, but as you know, there are lots of discussion around microplastics. So I don't know how far we want to go down that rabbit hole. I recently did a podcast on this topic. I didn't really touch on fertility because I just didn't see any great evidence. I talked more about things where I thought there was a little bit more evidence. Obviously with the microplastics story, there's quite a bit of smoke, but there's no real fire. My conclusion from the analysis was there is enough smoke that takes steps where they are reasonable and reduce your exposure to these things. So everything from microplastics to PFAS chemicals to EVALA, the thalates and even the PM 2.5. There's no reason to expose yourself unnecessarily this. If you can take relatively straightforward steps, eliminate 60 to 80 percent of your life, do it. Tell me what your impression is of the effect of any or all of the above on fertility. So all those sperm are made constantly and are susceptible to that. We know the testicles are pretty good place to me and insulated from exposures. I also think there's a lot of smoke there and there needs to be in need to be sorted out, but such, but the 80, 60, 80,000 chemicals that are being used that aren't really tested at all. I think the only way to know is to do do stem cell and vitro testing as much as you can before you put it on at the IDI Investigation drug stage, not at the final stages for clinical trials, but early on do it. So you're screening a way in advance of getting into clinical trials and where the money gets big. But I think that men, there are windows of susceptibility and men, unlike maybe with women whose eggs are constantly exposed to toxins, men have windows and one of those windows is birth and early development, the first 12 weeks of life. So there's a good idea early. When all organ systems are developing, including testicles, IMean, Sean is fond of this one with maternal beef conception, estrogenized beef consumption, their sons had lover sperm counts when they were 20 years later or something. So I think that's a window of susceptibility also think, you know, puberty is a window of susceptibility when things turn on. So I think if exposures and those moments are probably going to matter the most to men, I don't know, I don't know about other times. And what is your advice to a guy when you're giving him counsel on everything he can do? We're going to talk about everything. But on this particular domain, if he says, hey, should I stop drinking Starbucks coffees in those plastic cups with the plastic lids and do should I get a reverse osmosis filter in the house like where are you telling him to draw that line? I'm not great at that because the stress level goes up so much and I think the stress counterback balances any amount of microplastics you save. You double the stress and a man in testosterone level fall and then just production falls for a whole different reason. So my my my testosterone level when I left residency, oh, I bet. So how old was I 33? Should I had a pretty good? Yeah, total T, 220 nanograms per deciliter. Did you measure LH? I'm just probably low. Yeah, I'm sure FSH and LH were totally low. I don't remember that. I'm not referring to that secondary free testosterone of light. So think of me to four. Yeah, well the sleep deprivation the stress the so what the stress to stress is the sympathetic nervous system it's fighter flight you're running from a woolly mammoth. It doesn't know what you're running from it doesn't know whether it's sleep or travel or financial or emotional. It's just the body is we are cats and dogs. We have the same binary nervous system either you're on or you're off. And when you're on do you want testosterone? No you want cortisol you're running for your life. And do you want fertility when you're running for your life? And any species? No you're trying to save your life. So cortisol goes on testosterone is nowhere to be found for utilities. No it turn off all that stuff. Then when you outrun the woolly mammoth and you're behind a rock and you grab the berries and you catch a nap, boom testosterone shoots up because it's resting restore and you have to rebuild for the next run. And how quickly do you think that it occurs in humans? How quickly? Yeah, how quickly can that dates easily. We can reverse onxtrust. Yeah, is it? It's not we love acute stress. All species love acute stress. We love that starvation intermittent fasting. It's really healthy. But not low-level chronic stress. Not connected to your computer. Not your emails. Not the workday that never ends. Terrible for us. And the best manifestation is erections because the erections will fall if you're under stress too. Pinos are the mind of its own according to the Vinci. I had a guy come in, you know, he came in. He was like 25 and San Francisco, a startup guy and he comes in and says, I got to see you. I said, why? I said, I lost my erection yesterday. He's 25. He said, first time. He said, yes. I said, all right, come on in. Sweet Coupton. And he's got his act to go. It looks good. And I said, what happened? He said, you know, I just thought my erection, I did never happen to be before. I think something's wrong. I said, okay, tell me about yourself. Just getting his a round of funding. He's traveling half a million miles a year. He sleeps like three or four hours a night if any. And he's constantly running and I said, congratulations. It's been logging to the human race. This is amazing at the first time. I know. It's like, we're talking about it. You're not in purvious stress. Stress has a defects. So clearly, the fertility women who are sort of marathon but how the great study was a moderate exercise, moderate exercise men, a road blog on this called, can you be too fit to be fertile? Moderate exercise went to extreme exercise measured as two hours a day of viotu 80% maximum capacity. So pretty heavy workouts for 12 week periods. So moderate to extreme and then back to moderate sperm counts fell by 40% when it moderate to extreme and constant sperm testosterone fell by 50% and then went back up. So that's a kind of a, and there's also military studies of men under acute stress during, during, you know, hell weeks and trening, where they were taking their testosterone and LHs and they were dropping by about 50% with severe stress. And that's okay for a day or two or a week. But when you're doing it chronically, we're not built for that Peter. We're not built for chronic stress. That's a long-termity issue. Yeah. Let's talk about the use of antibiotics steroids. So, or let's talk about it more broadly with sort of the three most commonly used approaches to testosterone replacement. So the way I see it is the three most common approaches are using either clomophine or inclamophine using HCG or using exogenous testosterone in one of its derivatives. Would you agree that those are kind of a big three? Okay. We'll just briefly highlight for everybody why each is a little bit different. Exogenous testosterone, you're just giving testosterone the body senses it and immediately shuts down the hypothalamal natural production. Yeah. So LH and FSH will go to zero. Testosterone will be as high as you want it to be. There's no limit how high it goes. I've had a couple of people on this podcast who have blown my mind with how much testosterone they've talked about taking not clear how that's possible but nevertheless they're doing it. Okay. HCG is synthetic lootinizing hormone. LH so you give a person HCG they will make testosterone. So it's endogenously produced. But they're making so much of it that they'll also suppress LH and FSH. So LH and FSH will come down. Testosterone will go up. And then clomophine or inclamophine block the signal of estrogen at the level of the hypothalamus. So the hypothalamus thick thin. Oh my gosh. We need more testosterone. It ramps up FSH and LH production which has the same effect as making more testosterone. But you'll now see high normal FSH and LH. Yeah. And the two different classes are the LH and clomid versus testosterone. So unlike testosterone, shutting off the natural production that LH, the ACG and the coma phenincloma phenyl stimulate natural production. So you keep your testicular size. You maintain your fertility. Whereas the others you're going to shrivel up your testicles and not maintain your fertility. And you can't generate levels that you can with the exogenous testosterone. But these you'll never get to 3,000. You can't do that. Because it's tightly regulated. So question one, if a guy is taking exogenous testosterone. And let's just say he's been on it now for a few months. Is he able to create sperm? Not 95% chance he's not. Wow. While he's on it. Yeah. Understeady. Can he create it once he's stopped and will definitely address that. But just to be clear, even a couple of months on exogenous testosterone in any form, injection, topical, oral, whatever, you basically have shut off the ability to make sperm because your testies themselves have shut down. Right. No signals. Yep. Okay. No gas to the engine. Now there are some ex-newants. Okay. So there's there are formulations that are topical that are less potent that way, less inhibitory than injectables. So there are variations in the spectrum of exogenous testosterone that will maintain some of your fertility. There are formulations. At least the, I don't want to go so far as to call it the marketing material. But for lack of a better term, the marketing material is suggestive that the more frequently delivered variants. So for example, the intrenasal variant, which is delivered three times a day, the oral variant delivered twice a day have a less of a negative impact because they're producing far lower surges than if you did a weekly injection. Is that what you're referring to? Yeah. So they do more physiologic. Yep. They're in the normal range more. What gives you side effects from testosterone, including sterility is the spike too much. Yeah. So in your experience, has that born out. Yeah. So men, you've seen men taking the testo three times a day doing an nasal keeping their sperm counts. Keeping their sperm counts. Okay. That's interesting to note. What about the oral testosterone the twice a day? Love it. So in testos when I can that, I can that and that can no wait. And it was not available in America for 50 years was available in Europe. And a couple of researchers that you say, as been wife team, beautiful. Decided what happened was we were worried when we took oral testo three to the lower, right to the the areas system and go to the liver, cause liver cancer. So it was always verboten. Even though there was no evidence this was happening in Europe for 50 years. Yeah. They wasn't not much. It's a bit of the approved E a approved it. So the so this group came up with a way to get it metabolized through lymphatics. So it can absorb through lymphatic and never hits the liver. And it's really good. IMean, there is a non-respons rate of around 10 percent. So 10 percent men, some like gels too, 15 percent will respond. There's groups that won't respond that well. But it is really good. And you can describe it. Oh yeah. You know, I'd be interested to hear your experience with it. We have prescribed it now to maybe a half a dozen patients. One of the silly challenges we have with it is we actually have no idea if they're therapeutic because trying to get their blood drawn to figure out when to draw their blood to actually see the that for example, if a guy takes the drug at eight o'clock in the morning and then at one o'clock in the afternoon, which is sort of what we're told is a great window to take it so that you get that middose, middose, right? If he does his blood draw at seven o'clock the next morning, he's been 18 hours off drug. He has unmeasurable testosterone. He's going to show up at 200. He's going to look like I did 50 20 years ago. His LSH and FSH are still completely suppressed because that doesn't go away over 18 hours. But you know, I don't know what to, I don't know how to interpret like what is he walking around at during the day, which is what I care about. It's hard to know. IMean, usually you don't want to do it right away too. So you want to give him a couple of weeks to stabilize he niestatically, right? But usually you can get pretty good levels because the half-life isn't that short. They say it peaks in five hours. So I don't know what the half-life is. I feel like 12 more like 12. You wouldn't dose it at 100% decay, right? You have a dose at 50%. So you show he's probably not responding. We can check it at different times, but it's probably not much of a response. And what are you dosing it at? It comes in 100 and 2. It depends. I usually go to the middose 298 twice a day and then you can double it or go have whatever. I usually start out not the lowest dose. Yeah. And it depends what you're trying to solve too in the problem, right? If you want them, you're not going to get them to 800 or 1,000 very easily. You can get them, you know, 4,500 to 600, 600, 700 pretty well. But no side effects. I haven't seen anything. Maybe a couple dozen men really well tolerated. Interesting. So this is not something you use when you're trying to get a guy from 300 to 1000. You could, but not probably not the first choice. Yeah. And now you're taking 500 twice a day or something crazy like that. Yeah. And twice a day is a big deal for men. It is. Yeah. And what about the test? How are you? Are you used like never, you've never been tolerated. Yeah. What's the experience like? We've never used it. Well, have a flu and try to get you're just hostile level off. You can't do it. You have to spray it in your nostril each nostril three times a day. And it's gooey and it's gel-like. And I just, and within a week we'll call and say, I can't do this. Yeah. We've had more luck getting women to use this. Maybe. Yeah. Okay. So let's go back to the biggest other difficulty. The two types of testosterone replacement or supplements. One is sort of, we'll call it the natural ones. The inverse is the exogenous ones is the side effect profiles different widely. It's very difficult to get polycyteemic or thickening in your blood with the physiologic levels. It just doesn't happen very often. I don't think I've seen it once or twice. But if you take testosterone as honestly, you're at risk for polycyteemia or blood thickening. So testosterone stimulates epipotent. And the kidney, you make more blood. I have to eat love it. But if you went along flight and you're dehydrated, you're going to throw a clot. And people look at it for longevity. It's like it's very careful. Yeah. Because I've seen 70-year-old men want longevity and taking this stuff and then they have a clot and they have a stroke. And now they're 71 and they're not, they're not, they're the whole thing. And deep-frying that that the clot risk is proportional to hemoglobin hematocytes. And what level are you saying? It's time to try. It's time to try. IMean, the studies aren't broad, but drama-same just did another paper on it. And the most significant event occurring with testosterone replacement or supplementation is polycyteemia and events. And so the high level for hemoglobin 17, matricrate 50, you start seeing events happen about 18 and definitely 19. And one of the things we do with patients who are injecting testosteronecipionate is, and we have some patients who love doing this. I think it would drive me nuts if I were trying to do this. They injected every day. So they'll do 10 to 15 milligrams every single day. And it actually produces the same effect, which is they don't have the polycycemia because they don't hit their legs never hit these crazy peaks. You know, 10 years ago, everyone I saw that was prescribing this was prescribing the standard was 200 milligrams every two weeks, which was crazy. Yeah. So what is your typical injection schedule once a week or two twice a week? And I think twice a week, well, you can have the dose right? Yeah. So that is a little safer, but then it becomes the intensity and just a bit of a minute. I can't do it like that or whatever I want to pellet. So do you put pellets in? Okay. I do them all. Yep. And what's your, do you find that the pellet also? I don't know the kinetics of it, but I would imagine you're pretty super physiologic for a month or so, maybe. Yep. So pellets are like the long-term contraceptive for women. Yep. You know, in the arm, they put it in subcutaneously. We put it in the butt. And it's a couple of minute procedure in the office and it gives you, you don't have to worry about anything. There's no compliance issues. We don't have a lot of side effects or consequences from it. It's done with a trocar and a thick needle. And you get, you know, pretty quickly within a couple of days, you'll get a level and then it'll slowly decay pretty much half of it by three a month or so and then the rest by four to six. It's supposed to be a six month physiologic level, but normally it's four. Yep. Four or five. And, you know, men feel great for a while and they can feel it because it's slow, but it is even and you do have this risk of pithything, you know, things like that. But there's a three-month peri-break risk and then usually there's, when you're in the normal range it kind of goes away. So I don't see a lot of consequences with that if it's six months. I really don't. So let's go back to the the clomid HCG route. What is the, what is the extent to which fertility is preserve preserved when a man is on one of those agents? So clomid is, let me give it for fertility all the time. So I'd say, very good. Yep. It might even improve it. HCG depends on the dose. So like you said, high doses suppresses, so you to be normally, for earlier, you want LH and FSH going to the testicle. You want the water and the sunlight. You want the testosterone. If you've got the testosterone, what your FSH is, you don't have a sunlight, you're not going to bloom. So I usually add clomid to HCG if the dose is about 1,500 units, 3 times a week because that's going to start suppressing the FSH and clomid will keep it going and then your fertility is preserved. 1,500, 3 times a week of HCG is a whopping dose. You're saying beneath that, you typically don't have issues with FSH and LH suppression. Well, LH will because it's LH. Yep. But not FSH. Maybe 1,500 units start seeing it. Okay. So that's where you protect the fertility. Yep. And you will just give and what dose of clomid will you give on top of that regimen? Depends. IMean, usually half a pill a day. Half a pill, half a 25, half a 50, 50, 50 milligrams pills. Yeah, it's usually half. You give 25 every day. These are staggering doses. How higher these guys testosterone getting? Did testosterone is driven mainly by the HCG. So I shoot for the normal range of 500 to 1000. I don't. Yeah, that's a man. I ran a ballad guy. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's interesting. IMean, we don't, we don't like clomophine at all. Um, just because, well, they're all bunch of reasons, but they have to do with kind of lipid stuff. But even when we would use it, we would probably use 53 times a week. So that's about the same. Yeah. 25, 25 a day. Um, but for most guys, that would be sufficient alone, even without HCG. But you're saying, okay, well, it's the HCG that's driving the team. We're just trying to protect it. If you say, what do you give on high-slicious monotherapy? Yeah. What would you give for clomophine? 12 and a half to 25, typically depending on how sensitive do you prefer clomid or enclomophine? Do you? So it's very interesting. Clomophine is really good. And it's an interesting FDA story. So, uh, clomid is not approved for men. And clomophine is neither. Clomid to prove for women and clomophine is not approved for either. Can clomophine's compounded clomid is available for 50 years. So a lot more data. And once this, this is, I remember was a trens-ice of your, so they're different. And the estrogenic effects are slightly different. Um, so I have enormous experience. I've five hundred sixty men on clomid and I have fewer on enclomophine. But, uh, it was developed for older men to preserve the preserve their testosterone levels as they age because the signaling tends to get weaker. The patuitare tends to get lazier. And this is the keep your testosterone levels up more physiologically than taking testosterone. So it went through some very good randomized trials that were published. This was clomophine clomophine. Okay. Clomophine. And they were done by reputable people and field and published. And then it went to the FDA for approval for secondary hypogonatism. So age-related changes, not, not primary, just a key to failure in age-related and your deficiency of aging male or Adam. Right. FDA sat on her for a couple of years and said, nope. Why? Good question. So it's published. They're good trials. It's safe. It's as good as clomid. And um, that didn't approve it. And I think it's hard to know. But I think the reason was that there's such an uproar about testosterone in America right now. And the FDA doesn't like what's happening. What happened is you can, you can, you can advertise your drug to the consumer now. Right. So you know all the, you know, the biological response modifiers for psoriasis, you know, all those drugs go on and take you five seconds on the benefits and the lesions go away and then 25 seconds on side effects. Right. So you can do that. If you do that with testosterone, what you hear is do falling asleep after dinner? Are you not as athletic as you used to be? Are your erections that as good as the used to be? There's 10 questions in the adult question here. And everything guys are going to be like, yeah, everyone who ages as those issues, right? So it's like no brainer if they go on TV, they're going to want this stuff. So the cats out of the bag and that's their stuck. And so now when any testosterone trial comes back, they're going to point out the FDA make sure that we point out the dangers of testosterone replacement. Okay. So this is part of that energy, which is, um, when we don't want another testosterone. So I think there's another reason Paul and it's everything you just said, but HCG and testosterone are schedule four. Which means you cannot prescribe them through like these testosterone clinics that don't even see patients and you know, are literally just not not being doctors, right? They're just sort of giving it to anybody who shows up in pays. It's a coin operated testosterone dispensary. But clomid and I assume by extension and clomophine are not scheduled, right? Which means you can coin operate those. And my guess is that's probably why the FDA is saying what it's saying is we don't, it's already bad enough that the clomid cat is out of the bag, but given that we don't want to put another one of these unscheduled drugs out there in the in the land of sort of shady medicine. And you know, the indications are pretty clear and they're really safe. You know, I, they're really safe drugs and I, I like the my, my effect is someone comes in who's young, who maybe wants kids, hasn't had them. And they have a low testosterone of 220. You measure their LH, which no one does, it's low, secondary have a gonism. So it's not a testicle failing, right? It's a signaling issue. And that's probably stress. So I say get rid of your stress and they say how do I do that? It's like a one, okay? So exercise, acupuncture massage or yoga. IMean, for men, I say physical activities, the best thing for sex. So as an aside during COVID, I had two groups of men. They said, what do I do in my life, some mess, you know, everyone's like some mess. So half of them had drinks at five o'clock, started drinking a lot. And the other half went out for runs. They got a pellet on, which most of the country did. That's a great story that helped them story. And then about six months later, these guys really, it's not working. And they started shifting over to exercise. So I was very proud of these guys. I was really happy with like nice because that's the best way to handle stress is when you have no control over things. Go for a run, go for a walk, get out there. It's so good for you. It's deep, decompressing, hold, get your mind off something, anything, surfing, whatever. So they don't do that. So I said, well, let's do this. I think what's happening is this. I think it's just stress. Maybe try traveling less or whatever. And then I'll give them a clone. And I'll say, let's try this for a couple for three to six months. And let's see how you feel. Sometimes it's sexual health issues. Elections aren't typically that dependent on testosterone. Typically it's other things. And so if that's the issue and I'll say, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Maybe maybe you were higher before. And we don't know that, but let's do something pretty safe and easy. And I'll double your testosterone with triplet. I'll see how you do. And then I'll check and let them aT3 and six months. How you feeling? I feel great or hey, it's not working. I feel the same. I was like, well, it's not testosterone related. Whatever your this symptom is you're having. You wouldn't have it with it to stop. We know levels of testosterone above what you should not have symptoms. Right. We know libido, we know erections, we know fertility, things like that. And what are the approximate levels for each of those? I don't know. Rections I would say the best study is about 290. Yeah. So most guys that are having difficulty with erections are above 290. There's some other issue. Usually. But you have to prove it to them. And I'm fine with that. Is that what this is safe? And that you know, you're convincing them. And then what about libido? libido I'd say 350 is sort of arranged. It's pretty sensitive and it's harder to call because there's a Beatles driven by so many different things. And fertility. fertility I'd say 300 is a good one. The start with how much FSH and LH. I don't know. Okay. And then obviously the other thresholds would be anabolic capacity like muscle, muscle mass and things of that nature. And mood tends to be a lot more variable in my mind. Absolutely. I think there's nits around testosterone. And those are some of them. But testosterone is a more cantailer and equilibrium story where if you're low, you have symptoms in your low. Those symptoms will get better when you go up. But then there's a point where it flattens out. And there's no increase or improvement in symptoms. Sexual health symptoms are classically ascribe to that. There are there are also it's a linear relationship in testosterone. That would be blood and muscle. Yep. So more is better for making blood, doping and also blood doping and also for muscle. Absolutely linear. Yeah. And with I I'll tell you why I find that interesting Paul. And I only learned that really in talking to body builders who were taking 500 to 2500 milligrams of testosterone a week. Because my initial reaction to that was you've already saturated the endrogen receptor probably five logs. IMean that's five logs. But like at least one or two logs earlier. Why? How would you still get it? And they're but they convince me. No, no, no, there's a real difference between 500 and 1,000 and 2,500 in terms of muscle mass. Which it sounds like you agree with. And I don't understand the physiology of how that's possible. IMean, how many anrogen receptors would you need to you have to upregulate them when in fact you'd be downregulating them. So I'm not sure, but it's not so the effect is indirect. The effect of testosterone muscle masses and direct. It's not that you're going to do it in create mass. You don't just create mass. What it allows you to do is recover from injury. Right. So if you push the system and you need two days to recover, you can go to one day. You can push it again harder. So that's what testosterone does in the primitive world. Right. If you're a caveman. There's even studies that show, by the way, that high enough doses of testosterone will increase muscle protein synthesis absent the stimulus. Absent the lifting stimulus. So it's the potential to recover that isn't proven. I'm not sure that's receptor driven. It might be several pathways going on that are logarithmicly better. But it allows you to push the system and go back and push it again. And that's how you build muscle. All right. So now let's talk about the guy who comes to see you. He's been on exogenous testosterone for three years. So he was given poor advice three years ago. He went to some shady back alley website. And they just, you know, he was 27 years old at the time. He just wanted to, IMean, this is tragically a very common story by the end. Right. So this guy's been on 200 milligrams of testosterone a week for the pasT3 years. He's now 30 years old. He's met the love of his life and low and behold, they can't seem to get pregnant. So he's in your office. During the history, you find out pretty quickly. He's been on 200 milligrams of testosterone for three years. Tell me what his sperm analysis looks like. Do you see there are no, there presumably there are no sperm. I would bet 95% confidence that he would be no, I have no sperm in the same Okay. So 200 milligrams a week. So what are you telling him now? How are you going to solve this problem? So it's funny because a lot of guys come in and they look good. And I want to examine I'll say, are you taking anything? Are you taking because they never put it on their medication. Right. You never write it out on the history. You always have to get it out of it. If they look, if they're super jacked, but then they have tripled testes. Yeah. And there's zero. And then wondering, what, you know, right? So I will look them in the eye. So you're taking testosterone. And I'll look them in the eye until they answer. And if they look down and they don't say anything, I know they're on it. If they look in the eye and say, no, then I know they're not, but they'll always look away because it's this verboten thing. So this is the same, by the way, as I'm sure you experienced as a resident and the ER, the people that come in with foreign rectal bodies and abdominal pain, that's the one thing they emit from their history. Right. It's like, they tell you, you know, this is the last time I ate. This is this. This is this. But then you get the x-ray back. And there's like a candle stick in their colon. And then you say, what is your Hopkins? What about this? Can't, yeah. What about this candle stick? And they're like, oh, I totally forgot to mention that. Yes. Yes. That was lit. What I went in. Yeah. Yeah. So typically, I'll say, so my theory is about this is if he's, why is he taking it? So if he's taking a franabolic sense, you know, he probably has a pretty good idea. And I want, let's send you, it's give you a little research we're doing on the lifespan of anabolic store users. So remind me at the end of the story, it's give you a little brief about what I know about that. But so I, so when you take, so how he takes it matters? So if he's been in constant use injectables, that's the most suppressive of fertility. And if you turn a gland like a testicle off long enough, it's off. So I gave a lecture to the Antiquity on covering men from hypogannas, a men-young men. And I asked them a question at the end because I, my whole procedure comes from steroid users. I, I take notes when the anabolic guys come see me because they're really smart and they know a lot about reactions, biology. That's incredible. Yeah. But it's a science. Some of them are PhDs. I took notes for years and it came up my approach along with what I know, right? So it's very much in concern with cancer with them. So everything I say is sort of built on a large experience and it's called getting off the juice, the blog. And I have people read that blog, do it and say get about 80% of the way and then call me and say, you know, I need help here, now I'm here. Yeah, we'll link to this in the show. No, it's for sure. Getting off the juice and there's a PowerPoint in it. So the recovery is usually possible in young men, but it depends on how much they took, how long they took it and how they took it. If they do it like a cycling effort, that's the best. Right? So if you cycle steroids, you recover the bituotary, you get back to normal and you hit it again. That's actually quite smart. Constant use is not. Constant use for longevity, whatever. It's not a good idea for fertility. So that's going to be much more suppressive injections or worse than orals or any gels. So the next thing is how long, so I asked the end of the society, since I answered all their questions, I said, have a question for you, can you turn a testicle off like an a thyroid or adrenal gland if you suppress it enough? Can you turn it off for good? And they said, yeah, that's a bad questianavars. We can do that. And I said, because we believe it's always reversible in the field of infertility and men. And so that got me a little worried. And so now, it kind of worry about five to 10 years of use. After five or 10 years of use, you may not get it back. Either the ability to make sperm or the ability to make testosterone native. So we typically tell men in our practice, don't, you know, two years would be the absolute ceiling. Maybe are we too conservative? Maybe. Okay. Depends on dose, they get everything right. If they're too, 250 a week. Oh, IMean in our practice, it would be 50 twice a week. Yeah. Okay. I did a study, published a study on the fellow in Houston of a guy who took it for 25 years. And we drove at him with its gonadotropens as HCG and FSH. And we didn't get anything, but he had testiculate. Now we got a a low number of sperm back. And I just had a guy from Louisiana and I come in 25 years of chronic use. I did a mapping procedure to find sperm in his testicle. And he's going to be having a kid, but he made a couple of sperm after, and that was for the baby. But you pump him full of HCG and synthetic FSH. And get nothing. And then you have to look in a testicle because production can be low enough to be there, but not coming out. But this is the rescue protocol. It's LHFSH. Basically there's three ways to do it. One is never stop the testosterone suddenly. Interesting. Because men all hit the dogdobsical poop and they'll flop over like they have the flu. They'll feel like shit and they'll get right back on it. They're feel terrible because they have nothing going on. If you take the testosterone away, their persistence turned off. They're not making their own. It takes time to get the system to reactivate. So that's the hardest. So I always taper testosterone over what we're doing. Six weeks typically you have the dose for two, have the dose for two, and then offer two. And then you measure. And that's like getting out of the white water into the green, the green wall a little bit. So that's a little smoother. So taper. And then I offer them two options. One option is taper alone. Tap it with clomid or inclamaphine, which is a littlEQuicker getting the pituitary to turn back on. So that will soften the blow of the feeling of feeling completely fatigued or more aggressively HCG and clomid. That's interesting. I guess there's no. It's about six weeks or there's no. So it's interesting. If you give clomid the pituitary will make FSH and LH, it doesn't shut off. It takes a while. Well, that's a way more cost effective approach than giving synthetic FSH's pricey. Yes, a couple thousand a month. Yeah, in America. Yeah. So is there any reason to do that over the clomid approach or is it just that it's faster? I think you might gain a couple of weeks of time. Okay. So for most people that's not sell a price worth. With that taper over a month or two, I usually check their T levels at around two weeks off of the last testosterone. And that's the lowest they'll be. And if they're in a good range there, that didn't you can use that as a predictor of their response. It would be good if they're in a normal range. Oh, really. Okay. So we want within a couple of months to see them back to 600. 300 would be okay. Okay. To make sperm. Okay. All right. But then to get them to where they want to be, depends on their symptoms and what they're happy with. I'm not sure. I'm not, you all know it'll say you wait longer to see how high you can get them. That's the lowest they'll be, but they'll be off of testosterone. And if they go along that taper and they're not tolering, I try to tell them, don't go back. Just stay there because time will help you. Yeah. And if you're not going to feel maybe that gray, but try to do this because if you don't, you'll feel back then we have start over. But if you just maintain it for a while, you'll feel better. And some of them dip a little bit. But remarkably, most men do really well with that taper. Now, before I want to get on to some other topics here, but just to close the loop on this, do you ever advocate kind of crazy ideas for guys that are using testosterone to use lower doses and then combine it with HCG just as we were talking about the climate plus HCG of growth. Okay. So not in unreasonable approach to combine, clomid with testosterone at low doses to preserve. Test your evaluation. I operated on a man to, to test a clear this primary tree of on a man who's asa spermic for genetic issues. And he was on testosterone for 10 years. And because he needed it, he was in statistical's or failing. And I said, you're not going to make sperm on this. So we put him on HCG, which didn't do anything for him felt terrible. And did that for a year? And he said, I can't do this anymore. I said, okay, or maybe a six months and I said, I need a little more time for you to be off testosterone. But since you've been on HCG for six months, I've been with those to do him on three thousand three thousand three times a week. That's a whole vial a week. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Then I said, okay, let's add in a low dose T gel to testosterone gel. Yeah. To get your testosterone up. And we're going to lower the HCG to 500 three times a week twice a week. And I did this primary tree of yesterday boom, plenty of sperm. How old was it? 35. Interesting. So you can, you can maintain whatever's going on in a testicle with HCG and take any testosterone you want. That was a that's on. And it's in the world. It was in, yeah. It was the here's that here's the catch though. The caveat is it was done in, I think, finished body builders. They were doing a cycle steroids huge amounts that took loados HCG 500 twice a week. And John Aimer has worked out in Washington has worked out all the exact doses. But 250 to 500 twice a week is a good dose for that. It keeps your intertesticular testosterone high. Keep your sperm production going. And they went on both concurrently for 12 weeks. And their sperm counts were normal the whole time. That any dose of T. Now what happened after that is people start saying you can preserve your fertility on testosterone placement, which is possible. The mistake the mistake the story. But it was only 12 weeks. And if you're doing it for three years and you miss your dose of HCG, boom you've done your cook, you're going to go to zero. So on a post testosterone without it. So you have to be 95% compliant. And do you think that there's a difference between HCG and Komet in that effect? Is it a adjunct? The comet doesn't work even near the C G is the one. Yeah, the comet doesn't improve intertesticular testosterone levels like H C D does it's ineffective. It will potentially make you more recoverable. If you do it 80% you'll be zero even though you're, you thought you might have a sperm count. But your recovery will be faster because it's done something. But the only way to maintain your current fertility is you have to be 100% compliant with dual therapy. You can't go on monotherapy with testosterone. Outside of fertility, given the popularity of testosterone replacement therapy today, is there another advantage to just doing dual therapy? Obviously for fertility, we wouldn't be talking about it. But can you think of any other reason why it might be advantageous if a guy can deal with the hassle in the cost? Yes, depends on the indication though. IMean, if everything but fertility, like any other health benefit, I think muscle mass. So with aging, it's a great one. IMean, you know, used to be growth hormone with age-wasting syndrome, things like that. IMean, muscle mass is a key for men, right? As I say, but I'm saying, as opposed to just being on testosterone injectable to do the dual therapy versus just monotherapy. IMean, if you're going to do some kind of therapy, if you've committed to doing therapy, I think I think the only reason would be if you want testicles to be big. I'm just just volume. I just created a new procedure to make testicles larger naturally by putting a fat injection in the hydrosale space in men on testosterone because they don't like their small testicles. So it's the equivalent of the Brazilian but procedure for the testies. Yeah, so it's all natural and there's no prosthetics and that you can't tell and it looks that makes nice and big and it's all testist fat grafting and it's fabulous. But that's not a care to prove. No. No. Yeah. Um, creatively approved. All right. So let's shift gears and talk about other modifiable factors. Let's talk about heat. We've talked about it a little bit for fertility. Yes, for fertility. So tell me about the impact of cold plunging and sauna and hot tubbing on for fertility for men. Okay. So the testicles is outside the body. Yep. It's three degrees cooler than the rest of the body. So 95 versus 98 degrees Fahrenheit. And then there's a reason for that unknown. We had that conversation. Don't really know why. But it may be that it's an immunologic sanctuary and that's the only way to do it in that God or Darwin can figure out. But if you heat up the testicles, it's also close to the skin. So it's a radiator. So when the heat comes down in our turbo blood, it has to cool. So it raises in lowers and there was a journal in the journal of air reproducible results about 20 years ago. A man went to Big Sur and wore nothing and he measured ambient temperature and then he marked on this leg with a marker where his high-scrowed him hung how low it hung and he could tell the ambient temperature by how high or low his scrotum hung. He became a thermometer. So it does go up and down. Is that Peter a tealactic? Journal of air reproducible results. Oh, good. Really cool. But it's show that it's very temperature-centitive. Right? And it goes up and down to regulated closer to the body when you want it warmer, et cetera. You go into a cold shower or a plung where your testicles are way up there. In my abdomen. Yeah. And that's all the creamous dirt muscle and it's all temperature-driven. So it spends all of its time regulating its temperature to state 95. Now, sauna's baths, hot tub shukuzi, steam rooms, change that. Right? The worst one of those is anything underwater, submerging underwater because you're one centimeter away, you're liquid, it's a liquid, you're going to turn that temperature. Maybe not the inner part of your body, but little kids going into hot tub right? They overheat. So testicles will certainly overheat. So you get into a 105 degree hot tub, which is a very typical temperature for a hot tub is 105 to 110. You're saying within a relatively short period of time your testies will assume that temperature. Absolutely. Yeah. You're 70% liquid. And this is right at the surface. So I did a study published in the Brazil and Journal of Eurology. Very, I published 200 studies. This was the hardest one to get in. Everyone said we know that it affects fertility. So I don't, we're not going to publish it. So the American Thailand, the Brazilian Journal of Eurology. Then went to the New York Times as a press release. That's how popular it was. It's probably my most cited paper ever and it's certainly not my best. It's very interesting. I took in fertile men with low sperm counts and stopped the tub. They were in hot basicus. I used to wear jacuzi, jacuzi called mepsit-snop. Don't use that word. So I don't use that word. So hot baser tubs. And I told them out and they went up 300% they're seeming, and now seeming quality went up 300% total amount count. In three months or four months and 600% in six months. So you have to give us some time. And that's that curve, right? The recovery curve. And we didn't look at fertility. We just looked at that recovery. And someone was zero and went up to close to the age range of these men. They're 35. So fertile men. Yeah. And you can see. Yeah. These are men who are not able to conceive. You're making the diagnosis. I think it's your hot tub. Let's get you out of there. And they have a sixfold increase in sperm count. Total models per count. IMean count motility mainly driven by motility. Interesting. So it's motility that the price. The biggest one. But cost of count might have doubled to me. Chilly may have gone up threefold kind of thing. So sixfold increase overall. Then I calculated after that. I calculated a lethal dose of tubbing. So what's the lethal dose? Yeah. What's the other 50? Yeah. So lethal dose to me means you're zero. Yeah. You do it enough. You have no sperm. And it came out to be 20 minutes of a hot bath or a tub 20 minutes on 140 degrees three times a week. Would probably make you zero. Wow. There have to be a lot of guys out there who are spending at leasT3 times 20 minutes sessions in a hot tub that's at least 104 degrees a week. And the highest group, the biggest interesting, the largest group of people in Tubbs at Northern California, we did this study. We're environmental lawyers. I don't know. It's like, sure job. That's stressful. It's okay. This is something that probably isn't California. All right. So then I think there's been studies. That was the, IMean, the only study ever done prior to that was a PhD thesis at Vastro College. Where someone had a guy dip their testicles into a bucket for 20 minutes that really hot and looked at their sperm counts or their fertility and they went, they went, they really. That was the only, and I couldn't even find it wasn't published. I had to go, yeah, to figure out the thesis thing. But that's how little was written about it. And they gave me so much fact for publishing. This was really funny. And the New York Times had an article said, you know, a true condom and a true birth control pills and a true a guy into tub. It's like picture, picture contraceptive. So it's huge. And it's I asked it. I'd say 10% of my populations in it. And the next question is, what about sonas? So sonas is not underwater. It's not some version. But sonas are, you're not, you're in a hot room. You're going to, it's going to affect it. And I would say the effect is onEQuarter to one third. It's a profound as a hot math or some version. So my friend was absolutely right to have those ice packs on his scrotum. He's thinking he's reading. Yeah. He's listening to Jesus Mark out. The Turk protocol. Yeah. And then I would say steam rooms showers are probably fine. Yeah. Because you, you're in an ambient temperature's normal. And I think steam rooms are probably between sonas and, you know, defense, I'm a shatime you spend. But it's probably not normal, but not a hot bath. Hot bats are terrible. Okay. And then what about the cold? I don't worry about cold. I remember surfer magazine call me and said, um, you know, I'm on the California surfer right now. I'll be surfer. And they said, uh, I the editor of surfer magazine call me says are surfer from fertile. I'll let you say, is that water bad for them? Because California waters. Yeah. And I said, no, I've never met it in fertile surfer. So I don't think it's bad at all. All right. So the cold is okay. Because that you're such a plunge where you're talking seconds. Yeah. You know, your test was going to go up. Yeah. And you're going to be able to maintain the heat. I think if you did it all the time, it would probably be bad. Yeah. Because enzymes work in the testicle at that one temperature. They work opt-in. Okay. Let's talk about exercise. You mentioned one example of exercise that can be problematic, which was, I believe you said in a study where men were ramped up to two hours a day of exercise. I think there was above 80% of VO2 max, which is pretty strenyous. That was enough to put a dent in their fertility. Tell me about writing a bicycle. I'm a biker. I have old vintage bikes that I used to race in Connecticut. And I had them rehabbed and they're all Italian and they're all steel. And they weigh a ton. And the seats are from Britain, Britain. And they've got 10,000 miles on them. And they weigh four pounds. It's much like a Brooks saddle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, all worked out. And it's like that saddle nowadays is about half the weight of a carbon bike. Right. So, but I love it. And I'm thinking of maybe going senior league and doing this gorgeous steel frames. And trying to keep up with those guys. Because it's not about the bike. Really. It's like when you get golf clubs. And I got $150 that a golf club. I'm going to be it's bad a golfer with $1,000 of a club. So it's really about the biker. But there are some differences. And you know, in terms of the momentum in the wheel force and all that. But I love my old steel bikes. So, and they see this and it's like hanging at my office when it comes to work in the morning and I bike in in terms of Cisco. And then I have the seat and I was like, you, that's a bad saddle. And so the issue really is that it got started that biking was bad for reproductive health with a Spanish competitive cycling study. So competitive Spanish cyclists, Tour de France, Calabers, cyclists. We're looked at their sperm counts for examin. But what was the control group of a control group of runners? I don't remember. I don't think itself. So in other words, it could have been the exercise that was the part. It could have been the intensity of the exercise. It's not a good study. Yeah. There. And about so there's sperm counts for a low. There are more follages we're off and they're extreme athletes. So it's so we know that and we know maybe they were on drugs. Maybe they were, you know, it's a big industry. They're super fit. They're certainly exercising two hours of, right? And so they said, look at these guys who are really healthy and look at their sperm counts, but this other day did come out. So I did a blog called Cycling into Childlessness. And I looked at a more comparable study which was British commuting cyclists. So every day people basically knew working Britain on different saddles and, you know, and I looked at their fertility and their fertility was far better than the average bread. So even if they were taking some hit off the bike, it was probably more than compensated for by their healthy lifestyle, which included probably riding the bike. But obviously there's a healthy user bias because anybody who's riding their bike to work is probably consuming less Guinness, fewer fish and chips, smoking less. In other words, riding a bike is a proxy for being healthy. But in spite of that, it didn't offset that health risk, at least unless we found people who were equally healthy who, yeah, I remember what they controlled for, but I think they did a lot of the socioeconomics. And it was just, IMean, it may just be an activity, but the bicycle, so is there a myth? Yes. Now, if you said, are my worried about bicycus? Yes. So I worry about sexual health. I worry about the pudendal nerve. I worry about seed anatomy. So the best seat for a bicycle. So if you're biking a lot, that's good. If you're biking and you're getting pelvic numbness, that's bad. So you need to get a better seat. The best seat was studied by the NACH, the NACH. I forgot. It was Dr. Schrader at the NH. The best seat is, the saddles that are shaped like this are bad for your set phones because they come into the middle and whether the arteries and nerves are to the penis. So it's an erection issue. Those aren't good saddles. The saddles with the two little tongs that held your Iliak crest bones with no nose. Yep. Perfect, right? So it's pressure. Where the pressure is, outside facing leaning in, so we gave those to police in Washington, the bicycling police done in like national cathedral area in the parks and they all gave the seats back a week later. I said, I'm doing this. He said, what's going on? He said, we don't know where the seat is. We go sit down and it lands somewhere. You have to have the nose for bicycus because they use it to guide, where they sit down. They use it to guide, where they sit. So the best saddle is flat or gel and the back cut out in the middle. And some kind of lean in like this. So cut out saddles. And then you should get it, you should get your bones fit. So you get a, you can do this online. You can ask them to send you a pressure pad and you sit on it and then you send it back and they measure the distance. And there's only a couple of different saddles, maybe 12 wits that you could do and you get it done, who are like me, you use a saddle, you use for 30 years and it's perfect, but it weighs 4 pounds. But that's good. It's a leather saddle and it fit to you. Yeah. Yeah. Not that heavy. Likeonic. Okay. Let's talk about alcohol specifically. And let's talk about any other recreational thoughts. Yeah. So fertility wise, I'd say, you know, the government wants men. So I'm going to talk about men to, you know, less than two glasses of alcohol a day is okay. They consider for binging. Now alcohol is a small molecule goes right into the brain, goes right into the testicle. It's definitely a poison, right? It goes everywhere. It's the testicle doesn't limit it. So I worry about it a lot. The effects I see are direct when it's abused. So I would say, I use see morphology, motility and count issues. So that's a direct effect as a direct toxin, because it gets it. It's one of the few things it's into the testicle. Second would be hormonal effect. So alcohol use tends to cause delivery to rev up, tends to cause more estrogenization. So you tend to get low testosterone from that. So it's a hormonal effect in a direct effect. Any evidence that it's having an epigenetic effect? God, I probably. No. I don't know about evidence, but I'm sure it does. Let's talk about common recreational drugs. Let's start with marijuana. That's the worst player for me. So THC, same thing, count motility, morphology. So it and it probably has an effect. We know it has an effect on fragmentation, which is a quality measure of sperm, not only the way it looks descriptive, but quality. And also probably an epigenetic effect. Some of the early studies on the sperm epigenetic showed alterations with nicotine and the pot. What I don't like about pot is depending on you ingest it and however you ingest it, you get a peak. You feel it. It goes away. You feel it's out of your system like nicotine. But it's, but it's two facts for a month or three weeks. And it's a deep pull effect. And it keeps coming back. So you get a low level toxicity, which I don't like at all. So I am not a phenopot. The other thing that really concerns me about pot and reproductive age men is I wrote a couple of blogs on this. A called the weed worries. And there's some compelling evidence from epidemiology and two studies, ten years apart validating each other that chronic pot uses a associate with testous cancer. And we think that that's causal? I don't know. It just worries me. weed worries me. Interesting. Given that it otherwise seems, you know, kind of benign. Personally, can't stand this stuff. But, you know, I know so many people that use it so frequently, that seem to have relatively few effects. IMean, it needs to be phenomenal. It's medical marijuana, right? So medical means safe. But I ask someone, you know, I have a lot of pot growers in the Emerald City up in New Orleans, California. And they have the artisanal stuff that wins awards and stuff and say, which is worse for driving, being stoned or being drunk, undoubtedly being drunk. Yeah. So it looks like reflexes. But, you know, like he said to me, well, we tend to stop the stop lights and wait for them to turn. Yeah. And we're stoned. I'm not saying that they're both that you know, driving stoned is good. But there are probably far fewer people that die at the hands of a stone driver than a drunk driver. Probably. And I think the science, you know, the LA story signs and LA, you know, like I've, like, you know, they have the lit up signs about open season traffic and the movie LA story. They knew say now, it's stoned, you know, drunk or stoned. Watch out. Yeah. We're going to get what do you think is the mechanism of action by which THC is having these negative fertility impacts? Not sure. I don't think it's the mechanism. I don't think it's the root. So I don't think it's talking or, you know, or edibles. But it might just be the chronic exposure. And I don't see there's some evidence that THC acts like LH and binds the receptor and neutralize and blocks it. But blocks it from LH. So you can get low to stostorones, but it's not, it's not been that profound. What about nicotine either synthetically or in the format tobacco? Bad actor at high doses, I think, to either one. Yep. It's nicotine. nicotine per se. It's the issue. And it doesn't last as long as THC. It does have, you know, count motility effects and fertility effects. We think probably both of these are our oxidants. It's the oxidants that do it. It's oxidizing things. You mentioned diabetes earlier as part of your history and physical. What is it about diabetes? Is it the high levels of glucose? Is it the microvascular damage? Is it the inflammation that typically travels in parallel with it? Why is Type II diabetes a risk factor for infertility? I probably all of them. I don't think we know exactly, but I'd say that I diagnose diabetes a lot and a lot of infertile men. IMake the what's the physical finding you're seeing in the testies that tells you. Like, you know, how an ophthalmologist will often make the diagnosis because they're looking into the eye. So for me, it's usually their weight and their count motility are low. So I'm looking for a chronic exposure and then they have polyurethry or polydipsia or something to them like that where they're drinking a lot and they're peeing a lot because the sugar is dragging it out and you check their UA and it's full of sugar and you said, you know, you've earned some of them have an A1C that's a little pre-diabetic. But I think a lot of it is nerve-it-neurogenic too. They can develop an ED. They can develop a third of Type II diabetics. I have a load to stosterone. So that's a clue. And that's secondary. So you can plummet it can better right back. But that's probably the common one is the look, the sugars, and then the low T in the low sperm count to kind of a picture. It's a syndrome. And then we kind of talked about sleep and stress. Obviously metabolic health in general. What are some of the other modifiable things that you see the most common is a vericous seal? Okay. Tell people what a vericous seal is. So you could develop vericous veins in your leg. You can be in need treatment. And this is the same thing in the scroteum, but it's not related. And it happens in typically at puberty. You'll develop this. You won't know it. Sometimes I'll let's hit hurts. And it's a reflux of blood in the wrong direction. So the testicle drains to the kidney, which is uphill. And it wants the drain back down. The reason why it drains back down is because as a species, we stood up half a nine years ago. Maybe threEQuarters a nine years ago. And when you're an animal, your kidney and a testicle drains this way. There's no gravity. But when you stand up, you're now draining uphill. The system was never made for valves. And if you said to me, what's the reason our sperm counts are falling? I would say we stood up as a species. Probably not a good idea for male fertility because that mud that's supposed to be staying up there comes back down to the testicle pulls around it like a hot bath is warmer. And you have to affect it. And usually the first sign is a testicle on that side, which is the left. Usually it's smaller than the right. So the physical examiner testicular discrepancy in size. That's first thing you see. And then you feel above it and you feel a bag of worms. But sorry, there are no valves in that vein. In fact. So what's the head it has to climb? That's got to be the centimeters. So how is it doing that without a valve? I don't know. That's a big, that's a pretty big distance to travel about. It doesn't ignite. I don't know. Interesting. Okay. But there might be a few. But during puberty, but the growth spurred those blow. And the angle of the renal vein and there's a right angle. The right side has a natural valve off the vein of K. So it's kind of has to go around 270 degrees. So you don't reflux on the right left side of lesion and most men. You can be perfectly fertile with it. If you look at statistically 85% of men conceive naturally without varic sales. 80% will conceive naturally about a year. So the curves are very similar clinically maybe insignificant. But there's a difference. And it's statistical. But if you multiply that by millions of people it becomes important. And you'll figure that out easily on a physical exam. The best way is easy if I don't order a whole of sounds. If I can palpate it then it's clinical. And you will, that's an office repair. It's an outpatient surgery. It takes an out. We do my research. Yeah. So it's more involved than a vessectomy. Yes, it is. And because if you're doing it at microsurgery at the level where you don't cut muscle you want them to cover a cover quicker. It's pretty. It's an it's an involved area with lots of veins. But he's not under general. I use I use a triolation. Triolation. Triolation. So yeah. So that's the most common. Wow. And most men are fertile but they can be. So again you look at the semen also says a poker hand and you see countin motility being down. Nothing else going on and you see a varic seal and it's implicated. All right. Have we missed any other of the major? I'd say the major ones are varic seal and then I would look for hormonal issues. So varic cells may be 40 hormonal maybe 10 or 15 genetics. Yep. So they're non-modifiable now. Right. Okay. So you talked about a few of those already. What are some other ones on the genetics? Yep. The most common one is for zero spermist client filter. These extracts comes on the most common one for low sperm count is why chromosome this is interesting area. What is that phenotype look like? Now phenotype mean an in general? Yeah. No phenotype. Normal. Okay. A y-chromism deletion male? Yeah. Because it's only the long arm. Yeah. And it's only a couple of floors on the building. Got it. So there's regions that are missing. I see. Okay. So very interesting. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you made a complete deletion of the y-chromism. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Got it. So it's the long arm. It's deletions regions. Yeah. Yep. Not. Yeah. Right. Well, the genetic area. You're right. So rainy, rainy, a pair of found that in at MIT 20 30 years ago now that the y-chromism is a whole of mirrors. And in myosis, every chromosome has a partner except the y and the x and a man. And so the x, the y plays with itself. It combines with itself instead of finding a partner. It has to do the dance, too. And so it changes a lot. So it's very adaptable. It actually comes from the x through the million through to evolution. So there's a lot of x genes that are on the y and the y doesn't. We thought it was sort of a wasteland. Maybe hairy ears and tooth decay and things like that. But now it's probably more important. So there are regions on the long arm of the y. The short of the mides very important has a gene called s-r-y, which makes you male. The s-r-y is the male of sex determining if you have that gene, your phenotype will be male. If you don't have that gene, you're probably going to be female. It's complicated now, but that's sort of what it is. But the long arm has these genes that control fertility. And some of them took typically we ordered in men with a low sperm count of a little 5 million. So that would be a pretty common cause of a sperm count low than 5 million. And I published a study that if you have a y-chromism deletion, and you have a vericocial, and they both cause low sperm counts. And you fix the vericocial, you're not going to improve. Because the mon, it's non-modifiable in all ways. It's who you are. So, but if you didn't have the bicromism deletion and you fix the vericocial, you'll expect a good response. Two thirds will improve, one third or more will conceive naturally. So you could take guys of low sperm counts and you can fix them or not, but the drivers genetics. And the phenotype in offspring is simply inherited as a y-chromism deletion. Italy, there'd be, I just thought a couple of contexts. It's actually he had a y-chromism deletion. He conceived with help of technology with a low sperm count. Suns have it. They have no sperm. So you can inherit the deletion, but it might increase. So you're going to get what your dad had or it might be worse because mutations tend to get larger and large. Until they tried to conceive, they would never know this. Everything else is normal. So then there's, I would say, there's environmental lifestyle things. So I think obesity's a big one. Yep. And do you think that that's mostly propagated through the undercran system then? Yeah. Yep. And I think, you know, that's probably, that's a big one. Oxygen. Yeah. In terms of the percent of sperm with the lifestyle issues. And then lousy diet is probably something that, and so obesity and diet lifestyle recreational drugs, well, strive to view with them. Toxic exposures at work. So any smelly solvents, I don't, I'm really worried. Some airport fuels, you know, airline stuff, machine shop, oils, anything, anything benzene derivatives used to be pesticides and stuff like that, but they're pretty well controlled. So environmental exposures are, you know, kind of an unknown. I think viruses have a role. Yep. I saw you recently wrote about HPV and I haven't been thinking about that for years because there are men. You used to be half the men who came in when I entered the field 30 years ago. We didn't know what was going on with them. But now it's probably 10 or 20 percent with lifestyle issues and stuff like that. You can pretty much sort it out. It's not that unknown. But there are men who are like, what is going on here? He's a perfectly healthy guy. Practicing in California is incredible because everyone's so healthy. You have to look elsewhere. You have to ask other questions. And you know, when there's obesity, it's always the elephant in the room. But everyone's so healthy in eating. So I get to poke around places where no one else goes. Because I have to explain it and there's nowhere to go. But I did a study, so HPV is in most common. You'd re-arrote about that. Is that what's the link? It's hard to know. There's herpes, very common. The SDDs that we know about like the 11 common beasts, you know, like committee and gonorrhea and syphilis. We know a little more about it. And they're pretty obvious. But some of these like trick-amonus and stuff are pretty subtle. And I had, I was really concerned about this because one guy 20 years ago in the house professor UCSF, he sent me a picture of micro electron photograph of a sperm with a hexagonal herpes virus in it. I don't even know what's Photoshopping. Like this is virus in a sperm. Like, yeah, it looks like this. Where's this? You think that's what's causing it? I don't know. But normally when you see infections as a cause viral or bacterial as a cause of semen and as you'll see pussels. So you'll see what's called piospermia, leukocytespermia, the round cells we talked about. Yeah, semenhouses will show up in higher numbers. They tend to be destructive and it tend to lower motility. So you tend to see a certain look to the semenhouses. But I am normal count normal. Well, tilt is really low. A lot of the sperm are dead because it's been wiped out by these cytokines and all the white cells. And then maybe you'll find the pathogens somewhere, right now. But cultureing myocoplasma, CMV, all these viruses. So Joe Dorisi really bright guy. UCSF went to MacArthur Ward. He took my patient semen and he had a, my suspect when microarrays were popular in the 10, 20, 20, 20, and he had like 2,000 all mammalian viruses on his chip. Everything. And we ran fertile guys and we ran infernal guys and looked at semen, not sperm. And 99% of the infertals are positive for something. And 98% of the normal is a positive or something. So ubiquitous was the word. And so it left us high and dry because you can't really do much with that. So it's out there. But I do agree with your assessment that the pathologic phenotypes, the worst ones, are probably doing something. ThEQuestion is how do we measure it? What do we look for? And we'll see when I also says I said early on, it's a blunt instrument. It doesn't really, it varies a lot. It's tough to do it. But I love whether we do genotyping on spruce and sperm, probably not. You know, I don't know. And when you look at HPV, it's probably one of those things that might be in the ejaculate after ejaculation. Might be coming from another fluid source. And not in this brim itself. So it's effect would be post ejaculation, which could still have a fertility effect. But it won't be probably as deep. Right? And what if for example, like I has processed the tightest and the prosthetic fluid has plus in it, then that could sabotage the whole thing. And right. IMean, the problem with the male system is it's all through the same tube. Right? And so urine comes to that tube and see when it comes to that tube. So you have to look for infections in the urinary tract and anything like that when you're doing fertility because plus cells kill whatever they see. Yeah. So if your urine infected, you know, so that's a big deal. Now, have you done work with interest at intratusicular PRP and stem cells? Just stem cells been not PRP. Okay. Not a big fan. Okay. As a trened stem cell biologist and someone trying to experiment from skin and working with some of the best stem cells times in the world, I have a lot of respect for them. But it's not that simple. So we've had, you know, people have injected bone marrow into there's there's 560 off so we're off the shore stem cell companies in the world that will take your money and do things like stick PRP in there. They'll stick bone marrow aspirates fat in your testicle. And I'd say my experience has been, it's not been favorable. I, you know, these some of the toughest cases in the world and they come to me after that. And I do my techniques and I don't find anything and the trials aren't really real. They're kind of here. Come here. We're going to do this and then we're going to do a microdeception on your testicle. But they didn't have one beforehand. So the chance of finding it even without that is ex and they're finding ex. So, you know, it's just not well done. And I have my patients investigate all that and I say, you do the work. You tell me who you found. Let me call them. Yeah. So I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll be my, the workers. And then I'll call them and I'll say, hi, I'm just wondering about need do have any papers or what's the science behind it and they usually hang up or, you know, it's really interesting. But self-fired states unfounded. Yeah. I've had it very similar experience with a few of my friends and patients who have wanted me to talk with some of their, their stem cell docs and you're pregnant in space Peter. Yeah. And so I accept the fact that they're not going to have remarkable peer reviewed data. But it is amazing at how few individuals can provide even one cell layer of scientific reasoning. And it's a topic I'd like to explore more deeply on the podcast. It's, you know, my guess is there are some indications for where it makes that. I agree with that. But boy, I'd like to figure it out without people wasting things. I think there's a better way. There's a there there. But it's just not not that easy. Yeah. Um, so what is the, let's just say for every hundred guys that walk in your office who are struggling with infertility, what percentage of them will be able to conceive, assuming they are able to fully comply with the prescriptions, you, you provide the life style or pharmaceutical, for example, hormone modulation, et cetera, without requiring and let's exclude the 40% vericocials because you're going to fix those guys and they're fine. So 100 people who don't have a vericocial, um, who don't have a genetic condition, I'm going to really simplify this. Okay. So these are a hundred guys that presumably have showed up with some eyeatrogenic reason for infertility. How many of those guys are going to be able to conceive without resorting to IVF? I would say that's the goal of my practice and I would say the answer is most. Wow. But the caveat is we've got to tell you about the woman. Because, because I will defer. No, no, no, no, no, no. So the point is I did a paper. This is the only data I can give you. And so I did a paper where I saw men for their infertility values. You got it done. And I, I thought they were fine. They had vericocials and stuff, but there's seem analysis of normal and my investigation of their admits lifestyle. Everything was good. And I said, you're fine. You're cleared. No one's ever said that before. And they went home and they said Turquin Virgato was wrong with us. I said, it's not what I said. I don't do women. You know, I don't, it's, you know, my expertise. I'm saying something positive here. Right? No one's ever said, most people would say, I'm not sure why you're not conceiving. I said, I'm pretty sure you're not the problem. Yeah. Okay. Didn't get interpreted like that. I got me a little angry. So I did a study with USC. And I took these men that I cleared and I called them up a year later. And I said, what happened last year after Turquin. Clear do you had a resident do this? And the answer was 65% of it conceived naturally. Another 15 to 20% conceived with IOI or IVF. These women were 35 or sold year and a half in fertility. They weren't going to wait around. Most perceptions occurred within six months. I didn't do anything for them. I didn't fix the rarec seals. I didn't touch something new medication. I just said, you're fine. So I published it as a lifestyle study. Not that I was right. And the idea was they probably made changes. They probably took a nutritional supplement. They probably timed their sex better. They probably got out of hot tubs. You know, it's stuff and they were taken pills. I have a list of what they did. I had a table in that paper that said that 65% natural pregnancy rate. That is higher than anything I can offer as a treatment than we have published on. Right. So if you fix their varicocile or you rarely get a 65% natural conception rate. So I had a table of all the published conception rates for the technologies that work. And I'm saying this is a better. So it doesn't, if that addresses your question, that's the only data half. What advice do you give a guy who comes in your practice? Maybe you don't see a lot of these guys. But let's say you get a guy who comes in and says, hey, look, I want to bank my sperm. I want to freeze my sperm. Now, presumably you'll get a lot of that if a guy is undergoing therapy for cancer or something like that. Is there anything a guy needs to know? And would you recommend a guy do that if he's 40 doesn't have a partner, but says, look, I want to have kids. And isn't there something to the idea that my sperm are better today than they will be in a decade? So huge issue, paternal age, paternal age and fertility, paternal age. So we can go there. But I don't pay value judgment. I say good idea. I am a disclosure. I'm on a board of legacy. I love their mission driven the way their mission driven. And so I like the fact that going from military and exposed patients in this and that and VA. So, but I'm I'm for that. I think it's the lowest hang fruit in the field, especially obviously for chemo for cancer survivors and things. Like, I don't care what you think might happen with your cancer. I would still bank it. I started a non-profit called banking on the future. 16 year olds to 21 year olds with cancer. We'll do it for you. We'll pay for it five years. Just do you have this as sample? Because it's so much harder afterwards or not. So you would advise any male that hasn't reproduced and who might want to, who's undergoing any chemotherapy for any cancer, just play it safe. Bank for cancer. Yes. Now, who should anyone do it for any reason? Probably not. But again, I don't pass the judgment if they're worried about something, then I'm worried then they should. Well, paternal age, do you worry about? So good question. And you look at like National Guidelines for sperm donation. 40 is considered older paternal age. 50 for sure. If you look at risks to offspring, miscarriages, stillborns, autism, birth defects, things immediately related to conception, prematureity. Those go up with paternal age. Then you look at birth defects. When they're born, those go up with, you know, one to twofold. And then the worry, someone are the single gene defects. And the epigenetics like psychiatric morbidity. So the autism schizophrenia dyslexia by polar disorder potentially Alzheimer's in offspring. And they're not detectable with young. So big issues. So I've written a lot about that published on it. I was actually having my second child at 50 when I was writing this thing which I've been doing this, you know, writing a paper on all these risks called we put in with the island of Chenco from your first epits per. But I think it's a hockey stick curve for risk to offspring. And you think the the inflection is 40 or 50? I think it's more like 60. I think there's a slow linear increase in risk to offspring from 25 to 50 or 60. And then there's an inflection and then there's the blade of the stick. And I think that's log with me. Same curve as women. But they're formal. Yeah, but their shift in 20 years earlier or something. Yeah, so the shorter curve, but the same thing 40, 38 to 40 is kind of a point where things really ramp up with chromosomes. The men's stuff is not chromosomal. So if you take the curves together, they're different spans, same shape. But I think the female curve is on top of the male curve. This is not a the same relevant relative risk, right? So women, you know, you go from 25 to 40 your chance of a miscarriage. Oh, it's chromosomal. It goes up quite significantly after that, very significantly. And the consequence of women's issues with offspring related health is basically miscarriage. Yeah, in many ways, it's almost easier to detect, right? Because very. So it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it can be more dramatic, but it usually now prevented with with pre-imitation jacksets. Yeah, matter different. You can't detect these things. There's single gene mutations. This is the the machinery is constantly working. It's getting old, thEQuality control of the process goes down and little gene mutations get in there that are all we've been always being spun off in the heat of the engine and they're getting they're not getting vetted. So the machinery's not doing a good job. So they're getting through and they're not going to be they're not going to be lethal. They're going to be deleterious. So that's where you get things and autism's a classic one, the turn of age related. Looks like that's the biggest risk factor for it. And that worries me a lot, right? So I think it's interesting. The facts are that human evolution is entirely driven by sperm. Yeah, because eggs are just saying they're correcting the problem. It's entirely driven by sperm. And half and so 50 mutations a year, generation usually gets spit out for each of their nature paper, probably between generations. And there's always mutations occurring in 14-year-old fathers, but it goes way up with 60-year-old fathers. So the rate of mutations goes way up with age, but average is 50 over a reproductive life. And most of them, half of the mutations that we are throwing off as a species are not ears or hands or feet or height or thing that it's all neural developmental. It's a half neural developmental. Yeah. So when you think about well we're seeing, you know the Martians from the 50s and the movies with big heads. Yeah, that's kind of where we're headed. Autism dyslexia by polar disorder. You know these are neural developmental neurogenitive issues. And why is that? Well that's what's going on. IMean that's where we're being stimulated. That's where we're being asked to evolve. Look at the last 30 years, right? Funny. One of the biggest investors in Salesforce said to me, I said to me, you know, I realized that was dyslexic when I when my son was born. And I said really, he said, yeah, but you know what, it helped me be the man I am to realize that Salesforce is going to fly, given the first 500,000, given the first million they ever took anymore money. And he said, it let me focus. I was so autism is one of these is where you put out you ignore a lot of input and you find the gift and it's amazing. If you go down the rabbit hole of what they're good at, it's like their whole brain trust is there. So is that a disease or is that where we're headed? IMean, I think it exists on a spectrum. I think anyone who's who's probably spent time with kids, you know, using ASD as an example, boy, you know, you know, mild versions of it the way it can be defined because it really has three categories now in the DSM5. I think the mildest version probably comes with more superpowers than limitations or maybe equal amount, but but clearly the more severe it gets it's pretty debilitating, but this this I did have internal recalling it disease though. Yeah, but maybe it's not disease. Maybe it's where we're headed. Maybe it's the future. Maybe the non-sequitors that come out of those brains. IMean, look at who's changing the world right now. These have been spoken about. Yeah. But again, I would argue most of those people would be in category, you know, my class one, no class three. What's the what's the thought success rate, right? So if a guy is 40, he goes ahead, he freezes and banks his sperm, assuming they were good to go in. Right. Are they very high probability of thawing correctly? So when you freeze sperm, it's about a 200-year-old process. Right. Right. Well, the use for about 75. I forgot through the Italian science. This was who froze sperm and snow and then thought it and it was live a couple hundred years later after Leewin who came up with a microscope, the found it was moving and it was possible. So egg falling is very new. Egg freezing and falling is very new. This is very old. So everyone is thinking about sperm now because eggs are being frozen left and right, but this is much older technology and the cell is much harder than an egg. So it does a lot better typically. When you freeze it, it's the freezing process that kills sperm, be from icicles on the inside. Yes. And then while it's frozen, it's usually no issue. No issue. And then there's another problem when you thought rapid their temperature shifts. So that's where the kill rate comes from. And a good sample half of it should survive. Okay. And so in so how much sperm would you tell a guy to bank if he has to do it, if it's the definitive samples for his life. So meaning he's 40 or he's about to undergo chemotherapy or some other exposure where he should just assume he will not have normal sperm again. What are you telling? So I usually say depending on the technology you're going to use, but if you're sperm counts normal, three to three ejaculates is one kid's worth of sperm within some of the combination technology where you would thought and then and then turkey based it. So 10 ejaculates for three shots on goal for three kids. BuT3 kids with low technology, but 10 ejaculates will give you most of China with IVF. Got it. Oh, you say low technology. You mean IUI or something like that? So there's three levels. Sex, no tech. Yeah. High tech is IVF and in the middle is IUI. Yep. That's the stuff that's turkey based. It's relatively straightforward. Yep. Yep. To the cheap. I street kids for that, but plenty of sperm for IVF. So three ejaculates would be more than enough if they're normal for IVF. Yes. So the population you're talking about may be cancer survivors, half of those will not be normal. They're really looking at IVF. Yep. So they don't need that many. Yep. But I think three is a good number, but it's an insurance policy. Yep. Okay. Well Paul, this has been a super interesting tour through the world of male fertility. I can honestly say I knew very little about this coming in. Some of this stuff I understood pretty well, the hormone stuff, but boy, a lot of this stuff I had no idea. So I will be studying my notes from this. We're going to link to a lot of this stuff you've created. You've got a lot of great content out there. So we'll make sure people know where to find podcasts too. Talk to me about that. Well, we started a podcast last year because the blog of 15 years and we're just doing timely topics and it's me and my associate Rob Clyde is a director in Hollywood and we take on Anthony Bourdain. We're going to be the Anthony Bourdainament's health. We're going to just take on the topics to stostroon, et cetera, penis myths, and just talk about stuff that everyone is asking questions about but no one's talking about. And like you dated driven answers. Okay. What's it called? Talk with Turek on all channels. Got it. Okay. We'll make sure folks know that. Um, you have a clinic that you run up and down the coast to California. So obviously we'll make sure folks know how to how to find you there. But presumably I think we've given folks a roadmap for their local urologist as well. If they're getting the work up basically it sounds like if you're being worked up for fertility with your urologist and they're not going through the steps that we've described maybe you should find somebody else. Yes, I think it should be done. That's the first step. There's a lot going on now that the biomarker concept, you know, with relates a lot to your views on medicine 3.0. We now know, the paper came out two days ago looking at longevity based on the semen analysis and then Danish done the regular hospital at Copenhagen. They looked at 70, 4,000 men over 50 years and found that those guys would say normal semen quality live three years longer all causes and then with low sperm counts in the way they were younger. This was a one, you know, a single payer system so they have all the data on it is very much a landmark study. So I'm if you ask me what excites me about the field, I would say as the author of the biomarker concept early in my career, I would say I'm really happy that we're scaring couples to realize that their fertility is a measure of their health. And now we have our foot in the door. If we can get a sperm count, get them in the office, we can actually tell them a little bit about their trajectory and it's becoming more and more every day and we've never had a chance to do preventative medicine with young men. So it's a mental play in a big way because they're partners of bringing you men but who cares? They're in the office. You father, I prostate cancer when he's 50, someone had colon cancer in the vah, you know, so I have now an NP-Molly Jessup who's medical and it's like, okay, you know, what's going on because there's metabolic stuff and you can pick up diabetes and we're we have an opportunity it we've never had ever. It's to get men at younger ages and you know, I was a professor at UCSF for 15 years in doubt share, I left and I went to Yosan University to a traditional Chinese medicine I lecture there now. We had a conference last week and I lectured and I liked it because I thought Western medicine may be your view too is too reactive. They're always trying to get men out of trouble or get patients out of trouble but we're not thinking about getting them from unhealthy to healthy which is the preventative aspect. We're just not very good at it. Your general surgery every example you give is a guy who's a Disney bat, you get a back, whatever but you have a thing next step like kidney stones is great. We're all just we treat them all day it's fun it's endoscopic it's lasers it's shock waves but what are we doing about that stone? IMean how come how come we're not preventing these more it's just not it's not on the radar. I go to the Yosan University in traditional Chinese medicine fabulous place and it's all holistic so I see patients who get referred by acupuncturists and they come in their diets under control there's dresses under control they're doing acupuncture there's sorted out and what do I find varicocials because they don't find those but the phenotype is totally different than the Western referral and I think that's I have a love that because that's 3.0 that's mentioned 3.0 what's they're doing they've been doing it for 4,000 years it's interesting how we don't give a lot of street cred to it but in my view a much of we don't understand about fertility certainly men possibly women is epigenetic and the drivers of epigenetics which are marks on the DNA not DNA mutations 50 gene mutations a generation doesn't explain it there's other stuff going on epigenetics is all lifestyle and diet ran it's all lifestyle and diet driven it's everything in your book well Paul very interesting stuff thank you again for making the trip out here and the thanks for sharing your insights and great yeah all thanks Peter

=== FILE: 352 ‒ Female fertility： reproductive health, treating infertility & PCOS, and the IVF process [UvgPh7wSH94].txt ===

Getting this looked at now is a great way to get ahead of an infertility problem 10 years hence. For sure. Women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb. So let's just walk through how IVF works. Usually about 70% of the eggs for a list. That's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GOP when agonist. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. Okay. Now having said that there have been lots of you may have read about a zempick baby. Do you caution women or do we know anything about too much exercise? Extreme exercise can be associated with fertility issues. We talked about cemion analysis being kind of a marker of other health outcomes. Your periods are also a marker. Don't wait to get pregnant to figure that out. There may be something important you need to know way ahead of time. If a woman came to you at 20 and said, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y and z. I think I want to have kids. I at least want the optionality. When should I freeze by? Hey everyone. Welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Hey Paula. Thank you so much for coming to Austin and sitting down to share some remarkable insights. You know listeners last week will have heard us talk about all things that pertain to male fertility. As promised, we're going to now talk about fertility but from the female perspective, the physiology here is different but no less complex. There are some pretty unique things about it. One of them being that unlike sperm, which seem to be an infinite resource, men are constantly generating literally billions of these things. The exact opposite is the case with women. Tell us a bit about that. That's right. First thanks for having me. Thanks for inviting me. It is true that when an embryo or fetus develops the gonad differentiates into either a testis or an ovary. And the main difference is you said is that sperm is produced throughout a man's life's time whereas women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb as a fetus. And by the time you're born, there's about 2 million or so eggs. And by the time you start menstruating, you're down to maybe 400,000 or so. Wow. So fivefold reduction from birth to say average age would be maybe 14 when a year. Yeah. Yeah. 12 to 14. And we don't know why exactly that happens. But most of the eggs in the ovaries actually undergo a process we call a treasha. They basically die. So once a woman goes through puberty or girl goes through puberty every month, if she's not on her monocontrosception, one of those eggs grows. Actually probably a group of eggs every month starts to grow but then one kind of takes over and it's released from the ovary and usually finds this way into the the thlopian tubes. That's the tube connecting the ovary and the uterus. And then normally, if there's not sperm around, the egg is just resourbs and there's no pregnancy and the lining of the uterus sheds and a girl or woman has a period every month. If there's sperm around, there's a chance that that egg might fertilize and that fertilization usually happens in the phlopian tube actually. And then that now, as I go to embryo, travels down the tube into the uterus and some of the time implants into the wall of the uterus or the lining of the uterus and establishes a pregnancy. Okay. So let's now talk about a woman in the prime of her reproductive age. She's 20 years old as an example. And let's talk through the cycle of what is happening and the role that hormones are playing. One of the things that to me has always been fascinating about this is the selection. So with males, we don't have to think about that problem. The selection tends to be maybe more metabolic or stochastic. In other words, which sperm is the sperm that makes it? Isn't really pre-determined? How is it that let's say from day zero when a woman begins her menstrual cycle? And all of a sudden, everything starts to turn towards the next cycle. She's about 14 days out from ovulation. We start to see the interplay of loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, particularly FSH. Walk me through what's happening in that period of time that ultimately leads to one and only one egg being the chosen one. Yeah. Yeah. It's a little random in women as well, actually. But it's true that the pituitary hormones, namely FSH or follicle stimulating hormone and LH, loot-nizing hormone, are what drives growth of the, we call them follicles, the eggs are inside the follicles. And as I said, usually a cohort of eggs starts to grow and then... Tell me what grow means. The follicles start to get bigger and the cells surrounding the eggs start to divide. And what do they look like prior to all of that happening? These are cells that only have 50% of the genetic material, right? They've already undergone myosis. Yes. They're kind of arrested in myosis. Myosis is not completed until they actually ovulate and then in some cases are fertilized. Yes. So we have an arrested cell that has one of each of the mother's chromosomes, including one X chromosome by definition, one of her two sex hormones. And it's kind of this question makes sense, but it's, is it still in its young phenotype? In other words, if the, if the woman is 20 years old and all of the cells in her body are functionally 20 years old, is this egg prior to ovulation still basically an infant cell? As far as we know, although there's some data recently to suggest that perhaps the cells surrounding the egg are met about a glee active, maybe aging. Certainly we do know that thEQuality of the eggs decreases right as women get older. So that affects how the eggs and the chromosomes ultimately divide. That's part of the reasons harder to get pregnant as you get older, even though you're ovulating, you may be releasing an egg every month, but that could be abnormal. And if it's abnormal, it likely won't fertilize and you kind of don't want it to fertilize if it's abnormal and establish your pregnancy. But you're right. They're pretty much arrested in time. During, certainly, you know, before puberty and then every month a few start to develop and then one, we don't really know how that one egg is selected. It's definitely her monofactors play a role, but it's somewhat random, one kind of grows and then eventually is released. Now, not to anthropomorphize this too much, but one would sort of assume that natural selection runs strong. And if a woman by the time she begins her fertility stage of life has 400,000 eggs, just say on average, she only has a finite number of shots on goal. Right? Let's just say 12 per year and I don't know. Let's just say, if you look at peak reproductive maybe 20 years. Right. That's a tiny sliver of 400,000. That's true. You would have to assume that there is some selection that's happening to pick the best few hundred of those 400,000. Is there any evidence that that's happening? Only in that the ones that usually result in pregnancy are chromosomally normal. So most of the embryos are chromosomally abnormal and that's because most of the eggs are chromosomally abnormal. So there is selection in that sense that at most of the time only the chromosomally normal embryos are the ones that implant and continue to develop. And when you say chromosomally normal, are you referring to the egg or the zygote? The zygote, but most of the abnormalities in chromosomes that happen and the zygote are believed to be related to maternal age. And does that mean we think that the abnormality occurred way before ovulation or when do we think that that occurred? We think it occurred in the stage of myosis that happens as the egg is developing that much. That ripening phase. Okay. So explain how that happens. So if you were to sample eggs from a five-year-old girl, nowhere near reproductive age, do we both so every one of those is in a state of frozen myosis where how many things have to happen before it is ready to undergo full myosis. In other words, how does it go from that stage to just, I'm sorry for using big words to the listener and please feel free to explain what IMean by anyoploidy. But how do you go from that frozen myotic state to an anyoploidy state and please explain what I just said to people? Sure. It's a little bit of a black box, of course, because we can't see exactly what's happening. But the way we understand it is that the cells start off, including eggs cells, is having two copies of each chromosome, but eventually has to become one copy in order to combine with a sperm that also has one copy of each chromosome. So during that process, there has to be disjunction of each of the pairs of chromosomes. So there are 23 pairs of chromosomes, including X and Y, the X chromosomes. And during that disjunction phase is when we think most of the errors happen, because if they don't divide evenly like 23 and 23, you're going to get an extra one, you're going to be missing one, and then when it combines with sperm that also has a half-loids set of chromosomes, there's going to be an abnormal number and that affects development. And that completion only occurs during the 14 days leading to ovulation. ovulation and then fertilization. Yes. Okay, so that explains why to my earlier question, there must be something even though they arEQuote-unquote frozen in time, there is either something going on with the egg or maybe the metabolic milieu around the egg from those cells that is changing the probability of success for that division of genetic material. Right. And because as we know, that as a woman ages, the probability of successful division goes down. Right. So something changes as a woman ages, but we don't understand exactly, but whatever it is that's going on makes those chromosome errors much more likely. I'll tell you a very interesting story. So a very close friend of mine has a son with Down syndrome. And he's he's probably 20 now. So this is the son, of course. So this the story I'm telling occurred roughly 20 years ago. So when there's son was born, I believe he was their third child. Obviously this is, you know, but this is probably at a time. I don't think they knew until this was, in fact, I know that they didn't know until birth. They hadn't done amniosenties or anything like that. So they're, you know, they're sort of dealing with this right in the aftermath of their son's birth. And the doctor, the the GUI and came in. And my friend says he never forget this, the guy looked straight at his wife and said, look, it's important for you to understand that this is your fault. Oh my god. My friend said he wanted to jump across the table and kill this guy. Yeah, I don't blame him. But then what he realized is what he was actually saying is this is the result of the egg releasing one to many. So they're, they, you know, he had two copies. Was it 21. Yeah. So two copies of 21 instead of one copy of 21 came from the egg. And you know, it's interesting. My friend, when I have talked about this many times since, and he said, I really came to appreciate what he was trying to do there. All be it. And then completely in a proclamation way. He was just trying to explain that there is a reason for this. It is maternal and whatever. But anyway, it always stuck with me as like, that's a great lesson in bad bedside manner. For sure. Yeah. But, you know, he made the point. So, so the point here being is, while trisomy 21 is a very common form of anyploidy. It's also not lethal. There are many lethal forms of anyploidy as well, right? Right. Trisomy 21 can be lethal, but not always. Okay. So some of those pregnancies do continue. And they're depending on the chromosome of your maladies. Some only do a develop to a certain point and then stop developing. And some are actually compatible with life birth. But usually have some abnormalities. And do we know, for example, that for if you were to look at all miscarriages that occur inside the first trimester, would you be able to hazard a guess as to what percentage of all miscarriages inside of 13 weeks are likely the result of anyploidy? Definitely the majority of them probably close to 90 percent. Wow. Yeah. Okay. So in other words, maybe someone listening to this, whose experienced miscarriages early in a pregnancy can take some solace and understanding that that was the body's way of correcting something that was inevitable sooner rather than later. Yeah. I think that's true. Yeah. The very miscarriages are very common. Yep. And that's the most common cause. Although there are other causes. Usually we don't do a whole lot of testing if it's just one miscarriage because that's very common. We just assume fetus or embryo was abnormal. But if a woman has like two in a row, then that weren't some additional testing to make sure. We're guardless of her age. We guardless of her age. IMean, obviously the chances of finding something else goes down as a woman gets older. But yeah, because you don't want to miss another cause that's potentially treat it well. Okay. Well, let's put a pin in that because I actually want to understand that more. But that's interesting to me that if a 40 year old woman had successive miscarriages, you wouldn't just chalk it up to, well, she's 40. Of course, these are anyploidic eggs. Okay. Yeah, that's true. IMean, that's most likely. Most likely. But you don't want to miss, especially at 40. You don't want to miss some treatable other treatable. Because you only have so much time. Yeah. So again, one of the lessons here hopefully for people listening is if a couple miscarriages, they shouldn't feel that they've done something wrong. That's fun. We're going to beat herself up thinking, oh my god, that I have one too many cups of coffee was like, I'm under too much stress. No. Yeah. Greater than 90% chance, this was a bad split. Yeah. And that's the way. Okay. Yeah. So let's go back to this process. So it's day zero. So a woman just begins her period. We're just getting ready to embark on her next fertility cycle. The pituitary gland is secreting, loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Walk me through what is happening in the next 14 days that leads to that ovulation. Right. So a group of eggs or follicles are starting to grow. One gets selected. We don't really still don't know that. We don't understand why. It's random. Wow. And that follicle that's in a follicle. It's follicles kind of a fluid build, just like structure that surrounds each egg. So that continues to grow. And then eventually what's happening hormonally. So those cells surrounding the eggs are producing estrogen. That estrogen is preparing acting on the uterine lining to build up the lining to potentially support a pregnancy. And then what happens just before our ovulation is there's a surge in a hormone called LH, loop-nicing hormone. And that's what we think triggers ovulation or release of an egg. So all that has to happen before an egg is released. So it kind of busts out of the ovary. Finds its way to the tube. How energetically demanding is that. We learned last week in talking with Paul that the ATP requirement for those sperm to travel hold that distance is unbelievable. How passive versus active is the movement of that egg? How metabolically demanding is it? I don't know that we understand it completely, but you would imagine that their energy is required for that to happen certainly. It's not passive. It's not just sort of a diffusion down the philopi-intubes. Right. Prosthag landings are involved and a lot calcium all kinds of things up to happen for that process to occur. Okay. How long the proximately just keep people a sense of how long a philopian tube is? Probably a few centimeters, like back to 10. And everyone's probably used to seeing the image of ovaries being these little eggs and philopian tubes having these little fingers that tug up on the eggs. What is actually in between that space? How does the egg get from an ovary into a philopian tube? Is there an actual connection there? There is actually, yeah, they're not stuck together, but they're kind of in close proximity. So that those fimbre or finger-like projections kind of sweep up the eggs once it's released from the ovary. Got it. And it's otherwise in direct contact with the peritanyum. The ovary and the tube space between the space between the space between the. Yeah. Yeah. The picture's always show like the tubes out here, the inside here, but they're actually everything's like closer together in the pelvis. Yeah. And you mentioned, okay, so egg is now in philopian tube. How long does it take to get through the length of the philopian tube into the uterus? About five or six days? Okay, so completely different experience from the sperm which are racing at rakeneck speed. They uncover that distance in seconds. Right. So what regulates the speed with which the egg travels through the philopian tube and how does that impact fertility? Is there a scenario whereby it happens too quickly and things don't work? I don't know about too quickly, but there are hair-like projections in the tubes, Sylvia, that kind of help with motility of the egg down the philopian tube into the uterus. The abnormalities on the female side have to do more with potential abnormalities, have to do with like scarring in the tubes or if the tubes are blocked, then then it interferes with the egg like encountering the sperm. And what leads to that? A number of different things, infection probably most commonly, but also scarring from previous surgery potentially or a condition called endometriosis. So there are a number of things that can affect the tubes as well. And so is the day for it, assuming a woman's cycle is predictable and normal and we would just say day 14 is ovulation. That is the day that the egg leaves the ovary or that is the day that the egg reaches a certain place within the philopian tube. Pretty much the day that the egg is released from the ovary. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And usually encounter sperm in the philopian tube. And that's where fertilization usually happens. And then it takes a few more days for the embryo now or preembrow to travel down the rest of the tube into the uterus and hopefully implant if it's normal. Now, one of the most interesting things here that is worth repeating even though we talked about it last week in case anybody missed it. How many sperm is the egg encountering at the time of fertilization? Really? Yes. Yeah. Millions. So why is it? And I know the answer to this question, but it is so cool. Why is it that one and only one sperm out of millions or even less than that? But let's just say it's hundreds of thousands. Why does only one get to trensmit its genetic material into that egg? Well, once an egg is fertilized, there's sort of a chemical reaction if you will that happens to prevent any other sperm from fertilizing eggs. Because that would be bad. Yeah. You only want one sperm and one egg to combine. Yeah, it's like an electrical force field that immediately activates around the egg. Exactly. I find this so fast that it is fascinating. Yeah. So, okay. So now we have and by the way, what is the relative size of an egg to a sperm? The egg is actually much bigger in the sperm. I don't know exactly in my crons. How big it is, but I feel like I used to know this answer and it's shocking how how disparate they are in size. Like the egg is I believe the biggest cell on the body potentially. Yeah, I've checked on that, but I believe that's true. All right. So yeah, you have this massive egg that's basically like this sun and like this tiny little sperm which is like the earth and you know, colliding with it. Okay. So, fertilization takes place and how long from fertilization, how long from impact until you have that single cell, Zygote that actually has a lined up pair of chromosomes? Is that a matter of hours? Yeah, within a few hours. Okay. And then what is the process that occurs for cell division? When that Zygote goes from one to two to four to eight cells. And so a how long does that take? And and b at what point does it implant into the uterus? Yeah. So most of what we know actually about this is from a vitro fertilization or IVF because we can actually see that happening in the petri dish. So usually the with IVF, an egg is fertilized with the next day. We can see if it's fertilized and we know if it's fertilized because it has what we call two pronuclei. So DNA from the sperm and DNA from the egg. And then over the course of the next couple of days, it divides into maybe six to eight cells. So abouT3 days after fertilization, it's six to eight cells and then by five to six days, it's about 60 to 80 cells. And that's kind of the stage where it implants in the uterus. So five, six days after fertilization. All right. So with that said, now we've a pretty good understanding of what all needs to happen for fertilization and implantation. What is the biggest risk to that? And when does it cease to become a zygote? By the way, I don't remember any of my terminology here. You have zygotes and blastas, fears are blastas. Yeah. Yeah. A zygote, I think, is still a single cell that's been fertilized and then it starts to divide. We call it a pre embryo. Okay. And then by two weeks, we call it an embryo, but in IVF, we call it an embryo even in the first few days. Assuming that we have chromosomal alignment, it's two weeks out. So we have a two-week-old embryo that is implanted, what is the greatest risk that is faced by that embryo to coming to fruition as a fetus? Or in fact, going all the way into the third trimester. Like so in other words, we've taken the biggest risk off the table, which is anuploidy. What are the other risks it faces? So once a pregnancy is established, IMean? Yes. So if it's a normal embryo, chances are pretty good that it continues to turn. Okay. So normal, so normal, if we're a macromole, it means chromosome or normal. What else requires normality? Any other genetic issues that get in the way here? There are other genes that play a role in embryo development where those are less understood, but there are certainly other genes involved. So you could have a chromosome-ly normal embryo that fails to develop for other reasons. Okay. Okay. And then there could be uterine factors that also play a role. So a number who may implant, but if there's some structural abnormality for example in the Uvers, maybe that pregnancy can continue and may result in a miscarriage. Got it. Okay. So let's talk about a patient that comes to you and they're going to say, you know, we're having difficulty conceiving, what are thEQuestions you have to to render the diagnosis of infertility, meaning we need some intervention versus, you just need to make a few adjustments in something and I'm not willing to put the label of infertility on. So how do you, is that about be the first bifurcation in thinking? Yeah. We want to take a full medical history, both partners if it's a couple, and that includes, you know, medical history, reproductive history, psychosocial history, sexual history, all those things are important, lifestyle factors we ask about all those things. And the definition of infertility is is trying for about a year. So I'm protected in, of course, for about a year without success. That's the sort of medical definition of infertility. But we start our testing after a year in women who are less than 35 and after six months, if the woman is older than 35, even though it may take longer to get pregnant, if you're older, if there's something wrong, you kind of want to know about it sooner rather than later. So if a couple, female partners over 35 and they've been trying, having time and of course, at the right time, and still not pregnant, then we would initiate some preliminary investigations. On the female side, what's most important usually is we want to ask about the woman's menstrual cycles. You know, are they regular, she's tracking ovulation? Do, does it look like she's ovulating, et cetera? The male side, you know, we want to ask about sexual function and they had a semen analysis. If not, we usually order one because we're interested in the sperm concentration, the motility, the sperm, the shape of the sperm, those types of things. Yeah, one of the things I was very surprised by in the podcast that we did last week on male fertility was how infrequently men are getting evaluated and how many missed opportunity. Then there was how much how much wasted time is being generated because infertility is being assumed to be the responsibility of the female, responsibility might be the wrong word, but it's just assumed that well, that's more likely where it is. So, through no bad intention, the guy is not getting evaluated when the reality the issue could have been with him all along. That's right. Times wasted. Right. When you look at the data, it's about a third of the time, it's a female factor, a third of the time it's a male factor, another third of the time it's some combination of male and female factors. So, yes, definitely one of the first things that we do is the semen analysis on the male partner. And do you guys do that yourselves as well or do you? At the fertility class. Yeah. If there is an abnormality, we usually refer that male partner to a reproductive urologist for further evaluation. But these days, it's recommended, actually, that men, even if they're not trying to get pregnant, sometimes assess their semen analysis and because it can be a marker of other health problems, just like a woman's menstrual cycle can be a marker of other health problems. So, I should qualify that one year timeframe. If you have some reason to believe that you have a fertility problem, I wouldn't necessarily wait a whole year and then go see a provider. If your cycles are regular, if you think you might have places to go over, you send or something, then you definitely want to see somebody sooner than a year. Is it possible to say anything about fertility rates changing over the past 50 years? Is there any statement you can make on that? Yeah, there are some data that seems to suggest that infertility rates are increasing over the last several years. It's pretty common. I don't know if your listeners know, but about the lifetime risk of infertility for each person's about one in six. So that's close to 20%. In the last few years, the United States seems to be kind of a plateau of the prevalence, but let me just ask you to clarify in question, Paula. So if a woman gets pregnant in her 20s, but then in her 30s meets the criteria for infertility, which she be considered one of those one in six? Okay. So we're going to say that the one in six means someone who wants to get pregnant at a certain point in their life can't. Exactly. Lifetime prevalence, exactly. Exactly. And as far as the reasons for the increase in infertility prevalence, it's not super well understood. Part of the reasons delayed child barriers. Is this what it does say? You could make it 100% if every woman decides to have a baby when she's 70. Like defamation will have 100% for mortality. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So women are waiting longer, of course, to start their families, to pursue education, careers, etc. Maybe they haven't found the right partner. And so that defamation is contributing to increase rates of fertility. There's some data that show that sperm counts are decreasing globally. It's a little controversial, but that might be plain and roll. There might be a slight increase risk and sexually trensmitted diseases as well. So all those things are probably factors. Is there an analysis that's tried to get at this by normalizing to female age? Because it seems to me that if you could say rather than make it lifetime prevalence, because that's going to be subject to all the problems you stated. But what if we just said for women aged 28 to 32 to 32 to 35? Like if we made narrow buckets of age, we could we could then kind of get a better sense of whether there's a true infertility issue. Has that analysis been done? It's definitely been looked at by age. I don't know the data off top of my head. It's been looked at by age over time. But definitely your chance of infertility is higher. If you're 40 compared to, if you're 20 or even 30. But do we know if a 30-year-old woman today has a higher rate of infertility than a 30-year-old woman 50 years ago? We think so, but I don't know that data off top of my head. I got it. And so if the answer there is yes, we would then, I don't know that it would answer all our questions, because it could still be explained by decreasing sperm count. It could still be explained by increasing paternal age. You know, this would be very difficult analysis to do. Right. Environmental factors as well. Our exposures are different now than we're 50 years ago. Well, and then thEQuestion of course would be if this is an environmental reason, what are the environmental triggers now? You mentioned STDs a minute ago. So how do STDs in which STDs play a role in fertility? The ones most well-earned are to probably gonorrhea and climediore, which are very common sexually trensmitted diseases. And on the female side, those particular infections can ascend to the phlopian tubes and cause scarring in the phlopian tubes, which then interfere with that process that we talked about earlier, or the egg in the sperm meeting and can lead to infertility. And is that something that happens if it is left untreated, or is that something that's easy to address with antibiotics, if caught early? IMean, if it's caught early, then it's usually treatable with antibiotics, or there are some issues with antibiotic resistance, especially with gonorrhea. But usually if you catch it early, it's treatable. But if it's late stage, or it's unrecognized, or untreated, then it has more likely, more likely to send to the phlopian tubes, where usually cause fertility problems. How prevalent is gonorrhea today in the US? I think it's pretty common. Really? Yeah. Yeah. In certain populations is more common than others, but unfortunately. And there's a number of reasons for that. Some of it is just lack of awareness and education about safe sex practices. Maybe less testing, as well, especially you saw that during the pandemic for sure. How does it present? In women usually with pelvic pain, fever, vaginal discharge, those are the most common symptoms. And is it equally trensmissible from male to female and female to male? It's probably more trensmissible from male to female. And is it an STD where the person who has it knows it? Like if a male has it, does he know he has it? Not always. It's not. It's not trensmitted this readily. Yeah, not always. Okay. What about HSV? Does that factor in fertility at all? Not as much. No. Climity, again, I apologize for my ignorance. I just don't remember any of this stuff since taking the USMLE exams. Tell me how Climity presents and how it impacts fertility. The same, actually. Yeah, very similarly. So pelvic pain, fever, usually they're both present together. Okay. And does it have the same pathology where it creates? It ascends the phalopian tubes and scars the tubes. Yeah. So if it were a case scenario, if a woman undergoes a severe infection with one or both of these, it's not treated in time. She has completely scarred phalopian tubes. Is it still likely that she could get pregnant through IVF? Are the eggs still general? Is the are the eggs in uterus still preserved enough to? Yes. Yes. It doesn't usually affect the uterus or the eggs or the ovaries. Yes. Now, she may not know that she has blocked tubes until she starts trying because you wouldn't necessarily feel different if you're two sort of blocks. So one of the tests we were talking earlier about, you know, what testing we might do in addition to a semen analysis and getting immense real history, etc. is we usually do an x-ray test. It's called a histrocellpingogram or H.S.G. for short. Yep. And it's done specifically to evaluate whether or not the tubes are open. So are you just injecting contrast in, you go into the externally, you go into the cervix, into the, and you just inject die and take an x-ray. Exactly. And you're looking for how smooth. And so tell me what is a normal phalopian tube look like on that test. So first the die. So it's done in radiology facility usually by radiologists, although some gynecologists do this test as well. But usually fills up the uterus so you can also see the uterus. And then the tubes are kind of like these wire like, yeah, what's the diameter of a normal phalopian tube in that setting? Like less than a centimeter. Yeah. That's that's pretty big. Yeah, the whole tube, but the actual sort of opening. No, yeah, how big is the lumen? My crons. Oh, wow. Okay. Or millenures. I don't know. Exactly. But you can see it. Definitely see it on. Yes, right? And you can see it. It's probably a millimetre or more than not my crissure. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then the die is filling up the tubes and then spilling out the tubes. So you can see that. The ovaries are not visualized because of the finger-like projection. So it's actually spilling die into the parent neum at this point. Right. Okay. Right. And based on that visual inspection, a tren radiologist and gyn can say, that is smooth, that looks great versus that is jagged and or obstructed. Right. Now, if it's obstructed, I assume that the woman has a much bigger problem, which is every month, one of those eggs comes out. It's not getting past the point. Right. Does it just atrophy and get reabsorbed? Yes. I see. So it wouldn't necessarily cause pain. Yeah. No. By the way, we didn't talk about this earlier. We took it for granted. This is happening with two separate sides. Yeah. And like it's just mind boggling to me that there is one that is being selected and the one that's happening in one side, somehow that signal is making it to the other side to say, you don't, you can't do it this month. Right. How does that sound? That's what I who knows. We don't know. We have no idea. No idea. No idea. Something to do with the receptors on the eggs in particular, her monolmule you, maybe there's some, you know, nerve, the players are all, we have no idea that actually. But it is on average 50% from one side and 50% from the other side. And it's a coin toss. Right. And it's not necessarily alternating, but it's on average 50%. Right. It would be like heads is left, tails is right. If you throw it for enough times, it's 50-50, but not necessarily back to back. Exactly. Yeah. Again, I, this is mind boggling to me. Yeah. It's fascinating. It's not only, it's, it's mind boggling if it were just one overy. But the fact that these things are physically, you know, a foot up or not a foot, but half a foot apart. And some signal is trensmitted in this woman's body. Yep. IMean, it's, yeah. Yeah. We don't quite understand it. That's incredible to me. Yeah. Yeah. Or, you know, whatever that egg that's being selected somehow develops the appropriate receptors or whatever that only it can respond to, you know, the hormones. Yeah. It's not necessarily signaling to the other ones, but it's something is happening to that one that's being selected. Yeah. That's making it the so-called dominant ballacle for that cycle. Yeah. I suppose that's a more likely, unplausible scenario is that something stochastically triggers one and only one to develop a high enough receptor concentration for FSH or LH or something so that it becomes the only one that can receive. It's the only one that develops the radar. Right. Now, of course, when we do in vitro fertilization, we're giving much higher doses of FSH and multiple X are growing. So you can overcome this process and get multiple X to grow. Yeah. But we don't totally understand physiologically. What makes just one grow each month. Okay. So let's say you do the analysis and I assume if you if there's scarring on one side, but not the other, would you intervene or would you just say no, we just have to, it's just going to take twice as long for one to get through. Yeah. There's still a chance to get pregnant, although whatever process calls the scarring and the one to, probably affected the other tube as well. So just because it's open, doesn't mean that it's functioning normally. Certainly can give, give it a few months of trying. But the other issue you have to worry about is what we call an ectopic pregnancy. If that tube is not normal, if fertilization happens, that embryo can implant in the tube. And that's kind of a very dangerous situation because obviously the tube can accommodate a pregnancy so usually eventually that causes pain and if it goes unrecognized. So surgical emergency. Yeah. Exactly. At how many weeks of gestation is a woman typically? Because that's, you know, I did my trening in general surgery. So that was one of the things we were always thinking about was ectopic pregnancies for women presenting with abdominal pain. But I don't think I know the answer to this question, which is how many weeks of gestation is a woman when she's showing up in the ER complaining of abdominal pain? Usually about six to eight weeks pregnancy. It's two months pregnant. Right. Now, remember we time, yeah, pregnancy from like two weeks before ovulation. So she's, you know, by the time she recognizes that she's pregnant, she's already a month pregnant. Yep. So in the next month, it's probably the most common time or those, the topic pregnancy is present. So when a woman has an ectopic pregnancy, can that philopian tube be salvaged? Sometimes, sometimes if you recognize it early, it can be treated either medically or surgically and that tube can be salvaged. If you recognize it late in the tube ruptures, then often time the treatment is to just remove the tube, plus especially if it's not functioning normally. Yeah. So when you remove that, let's just say it's a young woman. She's 25 years old. You can't salvage the tube. You end up taking the tube. You're leaving the ovary. Right. So you still want her to have her endocrine system intact. Right. What's happening to the eggs that come out of that tube? They just get released into the abdomen, the puritanamin, resort. So do you tell that woman your fertility rate just went down by 50 percent? Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. She can still get pregnant. If she has the other tube intact, but most of the time if the egg ovulates from the right it's going to try and go down the right side. Although there have been cases where, you know, you can ovulate from the right ovary and it can travel down. It makes it's way over to the middle of the way. It's way over there. Yeah. It's rare. Wow. So it could happen. Yeah. What are the risks for actopic pregnancy besides former STDs that lead to scarring in the tube? A previous surgery, pelvic surgery in particular like ruptured appendix or something like that. Endometriosis can cause scarring of the tubes. Those are probably the most common. Okay. Any genetic component to this? If your mom had an actopic pregnancy or you? Not that we know of. Let's go back to our hypothetical case here. So woman comes in. Let's just assume for the sake of simplicity. The work up on her male partner totally fine. Yes. His sperm are fine. The radiograph shows that she has at least to the to the eye normal phlobion tubes. What's the next step in the work up? So we want to assess her cycles and ovulation. So if she's ovulating regularly, then we call that sort of unexplained. How do you know that she is? Let's say she is determined by the fact that she has a regular period. Does that alone tell you that? Usually. Usually it would be unusual to have regular periods and not be ovulating. But what it could happen? How stringent is your definition for a regular period? It's not 28 days necessary. Not necessarily. Yeah. There's a range. You know, it could be anywhere from like 21 to 35 days Wow. That's a pretty big range. Are you more. So you are less concerned with the number of days of the cycle and more concerned with the fact that whatever the days are, it's just repeating over and over again? Yes. If you mean duration of the period, yeah. That's not as important as how frequently the period is. How you'd be happy? It was 21 days, but it was always 21 days. That's better than 24, 28, 31. Well, there is some normal variation. So sometimes all, I'll see a patient should say my periods are very regular. Sometimes they're 26 days. Sometimes they're 32. I consider that normal. Yeah. It's not. Okay. Usually, always 28 days are always 21 days. There's some normal variation. Irregular would be your skipping months or maybe you're getting a period, every three months or and what's happening in that situation in a young woman? Yeah. There are a number of different causes. Probably the most common is something called polycystic ovary syndrome. It's a very common hormonal condition. We don't know exactly. What causes it? I feel like I'm saying that a lot about women's health. Right? We don't know exactly what causes and because we're not investing enough in women's research. Why do you think that is? This this came up on another podcast on HRT, which is another one of my big sort of rallying cries, which is how pathetic it is that we haven't done in a research. IMean, why do you think this is given how important a subject this is? You know, political reasons, I think gender inequality, all kinds of reasons like that. Do we have a sense objectively that there is a difference in this type of research? Or do we think it's just that well, maybe there's equal amounts of funding, but the innate problems associated with the female reproductive system or female health in general are so much more complicated that even at equal funding levels, we're going to be far behind in our understanding. Yeah, no, I think it's a good idea. There's just a data that the funding for women's health research, it's like 10%. It's like up the overall NIH budget, for example, it's very small. If you look at reproductive health, it's even smaller. So it's a huge issue. Let's talk about polycystic ovarian syndrome. So what's the prevalence of it in, let's say women age call it 15 to 30? Yeah, super common about six to eight percent of women will have polycystic every syndrome. Most common symptoms are irregular periods. Also evidence of high-endrogen levels, and that can usually present with acne or excess hair growth. We call that here's a toism obesity or being overweight. That's also part of the syndrome, not everybody who has the same. And the endrogens are specifically testosterone. Could it be just testosterone just DHA, DHA? But both, but typically elevated testosterone from the ovaries. Yeah. Okay. So is that the cause or the effect? We don't know. We don't know, but it's definitely almost all women with PCOS that they have higher endrogen levels. And why is PCOS seemingly also highly associated with insulin resistance? Again, we don't know exactly, but we think the endrogens play a role. We think there might be some genetic factors that play a role. I don't know that we understand why, but we certainly have recognized in the last several decades that most women with PCOS also happen to be insulin resistant. But we don't know the direction of causality? No. We know that not everybody who's insulin resistant has PCOS, of course, because not all diabetic, serencelerate. There we also know that some women with PCOS are not insulin resistant, correct? Probably on some level they are, but they're able to compensate. And certainly it's more likely if they tend to be overweight as well. So it's definitely multifactorial. And I guess it's like we're treating PCOS now more like other complex diseases, like obesity or hypertension, etc. There's lots of things going on. But based on what you just said, if there is any causality between them, it's more likely that the PCOS is driving the insulin resistance than the other way around. Given the number of women that are insulin resistant who do not have PCOS, yeah, that's probably true. So then thEQuestion is what do we need to do to treat PCOS? Right. So depends on the goal of the patient, right? So if they're trying to get pregnant, there's one set of treatments. If they're not trying to get pregnant, but they have PCOS, then we usually focus on their cycles, because it's generally not a good idea to go too long in between cycles, because what can happen is the lining of the uterus can overgrow. If it overgrow too much, it can become what we call hyperplastic, worst case scenario cancers. You definitely don't want that. So it's important to be shutting that lining or to be on hormonal suppression so that that doesn't happen. If the goal is to treat the hyper-indrogenic symptoms like the acne and the hercetism, again, hormonal treatments, usually effective for that. When you say hormonal treatments, you mean like spironolactone and things like that? Well usually start with birth control pills. Birth control pills are very effective for most symptoms of PCOS. It'll regulate the cycles, decrease endrogen levels, help with the hercetism and acne, etc. So let's talk about why. So a birth control pill is a high dose of a synthetic estrogen and progestin that's given 21 days and then paused for a week. IMean, meaning you take it every day, but the last week is a placebo. So is the reason that that helps with the hyper-androgenism because it raises sex homoenbinding lobulin so much that it mobs up all the excess testosterone? Part of the reason. I'm impressed by your endocrinology knowledge. Yes, that's part of the reason. And by the way, you can't take it that way you described where you have a bleed every month, but you don't have to. Many people take it continuously these days so you don't have a period at all. But then doesn't that address the issue that you were talking about or does the synthetic estrogen, the synthetic progestin offset the hyperplasia and then you don't care? Right. When you take the combination of estrogen, progesterone usually the line becomes quite thin. Then anyway, okay. Okay. So two mechanisms of action. When you're taking those hydroceases of estrogen and progesterone, it's suppressing the pituitary hormones, namely the LH and FSH. But the LH is what drives the testosterone production in the ovary. So that's one mechanism. And the other one is the one you describe. So the estrogen component of the pill will increase the sex hormone binding lobulin. So you have less free testosterone around. So again, that will help with those symptoms. We talked about. Okay. So women with PCOS doesn't want to get pregnant. Right. Just wants to reduce the androgen impact and protect her uterus. A constant or a contraceptive is a great strategy. It's a great strategy. Yeah. There are others. You know, it could be a progestin IUD. That's a hormone way of IUD. So there are a number of different ones or just taking progesterone every few months. That usually will help protect the lining, but probably won't decrease the hydrogen levels. Can how often do you place women who have PCOS also with insulin resistance on metformin? Do you find that or any of the other diabetic agents to be particularly useful? Occasionally. Yeah. And that's an important point because women as we said who have PCOS or insulin resistant, which predisposes them to diabetes. So those women need to be screened periodically for diabetes. And we commonly use metformin to either treat pre-diabetes or to try and prevent diabetes. Does insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes independently impair fertility? All things being equal. Absent PCOS. That's a loaded question. Yeah. In some cases, IMean, there's some data that shows that metabolic diseases of chronic diseases can impact fertility mechanisms again are unclear, or probably related to both ovulation, dysfunction, and also endometrial receptivity. Okay. So now, I assume that's the easier way to treat PCOS is the woman who does not want to get pregnant. So now let's talk about the woman with PCOS, but who is also trying to conceive. Right. What is your playbook? So we always counsel these patients as well. I should mention whether they're trying to get pregnant or not, especially if they're overweight or obese weight loss helps with all the symptoms of PCOS. So healthy diet, lifestyle, etc. And how much of a role are GLP1 agonist playing in this? Now, how much more success are you having with treating PCOS that way? Yeah, increasingly. And they're very successful as you know for weight loss and there've been some studies on PCOS patients specifically very effectively. What if you know any of those data? I'm not familiar with you. Yeah, they work really well, just like they work. Can people with diabetes or people who with obesity without diabetes? Problem is you can't get pregnant while you're taking them in the current recommendation is to stop for at least two months. And you pardon my ignorance why? Because we don't have any data on whether they're safe. Yeah. And so FDA is saying when FDA, I forget the FDA's classification for this. There's like ABCX or something like that for every drug. Yes, and I haven't looked for that one specifically, but I'm sure it's like X because we have no data. Okay. So that's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GLP1 agonist because we don't understand the impact of that. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. Okay. Now, having said that, there've been lots of you may have read about a Zempek baby. So like people getting pregnant on GLP1. So there is a registry. And so far to my knowledge, there haven't been reported birth defects in that type of thing, but obviously we're talking about small number of patients. Yeah, that's the second point. Now that you mentioned that, now we're called hearing about that. So presumably these are women who have taken either, you know, some of GLP1 tied to a Zepatide and presumably they get pregnant, yes. Either intentionally or not. Okay. So that's a very interesting, interesting registry to follow. Right. Right. Now, of course, once they find out, they're pregnant usually. There's just a council. It's not a plan. Yeah. So we don't know what would happen if you continue on something. Anybody wants to do that? Yeah. Study at the moment. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. We certainly don't want women who are pregnant to not want to eat. Understanding that a woman who's got PCOS is going to be first counsel to make these changes that effectively help her lose weight and increase her metabolic health. Let's say she is somewhat successful, but still unable to address the concern. Right. So luckily, they're very good. Obulation and do see medications available. So what we would typically recommend for someone with PCOS to help them formulate more regularly is a medication called letrasal. The brand name is Femara. It's just a medication you take for five days in your cycle and then we can usually assess the ovulation with ultrasound. And what does it do? Basically, it's category of medication called aromatase inhibitors, which blocks the conversion of testosterone to the estrogen. Right. And the estrogen that lower estrogen, somehow triggers the pituitary to increase the accretion of FSH and LH and that stimulates the ovary to again get one of those follicles. And is the reason you use something like an aromatase inhibitor as opposed to clomophene or HCG is just that it's a smaller nudge and you're starting out with it? No, we used to use clomid first line for PCOS, but then there was a study that came out several years ago comparing the two and show the pregnancy rates were a little bit higher with letrasal. Clomid's perfectly good as well, but letrasal's better for PCOS. So if you have access to letrasal, that's very counterintuitive. Well, if you think about it, when you you take an aromatase inhibitor, you're going to lower estrogen, but not, IMean, I guess it depends on the dose. I guess I'm trying to think of like an astrasal, which I'm more familiar with than letrasal. I suppose if you took a milligram of an astrasal every day for five days, you would drive estrogen down, but I didn't think you would, I didn't think that that reduction in estrogen would lead to a high enough amount of petrope and releasing hormone, which is effectively what has to be happening. It has to be going up to drive this accretion of LH and FSH. Right. Yeah, yeah, that's again, that's still counterintuitive. To me, I would just think that giving 50 to 100 milligrams of plummet would have a much bigger impact on that. It also works, but yeah, correct. Yeah, randomized control trial had to have comparison show the pregnancy rates were better for some reason with the letrasal compared to Clomid. Okay, and does it matter when in her cycle, she takes the letrasal? Usually, it's recommended from day three to five with the first day of full bleeding we call that day one. Yep. So early. What if she's not on what at the point is, is she's not having her period, how do you then time it? We induce superior, not a real period, but we induce a withdrawal bleed by giving progesterone typically. Okay, so you give a woman progesterone and then by withdrawing the progesterone, you cut that's so cool. Yeah, you guys are so manipulative. I know. How much does this research zone do you give? Usually about 200? No, 5 to 10 milligrams of a mojoxy progesterone acetate, or you can give micro-nice progesterone for about seven to 10 days. Only five to 10 milligrams of micro-nice progesterone? No, micro-nice progesterone 200 milligrams. Okay, yeah, so the full party dose of micro-nice progesterone for five days. Yeah, but drugs see progesterone acetate five times. Yeah, and then and by the way, do you have a preference for MPA versus micro-nice? No, not really. Okay. It's because it's such a short. Yes. So you give the full dose of endometriol progesterone for five days. Yeah. The second you take it off, it's the withdrawal of progesterone that causes the lining to shed. Right. And then we call that day one and then you set on day five, we go ahead and start ripening the follicle right, ripening the follicle with the aromatase inhibitor. Three to seven. Yeah. For five days. Okay. Wow. Yeah. Very cool. Yeah. And then we usually do an ultrasound around a 12-ish and you could see one of those follicles starting to grow. Usually, not all patients will respond. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or sometimes we have to try a different medication. But most patients with PCOS will respond to that medication. So would you say that every single woman out there with PCOS who wants to get pregnant has access to a doctor that understands what you just described and can do that for her. Or do you worry that too many women are being shunted to IVF too soon without an attempted something like this? I definitely think they're probably not enough people who totally understand management of PCOS, especially in the context of fertility treatment for sure. And even in the context of non-infertily treatment, often what I hear from patients had irregular periods. Somebody told them to start going on the birth control pill. They never told them why. They didn't even know what they had PCOS, right? It happens to be the correct treatment. So great. But you know, they've gone years now, not understanding that they have PCOS and the implications of that, which as we talked about their metabolic implications, etc. So that's a problem. But once they want to become pregnant, very few general gynecologists are set up to be able to treat patients with either a comment or letra's also some of them do, but it's not like a fertility clinic with reproductive and chronologists because we're set up to do monitoring seven days a week in that type of thing. But not everybody has access to it for fertility specialists kind of buried dependent on where you live. A little bit better now with telehealth, but still access to the salon. You have to do the sonogram when you're doing this. You don't have to, but you want to know whether the woman's responding meaning that she's actually ovulating. There are other ways to assess that. If she gets a period at the right time, that she probably ovulated or if she gets pregnant, of course, or you can check a progesterone level in the Lugneal phase. The second half of the cycle, if it's elevated, she probably ovulated. Yeah, we just happen to use ultrasound just easier. And how much of what you're describing is covered with typical health insurance? Depends, depends where you live, and the United States is very state dependent. So some states have infertile insurance mandates where your employer's insurance policy has to provide, infertility, diagnostic, and treatment. But many states infertilities not covered, or they might just cover the testing portion, but then not cover the treatment portions. So that's a huge problem. Okay, you're in Oregon. I'm in Oregon. And what is the state there? We don't have an infertile insurance mandate yet. Although we're working on it. It's actually a bill in session. This regular session now that we're trying to get past because we infertilities of disease, like every other disease, and we think it shouldn't matter where you live. You should have access to the appropriate treatment. So in our state, it kind of depends on your employer and whether they provide that particular insurance coverage. And so if a person has health insurance that does not cover reproductive care, how much would be the cost of what you just described the outer pocket. Yeah, so lecturers all and clomid or just oral maturity. Yeah, they're cheap. Yeah, but then you add the ultrasound monitoring that could be another $300 at your pay not a pocket. And then if you're doing like intra-utering insemination, for example, which we haven't talked about yet. But let's just say just what we talked about is still a really cheap treatment, right? Relatively. Yeah, so a few hundred dollars a month. But for some people that could be a lot. Yeah, but relative to what we're about to talk about right. This is this is still well within the purview of out-of-pocket. For sure. Compared to what's coming. Yeah. For sure. And so you kind of alluded to it, but I'm guessing you're saying, look, we would give this three tries. Would that be a fair assessment? Usually. So we'd go through three consecutive cycles of this. And it's interesting. So there's two ways that this treatment could fail. Right? The first is each time we did the ultrasound, we just didn't see an egg. So not respond. We were not responding to the follicle stimulation. Right. Let's talk about what the implication is there. Alternatively, you could say, God, three out of three months, we actually got ovulation. But we didn't get fertilization. Right. If you were three months of that, I assume in parallel you're doing the male work up because nothing would be a greater crime than going to a regular job. Right. And then you figured out the sperm was the problem. Right. But let's assume you have that box checked. Would you be more inclined to continue that treatment for another three to six months? Yeah. Yeah. And someone who hasn't been ovulating, they haven't tried for a year even. Right. Have anything met the criteria for total? Exactly. So there's nothing magic abouT3 months. But that's, you know, at least a check-in point where we say, hey, do we continue doing this? Or do we move on to something else? So if it's a young person and this is like the first time they're ovulating in their life, then yeah, we give them more time on a less invasive treatment, less expensive treatment. Okay. If they're like 3840, you know, we probably move on to something else. Okay. So let's go to the first case I described. So you get no ovulation. Yeah. Okay. Three times no ovulation. We're not going to waste her time anymore. But she's still young. So what's your next step in the algorithm? So typically, so it's IMean, we've tried higher doses and different medication like plummet or whatever. Still not responding. Then we typically move on to a class of medication called Genata trope ends or essentially FSH or follicle stimulating hormone, same hormone. Not average. You don't give HCG directly. It's a little bit of combination. We do eventually give HCG to trigger ovulation. But so we could either use those medications with either time to intercourse or an intra-inion elimination or with IVF. Okay. That middle option with time intercourse and in some any intra-inion elimination is kind of fallen out of favor a little bit because those medications are very expensive. Quite a lot of monitoring, success rate with IUI or time intercourse is much lower than IVF. So we usually skip that and go directly to IVF. Okay. If you are going to use FSH and LH give me a sense of cost, what dose are you using of HCG? So if the plan is just for time intercourse and treat our insemination, we use maybe 1 to 3 ampules of FSH and 75 units. The whole cycle, if you include the monitoring, IUI, etc, could be like $3 or $4,000. So you can see, yeah, we're a big step up. Yeah. After a few cycles, it's almost the same cost as an IVF cycle. So you're like better off, especially if the patient wants to have or the couple wants to have more than one child. Yep. You know, the advantage of IVF is you can freeze embryos. So if you want to have two or three kids, you might as well just do IVF and bank those embryos because otherwise you're going to have to do the same thing all over again for your second kid or your third kid. Yep. I see. So basically, intra-utarin insemination has largely fallen out of favor based on does that also mean the cost of IVF is coming down? Is that also making it more attractive? Yep. So IUI's very common still. I see. Okay. But we do it. You know, we were talking specifically about the patient with the US who's not obligating. Right. Right. Right. Right. Got it. Got it. But otherwise, if you have a patient who is obligating and has maybe unexplained and fertility tubes are open. Yeah. In this case, you don't have to use a hormone to make her ovulate. You just need an ultrasound, which is relatively cheap to know when she's going to ovulate. Yeah, we still use the medication though because we super-opulate. So normally you just make one egg. So when someone's already ovulating, the goal of fertility medications is to get them to release more than one egg. So two eggs, three eggs, more eggs around, higher chance that one of them is going to be normal and one is going to fertilize. What does the graph look like of number of eggs versus probability of twins triplets, et cetera? Yeah. That's one of the downsides, right? So the risk of multiples with the oral medications, like, kilometer letters all, is about 5 to 8%. So not super high, but definitely higher than if the patient were to conceive without medication. So that's something we counsel them about. But it's very common as a first-line treatment to do oral medication with IUI, even in the context of normal sperm, I would say, although it's more important. Of course, if there's a male component and then if that didn't work in three cycles, then move on to IVF. And with the injectables, what is the risk of multiple pregnancies? Much higher, like 25 to 35%. Yeah. Okay. And how many eggs are typically? It depends on the dose of the medication. So of course, when we're doing IVF, we want a lot of eggs. So it's 10 to 15 eggs. But if we're doing IUI, it could be like three to five eggs. Or it depends on the dose and depends on the age of the patient, et cetera. So what's falling out of favors injectables with IUI? That's kind of, we don't do that very much. Got it. Makes sense. Yeah. Back in the day, when every time you're in the grocery store and you saw the cover of the national inquire, and then it was like, this woman just had 47 babies, like what the hell was going on in those areas? I think in the early days of IVF, well, even before IVF, when people just had access to injectables in IUI, most of the multiple pregnancies were from not from IVF, but from injectables in IUI. Because literally there were women having eight and nine babies at a time. Yeah. That famous octopalid case, I think that was actually an IVF case. So in the early days of IVF, when IVF was not very successful, we had to trensfer many embryos to get decent pregnancy rates. And some of the time, more than one would take. So the pregnancy rates were the multiple pregnancy rates. But you're saying that situation, they would have trensferred eight and all eight took. Yeah. I'm not saying it was the right thing to do, but that's what happened. Okay. One can split into two, but yeah. In that particular case, more than the recommended number were trensferred. So now they're very strict guidelines from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, which is our professional organization that almost always were trensferring just one embryo these days. Unless a couple says, I'd actually like to have twins. Yeah. We kind of discouraged that. Why? Because twins are riskier. They're riskier for the babies and for the mom. So the riskier in an IVF setting? No, they're just riskier in general. But as is our IVF twins, do they pose any more risk to either fetus or mom than naturally conceive twins? Yes. There is some data that was suggest that IVF pregnancies are more complicated. Have a higher risk of complication than spontaneous pregnancies? We don't know exactly why. If it's the IVF or the fact that people who need IVF have underlying conditions that may predispose them to some of these complications. Overwhelmingly, the data is reassuring that pregnancies do find the babies to find. But we definitely know that twins, whether you're conceive them spontaneously or with IVF, the risk of almost every pregnancy complication is going to be higher. So this is the risk of pre-eclampsia, helps in blood clot like anything that is retention, hemorrhage, yes, need fersy section, all those risk premature delivery. Got it. All those risks are increased. So we don't intentionally like to produce twins although it happens sometimes, obviously. So, oh, this is fascinating stuff. So let's I'm just trying to take this in some sort of thoughtful order. Should we now move to IVF? Would you want to say a little bit more about IVY? We haven't really talked directly about IVY. I don't know what it is about when people say turkey-based or it went to me, pringe like that. It's just such a gross image to me. So I am deliberately not going to say other than that woman ago that I just said it. But just so that people know what we mean by intruder and insemination. Just to be clear, you are not using a turkey-based or definitely not. Okay, thank God. Must disgusting. I don't know why. Yes, so gross. So can you explain how IVY is done? We've already said that with IVY, you largely favor an oral preparation. Usually. Yeah. Okay. So that means you're using an oral set of hormones so that the woman doesn't have a massive proliferation of follicles. So male ejaculates, do you want fresh semen or do you care if it's frozen? What's the difference in success? Yeah, same, same. So we have, you know, single women as well and female same sex couples who would also be doing, and don't learn some ination in that case. And we don't see any difference between fresh semen and frozen semen. No, assuming the sperm is not on the ground. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So the indications for IVY would be either those scenarios IMentioned, single women, same sex couples, or if there's a couple with unexplained infertile, you just can't find a reason. So you just want to try and sort of optimize their chances. Or if there's a male factor right. So if there's like this, you know, lower sperm count, lower mortality, the idea with IVY is that the female partner would typically take fertility medication to increase the number of eggs. She would track her ovulation when she's ovulating. She would come to the clinic. The male partner would come to the clinic, produce the sperm sample. We process the sperm, which is basically, you know, we collect the best sperm in a small volume, and then place that sperm directly into the uterus through the cervix. So the problem that you're able to overcome on the sperm side would be number and motility. Yeah, or morphology, like any abnormality in the Cemen analysis, as long as it's not very chromosome. So, IMean, obviously you can't overcome right. Right. So, so if the sperm are too few, they don't move well enough if they're defective in most ways IVYF. Yeah, it's more specifically XC, where we actually, in which stands for Interacidoplasmic sperm injection, where we actually take a sperm and inject it directly into an egg. So, first of the beer male factor, that would be the recommended treatment. But, you know, the sperm's a little bit low, but it's not too bad. Then I UI, we would try a few cycles of that first. Okay, so when in the woman's cycle, how many days before she ovulates, do you want to inject those sperm into the mouth of the uterus? Essentially, the day she's ovulating. So this is interesting to me because one of the things that I took away from the discussion with Paul last week was that if you look at the probability distribution curve of when a pregnancy occurs, the the ejaculate enters the uterus prior to ovulation. You have a, I forget what he said, 80% of pregnancies occur when the sperm are there prior to ovulation. Only 20, and I could be wrong on this I've already forgotten. I think only 20% occur post ovulation. So the tail falls off much quicker. Yes, it is true that if there's sperm around prior to ovulation, it can hang around for a while because it lives two to three days or so whereas the lifespan of the ovulated egg is much shorter. So based on that, wouldn't it make sense to put the sperm in prior to ovulation? You can use it just to risky to try and anticipate when that is. You know, if it's a straight couple, we'll tell them to also have an error course. There are a couple days around the time of ovulation, but the pregnancy rates in these probably back early studies that have looked at this show that probably the highest pregnancy rate if you do the insemination on the day. God. That you think the patient is ovulating and we're doing that with ultrasound. Usually, LH monitoring. So patient will either monitor her urine, LH, and remember LH goes up just before ovulation. We typically also look do ultrasound based on the size of the follicles. We can tell we sometimes trigger ovulation with HCG, which kind of simulates the woman's own LH surge. So if you want to be pretty precise. How big a dose of HCG do you need to? Usually 5,000 units, which is half a vow. It's a lot, probably more than physiologic, but it the purpose is to cause release of the egg and then we time the insemination to happen when we think the ovulation is happening. Okay. Do you ever do the following? This is like me just thinking out the box. Get the male to bank a ton of sperm. So take weeks to get or if she's going to a sperm bank if it's a single or same-sex couple, whatever. Just get multiple allocats of semen. And starting so on day one, insert, day two, insert, day three, give 10,000 IU of HCG, insert, and then day four insert. In other words, cover your bases and just have lots of seam and sitting around and then force the ovulation. Wouldn't that be just a... IMean, you could do that or the couple could just up-sex and you know, I think. Right, but we then introduce another variable, right, which is that what if the what if the semen are what if the count is low enough? Because if if he's ejaculating every day, you're not having a chance to fully rebuild the supply. What if his motility is anything other than perfect? Or in the other case, what if we're dealing with same-sex couples or a single mom? Yeah, there have been studies looking at like two IUIs compared to one. And specifically in like same-sex couples or single women, show no difference. And remember, especially if you're paying out a pocket for all these things, it has to be worth it to yeah. So at some point, even if when I proposed worked better, it's going to approach the cost of of the 5GF. Right, like how much better and is it worth like another $400, five days now your cost to be your IUIs cycles all of a sudden? Yeah. $2000, you know, yeah. So those are practical considerations as well. So feel free to partition this in any way you want. If you look at all uses of IUI, what is the success rate? And feel free to, again, divide that up into different cases. The pregnancy success rate really depends on the age of the female partner. So if it's a young woman in the 20s, success rate might approach success rate for natural consumption, which might be 2025 per cycle. But if you're, you know, if it's a woman over 35, might be 10 to 15 percent. If it's a woman over 40, might only be 1 to 5 percent per cycle. Wow. And that's because, again, it's all about quality of the egg. So even though an egg is released, maybe two eggs are released if those eggs aren't normal, they're not going to for a less than implant. Okay. So we've covered a whole lot of fertility treatments. It seems that the likelihood that a woman who's undergone some of the things we've discussed that still ends up going down to the IVF pathways is reasonably high. Yeah, the majority of people don't need IVF again. It depends on the age of the female partner specifically and what the problem is. So let's just go sub 35. Okay. So of all women who present with defined infertility, which if she's under 35, means more than a year of regular sex and no pregnancy, walk through the success rate of pregnancy by modality. So under 35, infertility for a year, how many are successful with just an oral treatment absentee IVA? Yeah, again, distorted depends on what the cause of the infertility is. Is it unexplained or is it PCOS? No, let's say unexplained. Yeah, unexplained? Probably less than 50 percent will get pregnant with IVA and have to move on to IVF because unexplained to me means either they're it's bad luck or more likely if something going on, we just can't figure it out. And those cases almost always IVF is going to give you a higher chance of success. Oh, sorry. Yes, that I can understand for sure. I'm saying how many of them will need to get IVF? Or is that what are you answering? Yeah, yeah, that's what it was getting at. And you know, for PCOS, their problem was they just weren't ovulating. So probably 80 percent of those people will get pregnant with just ovulationduction and IVI. So there's no therapy, basically, is the dressing of the body. Yeah, if it's very severe male factor, it's probably I UI, not going to work. Yeah. You know, so really kind of depends on the, you know, what the ideology of the infertility. And so now if we talk about age 35 to 45. Yeah. So, and again, let's take PCOS off the table in this age group. So let's just say we're talking 35 to 45 year old women. PCOS, not an issue and let's just also assert male, not an issue. That's been worked out unexplained infertility. So I guess now technically you would call it six months of, of of of of not getting pregnant would be sufficient. But here how many what percentage of women will get pregnant absent an IVF strategy? So depends how long you do it for, right? So most of the time we're only doing it for three cycles. It's like I said, it's not cost effective to do it for longer. So I would say in that age group probably the majority of women will likely need IVF. If they are not successful after three months, theoretically if you continue doing I UI, a lot of those people will eventually get pregnant. But we tend to stop aT3. Yes. And so again, what tell me aT3 months again, what percentage are going to be successful with three cycles? In that age group, unexplained infertility. unexplained over 35. I don't know the exact number but probably under 50%. Okay, but that could be a third potentially. Yeah, because it's just right per cycle is something like in that age group, let's say 10 to 15%. So it's. So you go one minus that number times three. One minus that to the third power should be about 30%. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. So now let's talk a little bit about IVF. First successful IVF, baby, 1978. If my memory sort of. That's right. That's right. First was a test tube baby, which is kind of weird because I would imagine it was in a peach edition, not a test tube. But anyway. Yeah. Yeah. We've come along way since then for historical context, I don't know anything about that that girl. But do you know anything about how that was done back in 1978? Yeah. Actually, there's a recent documentary drama called Joy that goes to her name. A little name I believe is Joy. Yes. Well, that's a great joy. Brown. It's first Louise Brown. I believe your middle is Joy. Got it. But it's a movie about the first IVF. That's great. Now, of course, they tried for many many years before they had the first success that these were two doctors. So tell me again. What IMean, maybe this is all on the doctor drama and I can't wait to check it out. But what kind of IRB approval was there how much controversy was there around this? It must have been a huge deal. Yeah. There was a lot of controversy. Like, you know, this was playing a good phrase. Yeah. Yeah. And this was done at the time, primarily for women with tubal factor block tubes. I think, can't remember the exact details of the couple. But I believe they had tubal disease. And IVF works great for tubal disease because of course you're bypassing the tubes altogether. Where was this done in the UK in Britain? Okay. I see. So that's probably, I didn't realize it wasn't done here in the US. So, so tell me a little bit about technologically how they accomplished it back then. Yeah. I think the first cases they were actually doing surgery like under general. They were a self-reserved or less. Let's go back, I believe. Yeah. To retrieve the X. Oh wow. And then they were combining the X with the sperm in the test tube, petridish. And then I think they were trensferring the embryo. Maybe back into the tube in those days or maybe through the cervix. I can't remember the details. But yes, a lot of has changed over the last 45 years or so. Wow. Yeah. Despite that success in 1978, what did it look like for the next 10 years? From 1978 to 1988. Yeah. How prevalent was IVF in terms of being, IMean, I guess when did it get to the point where anybody who could afford it could access it? Much more recently. Yeah. The first IVF baby in the United States was born a few years later. I think maybe 1980. One or so. Okay. In Virginia, I believe. And it took like probably many decades for it to become sort of commonplace throughout the world. So now most countries, there's you can access IVF, not everybody can access IVF. But in some countries more than others. But in, you know, depending on how you look at it, it's kind of you and kind of not, but you know, 45 years. But in medicine, that's, it's a relatively recent development and it's been only in the last maybe 20, 30 years that has become, you know, standard. Okay. So let's just walk through how IVF works and then we'll kind of dive into the ins and outs of some of the nuances. So, so a one comes to you, probably she's progressed through some layers of treatment. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you've collectively come to the decision that this is hands down the best opportunity both for success and, you know, risk. So how does the treatment go? Yeah. So typically we do a bunch of screening tests on both partners. I include some blood tests, a seamen analysis and ultrasound to get some assessment of their egg number, the woman's egg number. And then when the cycle starts, takes about two to three months to complete a cycle of IVF. And when you say egg number, are you determining that through an AMH or through a physical examination of the ovaries? But so we do an ultrasound, we can count the number of follicles. How small are these things? You know, a few millimeters. And you have the resolution to see that on ultrasound. Yeah. Okay. And that gives you some sense of about how many eggs that particular patient will produce with a variant stimulation. And we use AMH as a hormone. You explain what AMH is in how it works. Yeah. AMH is a hormone stands for antimilarion hormone. It's secreted by the cells that surround the egg. So it tends to correlate with the egg number. Okay. Doesn't tell you anything about fertility or pregnancy rates or anything like that. Ages still the most important factor in that sense. But it does give you an idea to have a normal number of eggs. So just number. So two women that have the same number of eggs. If one woman has high quality eggs, the other woman does not, they could still have the same AMH level on a blood test. Right. Okay. If there are different ages, they're success rates can be different. Yeah. Can you give me that remind me the range? So a pre-obually a sort of pre-pubescent girl who has a billion and not a billion, but right a million eggs, but who is not fertile. Does she have a higher low AMH? She has a higher AMH. We tend not to use it in that age group because it's less reliable. But in a normal AMH would be like about two, I think the year it's peak around predestilator, but leave. Less than one is considered low. So a woman who's older. But what's the difference between a 16-year-old girl who probably could get pregnant if she walked past a guy versus that never happens, by the way. But if you have like a 16-year-old girl who is at the peak of her fertility versus a 30-year-old woman who is still fertile but has lost a step. What's the difference in AMH? Yeah, it's a very narrow range. So like above two, we consider that's probably normal reproductive age. About two is two if that's different. Now it can be high two and patients with PCOS for example have very high levels. Okay. Different things. Yeah. Above two, you know, that's usually good number of eggs. Less than one, low number of eggs. So this is kind of a binary test. You're not interested. It's a continuum. It is, but you're not looking at, oh, this woman's 1.6. This woman's 1.7. This woman's 1.7. This woman. Yeah. Yeah. And you're going to like you look at a TSA or something. Right. Right. And the assays also vary variable depends where you have it done. Whatever just gives you a 90-year- Okay. Like are the egg number average for your person's age, more than average, less than average. And it helps us because we can determine what dose of medication to use during IVF and we also can give kind of expectation to the patient like you're probably going to make five to 10 eggs maybe not 15 to 20 in that type of thing. So it's anyway. When she's ready to start cycle, everything usually starts with their period. Usually we depending on the age again, but usually the patient starts on a couple weeks of birth control pills. And what that does is kind of suppresses the ovaries because we want all the eggs to kind of grow up the same rate. Yeah. Stop the pill. Then you start the ganata tropans which are this. That is injectable. Yep. And they're injectable just under skin kind of injection. So IMean HCG and F S H. Not a HCG, but primarily F S H. Okay. The little bit of L H. Okay. Okay. So you're on those for about eight to 12 days. And then every few days while you're taking those medications, you have to come into the clinic for ultrasound monitoring and estradiol levels, blood levels. And we can monitor how many follicles are growing, how big they are, et cetera. Usually medications are pretty well tolerated. And what dose of L H and F S H is she injecting relative to what she would normally make? Is it a two x five x 10 x depends on the age again, higher doses for women who are older, but much much higher doses. More than 10 x. Yeah. Hmm, maybe not quite. Okay. Maybe five. Okay. Timbagal symptoms. Most common I would say is bloating as the ovaries get a little more enlarged. There's a small risk of something called ovarian hypers stimulation syndrome when the ovaries get a little bit too stimulated, but that's exceedingly rare. Usually your signs is happening. We can always back down on the dose. Sometimes patient doesn't make it. So many eggs as we were hoping. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or change the protocol. But usually we guess pretty right. And then once the follicles are a certain size, that's how we know the eggs are mature. Because of course we can't see the eggs on the ultrasound. You can only see the follicles that continue. Yeah. Right. So then the patient gets HCG, which is another medication, which kind of simulates her own L H surge. And the purpose of that medication causes the final maturation of the eggs. And if we did not do an egg retrieval, she would release all those eggs. But of course, we time the egg retrieval to happen just before the woman ovulates. So that medication is very time sensitive. And to be clear, were you only giving her FSH before, are you giving her L H as well? A little bit of L H, but mostly of the H. And why are you using L H versus HCG? Kind of just to simulate the physiologic. Is that a good one? I didn't realize there was a difference appreciated by the body between them. I thought I thought that there were similar. So we use HCG for, but the body of course doesn't have HCG until the patient's pregnant. Yeah. But it works well to as a substitute. So there is L H out there as a drug. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's combined with comes as a combination drug. With the FSH. Yeah. Got it. I see. Yeah. So how do you prevent her from ovulating while you are giving her FSH and L H? And she is building and she is the right thing. Yeah. Yeah. Good question. There's another medication that we give. It's called the G&RH antagonist. And basically blocks the L H surge from happening until I see. So we're giving her FSH. The L H that's attached to it is very, very low. Right. And that will prevent an ovulation. Yes. The antagonist. Well. Yeah. That's basically blocking the G&RH, which is another hormone. I'm surprised that the fact that you're giving her so much FSH with a little bit of L H isn't enough to suppress the G&RH. But anyway, it's clearly not. Yeah. You have to see her that. Okay. So you give her a G&RH antagonist. And that basically puts a block between her hypothalamus and her pituitary. Right. And so then now you control the switch. Right. And the switch is in the Megados of HCG, which is an L H analog. Right. And do you harvest the follicles in the philopian tube? Or do you dig into the ovaries? In the ovaries. Yeah. Okay. So the Egregory Volt has happened two days after that HCG trigger. Wow. Yeah. I would have thought, so it would have taken two days for her to 36 hours specifically. So she usually takes it in the evening and then the retrieval is the day after in the morning. Okay. So once it comes into your office, a day two days later. And like, walk me through this. So you layer on a table. You've got an ultrasound on her over and you're literally putting a needle in there. Well, first of all, she's asleep. Phyllis, sleep or just local. Yeah. Yeah. So this is done in a surgery center typically. Okay. We're clinic with anesthesiologists present, ib sedation, so it's like a colonoscopy or dental extracts or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's all done vaginally actually using the ultrasound. And that day there's a needle that's guided by the ultrasound. That goes through the vagina into the ovaries. So we don't do trensdum. Dumb question. Why? It seems don't you have a much straighter shot going through the abdomen? No really. We just don't want to go through the peridneum. In there's a lot of stuff between the abdomen and the in the ovaries. You can't just manipulate and move the bowel out of the ultrasound. It's much easier through the vagina when they're sitting right there. Yeah. So again, just pardon my ignorance of the anatomy because again, I'm probably still locked into the image of the ovaries being like this. But you're saying no, Peter, the ovaries are probably sitting right on top of the vagina to the side of the uterus. Just stick a needle on either side. And so literally out of the vagina, not even going through the cervix. Yeah. Okay. So that still strikes me as a very delicate, complicated procedure. IMean, that's a surgery. Yeah. Relatively minor type surgery. But so how much do you have to dilate the vagina? Because what I'm thinking about is how to get your hand in there. You don't guide the needle. You don't have to get your hand in there. Yeah, you should watch a YouTube video. But it's just the ultrasound probe. Yeah. And then there's a needle guide. That is the needle guide inside the probe or a long side. Alongside. Okay. Yeah. And the needle, it's a long needle, right? So your hand's not in the vagina. 16. Okay. And it goes through the vagina into the over. You're doing this under ultrasound guidance. You see exactly. So you, that somebody else is obviously manipulating the ultrasound for you. No, you have it in your hand. It's a vaginal ultrasound. That's right. Yeah. So you're doing both. Yeah. So you're looking where you go. And with the ultrasound and you're using the needle to puncture the overy, get into the follicles. And the needle is attached to like a vacuum suction. And so the fluid and the follicles collected goes through the needle into the test tube. And then that test tube is handed off to the embryologist. They look under the microscope and try and isolate the egg. Now, yeah, I'm just so full of dumb questions here today. Paula, how do you prevent yourself from sucking out like 300 non follicle eggs and ultimately destroy your long term fertility risks? Well, you only go into the large follicles. Yeah. Which are really the only ones you can see on ultrasound. There's gazillion bags in there. But you can't even see them. And you're not running the risk of sucking up those eggs. No, no, you're just going into the follicles. It looks like a big is the ovary. The ovary, you know, a few centimeters at that point. But each follicles about two centimeters, I would say, and there might be 10. How is each follicle? Two centimeters? It's a diameter. But you said the ovaries only a couple of centimeters. No, it's like maybe five six, like a small, like plentiful or something. Okay. Wait a minute. It's a three-dimensional. Yeah. So if you have a plum or a tan-dreen that is the ovary, you're saying each follicle is two centimeters in diameter? Roughly. That's huge. One point five to two. IMean, I wouldn't have even thought it was one centimeter. How many follicles are in there? Well, on average we get 10 to 15. So yeah, maybe the ovaries is bigger. So I'm thinking more and unstimulated ovaries more like a plum when it's stimulated, more like a grapefruit. Okay. All right. Okay. I see. So you have really good resolution of where the follicles are. Yeah. Okay. So you're not running the risk of sucking everything out of the ovary. No. No. And we're just getting fluid, right? We're not touching the tissue of the ovary. Just the fluid and the follicles. Okay. But if the it's only a 16 gauge needle. Yeah. Does that mean you're puncturing the follicle? Each follicle. It's punctured before it enters the needle. Yeah. The fluid. So you do it one at a time. Yeah. You go pin into a follicle burst it open and the egg cause a 16 gauge needle is probably only a millimeter across. Yeah. You suck out all the fluid. And you don't have to take it out each time, right? You can go from follicle to follicle to follicle. You just have to go in typically twice once on the right and once on the left. Yeah. That IMean again, this is that that's pretty interesting that that works. Yeah. If you it's easiest maybe to just like watch a video of it and then you get the idea. Yeah. I'm just thinking of all the things that could go wrong and how like the needle could get gunked up with like tissue and then you got to pull it out and put it back in. All those things can happen. Yeah. You know, there's always a small risk of bleeding, small risk of infection, small risk of injury now. The more. And this is happening. You do this on both sides because presumably you're stimulating both sides. Yeah. Okay. So how long does that procedure typically take? Happen out. Okay. And you've got the embryologist next to you and here she is under the microscope going check check check check check check check. Yep. And here she is validating that you indeed are getting ripened eggs and they look different presumably, right? Like those are easy to identify under a light microscope. Basically they tell us they got eggs. We don't know if they're mature yet we know nothing about them yet. I see. But long we get the eggs. They go to the lab and then the rest of the process happens there. So in the retrieval we're just aspirating all the follicles trying to get as many eggs as possible. Okay. So then let's just assume that the woman is doing this not to just freeze her eggs but because she wants to get pregnant. Okay. Would you then go ahead and when she wakes up have a discussion that says we got this many eggs how many would you like to fertilize? How many would you like to freeze? That discussion has happened way upstream. Yeah. Typically we're fertilizing all of them. Got it. Okay. Yeah. There's no reason not to fertilize. Okay. So tell me the time course now and how you move from retrieval to fertilization. Right. So then the the eggs are sitting in the petri dish in the lab. What's the medium? It is this proprietary medium that it is proprietary. Yes. No. So meaning each lab will have its own medium. There are commercial companies that make it but the exact exact components of it. Not entirely known. So there are different companies that have different mediums. Yes. I believe there's more than one but it's meant to kind of emulate the the fluid in the tubes like word fertilization would normally happen. So how much of a competitive advantage is it for an embryologist? How many options do they have to choose from commercially? Of media? I think there's not many media companies. Yeah. I see. Yeah. Is this a huge area of innovation in the field? It must be. Really? IMean. I would have guessed this would be so important. I think they got it down. Okay. Was there a day when this was a problem? I'm sure. Yeah. Maybe in the early days. So you've got the embryologist trensfers this to the media? Yep. Okay. Few hours later the eggs are inseminated. So with conventional IVF, we just put a bunch of sperm in there and let the fertilization happen by itself. With XE or interest rate of plasma experiment injection, the embryologist takes a single sperm and injects it into each egg. And the only time again you need to do XE is if the sperm is so dysfunctional that it can't even on its own with no barriers make its way to fertilization when placed in direct proximity to an egg. It probably could but maybe there's two few sperm. So anytime there's a male factor we tend to do XE. Any male factor you just ran out of XE. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And in fact, a lot of times it's done even when there isn't a male factor because fertilization rate is a little bit higher with XE compared to IVF in very few cases. You don't get fertilization so you don't want to find out. Oh, by the way, sperm can't fertilize your egg. That's the whole problem I'm on because then you got to lay the egg. So for again, for a couple listening to us now, this is something they need to be talking about with their fertility doc which is, hey, do you do XE out of the gate no matter what or yeah, it's a little controversial because it adds cost. How much cost? You know, it's probably another thousand dollars or two thousand or something. Probably a thousand. Okay. But so the data to be clear shows that XE and IVF have similar success rates for non-male factor. But I'm just telling you that a lot of times we're doing it anyway because we don't want to find out small, very small percentage cases that have zero fertilization. That's like not all that conversation. Yeah. Yeah. Because you've lost those eggs too. Right. Right. So that's part of the reason that we do it. But technically, if you just look at the data, success rates should be the same. Okay. And conventional IVF, if non-male factor. But a lot of times there's sperm factor so we're doing XE anyway. Sorry, what do you these go into the media sits at room temperature? Sorry, at body temperature, you put it into a 37 degree of the body temperature in incubator and then all the micromanipulations happening in. What are the types of manipulations that are needed to foster the right environment? How much you are moving the fluid around? How often you changing the media? This is like the most important cell culture experiment of all time. Pretty much, pretty much. And to be fair, it's done by the embryologists and up by me, but they stripped the eggs first, which means they removed the cells around the eggs. Then a few hours later they're injecting the sperm into each egg. And then the media these days may or may not get changed over the five or six days that we culture the embryos trying to like not have to take the embryos out of the incubator if we don't have to kind of thing. So by the next day, usually we look at the embryos to see or the eggs see if they're fertilized. Usually about 70% of the eggs fertilize. So let's say we get 10 eggs. You can expect maybe seven of them. We'll be fertilized in another seven embryos. So we discard the unfertilized eggs, continue to culture. Can you tell that grossly or are you having to move them under a microscope? Under a microscope. Yeah. And then we culture them in the Petri dish. At this point are they all in one dish or are you separating them? They're in one like droplet of oil and there might be more than one droplet in each dish. How are embryologists trened? How does one become an embryologist? Yeah. Well, there's no clear pathway. There's not like a whole bunch of embryology schools. So that's probably why I wanted to be an embryologist. What would I do? Mostly like I'm a apprenticeship. Almost you might start working in a fertility clinic and do some basic kind of lab prep work initially. Most of them have some sort of, you know, undergraduate science background. But you don't have to. But anyway, you gain experience in the lab and then eventually you become a junior embryologist. So it's like a mentorship program. How many years would it take for if I started tomorrow working as a lab tech who was doing nothing but clening Petri dishes? Yeah. How many years would it take for me to be the head embryologist in your lab? It might take four to five years. It didn't take a while. Yeah. Now there's some formal schools available as well that with online programs, with some in-person components. IMean, this seems not to take anything away from what you do, but you could have the best fertility doctor if they don't have a good embryologist. You're not going to have great success rates. Oh yeah. I would say the lab is almost more important than what we do because they're just more variability. But luckily, you know, at least the United States labs are pretty, pretty good. But yeah, that's like the- Like think of the point in the way. IMean, I- because I used to work in a lab. Yeah. I just think I just can think of a hundred ways that could get screwed up contaminated, jossled, like all these things that could go wrong. Super important. Yeah. So I'm most of the success rate. Probably more related to what happens in the lab than anything I do or one of my physician colleague does. I guess thEQuestion is, how does it- Well, let's finish the story in the one come back. Yeah. Okay. So how many date you go to 14 days? No. No. No. No. Five, five days. Okay. I have six days. And depending if we're doing a fresh trensfer or freezing the embryos or fresh trensfer weeks. So you'll take both, right? We do both. Yeah. Although these days most of the time we're freezing. Because you're doing genetic screening. Because we're doing genetic testing. Okay. So let's go through that exam. Okay. So we're capturing these embryos in the Petri dish for five to six days. Mm-hmm. Then we look at them again. The ones that have made it to that stage, which is usually only half of them. So remember your seven. Now maybe they're three or four. So what explains that? So most likely the ones that didn't make it are the premise. I'm only abnormal ones. Remember we talked earlier about those ones. So not making it. And there were a reason it's only half is because by definition you're doing this in women who tend to be a bit older. Like if you were doing this and if not that one would do this, but just as a thought experiment, if you did this exact thing in 18-year-old girls, presumably you'd have a much higher success rate. Yeah. The blast, we call that the blast stimulation rate is a little bit higher in younger women. Also you have more eggs and more embryos, of course, right? Yeah. But yes, the blast stimulation rate, the ones that make it to day five or six is a lower percentage. The older woman is because higher proportion of those embryos are just going to be abnormal. So the ones that make it to day five or six are more likely to be normal, but that not necessarily normal. So we can also do genetic testing on those embryos, which involves biopsyne them. So we take a few cells from the embryo, freeze the embryos. So yeah, let's talk about that. So how many cells do you have at five days again? Uh, altogether you might have like 60 to 80 cells. Okay. So you take two or three of those. Pyrusic. Pyrusic. Yeah. And they're from the perimeter. The trophobloss, right? So that not the embryo directly, but the cells surround the embryo. You still have full genetic material there. Yeah. And so you do that for each and every egg and then you every embryo. Sorry. And then you freeze each embryo? Yeah. IMean, with the freezing process is like. So the freezing process, uh, these days is one called vitrification is called in, and it's like this special kind of freezing that doesn't result in ice crystals. So how do you do that? There's a process. It happens in the lab there's a machine. It does it that lowers the temperature and uh, so the rate at which they lower the temperature. Right. It's rapid. Okay. So it's like a nitrogen, the right, basically. Right. Right. It's supposed to all day as we did slow freezing. Um, so it becomes like a glassless, glass-like state with all crystals. But the, it works really well. And the survival is really high. And then you store them at what temp, like liquid nitrogen temp? Yeah. So they're, it's not like in your freezer. No. And, and then how long is it take typically to get the genetic results back? Uh, typically within a week or two. Okay. Yeah. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here. Are you doing whole genome sequence or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah. Good question. So it's evolved over time. And I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? IMean, we do it a lot. And the data definitely shows that if you trensfer normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting. But the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal? Uh, because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing about the genetic testing is flat. So whole, there's a new, a new genetic testing is really easy to identify an employee. That's, it's a chromosomal analysis is triggered up to do that right? Okay. Right. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting targeted. Yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosomal abnormalities. Unless you know that the couple is a carrier for some genetic mutation that you also want to screen. Yeah. So let's say one of the parents, well, this would be a bad example, but... Sistic fibrosis, like let's say both. Yeah. So both of them have our carrier for CF. And so there's a one in four chance that you're going to get two copies of CF. So then you're looking directly for this CF. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. A sickle cell. Yeah, there's a whole bunch of them. Okay. And part of the screening we didn't mention it, but most people doing IVF will get carrier screening to see if they're carriers for any genetic mutations. Usually. That's a pretty common scenario where you have two people that are CF carriers, neither of whom have CF. Most of those people would say, I'm going to do IVF because I don't want to take the chance that might kid. Okay. And then what about people who come in and say, oh, but, you know, one of us is each in APOE4 carrier. And so we're each a three four and we would really like to not select a four four as an example. Yeah. So one is that are you able to look at that and to, you know, does that sort of cross an ethical line? Yeah. It's a little more controversial when you're talking about a non-deterministic adult consequence genes. With variable penetrence, right? You may or may not get Alzheimer's or whatever it is, right? So it's a little more controversial, but we're kind of going in that direction. I would say we're definitely going probably in the near future towards whole genome sequencing where we can pick up even mutations that happen to know of what we call denover, right? Like you might not be a carrier, but it might just happen randomly. So you could pick up some disease that way. And then what you're talking about is like, like, Barack, you know, Barack? Yeah. You know, often we know ahead of time patients carry or we can test for it, but LPA for cardiovascular disease. Yeah. There's a whole bunch of things, right? So people are starting to talk about polygenic screening of embryos, but it's a little more controversy because the science is quite settled yet. And it's one thing if you're already doing 9vf and we have these embryos here and we're just going to add another layer of testing, like which one of these embryos is at higher risk for like whatever diabetes or high-peter gender? Whole different story if you're saying, oh, you should do IVF because of because we want to, you know, get the embryo with the lowest risk of these diseases. So we're not quite there. There's a very controversial plus it's expensive and, you know, we're already talked about cost barriers and there are ethical issues as well or we now, you know, is there a form of, you know, positive eugenics and that type of thing? So that particular type of testing is still controversial, but anti-poit testing, testing for chromosome abnormalities is pretty routine, pretty standard. Now there was a day when people weren't doing any genetic testing and the embryos selection was just based on morphology, right? Yes, yes, which is back in the days where we had to trensfer more than one embryo because we didn't know. You could look at two embryos and they could look both normal, but one of them is chromosomeally abnormal, one's not and you can't really tell. So we had to trensfer more embryos to get decent pregnancy rates. Now with genetic testing because we know that a chromosome or normal embryo has a pretty high chance of implanting, not 100%, like maybe 70, 75%, so there's still reasons for some reason. That's not the whole story, right? Because even chromosome or normal embryos sometimes don't implants. Yeah, that's lower than I would have guessed. Is it? 70 to 75% for something that's cromasomally normal, negative guessed at that stage, given all the selection of state tests. What is the concordance between chromosomeally? Let's go one step further. Chromasomally genetically normal and good morphology. How can be portrayed to a Christian? It's good correlation. We use both, right? So if there's one of if there's discordance there, which one are you relying on, or are you discarding, unless you have concordance that's positive for both? In reality, the ones that have poor morphology are even frozen or biopsied, they're just started. Because we knew. So we selected it out. Yeah, so there might be a little bit of difference in morphology between the ones that you've actually decided to freeze and biopsying keep. And presumably have the genetic testing on all of them. Do you would preferentially, of course, trensfer the ones that are cromasomally normal, even if the morphology gradies is a little bit lower. Yeah, so you have, so we've selected out bad morphology. Let's just say you harvested 15. You fertilized 10. Seven had good morphology. Six came back genetically good. Those would be reasonable numbers? Yeah, the six out of seven is high. Yeah. So five came back genetically good. Let's say, a young person. Yeah. So you got one third, one third of what you harvested, you could implant. You're saying each of those is 70 to 75% success rate and yet you would only implant one at a time. Yeah. Which is interesting. Because if you implanted two, let's do the math. You're talking about 50% chance. That's right. Let's just say, yep, twins. Yeah, which is high. Two high. We just can't take that risk. Yeah. IMean, you know, obviously, you know, we believe in patient autonomy, patient usually gets to make that decision. But you're going to make the case for where this one is not a gradient. Okay. If you want to help the baby in the end, you want to help the mom. Yeah. Okay. So now let's talk about not it's time to implant. So how does that process work? So that process is much less complicated. But equally important. So usually does it's timed, right? It has to happen at a certain time in the cycle. So we either use the one in its natural cycle to time it and time it at the time that implantation would normally occur, which is like the second half of the cycle. Or we use what we call a controlled or program cycle where we basically give the woman the hormones. And then again, time, the trensfer to happiness specific time. The actual process kind of like a pap smear. It's basically doesn't require any anesthesia or anything. We do do it under ultrasound guidance. So abdominal ultrasound. We saw one of the embryos draw it up in a little catheter with a little syringe on the end. Place the speculum in the vagina and then just pass the catheter through the cervix. And we're looking on the ultrasound for the placement. And where are you implanting it? About 1.5 centimeters to 2 centimeters from the top of the u-race. So a few centimeters through the cervix. And how do you make sure it doesn't come out? IMean you can't, but it doesn't usually you put it in there kind of slight, describe it kind of like more like peanut butter in there. It's not like you can stand up and it comes out. It's a total volume you're injecting. Like the deep microleaders like really small. Yeah. And what is the inside of a uterus look like? At that stage. Because you've timed it so that this is a uterus that doesn't have a lining yet, right? That's the lining. How thick is the lining? It's about 7 to 10 millimeters. But it's going to get a heck of a lot thicker. So it's still, it's only, this is technically only about 14 days past her period. So are you doing it artificially more into the luteal phase? So it's roughly 7 days or so after ovulation. So the one is thick and ready. Okay. And that's one of the things we check with ultrasound before we do the trensfer to make sure the lining. So what does that, what does it actually look like? Is it like, is it it's a tentacle fingers or on the ultrasound, which is how we assess it? It basically the two walls of the uterus are, you know, opposing each other. It's not like you can see. It's a potential space, not a potential space. Exactly. And then on the ultrasound, the lining has a different equidensity than the one on the cell frame. Right. So we can measure the thickness. And basically the combined thickness of the two posing walls has to be at least 7 millimeters or so. And if you get in there and do the ultrasound and it's not, are you going to come back and try to do it another day and have you lost that egg because it's been thought or can you keep that egg in the medium now? We essentially assess the lining a week before we do the trensfer. I got it. So we would not thought the embryo unless we were sure the line is going. It's go time. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, because once it's thought, IMean, you can refuse it. No, I'm sure it doesn't do this. Not a good idea. Yeah. Okay. So I see. So once you put that egg in there, every, that's right. That embryo in there closer to the top of the uterus. It's in that it's largely being held in place by the opposition the wall. And then are you done or are you still doing ongoing hormone therapy? Um, sometimes we give supplemental progesterone. That's another hormone that helps maintain the pregnancy and then usually, you know, 12 to 14 days later, the patient has her first pregnancy test. Hopefully she's pregnant. We usually follow the pregnancy for the first few weeks. Can you tell she trensfers to her non-ivid? Yeah. Wow. Um, I just kind of amazing that this all works. Yeah. I've been doing it for 30 plus years and I still find it fascinating. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So how often does a woman go through all of this and for whatever reason you can't get enough eggs or the eggs you get are not cromazomally normal and her next alternative is an egg donor. Yes. Unfortunately, more often than we would like, uh, again, it depends on the age of the patient. But sometimes, you know, patients do multiple cycles. Maybe they don't have any normal embryos or maybe even the normal embryos where we trensfer, don't take or number of different things can happen. So the most common reason someone would need an egg donor is usually a internal age. So someone who's older and is tried to get pregnant with her own eggs hasn't worked for whatever reason and then now she's looking at egg donation as an option. That works really well. So usually egg donors are young women and their 20s, early 30s sometimes and they produce multiple eggs and then the age of the uterus doesn't seem to matter as much. So the success rate with donor egg is quite high and so about 75% whereas, you know, for women over 40 using their own eggs, success rate might be 10 to 20%. Her in cycle. Per cycle? Yeah. Wow. 10 to 20%. Yeah. For a 40 year old woman. Yeah. Untested embryos, right? Or the name it, not get any embryos, right? Normal embryos. Yeah. I did not really realize it was that low. Yeah. How many times can a young woman be an egg donor before you worry about? Is there anything you worry about if you're counseling these women? Because I assume the same women are coming to you as egg donors. Yeah. Sometimes people do it multiple times. Sometimes they just do it once. Does it pose any risk to you? No. There's essentially undergoing the IVF process themselves or the least the first half of it. So there's the risk we talk about over an hyperstimulation which is rare. Rists associated with the retrieval and Esthesia. But is there anything that like restricts her ability to get pregnant later in life? No. Barring any complications from major complications. It does not seem to impact future fertility. What is the typical fee for it's collected by an egg donor? It's usually between five and ten thousand dollars depending on where you live. Okay. So that's a lot of money. There's real incentive to do that period. Yeah. And so a woman could do that a couple times a year if she wanted to. So the guidelines up to six times. Six times a year? No. Six times lifetime. Oh. Okay. Up to six times. Yeah. And that's a little bit arbitrary but you know the professional side is decided. That's kind of a good number of times. Maybe most people don't do it that many times. You might just do it once or twice. And so what do you and maybe you don't do this? I don't know. But how women who undergo egg donation or IVF via egg donation? What do you discuss with them about the appropriateness of timing in explaining to the children that they have a different genetic mother? So before anybody does egg donation or even before they donate eggs, we always have them meet with one of our mental health therapists. Just as a cycle educational visit to go over these types of questions and best practices around what to tell the child went to tell the child. General rule is tell them early and tell them often. So you basically want to normalize the thing. And you definitely want to be the ones to tell them and you don't want them to find out some other by some other means like somebody context them on 23 amere or something like that. And early means what? Like telling them before they understand reproduction? Like how are you telling them? Again, it's a little outside my area of expertise but when they'rEQuite young like it could be like four to six years of age or then it might depend on the child and you know how much her they are, etc. But basically in there's different ways to introduce the concept. IMean obviously if it's you know a same sex couple or if it's a single person might happen earlier, suppose to a straight couple. If someone's listening to this and they're trying to figure out how to select a good IVF clinic. What what what are the things they should be looking for? Because I would have to assume that it's like any other field of medicine, right? Not all doctors and not all clinics are created equal and just because you see a lot of advertising doesn't tell you anything, right? So so in the other way, you're going to have to become a very very intelligent consumer. For most people, this will be the single most expensive out-of-pocket health care expense they have. Yeah, that's true. And so it's not just that it's the most expensive health care decision that we're ever going to make, it might be one of the most consequential as well. For sure. And yet IMean, I know what I suggest to people when someone says Peter you know my wife and I are thinking about getting IVF, what do you think? I just go down the rabbit hole of like here's a hundred questions I would ask. Yeah. And it usually begins with tell me your success rate individually. I don't care about the national success rate. It means nothing to me. So how would you counsel someone who's trying to come up with their checklist of questions to ask? Yeah, there's a good, it's a good question. And you know, these days is a little bit easier because obviously there's the internet and there's suggested questions online. You could look at, it's true there is some variability amongst clinics. Although there's a lot of consolidation happening in the field as well. So a lot of practices are becoming common to most clinics. But some of it is practical, right? Like which clinics are close to where you live? Because as a... Yeah, you gotta go in every few days. So you can't be going to another state. And you know most people can. But in most major cities you have multiple options. In most major cities that's true. Yeah. So you're right about individual clinics, success rates although technically it's hard to use those to compare them to each other because you don't necessarily know the patient population, right? So how do you normalize it to... Right. So one thing for sure look at the success rates. And we're one of the few fields of medicine where actually you can get clinic specific success rates. So... You mean publicly it's available or... It's available? Yeah. So... Where do you find it? Well the CDC... Until recently, there is a law actually this is you have to report every IVF cycle in the success rate that was passed in the 90s. So because of that the CDC tracks this, although all the people that work in that department were fired recently. So we don't know what's going to happen with that. But also our professional organizations called Society of Assisted Reproductive Technology has a website called SART.org is the URL. And all the clinics in the U.S. or most of them are on there. And they have to report their success rates and they're published every year. There's usually like a two-year lag because the babies have to be born and everything. So I would send people to that website first. Look at the clinics in your area, look at the success rates, keeping in mind, right, that populations might be different in different clinics. I probably would go to a clinic that does a sufficient volume. You have to do at least 100 cycles I would say, but ideally more than that. Your clinic has how many doctors? Our clinic has about six doctors. And how many total cycles do you guys do a year? We do like six to 800 retrievals a year. There's a lot of variability. There's some clinics that do thousands. There's some that do like 50. So that would be one factor that I think is important just volume. Like, and you have how many embryologists? We have something like nine embryologists. Yeah. Yeah. There is a shortage of embryologists, you know nationwide and reproductive chronologists because of demand for IVF is going up, right? So I would definitely look at the clinic's success rates, look at the volume, the other thing, you know, with the internet, especially, you can look at patient reviews, you know, word of mouth, and got to take those with a grain of salt, right? Yeah, they tend to be negative selecting. Right. Not everybody who has a great experience, necessarily going to post it on Reddit. But everyone who has a bad one does. Yeah. Yeah. So you have to take that with a grain of salt. But they're objective ways. And you can also like, interview your doctor. Yeah. What arEQuestions you should be asking of the doctor that are independent of the objective metrics that we might have just discussed? You can ask about their sort of philosophy about protocols, about things like add-ons, like genetic testing, you know, for example, is like, are you a clinic where everybody is encouraged to do a genetic testing? You know, that's not necessarily the clinic I would choose, right? You talk to the patient about the pros and cons and you let the patient decide. We do a lot of genetic testing, so it's not like I'm against it or anything. But, you know, you want to get a sense of the vibe of the clinic. You know, are they just, you know, interested in money, not that doctors, everything like that. But you know what IMean? So sometimes it takes having a consultation with one or more clinics to see where you feel more comfortable. You know, on a little bit bias towards some academic centers just because our missions include education and in research, etc. But there's several very excellent private clinics as well. What would be some red flags if you're going through this process? And by the way, do you have a, is, how much of a Delta is there in cost within a same city or, do prices tend to converge within a given geography? Yeah, within a given geography they're pretty similar and it's not cheap. Yes, so what are we at today? Fully low to cost? You know, when IVF cycles probably around $20,000 per cycle. That doesn't include genetic testing or does. Including genetic testing. Okay. Per cycle. But how does that compare to 20 years ago? Is that more or less inflation? Prices like most things have gone up. It has. Yeah. Okay. IMean, in all, I guess it should go up just based on the cost of labor that goes into all these. Yeah. And there's, you know, even though the genetic testing is coming down. Yeah. Innovations and things like, you write like you think as volume goes up eventually prices go down. But that quite hasn't quite happened. And that's new things get out of it. And it just tends to become more expensive. And most people are probably still paying out of pocket. Most people are not getting this covered by insurance. Again, depends where you live. Yeah. Yeah. But across the country. Yeah. And I think there are now there are 24 states that offer some kind of fertility coverage about 15 of them include IVF. So most of the, you're right, most places. They're paying out of pocket if your employer doesn't happen to offer infertility insurance coverage. Yeah. So red flags. You know, again, the communication with the clinic. So a lot of your experience is going to be communicating with nurses and, you know, just setting up a coordinator's. Yeah. So you you know, you want to get a sense of what that is like because that could be stressful if it's not smooth. And oftentimes, you know, our clinic included sometimes it's not smooth. IMean, there've been, you know, some things we try and do like texting and apps and things to make the communication, you know, easier. But it doesn't always work the way it's supposed to kind of thing. And you want to get time with your doctor. So some clinics, you hardly ever see the doctor. And you see maybe the ultrasound on a firm not that that's bad. You know, but it's kind of nice. Some patients prefer to have that sort of more frequent interaction with their actual probably a sweet spot in volume where you, it's from an inverted you ship where if they're too low, they don't have the reps if they're too high. It's a bit of a sweatshop and if actually you want, you want in the middle there. Yeah. Okay. Let's pivot now and talk about a few other things. So what's on the horizon medically for extending fertility? So there's a, there's a study going on at Cornell or Columbia. Columbia that's looking at the use of rap a mice and to extend fertility in women. Now I have to be honest with you, I, there was a day when I knew what the study was and what the inclusion criteria were. I, I, I, I don't get the moment. I'm assuming you are more familiar with this than I am. Well, what is thEQuestion that is being asked and how is it being asked in this study? Yeah. So there's a lot of interest in extending fertility right? Like up until, you know, 100 years ago, women were basically dying at 50s. Yeah. Average age of menopause. So it's a kind of a recent phenomenon that we're actually living a third of our lives, you know, postmenopause. But infertility starts to decline way before you go through menopause. So there's a lot of interest in trying to extend fertility. Now, of course, egg freezing, which we haven't talked about yet, is one of the ways you can extend fertility. And it works pretty well as long as you're young when you freeze your eggs. But again, it's a relatively recent phenomenon, not a, you know, usually covered by insurance and it's expensive, et cetera. So it's not the answer. Because you're paying basically half the IVF cycle to harvest and then you're paying to freeze. Yeah. Exactly. What's the cost of freezing? About a thousand dollars. Well, $10,000 for a cycle. And then about a thousand dollars a year for storage. And you're recommending that women, if a woman came to you at 20 and said, you know, I'm going, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y, and z. I think I want to have kids at least want the optionality when should I freeze by? Are you going to just say, do it now? Because no. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't recommend all women in their 20s freeze their eggs, because most of those eggs will never be used. So you'd be doing it for nothing because most of those women probably not need IVF, they're pregnant spontaneously, right? Got it. Okay. This week spot we think is like early to mid 30s. That's where it makes the most sense. Like, because you're about to kind of get to the probability cliff where it starts to really decline. Okay. Right. And if it doesn't, if you think you might want to have kids, but you're not in a place in your life where you think that's going to happen in the next few years, then doing it early to mid 30s. It's probably the time where it's most cost effective. Very highly likelyhood that you will use them. If you have for the first kid maybe for the second kid. And you know, it might be worth spending $10,000 and $1,000 for you. And do you freeze them? You freeze every egg you retrieve? Only then a mature one. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And what's the for a typical 30 year old? You're going to get what we talked about earlier. Probably 10 to 15 per second. Sometimes more, but that's not true. And how many do you recommend a 30 year old do? Yeah. So there's some calculators online. So the younger you are, the fewer as you need, because more of them are going to be normal. So someone 30, you know, I think 10 to 20 would give you decent chances success. No guarantees. There's never any guarantees. But even, you know, study show that even if people use those eggs and then are not successful, the fact that they did something proactively, there's some psychological benefit in doing that. So even if, you know, ultimately doesn't work out or you don't end up using them. But at that age, maybe 10 to 20, obviously if you're, you know, as you get closer to 40, you might need 20 to 40 or 50, which is not practical for most people, right? Because you can't do that many cycles. And it's expensive and there's a risk involved. So so I think egg freezing is a great option for for women. I also think as a society, we should try to make it easier, obviously, for women to have kids during their peak reproductive years or 20s and 30s. So the whole different question, but I think heavy options is a good thing. So back to the Rapa Mison question, they're basically saying, look, is there a way that we could push that out a little bit? And so how is this study testing this? Yeah. So Rapa Mison, as some of your listeners may know, is kind of used in other sort of anti-aging contact. So there's some animal data that shows that maybe Rapa Mison might extend fertility in that. Remember the egg cell death that we talked about earlier by preventing that to some degrees so that the eggs last longer in your fertile for more years. So there's some data in like mice primarily, there's some data show that it's not helpful as well. So the data I would say is mix in animal models and the study at Columbia is actually trying to test it in humans. So believe it's a few months study where they're giving relatively low dose of Rapa Mison, I forget exactly maybe five milligrams daily. And then they're daily, not weekly. I think it's daily. Okay. But in first time. Percentual. Well, we'll pull it up and put the ash on. I should have known this. Yeah. And then I think there are outcome markers, AMH. I believe it's that home own. So I don't know, I'm not. It's a relatively inexpensive study. They're not, they're not, they're not. Invasively looking at follicles. And because what you have to believe then is in just a period of a few months, you could pick up a signal of more or less AMH reduction. Right. And even if you can, like, what does that mean? Really, AMH is, so this study could be negative. And if the study is positive, it's interesting. If it's negative, it probably doesn't tell us much. Right. If it's only three to six months. Right. Right. To really do the study, IMean, you need like, you need a few years. Right. You need pregnancy, outcomes, or at least, you know, menstrual, you know, menopause, age of menopause. So that would take for a long time. And you'd have to take it for many years. Probably. Right. Yeah. That's going to be a really difficult question to answer. Yeah. Yeah. Humans. Yeah. And, you know, I'm, again, because of the animal data not being consistent. You know, some studies show, yeah, maybe it's helpful, but other studies show that it might be actually harmful because of the way it acts as being immune as a press of things. So I certainly, for any listeners trying to conceive, I would not recommend wrap up my sin. But yes, I'm curious about the data coming out of Columbia and other studies. Are there any other things that a woman can do to maximize her fertility beyond? Let's, we've already addressed sort of PCOS, we've already addressed kind of the metabolic stuff. But, you know, we hear things all the time like stress, sleep. IMean, these things seem self-evident. But what would be kind of the most common things you would be saying to a woman who is otherwise experiencing eye-atrogenic for lack of a better word infertility? Yeah. I think all those things are important like lifestyle factors. They're rarely the sole cause of infertility. They can, they can certainly exacerbate infertility as well as any other disease. So I think the lifestyle factors that promote health are generally the same lifestyle factors that promote fertility. So healthy diet, you know, avoiding. Is there anything we can say more on that? IMean, it's like, what is a healthy diet as it pertains to fertility? Is it different? Right? Does a woman who's getting ready to conceive, does she need more fat in her diet? For example? Yeah. Yeah. As you probably know, the data on diet is not great for anything, especially not fertility. So I would say there's very little evidence that there's particular diet that's good for fertility that's different than what's good in general. So for most of my patients, I recommend a Mediterranean diet that diet is palatable most people and has fair amount of evidence that, you know, it's reasonably healthy and that's like a lot of fruit and vegetables, whole grains, protein mostly from, you know, fish and olive oil and those types of things. So it's not that different from what I would recommend for anybody. By the way, I think I said, I had for Genica, IMeant idiopathic, but you know what IMeant. I think from the end of the, yeah. So what about supplements? I'm sure you get as this question all the time. There's no shortage of over the counter supplements that people, you know, report in grace fertility. I get asked thesEQuestions all the time and have blank stares because I don't know. Is there anything you can point to and I love framework. So maybe one framework is are there supplements that correct legitimate deficiencies like vitamin D or B vitamins where we could make a case that supplemented with these things happen? And I'm talking beyond just the prenatal vitamins that are obvious and necessary. We'll leave that to the side because it's so self-evident. Versus supplements that are kind of more grab bag mystery supplements where you're not actually correcting some obvious deficiency, but we think it might increase fertility. So the day around supplements, even, less robust than the day to her own diet, I would say. Yes, if you're correcting deficiencies, I think you can make a case for that. So there's, you know, a lot of women, reproductive age women are iron deficient, for example, and they need to be on iron supplements. You mentioned prenatal vitamins obviously full of casters important for anybody trying to get pregnant. People who live in Portland, Oregon, like I do, we tend to be vitamin D deficient. So I usually recommend vitamin D for people. But other supplements specifically for fertility, the ones IMost commonly hear about are things like Coke U10 or DHAs, another one. And there's some data that might be helpful again. It's not very robust. DHA, which just increases endogenous testosterone pressures. Equality, like who knows. Yeah, IMean, the data isn't great. So I don't want to improve libido. Maybe I think people have studied that. It doesn't work so well. Okay. Yeah, it is a week and Virginia right. But yeah, the data is not very promising. But so for most of these things, you know, the data is not there. And probably will never be there, right? Because there's symptoms that are there. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So it probably doesn't hurt, though. And so I'm, you know, relatively supportive of patient wants to take Coke U10 or some data around it. Sure. And do you think it's just psychological where? No, no. If they, if they, if they take it and they feel that they're doing something better, it reduces their stress around it. Like it's for me, I can't help but think that stress has such a negative impact on fertility. Oh, for sure. And on many aspects of health, for sure. It's so difficult to quantify, right? Like we can't act. We don't have a biomarker for stress. Right. Even measuring cortisol doesn't actually tell you anything about the experience of stress. And so I just think so many negative health outcomes are a result of it. And therefore anything that a person can do to improve their stress. Yeah. I agree with you. And if taking supplements helps with that, sure, I'm all for it. Yeah, I'm not advocating that we should be going crazy on it. Right. I have it in split. But I just wonder if any of the efficacy of those things is mediated through that reduction of stress. Possibly. Yeah. And as long as it's not harmful, that's, you know, great. So, and when we say the data isn't there, it's just because it doesn't mean that it doesn't work. It's just nobody's shown when we're in other weather works, right? So it's quite possible. Yeah. Cook you tend to have some effect that we don't know about. And, you know, my feelings if I don't think it's harmful. And, you know, patient wants to take it. Maybe he helps with their stress, sure. I'm for that. Other things, you know, stress, every almost everybody has some degree of stress in their lives, right? Like some more than others, unfortunately. But it's really hard to get rid of all the stress. Like it's not helpful to tell patient. Well, you just need to be less stressed. I'm like, okay, now what? But, you know, finding ways to cope with the stress is really what we're talking about. And that can be different for different people's, for some people, it could be exercise for some people, it could be meditation for some people, you know, whatever mindfulness is. Whatever it is. But definitely, I think it's important. Same as sleep and we talked about diet, you know, exercises is important. Do you caution women or do we know anything about too much exercise for women who are trying to conceive them? And we certainly hear stories about, you know, college athletes and women who are doing a lot are actually having difficulty even maintaining a regular menstrual cycle. So, if you're dealing with a woman who's, when you're taking that social history and you're trying to understand, what are some clues to you that her exercise might actually be too much and that might be impacting her fertility. Right. Right. So, extreme exercise can be associated with fertility issues, although I think for most patients of benefits of exercise as we know. Yeah. But how are you dealing with what is extreme for so-so? So, if it causes any change in a person's cycle, so for some of the most more extreme athletes, sometimes they'll their periods will stop altogether, there's a condition called reds, it's relative energy, deficiency, and sport. And basically the body is very smart. If you think like, there's not enough energy around to support a pregnancy because we're spending it all on this exercise. We're just going to like shut the whole thing down and it works really well. But the patient stops menstruating. So, obviously, they're going to have difficulty getting pregnant. They're not ovulating. If you're not menstruating means you're not ovulating. Also, has other implications that for things like bone health, because the ovary in addition to making eggs also makes estrogen and estrogen super important for bone health. So, yeah, definitely if you know one lesson for the listeners, keep track of your, we talked about the seam analysis being kind of a marker of other health outcomes. Your periods are also a marker. Of course, if you're on hormonal contraception, you might not know what your natural cycle is doing. But if your cycles are regular or if you're not having them at all or if they're super painful or they're super heavy, and sometimes you don't know what super painful or super heavy because no. It's not because of that, right? But thankfully, this generation of young women is talking more and they're seeing an internet, et cetera. But don't wait to you're ready to try to get pregnant to figure that out. You know, there may be something important you need to know way ahead of time. And we've already talked about obesity, but on the other side of that is there a certain body fat level beneath which fertility is also impacted? Yeah, there's not like a cutoff, but certainly being overweight or obese can impact fertility and being severely underweight. But for the underweight people, similar mechanism, if you're brain thinks, there's just not enough. It's usually going to manifest through a mental area. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So healthy weight, healthy diet, exercise, sleep, sleep can also disrupt its sleep. Good effect ovulation and fertility stress. We mentioned all these things. All things you mentioned in your book as well are all the same things that are important for fertility. Lastly, what do you think is the most promising area of research? And if we're sitting here in 10 years and we're talking about this and we're looking back at the last decade. What do you imagine you will be most excited about from an innovation perspective? Yeah. It's a very exciting field of medicine. There's always sort of the innovations happening. I think let's see, Genec testing will continue to evolve as we learn more about genetics. I think that'll play a big role automation in the lab. You know, a lot of the steps we talked about earlier are like literally embryologists sitting at the microscope doing these things. But now there's some companies developing these like lab ownership concepts where you put in the egg, put in the sperm, embryo comes out. So microfluidics or yeah, microfluidics, it's a whole process being automated, which I think is it's very interesting, right? And it could potentially improve access if you could put these. So do you see this as more of a cost reduction or more of a success improvement? Maybe both because you know reduce error potentially, um, usually the cost that things tends to go up before any time, anytime there's an innovation before it comes down, maybe ultimately it'll come down. But I imagine costs worth increase. So that's kind of an exciting area in vitro maturation. That's where the eggs are like maturing in the petri-dition instead of a in a woman's body. So potentially in the future, woman wouldn't have to take all these injections and you just take the immature eggs, put them in the petri-dition and give the petri-dish the medications if you will. That's in very sort of early stages, not quite as successful as conventional IVF yet. So we're not quite there. I assume because it's difficult to harvest, un mature foggling. And even that maturation process, we haven't quite gotten it down like it happens in the body. Um, other things, a real game changer would be something like in vitro-gemmy to genesis, which is making eggs and sperm potentially from skin cells. So even if you run out of eggs, if we could take like a skin biopsy and, you know, reprogram that cell to make a nake, then potentially, you know, anywhere we in that. Very early. I think we'll see it eventually. It's been done in mice. So we're probably 10 to 20 years away. What's the obstacle? Basically reprogramming skin cells, it just the whole process, it's very complicated and not easy. People are trying their couple of companies. Meaning it is the challenge taking the skin cell back to a stem cell and then the stem cell in the brain. Yeah. And which of those two steps do we think is harder? Skin cell back to stem cell or stem cell into egg? I think they're both hard. Um, I don't know, there's a couple of different approaches including, you know, we work do research in this area as well where we're taking essentially the nucleus from a skin cell and putting it into a into another into an egg into a placing the genetic material. Exactly. So we don't have to reprogram the skin cell. We're just working on it. And is it easy to separate the chromosomes? No. Okay. It's going to sound. It's very complicated. But because IMean, myosis and, but, and it's hard for it to happen efficiently and equally, it's that it was working on it. But we're, you know, probably 10, 20 years away from. But that would be an alternative way to get to that. But then you need donor eggs so that has its own limitations because it's not like donor eggs are easy to come by either. Yeah. That's true. Although I guess what it does is it, it helps the older woman who is able to make follicles, but they're just exploiting exactly. You're a solution to that problem. Yeah. Yeah. Another thing we're working on is something called mitochondrial replacement therapy where basically similar concept you were taking like you have an older woman. Let's say she undergoes IVF. You have a donor that undergoes IVF. But you take the nucleus out of the older egg and you put it in a younger egg. So essentially the cytoplasm is from the young egg, including the mitochondria. So we think part of the ageing and just like other aspects of ageing, you know, acquired mutations in the mitochondria. So you have a young cytoplasm. Young mitochondria. Maybe those eggs will do better or that nucleus will do better in that young egg. Unfortunately, you can't do that. And you know, it states legally, but we're, we're doing trials in other countries. This is kind of a remarkable field. Again, it's still amazing to me how well this works. Right. Like if you think about it, this is, and I don't mean this in a, in a, in a disparaging way at all. It's, it's very brute force. Right. It's very mechanical. So. And yet we're, you know, as a field, not, I think having an enormous impact that is, is relatively recent. You know, and you can use sort of think about the timescale of this. So it seems to me that early intervention is better. Yeah. You're point about women who have any sort of irregularity in their cycle. If they're in their teens or twenties. Yeah. If for no other reason, beyond just the discomfort of it at the moment, getting this looked at now is a great way to get ahead of an infertility problem 10 years hence. For sure. That to me is a very important takeaway that that I don't think it's probably appreciated enough. And while I don't think we have a high listenership of 18-year-old girls. My guess is that message through parents who are listening might, might make its way to potential future patients that would, that would, would find up find themselves on your doorstep. It's also comforting to hear just how high the probability of success is in the modern era today. And it sounds to me like we're converging on quality. Right. Where is that would imagine this? This was a field that was a bit like the Wild West 20 years ago where you had a bunch of charlatans out there who were maybe not charlatans the wrong word, but just low quality practitioners. And I'm guessing today with consolidation of groups we're seeing less and less of that. More standardization, yes, for sure. I'm still blown away at the concept of the embryologist and what's required to do that and how that we don't have a more formal trening path. Especially given that you said that we have a shortage of such people that seems like an incredibly rewarding career for somebody. So hopefully we can foster that. Well, anyway, Paul, this has been great. I feel between this podcast and the podcast on male fertility, I have a much better sense of this and how to address it, both very different problems, but completely comfortable. We're later for sure. Yeah, appreciate your time and your expertise. Thanks for inviting me. It's been fun. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for having me.

=== FILE: 354 – What the dying can teach us about living well： lessons on life and reflections on mortality [EBVsRIRj31Q].txt ===

I want to understand more about living. And I have an idea that we could learn a lot from people who are dying. One thing to get right out of the gates here is body's die. Living things die. I think a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader or something that comes out of the woods and grabs us. And otherwise, I was just fine. And then, not. I'm wondering if I should be in palliative care now. IMean, there are realities. IMean, palliative care is just good health care. Yeah. It is just one of the cool things that are in branding. But yes. Yes. Yes. It really does. Are there certain regrets that people have shared with you more often than others? What they all seem to have in common is they regret not letting themselves feel. Artificially or accidentally putting a wedge between you and anything. How much of either of you followed the sort of cellocybin work, the Roland Griffith's work? I think it can be. Amazing. It's a medical decision making, power of attorney, things like that. So one sort of public service announcement here is advanced direct is very important. You can download a form on life. Yes. Like this is a freak. But you don't need a lawyer to do this. What about the role of forgiveness? I would say more commonly what I see people needing to learn how to do is forgive themselves. You've always spent a lot of time with people in, by definition, the final stage of their life. What have you learned that changes the way you live your life or the way you want to live your life? Hey everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. BJ. I'm amazing to have you back again and project great to meet you for the first time. Thank you guys for coming out here. BJ, you and I go way back. You're a previous guest on the podcast and we've spoken a little bit about some of the topics we're going to get to today. But when I reached out to you a few months ago to talk about this idea, you immediately suggested bringing Bridget along. So let me just share with folks what I wanted to talk about and I would love for you to share why you felt that this would be a greaT3 person discussion as opposed to a two person. So I reached out to you and I said, look, BJ, I want to understand more about living. And I have an idea that we could learn a lot from people who are dying. And people who listen to this podcast know that I think that quality of life matters as much and potentially more than length of life. And a big part of that probably comes down to things that people think about during their life and during the end of their life. And maybe that there are regrets that people have that only surface at the end of life. So anyway, I kind of ran this idea by you. Actually, I think I ran the idea by you as do you even know anybody that would have thoughts on this and you said I'd love to talk about it. And so yeah, well, first of all, thanks for having us, Peter. It's good to see you, buddy. And I just love the setup for this conversation. I think we're very happy to be talking to you in general, but also to kind of continue to form the it's not quality of life versus quantity of life kind of false dichotomy that you've done so well to re-approximate. So we're really happy to be here and talk about this stuff. So, but why bridge it? IMean, so for me, a couple of thoughts. IMean, one is I just love bridge it in a mind and we get to work together and mirrored ways over the years. And the subject, you'll hear us again and again, we're going to work the idea that there's an objective and approach to death that is the way to go. You're not going to hear us citing much data because it's not a very well. It's an easily studied phase of life and what data do exist in to bEQualitative. But this with all that subjectivity, it feels really important to have other voices sharing their point of view on sort of a similar outlook. So that's in part why bridge it. And also to for both of us, I just IMean, to speak for you, but I think the one of the things we should get up front to is, first of all, I haven't been my work in the lasT4 years has pulled me farther away from being at a bedside. You know, and but either both of us have spent many countless hours in hospital bedside and other places that will be drawing from. But I think to get to thEQuestions that you're interested in answering, so much of the work preparing for dying begins earlier in life, one way and another. So the idea that I think for your audience to imagine deathbed scenes that in the final moments there's this great epiphany or a climax of some sort can happen, but that's really not the norm. A lot of the action is in the days, weeks, months, years preceding the death moment. Mendef is a moment. And so one thing I think we want to get across as you've brought quantity and quality of life, we need to bring dying and living together. They are part of a whole. They're not at odds. And so that and so and so when do we begin dying, Peter? Like the second we're born exactly. So in some ways, all of us have some access to the subject already. Bridget and I are just a little bit closer to it on some level. So Bridget, what drew you to this space? I'm sure this is a question you get asked the moment people find out what you do. It's, it is an uncomfortable place to to stand. What's drawn you to it. You know, we all have our places in the world. And while this is an uncomfortable place, maybe from the outside for me, it is a pretty comfortable place. And that was sort of what got me there. I had many people in my life die. And I was in pretty close proximity to those deaths. And I wasn't freaking out. And so there is something in me. I looked around and a lot of other people were freaking out. And I was sort of like, oh, this is weird. And my unaffected, my guarded in a way that makes it some kind of numb and no actually it was more just that there was something in me that was okay around dying and also really curious about it. So that's how I got to this work. Can you say a bit more about that? What, what if you're comfortable with what were some experiences you had growing up? Yeah. My cousin, Kristen died when she was 13 and I was 18. She had pulmonary primary hypertension. And I was with her the day she died. And as you can imagine, a 13 year old dying is a pretty chaotic scene. She was not in a like official dying process that anyone was recognizing. So it was a crazy, entramatic. And there was just a stillness in me. IMean, I was very affected. There's a lot of emotion. I felt fear and overwhelm. But I also felt really able to be there for others. You know, I was 18 and the adults around me were as you can imagine all over the place. And so it was less about others, although I felt quite connected to her. It was more about being able to be like stay in my own body and be in my own experience and pay attention to what was happening, make contact with what was happening. So it was a pretty internal kind of experience and awareness. It wasn't until later experiences with one of my best friends, moms a few years later that I felt sort of that capacity in relationship to others as like a main supporter. The first imprint was really like there's something in this experience for me. PJ, people who listen to our first episode will be familiar with your story. But invariably there are a few people here who aren't. You want to give the super readers digest for a view of your story and how it probably shaped a lot of what you do today. For sure it did. IMean, so I went into medicine very simply because I had been a patient. IMean, I had no, it's not like I was pre-ordained ahead into medicine or I had never considered it. But at age 19 sophomore college, around the time bridge that you're having your experience at the bedside one way or another, my I was in the bed thanks to an electrical injury. At Princeton I was screwing around on a commuter tren and climbed up on top and I had a metal watch on my left wrist and the electricity arc to the watch and that was that was that. So came very close to death. The lost and you know, you could say part of my body died. I had lost both legs and one arm. Part of them. And so that was a really big wake-up call to make. And for people who aren't familiar with that type of injury, IMean, I've seen you without a shirt on. I know with the, you know, it's it's it's not like, oh, we just cut these things off and you'll be, we'll be home Friday and we'll see what clinic next week. The burn, the magnitude of these burns, the skin graphs that are required. How long were you in the hospital? I was in the burning it for abouT3 months. So burning it's horrible. Oh, just, that's a special place. It's not, I don't know what to compare a burning it to. For the patients or the people providing the care. It is careers very, very special people in those units. Yes. And careers tend to not last very long for a lot of reasons. There's a, these are houses of pain of a certain kind. So anyway, three months in that particular setting, which was that says a fair amount to your point about the complexity of electrical injury. IMean, that means I was on the edge for a doctor. Did you do lose kidney function? I don't recall that. I don't recall that, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was dinged. I remember, I remember looking over at the monitors many weeks in and my heart rate was, you know, 190 and, you know, just sitting there. You know, so there's a lot of fallout from an injury like that. And it takes a long time for the body to settle in and declare what's going to live and what's not. So the amputations were sequential. They take a little bit to see what tissues viable, all the while the risk of the way generally people die from burns is infection because you lose your immediate defenses to your line of defense of your skin. So hyperstair oil environment, no windows, nothing natural about it at all. You know, anyway, so that went on for a long time and tell I was out of the woods and then it was clear I was going to survive and then becomes the sort of longer work of learning to cope with this new body. And that's a, that was then tailed a lot of morning, a lot of grief, a lot of effort, a lot of creativity on my behalf as well as a lot of people around me. So took many, many months and very, to get out of that setting from the burning it into a step down unit and then into a rehab unit and then outpatient. And then begins the work of re-entering the world. And that's its own challenge with the visible disability. And as you say, the skin grafts, I was, you know, I used to be so ashamed of that, look, I used to cover it up. And then, you know, there was the work of kind of getting used to it and being comfortable in my own skin, literally again. And that took about two years before I was going to show anybody this, you know, and then five years again, hit another milestone for me to sort of being, inhabiting my own life again in some level and being anything other than an object to glare at. So anyway, there's a lot to say about, you know, a very slow process and it's ongoing, you know, I recently had a procedure. We don't need to go into details, but it's fall out from a, a central line that was being placed in my neck that got botched and clotted off in 35 years later, I had fall out from that. So it's an ongoing process all the time. I get new legs every two years or so, and that's its own process. So it does not end. So a moment ago, you alluded to the idea that kind of movie deathbed scenes are probably the exception and not the rule. I want to kind of explore this idea a little bit more, but I also want to help people maybe understand the population level, what death really looks like. So on this podcast, we talk a lot about causes of death, right? People who listen to me are very familiar with the forehorsemen, and we know about cardiovascular disease, and we know about cancer, and we know about neurodegenerative disease, and we can talk forever about these things. But we don't really talk about the very, very end, perhaps with the exception of a fatal, myocardial infarction and about 50% of MIs are fatal. But about 50% are not, and they're just setting you up for maybe heart failure or something else. So as difficult as it is, I'd love for you to sort of explain the mechanics of death, and we can start with the more common cause of death, which is cardiopulmonary death. We could talk about brain death after, but I'd love for both of you to sort of describe what's happening, both medically, socially, cognitively, like to the individual through that process. Peter, do you mean like the the the moment's leading to the death, as a body shutting down? Yeah, in those final hours, what is really happening? What does it mean to die of cancer? Right? Like, well, you know, I think for many people, it's a very foreign idea that this woman had breast cancer. Okay, there were cells in her breast that all of a sudden acquired mutations, those cells escaped from her breast and went to other parts of her body, but there's still a bit of a disconnect. Why did that? Why did the invasion of those cells to her bones and her lungs and her life? Well, Bridgio, me talk about a little bit of some of the medical physiological stuff, and you can talk about that. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah. Well, starting with this sort of more kind of cut and dry, more anatomical physiological things happening as a body's trying to die. And I like that phrase trying to die because we often find ourselves intervening in a body that's trying to die. It is one thing to get right out of the gates here is, and then bodies die. Living things die. It's, I think, a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader or something that comes out of the woods and grabs us. And otherwise, I was just fine and then not, no, and as you don't know better than any of us, there are all sorts of things we can do to promote life. And there are a lot of ways where wired to hang onto life and to run from anything that's a threat to us. Those are all true and all natural. But included on the list of natural things that we do is die. So, you know, it is, that's what a body is supposed to do. I just want to get that clear. There's nothing wrong with you for dying. This is the way it's supposed to go. So, your body knows how to do this. So, let's talk about what the body knows how to do. IMean, in general, depending on the cause of death, whether the pathway might be cancer, as you're mentioning, or heart disease, or neurodegenerative diseases, there's a final common pathway of a body kind of shutting down. And it tends to shut down by organ system, you know. And it doesn't follow a neat and tidy pathway. It can happen kind of spontaneously in a kind of a moment, they're here and then they're gone. But very often, especially these days, most of us, like 80 plus percent of us will die of chronic illness. We will meet the thing that eventually waits our death while in advance of the death. So, we'll get that diagnosis. That someday will be the thing that ends our life. That's it's own. We could talk about that. That's its own kind of ball-o-axe. It comes with that fact, whereas no days, many of us, most of us died more spontaneously. You're very alive than you're very dead. Not a lot of in-between. So, in this in-between thing to get to find to your question, Peter, is the sort of shutting down phenomenon. So, oftentimes, if we're trying to prognosticate, help a person or family get a sense of how much time is left. We're looking at things like, are they in and out of bed, you know, much? Are they getting up and out of bed? So, if you're asleep on the couch or in the bed, 50% of the day, you know, and if that's sort of a progressive process, more and more fatigue, more and more tired, that usually in the context of chronic illness tells us we're heading towards the end. An interest in food and fluid is a big one. So, a body trying to die, a GI tract that's on its way to shutting down will stop sending hunger signals. And this is a big one for the audience to hear because a lot of us, you know, food equals nutrition equals nourishment equals life. So, if we see someone we love or ourselves not eating, the impulse would be, well, put some food into us. That's life. I don't want someone to starve to death is often my way to- And also love, right? Yes. How we show our care and exactly. Symbolically, the act of feeding another is, you know, the nourishment, the love to your point project comes with that there's so much around food. But then before we cut over to bridge to explain more, that's that could piece of the puzzle. You know, the body again is sending you a signal, don't put food in me because it will hurt. If a gut is not able to process the food, it sits in place and can cause pain, same with fluids. If we're forcing fluid into a body that's trying to die, that fluid will pool and cause trouble. So, the judgment of call wind to push the food and fluid and wind not is up to really a dialogue, you know, sort of a song in response with the patient. Once, you know, you might try a little bit of fluid and if that ends up in their lung or ends up swelling, then we pull back. But back to your question. So, as a body's trying to die, it will stop sending signals for that food and food and that's to be generally respected, not pushed past. Mental status. So, people often get really fuzzy in their thinking or all, and delirium is very common. So, oftentimes they'll be disoriented. I think it's 1912 and they're in a forest somewhere where they're in a hospital bed. So, that's very common. And BJ, delirium is not uncommon in the hospital. A lot of times with, otherwise, very healthy patients who are in the hospital to get surgery, the loss of circadian rhythm, the use of narcotics and other medications can easily induce delirium in a person who's otherwise not going to die. Is this a different form of delirium and what is really underpinning it? I don't know that it's a different form of delirium per se. Ultimately, it's a similar pathway, and it looks the same. So, you can have a hyperactive delirium, which are very easy to spot someone's jumping up and down on her bed and going kind of nuts enacting in a way that's not compording with the context of their sitting in a hospital. So, hyperactive delirium can be easier to spot. Very often it's hypoactive delirium, which is we often miss, especially in the hospital setting. Might just be a little tangential thinking or not quite clear on what day it is, something that's not so obvious. I'm very often the person's just silent. And that's more often the case I'd say at the end of life. It's more likely to be a hypoactive delirium, and so it may be hard to spot. And the person's been sleeping a lot anyway, so you might miss it. But one reason to bring it up is because if you don't know what to look for. I think a lot of family members and loved ones will be at that at the bed, trying to e-count every last moment with this person and looking for clues about what's going on for them and last relational moments and exchanges. And very often I've heard from a lot of people reports of, well gosh, my husband never said a mean word to me in our 50 years of marriage. And I've been traumatized for the last two years since he died because of his last words to me where this vulgar something or other. And or he told me that he had to get out of his own. Some harsh comment. And it, oh, I, one of those big takeaways out is just please keep delirium in mind because what it also means is that person who is delirious is not, you cannot stop yourself. They are not themselves. So whatever they're saying, you, you really cannot take it literally, you really cannot take it literally. So that poor woman was suffering for, you know, if someone had told her about delirium, then she would have understood. She took it very literally and was suffering immensely. So anyway, that's a note about delirium. It does feel like an important moment to pause just to note a couple of things, which is, you know, delirium at the end of life we take as seriously as we would in a more acute setting where someone's an ICU with expectation to recover. And we think about environmental factors that influenced delirium, like lighting and noise and interruptions, right? Because if we can minimize delirium, we want to want to want to treat it and care for it. I think the other thing about this space is that we enter into the like rich and nuanced and complicated space of interpretation and the meaning that's being made around what's happening. Right? So in that story, someone's, I was sitting at a bedside once with two daughters and their mom was dying. And she had been mostly quiet. I hadn't really talked in a couple of days and we're sitting there talking about her and telling stories and the her kids are telling me about her and she opens one eye and she kind of sits up and she says to her daughter, I love her jacket. And I looked at the daughter and the daughter just bursts into tears. And you know, I'm sitting there thinking like, oh, this is so nice. Like mom gives a kind of like, I'm expecting something positive and the daughter's like, she's never complimented my clothes before. If anything, she always looked at my, my dress in this critical eye. Like this is so off, you know. And I think that could be one of those projections that we're going to get to the end and dad's going to say mom's going to say the thing that we never heard them say. And they may and that might not feel good. Right? So it's, it's complicated and so interpersonal and personal and subjective event. You know, it's one of the reason why two of us being here together and why this work is done often in teams because we could both be in the room with the same person and have very different kind of hits or interpretations around what's happening, what's most important in the room, what needs to be tended to. I've had this so much to say about this stuff and that delirium thing. IMean, there's a big on this point of altered consciousness and what people are saying what's coming out of people. It's also true that deep dark secrets can sometimes get revealed. That's also true. So it's so much needs to be interpreted and it's there for how lightly and because you don't, there's these are final moments. You may never get the clarity of what mom or dad or that person actually meant in that comment, which is another trick to holding death in our living is to hold it lightly because we keep, we will find ourselves wine to apply a story of meaning on all of this stuff as a human's what we do. But one of the great lessons around this work is just, you know, just to hold that carefully and lightly. It's not always what we think it is. And on that note of delirium too, I will say as a medical person, I was taught that delirium is inherently a kind of suffering that it's uncomfortable that that to be confused to be disoriented as itself uncomfortable and the certainly problematic for the loved ones. So we always medicated it with anti-cycotics, how it paired all in others. We just thornsy just shut it down. I will say my own arc of my career as I've gotten, as I've sort of deluded the medical piece with other ways of thinking. I'm not so quick to shut that down. There may be something either vital happening for that person in the bed to express whatever's in there and maybe something that's helpful for the person to hear. I gave you the counterpoint that it's a hurtful for a loved one to hear in a de-contactualized way. But I think one of the meta messages here is dying, it doesn't can't always be shouldn't, perhaps, made me to use that hardware to be so tidy and immaculate and clen and perfect. I want to disabuse, I think we both like to disabuse that notion of that that's a good death. So a quiet death, the person. So I've been increasingly would not medicated delirium unless I had a conversation, if you were my patient, I'd say Peter, hey, there might be moments where you can be a little confused, et cetera. And if that happens, would you rather, maybe there's an opportunity for me to ask, would you like us to kind of air on the side of Medicaid and that and help you sleep through it? Or talk to family about that? But the bottom line here is, it's not such a one-to-one thing. When we see this, that means suffering, that means medication. It's much more mysterious than that. One of the things I've been thinking a lot about lately is how people died hundreds of years ago and thousands of years ago. So let's use thousands of years ago before before the advent of any medicine at all. So admittedly, they weren't living that long and admittedly, life expectancy would have been into the mid to late 30s. But people always confuse that for meaning nobody lived beyond that. Of course, that's not true. It just means so many people died young, like infant mortality was through the roof, tons of trauma and infection. But clearly, there were people that were living into probably their 60s. And I'm sure some of them were dying of cancer. Right? So I wonder, absent any medicalization of death, what death looked like then? Do we know anything about this? IMean, I don't from the books. IMean, I can imagine. But, and I think we knew that people died more acutely. But to your point, that's probably because they didn't know they were harboring a tumor or atherosclerosis, whatever else. So it looked like they were. And I think suffering, I think an average human had a different relationship to the day-to-day suffering and pains that went with being alive. And I think modern life has been tempting, has tempted us with the idea that we could always be comfortable. And that pain is a problem to root out and fix quickly, get back to the norm, which is comfortable always, which is just crazy talk. So I think part of it is we've induced people's pain by offering these fixes to them. By virtue of having something to offer your suffering, we might be more primed to tune into our suffering and seek that fix for it. And we kind of pulled this ourselves forward over time through modern life in such a way that back in the old day, I don't imagine that people were so distracted by their daily aches and pains. So I'm kind of getting off your question. I don't think we know, and these among us, I don't think we know from an historical, like I couldn't tell you factually what used to be the case. But watching patterns and knowing that human nature hasn't probably changed so much in the last couple hundred years per say, I think one is that people harbor to much that lived closer to death, death and what they didn't and live closer to pain. And so in some ways, they suffered less because it didn't have, wasn't tainted by a sense of injustice or why me. I'm projecting, which is an irony because as I think about a person dying in their 80s today, I think of that as kind of a remark of a privilege, like that we could be alive in this period of time where we could make it into such an old age. But yet at the same time, it feels like a tragedy, even though ironically, the tragedy is those people that were dying thousands of years ago. I want to ask you a question, Bridget, unless you wanted to say something else about that, but I was going to ask you a question about pain. Please. Okay. So when you're talking to somebody who makes the decision to enter hospice care or palliative care, and I want to come back to making sure people understand the similarity and to choose their to quite different things to get into them. But let's take an example of an individual who is cognitively completely intact, but is faced with a terminal illness. And let's maybe even talk through different examples. Somebody that's got something is debilitating as Lou Gerig's disease where their mind is completely intact, and they're suffering a neurologic disease is going to kill them versus an individual with a cancer that has metastasized in just a matter of time. What are their greatest fears when they come to you and where does physical pain and discomfort rank on that list? IMean, it's such a humbling question. It's a little bit hard to answer when you put something like Lou Gerig's disease and cancer next to each other. Pick one. Let's talk through. I think the thing I want to say before picking one is the path that gets you to the intersection where you are thinking about entering hospice or able to tolerate that idea is very different, right? If you're facing neurologic illness or cancer or heart failure, right? Like the experience that patients and the folks around them have had maybEQuite short, maybe a decade, maybe with really successful treatments, maybe this kind of downward feeling slope the whole time. And so you're really primed, I think, in different ways that intersection depending on what this last chapter has been like, have you been mostly healthy and felt pretty good and something happens quickly, have you been in and out of the hospitals sort of in this endless cycle, right? You're holding very different experiences and people have honed their muscle of adjusting and adapting and adjusting and adapting very differently, kind of depending on their experience of of the illness they've had. It's also really, really color developmentally depending on where that person is in their life, are they 42 with two young kids, are they 85, having lived a life they feel pretty good and full about. And so that's all the layer, you know, that's not all, those are a few of the layers of context that really inform. Given how much there is to unpack there and how I realize I want to go into all of that, let's take the step back and help people understand the difference between palliative care and hospice care. Yeah, great. So I sort of think of it as like palliative medicine is the big umbrella, palliative care is the big umbrella, and hospice care is sort of like the very end or the sort of backside of the umbrella. P palliative care is a medical specialty usually provided by a team for folks with a serious illness. Serious illness can be defined lots of ways and is defined differently in different health systems, kind of depending on how they're staffed and how their palliative care programs are kind of created to function, what purposes they're serving. But some of the BJU jump and at any point, but some of the big differences is that with palliative care generally there's no limitation around any disease directed or modifying therapies you might be pursuing and you don't have to be dying inherently or even clear that you're facing death. You could be diagnosed with a very serious cancer that actually has pretty robust treatments and you could live for quite a long time. Meaning many, many, many years. Many, many, many situations. What is the objective of the palliative care team? To think really holistically about who is this person? Where are they in their lives? How do they make sense of what's going on? What do they understand about their illness? Who's supporting them? All really grounded in this are their ways that we can help this person feel sort of as well as possible to treat the symptoms related to serious illness, to treat the symptoms related to the treatments of different serious illnesses. But in the context of whole life, which means you could have an onoclinic day, you could be seeing two people that seem on paper generally the same, right? Similar age, demographic backgrounds, diagnoses and be dealing with really different things when you walk in the room. Yeah, IMean, no matter how you slice it, the goal is, is the focus is quality of life. Period. Whether it's got a care hospice and by the way, for both bridges, so it's inherently interdisciplinary as Bridgette's saying. That's why Bridgette's social worker and I'm a medical doctor, but we work with chaplains, nurses, music, and atologist, potentially art there, as funters. In the subject matter, suffering in quality of life, there's no one discipline that has a lock on that stuff. But whether it's pad of care or hospice, the focus is really on helping someone feel as well as possible. And that is an inherently holistic question because it gets at their identity. Yes, as well as possible as defined by them. Right? And so for someone, that could mean very aggressive paid management. And for someone else, it could have a different relationship to the experience of pain. And they wouldn't put that at the top of the priority list. They might put more concrete or relational kind of supports, you know, higher up on their list. So our, you know, the beauty of our jobs and our work is to meet this person in this moment in time and identify what's up for them, what's most important and sort of where where it is that we get to meet them to work towards quality of life as defined by them. So what is the trensition then for an individual from being under the bottom umbrella of palliative care into a more narrow, defined level of care as hospice? Yeah. IMean, I think there's some, you know, there's some like a world of ideals in that and then there's what actually happens. And the reality in this country is that folks are admitted to hospice very, very late, you know, the length of stay on a hospice program. This country's something like three week average. And so it's actually quite little bit of time. And when I think about when hospice is a good fit for folks, I think about wanting to stay out of the hospital, being in a place where they are ready to or being forced to grapple with the reality that there is not anything left to do to change what is happening in their body to change the cancer to delay the neurologic illness and or folks that are more explicitly ready to be supported in their end of life care or in their trensition. And just done with chasing the treatment, you know, done with chemo. Yeah. Maybe there's it may be a, you that came on might have something more to offer them in terms of life spent, but they are just electing to be done with that. So whether the weather came out and other things have run out of run their courts and there's nothing left to try, which is often the case, or they feel don't worth what they're trying. They are just telling us that they're just, they don't want to try anything else. Either way, they would be much more likely to be hospice ready. Now you're saying the average length of stay in hospice and really there are as I'm aware of it and so correct me if this is not correct. There seem to be three paths to hospice. There's hospice in your home where you go back to your home and a hospice team comes there and cares for you in your home. There is a palliative care ward inside a physical hospital that provides hospice care, but it's still within a hospital. And then there are outpatient hospice facilities dedicated facilities for hospice that are not hospitals. With those three encompass the, the, how hospice care is delivered or is there another one? Sort of in terms of sites of care. Okay. This is where it starts to get really warm and complicated. You can shut us up, Peter, so many different so many tributaries. But to kind of back up a little bit, it may be orienting for audience here. So as Bridget's totally correct, palliative care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is this sort of subset of palliative care devoted to the final months of life. So to be real clear, same philosophy in a lot of ways, but by insurance and reimbursement lines and by policy designation, you can get palliative care alongside curative intended care. You cannot do so in hospice. When you go on to hospice, you have to give up that curative intended care. I can't just that. IMean, you can't have an IV line, generally speaking. Yeah. Generally speaking. So there is, it is a, the way it's set up is a crossroads. We'll make the point that dying and living look a lot alike. But in the man-made world of policy and health care structure, there are some important forks in the road. So one of them to go on to hospice is you no longer have access to or don't want curative intended care and things to go with it. And also someone somewhere has to certify that should nature on its course. You likely have six months or less to live. So those are the two forks in road to qualify for hospice. Poundative care, those are neither of those applies for a lot of care. So that's a really important distinction. So I'm trying to kind of, in one other point to make there as well. Poundative care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is the older one. So we started in this country with hospice. And since the 1982, when Medicare got in the business, we had those restrictions. And then people in the 1980s and 90s realized, why are we waiting to the final weeks and months alive to deliver this kind of loving care? And so the pat of care was born as a younger, bigger sibling to come to get outside of those restrictions. So it's a wonky issue. Well what's interesting is you just said that hospice care was the original. And it was six months of life expectancy. And today we're at a point where median or mean is three weeks in hospice. Well if that's true, and we think about what we know about what individual looks like when they have three weeks left of life, this is usually a person who's already in delirium already in the early stages of organ failure. This is a person who probably is already spending more than 50% of their time sleeping. And what I guess I'm hearing you say, or maybe I'm imputing, is should they have moved into hospice sooner? Have they have they been unnecessarily discomforted by pursuing therapeutic intent until thaT3 week mark on average? Brad, you want to jump in there? No, you go first. No. I would say as in broad strokes, unequivocally, in general the answer is yes. I think we know that patients and families wait too long. They're suffering more than they need to and taking on treatments that are no longer helping them for a longer period of time. But there's a what can feel like a charade portion of care. And there's a lot of reasons like the patients and families not wanting to look at that piece of the puzzle yet denial is a thing, you know. And also referring physicians, perhaps is the the bigger reason that they are not seeing the writing on the wall or don't want to or whatever else. So it's very often that the physicians don't bring up hospice until way late in the game. So for many reasons, I think it is a generally true statement that we wait too long to invoke hospice. We wait too long based it based on our own state of goals of feeling peace and having some comfort towards the end and not wasting our time doing things that don't help us. And we also get into these situations where in my wife tells a story about one of her very close friends who died in 2018 from She had an abdominal cancer and her wish was to die at home. Mm-hmm. She was re-emitted. I think for a bowel obstruction and she was never able to get out of the hospital. Right. So she died in the hospital and this is probably probably not an uncommon situation where I think back to patients I took care of who heroic measures were done. Right. So maybe someone had an aortic dissection or a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. They're old. They already have organ failure. You go ahead and do it. But this is a person who was cognitively completely intact when they came in. Three weeks later, they're intubated. They're on dialysis. You can't trensfer that person to hospice. Right. Right. IMean, because of the moment you turn up because they can't have the ventilator. You can't have the dialysis. The moment you turn those things off, the person expires. So they're going to expire and I see you. Never what they wanted, probably. But so how often do you use in your experience are people in that no man's land where they now have missed the window to go into hospice? All I can say is not uncommonly. I don't have numbers to say. But that is not an uncommon story. And that's why if the second eye here someone say, I never want to die in hospital. My ears go out as a potential referer. Like then this person should really, we should really look to get this person to hospice. But this is be jay. I've never made anybody who wants to die in a hospital. IMean, I'm going to go on record right now and say, I don't want to die in a hospital. Now, I hope that my death is 35 years away, 40 years away. If I'm lucky, I don't want to die in a hospital. Yeah. I've watched too many people die in a hospital. It's never, ever, ever what you imagine it should be or could be. The goddamn beeping, the smells, the noise, the chaos. It is awful. Yeah. So if you were my patient, you were our patient, you know, would be, we'd be interesting to go down that road a little bit and brejjIMay have different things to say. But I hearing that and the stridency with which you said versus like, I don't want to be in a hospital, a hospital suck, but to hear that kind of level of passion, which comes from having been there. Exactly. Most people might not be as, you know, adamant about a design, but they haven't, they haven't watched a thousand of these deaths. And I'm, because all the more reason for me to really take what you're saying very seriously, you know, where of you speak it here. So, you know, so if you were under, if I were in any way involved in your care, I would pull up a chair and say, Peter, I heard you say that, buddy. And first of all, IMight ask you like, is that a throw, I come and do you mean that today, you know, like really kind of get into get behind with what's what you're saying there and to see how durable a choice that is in the night, might say it very explicitly, like even in the abstract Peter, some day as you know, there's going to be something that's going to come along and is going to eventually your death. So let's, you and I are going to keep a real hawks eye on this together. And there's going to be crossroads along the way around treatment decisions. And what they're oncologists or cardiologists or whatever doctor may not share with you is what it means to take on this treatment and what might happen. And you know, we'll together, you and I will interrogate all these decisions and really dig in to see what's going to, what might land you unexpectedly in a hospital in a ways that you're kind of feel stuck. And I would also say to Peter, part of dying, well, is also letting go of all the things you can't control. There's not going to be so many things that we can dictate. That's right. I could get into a car accident tomorrow that ends up in an ICU where they struggle valiantly to save me, but I still die. And that means I'm dying in a hospital. Yeah. So exactly. So I would sort of disabuse you of some absolutism around this. But then we would, we would, you have just given us our marching orders as the thing to look out for you as Peter at Tia to not suffer more than you need to where you are when death comes is a huge point for you. So that's noted. So we'll we'll wrap that into our care together as we move through time. And we'll make decisions with that in mind. But that is because you were explicit about it. And then you say most people, and who wants that? That's true. But that conversation rarely happens. Rarely actually happens to get that goal stated into the kind of care plan. Yeah. Let's give a couple of examples of where that discussion has relevance. Right. So now let's go back to a couple of these examples. So you've had that discussion when a person is still in palliative care before trensitioning to hospice or you sometimes waiting to have that discussion in hospice for the first time? Which conversation? About where? Yeah. Where? Oh. I think it depends. IMean, I think it depends on the kind of clarity or adamant a person comes into. So it might be one of the first conversations you have. Right. If somebody's had a really visceral experience in their own life, it could be the first thing they're thinking of with the diagnosis of advanced cancer or something. And it may be a conversation that's happening sort of weeks into hospice, depending on how things have evolved with the family and or how they're changing. So I think, you know, I do want to just step back, which is like I have seen very beautiful hospital deaths. Yeah. And I've also, yeah, the reason I'm so jaded is when you come from where I came from, you're running codes on people you're relying, right? They're dying while you're doing chest compressions on them and you're shocking them and you're breaking them. Yeah. Yeah. And so yes, I should really clarify. I'm coming out from a very narrow point of view that has maybe skewed my view too much. Maybe. Sure. IMean, we're all informed about those experiences, right? And the, the, I haven't, you know, not a physician. So I haven't had this experience, but I think coding someone while they're dying is a incredibly painful experience for the team providing that care potentially. But I have seen beautiful hospital deaths and I have seen people very clear in their sense that not dying at home is the goal. Yeah. You know, that to die in their living room with their kids watching is intolerable to them to know that they're leaving their family with that imprint because it is an experience that we've plucked out of our living rooms and most people don't have a familiarity or comfort with it. Plenty of people, I think maybe especially younger people who are dying are very clear. Like, no, no, I'm not going to do that at home. And if that means I'm in an acute care setting, like, okay, that's, that's sort of fine with me and preferred. And by the way, from an insurance perspective, because that must factor into this, if is there a fundamental difference in what an insurer, you see MS or otherwise will provide based on the option? Yeah, IMean, it's a great question. I kind of go back to your initial kind of laying out of the three trajectories into hospice. And I think we should be really clear. Like, the lion's share of hospice is what they call and reimburse for as, quote, residential hospice, which means in a place someone's living. Their home, their assisted living in a car or sometimes, IMean, it's a rather their calling where people are. It also could include the hospice facilities, like the resident hospice residences. Which are uncommon in this area. Yeah, so 80% of hospice happens where people live. Okay. And the remaining 20 is either in a hospital hospice unit or a dedicated hospice facility or nursing home. Or nursing home. Why is that rare? Because I don't, I would have assumed that the most economical and desirable place to provide hospice care would be an a dedicated facility. And it's for sure it's the assumption. So, you know, I've had hundreds of conversations being the social worker to go in and describe hospice and give hospice education and so many people, what the assumption is is hospice is a place that you go to die. And overwhelmingly that is not true. Right? Hospice is a service that comes to you where you are. And it's very, IMean, there's a lot of people that fear like, I'm, you're suggesting hospice you're going to send me away to die and that is a barrier because people don't want to be sent away. But then there's also disappointment of, oh, there aren't like a plethora of choices of places for me to go. We actually have to figure out how to hunker down and make this happen at home or find, and what does the regional resource of resources? What is provided? So, if an elderly couple who live alone, one of them becomes terminally ill, elect hospice. And let's just assume that the, if it's the husband who is sick that the, that the wife is not physically going to be able to do much, she was able to care for him before he had one critical last event because these things were typically as a step, right? You know, he's sick, but then he falls. And that's the sort of straw that breaks the camel's back. Does the home provision cover full-time support or something, nothing, even remotely close, which for how would she care for him if he is now bedridden, requiring pain medication, requiring medication for sedation, and any other form of comfort care? I wish you clen him. Yeah, you're pointing to, I think, one of the biggest systemic issues we have in this space, which is little to no reimbursement for caregiving and for the provision of a way that is from a hospice mean, then if you're not giving that. It means an expert team that's available 24 hours a day and comes to you basically as needed. And that, that could be once a week, that could be once a day. Certainly, I think the goal is often like a couple of times a week. And this is a, this is a huge, IMean, this is part of why hospice is underutilized, is because it doesn't always have the resources that people need to manage care at home. And the reality is, is that when somebody goes home, it's usually a communal effort. You know, folks are coming in and out when they're not working, they're taking off time, working, they're pulling in friends. If there's the resources, their hiring caregivers, which is quite expensive, thing to do. So it's a huge lift on caregivers, care partners and families to have someone diet home. So I didn't realize that. So you're saying that if a person elects home hospice care and they need full-time support, they're paying for that out of their own pocket. Yes. Yes. Which is very, that can't be cheap. No. No, IMean, there's multiple ways to hire caregivers. But, you know, in the Bay Area, for example, the range, the hourly range would be something like 20 to 55 dollars an hour, kind of depending on if you're hiring and trying to live your community or aid. No, that's just like a home health. Yep. Yeah. I got there so much to say and this stuff here, IMean, IMean, one year, as you're talking, you're reminding me about this home point just to make this case, like a lot of us in the abstract would say, I want to be at home when I die. Yeah. But then when it comes down to it, you know, when a few weeks turn into months and the family's burning out because it's at least 23 hours of the day is family and friends doing the work. So, you know, so a lot of us say, I want to be at home, but when it comes down to it, that is not always necessarily the easiest place or possible or even possible for all these reasons. And then to your question about why are they're not more hospice houses, just from that one's going to if they are not willing to pay to have someone come to your own house, they're certainly not going to pay for you to have a facility. Exactly. So, right. And so the medical system separates social services from medical services. So, the room in board of a facility, the infrastructure of the house, those are not be considered medical issues. So, therefore, are exempted from coverage. So, I worked at a hot one of the very few hospice houses in the country and it had to close as famous as it was, the world over. This sweet little six bed hospital is known all over the world. And it couldn't make it because there was, it does just no financial pathway. So, it's complicated. There should be more of these places and to note around your very reasoned incredulity there because that's much less expensive. When they alternative, it's to go back to an acute care hospital. But as you know, this is not a rational system per se. It's why you see that couple that you mentioned where he's dying and she's home and she can't bathe him. She can't deal with his bed pin. It's why you see in those stories, people go into the hospital, go to subacute rehab, maximum Medicare days, go home, go back into the hospital because there is this sort of not always explicitly called out or intended sort of like, how do we maximize the benefits that are here? It's one of those examples. And unfortunately, medicine is full of these, especially in the United States. And I'm very, I have a lot of great things to say about the healthcare system here. I really, probably know where I'd rather live with respect to healthcare, but there are so many examples just like this where both the payer, so actually I would say all three, the payer experience, the provider experience and the patient experience would all be better with a different system. Totally. It's more expensive. It's worse for the patient. It's worse for the care team to have the patient do what they have to do now to game the system. It's a real shame that even if you didn't care about thEQuality of an individual's life, if you just acted economically, you could just the bank account. You've just fallen the beans. Yeah, that's part of the joy and craziness of working in this part of the healthcare system. Because there's such and there's a, you get a line of sight as you say there could be this alignment where it's better care for everybody involved and cost less money. The whole part of care in the hospital has done a really good job over the last 40 years of gathering data. A week saved the health system lots of money. We improved care. All the stuff works, but it's still not scrutinizing the system for all sorts of reasons. You know, the the six month prognosis component of the hospice benefit was really an arbitrary place in some ways that was about getting it funded. You know, the sort of original thinkers were like, yeah, that should be a year. And that's probably more rate. You know, it should be you should be eligible if you're pregnant. But the fact that it's three weeks on average tells you how many resources are being course. Yeah, on the highest price provider. Yes. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, yeah. Well, the last, you know, for thinking about the last weeks and months and the swirl that's happening because you're getting sicker, all of these things are changing in your life. You're, you know, so much is changing your probably your, your touch with the healthcare system is really high that in that time to also get really sober maybe for the first time about what's important to you. Where do you want to be? Can you see this thing clearly? Like, it's almost an impossible time to do. So let's, let's focus on that for a second because this strikes me as a cultural issue. Right. It, uh, and you, you to live in this world, um, I would say I'm adjacent to the world, but I don't live in it. And most people aren't even adjacent to it. So death is a really foreign thing. The reason I suspect that this can gets kicked down the road so much. So much in fact, that after all the can kicking, people get to the end of their life, there's no road and there's just a pile of cans. So what is it culturally that prevents us from talking about this when we're 50, when we're 60, when we're 70, when we're 70, yeah, like, why, why is it because it's, it's, it's become such a, I don't, I don't know if I want to say it's a black box. I don't want to say it's a mystery, but but it's just something that we don't want to talk about. And as such, I feel, I really believe that that's why we get to thaT3, we, okay, fine, we're pulling the plug. It's three weeks and you fall off a cliff kind of thing. Um, do we know anything about other cultures? You know, do we know how is it in Japan? How is it in Europe? How is it in, in other parts of the world? Do we know anything about how, how, how, end of life functions there? A little bit culturally, there's a lot to study. IMean, often, it'd be so fun to take a couple of years and really study the anthropology around dying and which cultures, how cultures do this differently. We've been dying a long time. You know, so, but one thing, I think, is a great skill. Yeah. Yeah, we do. You will definitely do it. Yeah, I think you will not fail. You promise you. So, um, and I think what you're calling attention to, there's the, the culture, so I scanned an ABA in cultures, um, Japan, a place that generates its elders, you know, and aging and dying are different, but they bump into each other a lot. So, I, my armchair read, I'd say, life in Japan, where the comfort of being in old skin might be a different experience, but there you're still left with the sort of natural phenomenon, culture phenomenon of aging, bumping into this health care system idea. And that is the cognitive dissonance. We have these systems that are engineered and wired in such a way that are so at odds with mother nature on some level and so, blind to cultural issues in the name of science and so many sort of reductive ways that I think it's still, if you were in Japan, I think you'd still find a health care system that struggles with this question, even as the culture, uh, maybe doesn't as much. Similar probably in Scandinavia, but I think in those places, I know in the Scandinavian model, you will, one of the things that comes up for people then of life is, you know, other living issues like housing, like, you know, your relationships, they're still there. So, we, one of the things that makes dying harder in this country is the social determinants of health in society are not cared for, so you're still having your housing issues when you're trying to die. You still got billpaying things that are, you know, that's the stuff that makes dying extraordinarily hard in some cases or in many cases. You're saying that the lower, the wider net of the social safety net here compared to a country like Canada or Japan presumably just adds one more stressor to an already stressful situation. Largely, in any one sense doesn't do a justice, because as you said, the health care systems, these places, they can also do amazing work, and so I don't want to just blindly categorically denigrate a health care system in any country. There's some good things happen, but it is such a mixed bag, and as many problems as it solves, it creates some other ones, especially around issues that people are struggle to look at to your point still holds. Like, that we do have a problem in why Bridget and I came this far, science to see or smiling face, but to talk about this in such a way that allows an audience as large as yours to begin to think about this before it's sort of too late. This is, I think, all of our work as citizens to begin to rope this part of reality into our view so that we can prepare ourselves for it, and we can live with these realities and not be so surprised by the fact that we die someday. In part is so that we learn how to advocate for ourselves versus, yeah, I'd love to see our health system mature around these issues, and we'll continue to work on that or towards that. But I think the bigger note for your audience is what can each of us do to prepare ourselves in ways that the health system is not? In some ways, you're going to have to say no to health care to die well in this country, it's something you kind of have to say no thanks to medicine. One thing your audience needs to appreciate and why advanced directors are so helpful. For example, the system is it is by default modes of our health care system would be just do more stuff, prop your body up anything to give you a pulse. Unless you've written or stated otherwise, we're going to just try to protect you having a pulse. Most of us don't equate having a pulse with actually really being alive and that becomes a problem at some point. We in this sort of carnival where we can really prop up a body almost indefinitely so it becomes a you have to find a way to say no to that and unwind what that hospital can do. You have to get out of the way of that to die peacefully in this country. Does that make some sense? No, no, IMean, it makes so much sense and as you're saying it, I'm just reflecting on the internal struggle that I think most nurses and doctors experience and I we don't talk about it but I remember during residency the pride that I took in how heroic we could be. What we could do for a patient in the ICU, like how many central lines I could put in you and how I could look at all the different cultures and figure out the five antibiotics you need and how good I was at managing your dialysis and getting that CVVHD to manage the pressure and this and that and how I could alter the antibiotic into aortic balloon pump to just keep your heart like we were there was such a sense of awesomeness in like this technology. It is awesome. But then you take a step back and you're thinking, what am I doing? What am I doing? This is a physiological experiment. It's not a life anymore. Yeah. And you would say, well, is there a chance that this person's going to recover? Well, of course, there's always a chance, but how big does that chance need to be for the expected outcome to justify what you're doing? And there's two ways to answer this question. The first is economically. That's an easier way to answer it because expected outcomes are probabilities. It's what is the expected outcome of this survival multiplied by the cost of this intervention. You take the dot product of those. You add them all up. There's the cost of your health care system with respect and of life care. Let's put that aside. There's the human one. Right. There's the how many people are spending their last weeks or months in an ICU where they are for on tents and purposes no longer there. Right. Because the amount of sedation you have to put on a person to keep them in that state is extreme. They're now swelling into a Michelin man and is this what we want their families final memories to be. Something I have such a visceral memories of sitting in those family meetings in the ICU where the person the bed is unrecognizable. And the expectation that physicians and nurses and social workers and spiritual, that the healthcare teams should be able to have all of that expertise knowledge, not all of it. Just some of the expertise knowledge that you just outlined. And then also the very nuanced interpersonal capacity to with a relative strenger asks some of the biggest philosophical questions in a moment of crisis. IMean that is like in some ways a beyond human expectation of physicians which is where the and many do it. IMean just like with profound grace and beauty. Even when it really doesn't feel like it to them. But that's where sort of like the consumer side or the patient side is like you know come in having wrestled with it. Not because you were given a diagnosis of a serious illness but because we all do die and that and that kind of gets back to your original question like this is hard because it's kind of impossible to imagine not existing anymore. To actually psychologically spiritually philosophically grapple with like I'm here and I won't be and my children are here and they won't be and my spouse is here and they won't be and maybe I can kind of wrap my head around that being true for my grandparents maybe and then my you know it's like this is a fundamental sort of contemplation of being human and you know it's a good muscle good. It's a it's a life-giving muscle I think to start to flex when you are healthy. When you feel good when you're like it is actually true that I don't know when I'm going to die it could be because I'm hit by a basket could be from some unexpected instantaneous physiologic thing or it could be some process when I'm 85 like we don't know and collectively we have a hard time talking about and being in spaces together when when fundamentally we don't know. So let me ask you a question let's assume we put you in a role where you're you're an advisor that walks through the oncology ward okay outpatient oncology so they bring you in for a consultation with and maybe you tell me this is actually not a bad idea but they just say like we're going to bring you into the outpatient on-board on Tuesdays and we just want you to meet the patients okay now these are patients that are in all stages of oncology so let's assume that this is a breast cancer ward or not ward clinic and that means you are dealing with women who have just been diagnosed with pre-cancer, Dr. Carson on my side to DCIS all the way up to women who have progressed through every intervention and are now facing completely unresponsive stage for cancer okay you are introduced to Jody Smith she's 42 years old she's a mother of two and she has she was recently diagnosed with what is turning out to be a stage three breast cancer so she has a mass in her breast that they have removed and it's surgery they also found lymph nodes under her arm but the work up of the rest of her body found no evidence of cancer so she is now going to undergo chemotherapy plus or minus radiation and by the way I'm not entirely familiar with the odds on this but let's just say it's a 50% chance cure rate so and there's a 50% chance that this is never going to come back there's a 50% chance it will come back and by the way if it comes back she will die from this it will go on for years but it will come back in a distant organ what would you say to her when you introduce yourself and let's just assume she understands why you're there and what you do so if she says to you do I really need to meet you shouldn't I be meeting my cancer doc yeah what would you say IMean the do you need to meet mEQuestion is interesting um you know I think what I would want to know is what has this meant like what has this experience meant her so far right like what is so let's say she says this has been the most jarring terrifying thing I have gone through in my life I'm 42 I have a seven year old and a five year old that are my world it has never crossed my mind that I wouldn't be a grandmother and I'm now being told there's a 50% chance I won't be a grandmother but I'm a fighter and I have faith that these are amazing doctors and it's a coin flip I'm going to get heads yeah IMean I would join her in that I think I would also want to normalize the fact that she has never imagined anything other than being a grandmother IMean I think so much about those initial you know encounters or meeting of somebody is about rapport building right you have to get into a back and forth so that they feel you as another person there that's curious about their experience and you know you werEQuick to kind of like add context for me but you know actually the process of someone feeling comfortable to say like I've always imagined being a grandma and I'm going to be a grandma right yeah that's probably three discussions right that's not like that yeah there's a least I probably maybe no our kids names or she's told me something like you know she's asking it yeah but it's a okay skipping ahead but it's also skips over into like there's an international component that people I think are sometimes caught off guard by and also really welcome because they have been having this experience and you know nobody's had the time to say how are you what does this mean to you are you know oh you're waking up at night what are you thinking about when you wake up at night what what is the biggest worry that this brings up for you you know has it has it crystallized something into greater clarity IMean it seems to me that first of all based on the definition of palliative care she would be a great candidate for palliative care because she is still 100% for course press treatment but palliative care would bring in she doesn't seem to me that she needs someone to manage her pain she probably needs someone to talk to and talk about what she thinks about when she wakes up aT4 in the morning scared to death yeah right and that's probably not something that I'll call her in but she may need somebody to to learn about other impacts of the treatment and how that's affecting her life and is there anything to do to mediate that right so maybe her her interest in sex or her sexual function has changed and nobody's asked her about that nobody's thought with her about like how do we you know what can you do to adjust and adapt to still have access to that part of your life even though you have stage three breast cancer or with with stage three breast cancer how many of the theoretical patients that I just described of which there are tens of thousands in this country if not hundreds of thousands how many of those patients are in palliative care right now in very fraction yeah well I'm a couple reasons come to mind one is that people can flate hospice in paddock hair and so people say I'm not ready for paddock hair or they're saying I'm ready to think about dying yet yeah because it's it the idea is once I'm in palliative care we're not fighting yeah we're not treated which is and untreated and you know you say what palliative care is and people meet you in their failure they're like well why wouldn't who wouldn't want this and there is that kind of wondering if I should be in palliative care now IMean palliative care is just good health care yes yes yes yes yes yes yes often we're doing this very basic things what feel very elemental like sitting down and saying hi Peter I'm BJ you know yeah introducing yourself with some of the magic about care IMean that's a little it's extreme but that's true often what bridges doing our people our colleagues are doing is just some very elemental work that gets skipped over and everyone's expense so that's true um but I also don't want to land there the work of palliative care while often is very rhetorical not just the prescription pad for the MD often gets um we don't value the psychological elements is much the relational elements existential elements so I don't want to say palliative the work of palliative care is easy it does tend to the fundamentals of care in ways the rest of healthcare doesn't but it doesn't stop there there is real skill set that bridge has for meeting you timing her questions how she hears you when she calls this conversation and says it for the next time when she decides to bring up the potentials for suffering when she introduces mortality those are all that's a real felt experiential thing that doesn't just happen happened has it so I guess I'm saying two things there's a real skill set to this work that often gets shorts cited which is another reason why palliative care doesn't get invoked very often is you'll hear physicians especially and other people health systems oh I don't need palliative care I do that or they're not ready or they're not ready or I you know I'll take care of that I yeah because they're saying like I care about my patient I treat their pain um that may be true to a point but very often why people don't get palliative care back to your important question there is one I'm misunderstanding about palliative care is two an unrest in mating the work that goes into this relational stuff and so therefore a lot of people pretend or think they're delivering palliative care when they're not and third would be capacity you know we don't have enough of people who are forced to stop thinking about that so there's a big three reasons why people don't get into palliative care so let's say you get to know her better how often and let's just say she says you know I I really love being able to talk with you about this stuff because I'm scared and by the way this treatment's hard like my hair is falling out I'm sick I don't have the energy to like play with my kids right now like there's there's a lot of stuff in life that is really difficult even as I am hopefully going through this journey to come out on the other side healed how often would she get to interact with the palliative care team it's a there's an insurance based question ago it's a health system it's a health system staffing question and also you know a question about in any given system sort of what are the named priorities of palliative care in that system which can bEQuite different so there isn't a great way to answer that question I think it depends on it depends on staffing it depends on if she has other supports if there's a way to connect her to other supports and I think you know this is this is where our work at metal health I think folds in because the health system is not staffed or primed or any other number of adjectives you know to support people in the ongoing way that most would benefit from that's really like a community based resources you or intervention it's like where people are actually living their lives with this illness is where that support kind of is gonna come from and you know I think most people find that in their lives from their spiritual community or church community or friend group but I would still guess that from having somebody outside of their lives right you know her telling me her you know sharing your fears with me is very different than sharing your front your fears with your friend who's having their own very personal like you can't die how would I live without you you're supposed to be a grandma with me like don't talk about that right they're bringing all of their own you know myriad protections and guards from this subject into their caring for that person I think so often when we meet people in this counseling space right we might be the first person who hasn't kind of you know with all of the love and all of the the good intent minimized what the person is sharing because it's hard to tolerate our our people's fears you know we want them to feel better we want that to stop for them and so we say things like oh but you're gonna be fine like look how well you've done so far it's gonna be okay so how would your interaction change if I put you into a neurology clinic and you were meeting people who were all newly diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease so now we have people who show up with cognitive impairment but they're still pretty they're still good they're actually still okay but they've now had that emiloid pet scan the demonstrates the buildup of emiloid in their brain and certainly to the eye of a skilled neurologist the diagnosis is unambiguously clear it's a clinical diagnosis of course and they've now been given the diagnosis you were in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease we don't know the speed at which this is gonna progress but we know that it's more or less monotonically going to get worse yeah what are you asking that person IMean this is a very beloved space of mine that I've gotten just been more time in in the last few years and I I um I think for a lot of people one of my first questions is you know what do you understand about what's like what are the doctors told you what do you understand right because a person may have had many visits with their neurologist and the neurologist has given very clear information but let's say that this person for the sake of this case study watched their parent die of Alzheimer's disease and there's a strong erratitary component here and they now understand they were let's just say they'd been in denial for the last year while they were in the throat of a big exam they were like oh I don't know I'm probably just a little tired it's probably just you know a little distracted yeah but now they've been confronted with there's the emiloid pet scan there's the C2N blood test and here are the results of the cognitive test and you know you are on the same path as your your mom or your dad and they remember they remember what it was like for the lasT4 years of that person's life so let's assume that there's not a lot of ambiguity in their mind about what what's what's happening yeah IMean I'd want to know more about their experience with their parent I'd want to know the things that they're most worried about so I'm I'm gonna just say I am most worried that I'm not going to be able to care for myself that the people I care about are going to need to take care of me and it's going to inconvenience them and I'm not ready to to to to to lose my mind like I'm young I'm this person let's say this person is 68 years old like this is on the verge of being early onset right and they're realizing that they did in another couple of years they might not be sent him and they're basically saying like this is a high functioning individual this is a person who's still working who is contributing who loves their life and they're basically mourning the loss of that yeah I would not enter after their mourning right like of course like of course like sort of of course to their feelings and it's sometimes that's hard for me to like pluck questions that I would ask out because it is such of a such a like in the moment thing but it's like tell me more about how much you don't want this to happen why what's the worst case like what happens between now and there like you know there's a certain amount of like creating and allowing for space for people to say the things that they're catastrophizing in their minds that they're so scared of that they don't want to have happen to lay that land in order to come back to in a trajectory of so you know yes you've laid out like a path but also so much uncertainty actually for like when how the per progression will happen and when and what the changes will be and the impossibility you know just how hard it is to to not know what that will actually really look like what are the considerations because again they're just in palliative care they're going to go and try all sorts of therapies deep down they know that the therapies in this space are far less efficacious than the woman you met earlier with breast cancer where she's really got a shot yeah this the most these therapies are going to do is slow things down but look if you slow them down enough maybe something experimental comes along so they're going down the path of I'm going to do this palliative care thing because you seem like a nice person and I like talking with you but I'm I'm going to do everything I can to slow this down yep so now let's fast forward a year or two things are getting worse what are the things you want to understand before you're so far gone that they can't even like walk me through the things you need to do to help them in their family prepare for what is effectively inevitable. How do you be a jump jump in if there's things bouncing around for you? Well maybe I could say real quick to kind of just double click as I say what you are saying IMean though early work whether it's a cancer patient or someone dealing with Alzheimer's that early work is so much of relational getting to know the person laying out a sort of safe place for them to fall apart share their fears without being shoached all that stuff so Bridget saying that I just really it's really key and that might take all of the first visit you may ask no questions about the diagnosis it might take five visits before you get to anything that for the reason you're supposedly there all that is to getting to know a person because we know there's some magic and a person being seen bearing witness them getting to express themselves is its own therapeutic value but then as the provider you are you are learning about what makes this person tick what inspires them what turns them off what do where their fears lie etc so you're gathering all this knowledge said that'll help you as you go down the road with them over time to be able to spot the look around the bend a little bit of this person and see what's coming up for that might be coming up for them and then you can sign up to them and say hey remember last time we talked about this or that thing or I know you told me how much this or that thing is source of fear I just want you know I'm not gonna I'm gonna be here with you or you know it just lends a much more specific ability for you to accommodate and accompany this person that's so much of the work is really it's an accompaniment and looking around the corner with someone so I just want to kind of before we move off that into other things that's what I just want that to get really clear what grids points are not casual kind of you're not just stalling for time that is the early lattice of foundation that's the foundation then the person gets to feel seen heard and held and then when that trust is in place a lot of other things become possible so so just to back up I think it's also rated it's not inherent that because somebody saw their parent die of Alzheimer's and they've been diagnosed with Alzheimer's and it's the worst thing that they could imagine it doesn't it's not inherently true that it ends up being the worst thing that they could imagine right they actually we don't tend to it's speaking of massive generalization but we don't tend to anticipate our ability to adapt very well especially when like the worst case thing is happening and you know sometimes having had familiar you know been intimately involved in this worst case thing you kind of surprise yourself or your kids surprise you know there's there's these things that unfold that you wouldn't have guessed would be a part of the experience and I think I really tried a whole space for that right to stay curious about like okay you're very sure that this experience is gonna look like this and together we'll see what it actually looks like and feels like I do you know in this instance like let's say that this person was also married or partnered I'm just so acutely aware of that spousal or care partner experience because potentially and are they part IMean sort interrupt you but are they also a patient like or is there a patient confidentiality thing where you can't really be there to support them because your patient is the spous foundational documents about a care the unit of care is the patient and family so okay so this is a very unique part of medicine then yes in another version we still bump into you know the western autonomy individualistic like the patient is the patient that is not we are not documenting in the chart about their spousal or if we are we're doing it very carefully but you have more of a attitude because you can think of the entire unit of support of that that that that that patient would define in this experience of Alzheimer's like the person whose body that's happening and like the experience of if we don't and if we don't start to get better at this in a major way right like her often experience right uh is central to their well-being is central to how to manage how far into this relationship or you broaching um you know medical decision making power of attorney things like that IMean these are these are and and are those those difficult discussions in that they they they require sort of a cognitive acceptance like I'm actually now putting medical decision making into someone's hands who are not my own because in the future I'm going to lose the capacity to make those decisions IMean how difficult the discussion is that you can really depends on the person right and how how you know have they really truly managed all of those decisions by themselves or they're used to some back and forth or they have a different model that's quite intertwined so um for some people that's really hard to imagine I think in my experience like in the neurologic illness space so often if a patient has someone which not all do that person's coming to visits right because they've been showing signs where they're not remembering or you know they couldn't get to the doctor's office on their own or get the zoom up by themselves etc so they're often presenting with somebody else and there's immediately another person to engage with their experience IMean the number of times spouses, adult children just are immediately brought to tears with thEQuestion how is this been for you because no one has asked them not because they didn't want to but usually because they don't have time right then neurologist is mostly there to think about the patient yeah yes yeah this gets complicated all of these things are such tips of icebergs IMean in that unit of care thing even in pad of care and why one reasons why we started metal outside of healthcare is to make good on that promise yes the unit of care is patient family but we always when I was working in the medical system in the cancer center anywhere in the matter like you can't build there's no way to build for the spouse so we'd sneak that family into the side or sometimes have an appointment with them or we would dub tail it in the appointment with the patient so it's yes there is space at least intellectual and emotional space preserve for the family members but very often it's still short-tripped with because the billing is yes so there's a lot to say about that and that's another reason why metal IMean probably 60% of our clients are the family members because there's just no place no one's asking about their experience to bridge this point so what are somEQuestions you're gonna ask that patient as their cognition is declining and things that you need clarity on from them their wishes what do you want to understand well you brought up advanced directives in the dance care planning and so let's just spend a moment on that that's we should all fear 18 in this country you should have an advanced directive yeah and my guess is virtually nobody who's young and healthy has one that's true hey virtually anyone who's older and isn't healthy has one exactly IMean you know we have somEQuestions in studies and also just casually if you give a talk how many people have an advanced directive you know maybe 20% of people raise their hand how many people think advanced directive is really important like most people raise their hands so there's a none of us many of us are not doing the thing we know we're supposed to do we just it's this just deferable thing like life insurance you know anyway so one sort of public service announcement here is advanced directive is very important you can download a form online like this is a free but you don't need a lawyer to do no you do not need a lawyer to do this so um and the most important thing to come out of an advanced directive if you had to pick sort of one of thEQuestions that gets asked it's probably the proxy if God forbid you all the sudden you know an accident or something happens and we can't ask you Peter what kind of care is important to you who do you want speaking on your behalf in such a moment is that and that's probably the demos important question to get clear on and you know why would a young a young healthy person think about that so my first advanced directive I was in my late 20s when I actually finally did it even I been in these conversations for a long time and I one day was imagining you know something unexpected happening not being able to participate in a conversation lying in a hustle of it I was managing my parents who do not speak to each other trying to make decisions over their child and my you know casual partner at the time you know mostly casual partner at the time kind of sitting there trying to figure out how they belonged in the scene I was like I don't want that for them regardless of what happens to me and my body or you know what they actually choose like to actually put myself in the position of the people that those choices would default to yeah like I didn't want that for them I didn't you know if I was at all senty and I definitely didn't want to hear it but I didn't want them in throws of totally unexpected grief to be trying to negotiate that really surely it's an awesome responsibility I I'm very honored to say the number of people that have asked me to be the decision maker for them I can't imagine how many have asked you this BJ but IMean there are more than a dozen friends who have asked me this and I say the same thing to all of them which is it's an honor to do it but we have to sit and talk like it's not you can't hand me that stick and just sign my name on there because I like we're gonna have dinner we're gonna have a bottle of wine we are gonna talk in this through and you need to know how to do this job need to understand what you want and don't want yeah good on you because a lot people don't do that and again the job is not for you to and so I'm not my will yeah exactly the job is for you to honor the other persons which is speak on their behalf so to do that well you have to know the persons wishes and that's not a couple of questions that's a big old conversation and just as you do with the bottle of wine and dinner like that's what we're doing with patience you're setting a table that's comfortable often you're sitting you're asking intimatEQuestions as providers you may be sharing intimate details too as part of a relational set a table for intimate things to happen so I just want to borrow your table setting there that's what we do too it's a important piece of getting to this level of detail so and it's also true like you don't have those conversations once and when a bridge is saying a lot of really important things I want to double click on another thing like that the advanced rective the the conceit is problematic right on the shoots you're asking someone to imagine putting themselves in this future oriented position where they're in a situation that they can't imagine where they can't speak and so what will they want then so it's a problem it's a problem it says best it's is is best as we have you know but it's a problematic tool and as people move through life with illness or disability their realization of what they can or might like to live with shifts you know we have data around this right you ask a bunch of healthcare providers if you were brought in your own emerging department quadriplegic from an accident would you want your colleagues to save your life you know most providers said hell no I could never live like that no go ask most people live with quadriplegia if they're happy to be alive and they said yeah I couldn't have imagined but you know same with me I okay you're going to lock three limbs off you cool that like no yeah but then you you know as it goes in this life we are adapted we have capacities that we don't know until something comes along to pull them out of us so part of this you know mind-bendervative as directives to allow room for that for a person's sense of themselves and their capacity to change in any direction so the all of that is a preamble to say you have these conversations over time multiple times and let the person change over time I think it's also like this is one of those places where you want to focus on the things that are important to you the experiences that are central to good days to meaningful time because you know having counseled a lot of people actually in the acute moments of having to make these decisions being able to reorient them towards like you know what I've heard you say is that your dad was like always in his garden he wanted to be at home like if you could hear your voice that's what and it was important to you blah blah like the ventilator doesn't get us there right that the what are we moving towards is is much more motivating than not doing x y and z not into bathing not resuscitating because those things for most people like exist from scenes from TV shows and are still pretty far away but we can really but it is easier for people to choose like the scene that we're going towards that they can square against how they knew their person so I I sort of IMean there's there are people who are very clear about abnc interventions being something that they would never want and and I certainly honor that maybe I hold it with a little bit of grain of salt but I honor it but I'm more interested in what I have been asked to be in that role to understand you know what what makes this person's life not because it's going to perfectly trenslate like if I can't dance under the full moon and volley like my life is not enough and you're like okay but what if you could like see the full moon from your bed like is that you know like we we that's that's a really important point where did I never thought of it that way I probably have just always had a bias towards okay what are the things we don't want to do right the where we talk like think about medical lingo DNR DNR no chess pounding no intubation blah blah blah blah but I like this framing better of okay like what are the minimum set of requirements you need to have to be really to just still hold some delight in life and you know what do we need to get you there that those are those are the steps we'll take there's some language around that Peter by the is a movement to change DNR to A&D allow natural debt to get away from the things we're not doing and the things that we're are doing just to make that point in it interesting because that's taking this that has that taken hold yet I don't know that it's taken hold but there's a there is an effort to dry I like that yeah I think you're going to your point it's a really if we have a sense of rolling towards yeah even if we have to be very flexible and allow our mind to change on route that's just a much more viable it's it's much more it's a much more deliberate path and it's also very helpful for those around us to know what to do versus just not to do what are the differences that you have both experienced in dealing with dying cancer patients between those that arEQuote unquote old and those that are young IMean of all the chronic diseases cancer obviously disproportionately strikes the young you know people in their 40s and 50s don't really have to worry about heart disease and neurologic disease for the most part but they're far from clear of cancer and there's actually an article out recently that even suggests that the incidence of cancer is rising in young people so I'm curious is to what you've learned about about living and dying from through the lens of cancer in the tragic cases which I'm just using this term sort of loosely where everybody agrees the 45 year old dying of cancer is tragic versus the part of life when someone is in their 80s and 90s and dies of cancer hmm well one thing that leads to mind my experience with younger people um IMean you can get very philosophical to say what is an old what is old you know you know and I've seen some kids die duh which IMean that's a whole new level of whole new level of sorrow and senses of tragedy on some level for the parents very very different level of engagement or awareness yes tentally I have but I have and I write and actually the child the kid the young person I have seen some we want to be very careful to not be judging and grading deaths this is why the problem of good death is a really problematic construct but and in terms of something instructive to learn from I've seen some younger people die so beautifully and adapt so remarkably to the reality that they're living it's just stunning why why do you think that is IMean my senses because you know could say because they haven't yet been around on this plan along enough to develop such concrete notions of identity I am BJ I am this I am not that expectation expectations since when do you think that kicks in BJ I think it's a spectrum of develops late teens early 20s I would say something like that is our sense of as we individuate and our identity sort of set up is something relatively independent compared to our earlier years but you know I certainly feel different about myself now than I did when I was 19 but but to your point I think these sort of these these the as we said earlier dying is a natural thing well do it and you know hey you know what's the problem is it's but when the problem is hey that it's really hard and the if there's a problem around dying it's the social pressures or the expectations from ourselves or others that make us feel that this is somehow that we're doing it wrong or that there's something wrong with me for dying etc this is where a lot of the problem comes so a kid and IMay just have a much more fluid sense of themselves in the world I think that's a big one they may not have developed haven't seen enough of the planet to attach so firmly to it you know perhaps but those are just can those are guesses but there is a there's a theme and we have a colleague Chris Adrian who's a pediatric pad of care, rocket metal you know he would be interesting to talk to him but that's my experience with younger people it's now it's a very different conversation with their parents so yeah so that's one thing IMean they give space just up as a note like how complicated is because the grief the sort of anticipatory grief of a dying person is very different than the anticipatory grief of the people that will go on to live without them and that's the space that we're trying to negotiate these decisions and make plans right like kind of two very different developmental tasks overlayed right and I think in the experience of children of course this is not universal but in those experiences of children who are sort of clear like I think I'm dying nobody is willing to talk to me about that kind of like looking around for another kind of sober person to engage with them there but that's just kind of an amazing thought just to pause on that for a moment I've never really spent much time thinking about it because I actually didn't spend that much you know in pediatric surgery you saw some children who died but you usually weren't they really want to medical or pediatric service by that point so I don't I don't really understand what the what the what the what the metacognition is of a dying child but so so a 10-year-old child is is who's got cancer let's pick something like that there they're they're they're they're they're aware that something's happening I suppose I'm certainly are deeply yeah more than often sometimes with a more direct shoot to kind of the truth theiness of what's happening then then adults around them including the physicians and clinicians yeah yeah you know it's I think there's an arc for our development or we know a lot of kids yeah we go out in the world and as adults and we take on we try on all these other outfits for size and do the things we're supposed to do and should and stuff and then there's this can be this return to a sort of a playfulness and a lightness within all-age that would have you thinking that our wisdom was never higher than when we were kids we just didn't get seduced into thinking that someone else outside of ourselves new more than we did and started externalizing you know there's we could draw lots of fans of home and around that fluidity with which my three-year-old and six-year-old will you know sometimes they'll wake up me like do you think nanodide last night when are you going to die like they just there is a kind of curiosity that they have without the attachment actually to like the the deep meaning that that we may as adults kind of get into anticipating and then because we're anticipating feeling it right they can kind of just like ask thEQuestions like well you be alive when I die mom well you be old right like they're just trying to figure it they don't get a no way in the same way yeah maybe as a way of putting them into a check yeah no totally it's not comfortable so I want to go back to something you said a second ago you brought up kind of anticipation of loss and death and then the actual event and the loss once that person has gone and obviously those two states exist for the surviving only one of those states exists for the dying they don't really have so tell me about the experience for the person who's going to die what are the things that they express to you as their greatest fears how often is it again pain physical pain how often is it not existing how often is it leaving someone behind and their suffering and then similarly I'm curious as to what the anticipated versus realized experiences of the loved ones IMean I think for for many people there's real fear about the physiologic experience of dying of pain and other symptoms right and I think one of the beautiful parts of our work is in in the nature of people being linked to palliative care hospice care there's some ability to comfort that right that we are here we are watching those symptoms we're working with you so could we say that nobody in the year 2025 needs to actually suffer during death IMean is that it's at two an extreme a statement for example is there a pain that is so deep that it can't be reached by the most potent narcotic is there is there a shortness of breath that is so significant that it can't be offset and palliated by probably an narcotic as well like a if you and sorry good we're going to say yeah well just from that sort of medication medication physiology yeah at that end of the argument or conversation yes to your question I think we can say that no one in 2025 needs to die suffering is long as you include the potential for sedation to be part of that it may take so much narcotic to quail your pain or your shortness of breath yes that we are actively putting you to sleep so if you include what's called palliative sedation then I think that is a true statement yep I think I just want to make a quick note on the use of narcotics in the setting like narcotic is a police term right it's a term of law and voice enforcement and the medicines that are being used in the time are opioids and it's only an important IMean not only it's an important distinguishment because opioids are often one of the central medicines in managing the symptoms related to dying and related to serious illness at a certain point and people for good reason in 2025 and the setting of how opioids exist in our culture are scared right and so you know yeah so it's an interesting I recently to podcast with Sean Mackie who's a pain specialist and we talked a lot about opioids because on the one hand they are a very important part of the tool kit of a pain specialist they would be an even more important part of your tool kit and they have been the most widely abused class of drugs in the history of modern medicine those two statements can be simultaneously true absolutely doesn't detract from the former yes right yes and there's a there is a fair amount of work you know if opioids are being used to manage people's symptoms and was serious illness like we we need to pause and ask thEQuestions of like how do you feel about this medication being prescribed you have experience with it right because everyone comes with some imprint around the meaning of these medicines and if we want to help people use the medicines correctly to get to that place where they might be as comfortable as we're able to get them like we got to peel back the layers on the relationship to the medicines being is that a common phenomenon where people show up with a belief about this and is the belief that it's IMean it sounds like a silly thing to say do people think it's cheating do people think there's some nobility in suffering through death I'm certainly some people some do and not only like some people feel that pain is redemptive right that they don't want their experience blunted or muted or you know that they have such a commitment to a quote natural experience or they have been a person that never took pharmaceutical medicines or drugs anyway that this could be a real diversion from how they've understood or been comfortable in relationship to medicines and and I would say often there's there's a need for conversation in this space and at this point like unless you're living with no access to media everybody has some touch point reaction and bias about about these medicines and so maybe it's not a long conversation but it's a really important conversation and a lot you know people are worried about addiction people who are sober wondering how this impacts their sobriety right there's a super interesting thing I'd never thought about so you take an individual who's been sober yeah and their wondering wait can you really give me a benzo if you give me yeah if you give me fentanyl and morphine is that violating my sobriety how do you answer that question I answer that question usually with morEQuestions around their sobriety what that experience has been like where they are with it now has it been important that there has been sort of absolute abstinence like you know that it exists if from different peoplEQuestions that sort of there IMight put in the camp of identity like do they are they telling you IMean IMight say there is no from where I sit Peter there's no nobility and you suffering on necessarily being pain on the necessarily you as a sober person allowing me to prescribe you an opiate at this stage your life to me personally as your physician poses no moral quandary to me at all but what about you you know you're you're the person who's living in these shoes and and if you tell us absolutely no it's absolutely no benzos okay we will listen to you that may mean more pain than then otherwise but that's your call so the bridges point to be back to morEQuestions and not putting it on the pace even though it's not even saying and by the way Bob you can change your mind anytime let's live with this decision today exactly if you wake up or you want to change your mind yeah not to change exactly yeah yeah and but in making it but also I'm in my your bridge I'm always knowing sort of the social clouds around some of these issues I will go out of my way to say we don't you know you're not gonna get addicted to these medicines we're gonna be using them judge judiciously a lot of people in the here get the morphine that's a there's a phrase I hang the morphine sometimes is a euphemism for essentially utilizing impatient and IMean it's not legal to do that anywhere we're not going to kill you you know we're gonna use only as much medicine as it helps your symptoms okay so there's a lot of room to clarify how we will use these medicines what they mean and what they don't mean so even if someone doesn't ask me those things I usually find an excuse to say those kinds of things yeah I think we have to step back to for a second because we're using suffering and pain yeah we're using suffering in a little bit of like AI would say not correct way because someone can have all of their symptoms pretty well managed and feel pretty comfortable physiologically and have an extraordinary amount of suffering so to say in 2025 nobody needs the suffer at the end of life like I think that's impossible pain yeah I think that we can for the most part we can say we will do everything we can to help you be as comfortable as possible like can we say we can do that perfectly no tell me about IMean I guess the outside of the well I think you're drawing one of the things you're saying bridge and I think it's really important is there's a difference between pain and suffering and we need these things those words and we're kind of casually yeah so help me with that a little bit more so pain we understand I think we understand shortness of breath and things of that nature yeah exactly so so let's let's bracket those can all be managed physiologically and we have done so pharmacologically now talk about the residual of suffering how much of this is sadness how much of this is grief how much of this is some yeah tell me more about what the suffering is once you've addressed those receptor bound physiologic things yeah IMean it's one of the reasons why you know precise new on symptom management is so important because it's when the noise and the volume of the pain often is turned down that we get to learn about the stories someone is telling or the things that are replaying in their heads about not getting to see their kids grow up or not getting to finish that piece of work that felt so important to them or the ways in which which they wish they hadn't taken something for granted right when when symptoms are allowed it is really hard to get into the places of suffering that are about in completeness they're about what you what we won't get to do or what we won't get to do with our person or our people there there's a whole sort of pot spiritually existentially around faith and relationship to God potentially or what that is for you and if that has stayed whole in this experience of illness right so there's just so much and like turning the volume down on some of the physical stuff really you know can I open up the space to you're nauseous you're not going to tell me how you're feeling other than the nausea you know only think on IMean it's so much like a lot of misconceptions around our work as we've had it time again one of them is that it's just about symptom management that we're symptomatologists essentially and now that's really importantly wrong it's a sort of hyper reductive and as Bridget saying in some ways the first thing to do is turn down the symptoms to degree possible so that the rest of you is present and that we can get to sort of like that's the starting line it's once we kind of get you comfortable enough so you can think about anything but your pain or your nausea that's when the real work begins of getting to know you and advancing your fears and your hopes and your dreams and that's the stuff that's really the meaty stuff that we want to get to and so comfort is a starting point in a way and just maybe to back up a little bit first so just what do we mean when we say the word suffering IMean I you know for me so pain is a sort of a stimulus you know there's safety to it tells us to stop doing what we're doing there's you know it's a it's a sensation it's complicated the pain pathway is not a simple one there's not a pain pathway and always involves emotion always involves cognitive stuff it just a matter to degree but that degree is so when we tip into something where your pain or other symptoms are causing a sort of a threat to your identity a threat to your sense of self a threat to what you see as real in the world that's when we get into suffering so suffering has a mosaic of physical emotional spiritual existential the whole the whole panoply of the human experience goes into suffering so someone may have an ordinate pain but if they believe that that pain is redemptive it's going to bring them closer to God or it's burning off some bad karma they're not suffering they might be very uncomfortable but they're not suffering it's not threatening their sense of self in the world and someone might have a very what looks to be a mild cause of pain but be suffering extraordinarily because that has undone their sense of being so that's yeah it's a really different notion it's not just the sort of physiological signaling cue does that make sense of it's a tweet yeah so let's not mix those terms or pivot a little bit to talk about how to pull all of this together right you guys have had good luck decades of being at the bedside for experiences that I'm sure you look back upon and think that was that was really a wonderful experience right that was that that that patient passed out of this world and their family escorted them out in the best way I can imagine and I'm sure you have seen the opposite I'm sure you have seen things that made you cry and made you think I weep for all parties involved what are some lessons we can take away from that what are I hate to call it do's and don'ts because that's such a stupid but you know what IMean what are what are some of the things that have in the process will come back and we'll talk about insights that you've learned from the dying because that's where I want to end it today but just from the process of the dying and their loved ones tell me tell me things you've learned that people should know that that that increase the probability of it being as positive as it can be versus the opposite well it's a toughie to toughie as we said the subject just really thwarts any sort of much objectivity or anything that smells reductive and in some ways that's the death that we as practitioners are heading for is something that allows for while we talk about a body or a person in decline that's our medical bias towards a physiology in the bodily it's also very possible that people can have behaving this incredible emotional and social and spiritual growth even as their body is in decline so part of it is our sort of naming and overcoming the biases we're born into in this particular culture in this particular world so and I think but what I want to answer to your question is it's so hard to answer but for me for me it these days the word honesty comes up for me a lot so the bullshit that we tell ourselves the partial truths that we tell ourselves the pieces of ourselves that we don't look at that we don't allow in because we're either ashamed of or whatever it is or blind spots or we've bitten the sort of autonomy in dependencing so much that we don't let any sort of social reflection in you know dying can be is this sort of great accounting it all has it's call coming out in the wash there so one thing that I see make a difference and head towards a do's and don'ts if each of us can take into our perhaps our responsibility but also our privilege to know ourselves over time and to dare to look and to see and to be true to ourselves to my way of thinking if you ask me this question five years ago I probably said some different but that's the bit that's my big takeaway these days as if you want to be ready to die well get real with yourself as soon or the better and because one of the things you'll allow in is a richer life right and one of the reasons why we would encourage people to think about death earlier in life is not just so to avoid the defaults of a medical system that doesn't think about these things but you also allow in the idea that you both your bigness and your smallness like I'm one of a zillion people has ever lived you know I'm a drop in the ocean but also allow in that the ocean would be different without my drop in it like that work of placing yourself in the world and feeling in right size to it all requires a lot of dynamic honesty and that takes effort you need to dare to look at yourself and that to me is sort of a big do if you do that well then the risk like so much of what we talked about today is it's not the problem of dying so much but the difficulties of uncertainty is so much of what we're kind of guarding against or working with not so much death but living with uncertainty and that's a that's something that we all do all the time so my answer to all that is you know get real with yourself and be as honest as you can one moment to the next and allow yourself to move and change with reality that's a mouthful but that's as close as I can come to a do yeah sorry does that and that's actually really a quite a profound one because on the one hand it seems so easy maybe not the right word so self evident but on the other hand it's so difficult and it's something that anybody with a modicum of introspection struggles with yeah and even when you think you got it oh I now I know I am well no it's relational beings whatever's coming tomorrow might yank all sorts of other things out of you that you didn't know or there so this sense of self this identity thing is a biggie I guess this feels connected but the word for me when I think about those like beautiful experiences or the ones that I walk away just feeling like not bad like I'd be okay with that is about connection right so and what does that mean like whether you or the person who's dying like your ability to connect to self to the environment to the people around you if there are there people there if your person around supporting like can you be connected and in contact with what's happening right it it when there's a lot of connection or connectivity in this time like the circumstance is matter but a lot of different circumstances a lot of different storylines can actually feel quite a liveening or even nourishing or validating because it is you know it's being in touch with what is real how many patients are permitted that medically in other words isn't that in part um constrent by their symptoms and the medications that are needed to again either sedate or control pain and then we talked earlier about delirium like I what fraction of of of patients that you experience in the final days and weeks of life have the ability to be in that state such a tricky question but I think many if the state is sort of any level of connection to what's happening right so maybe I'm not talking about like moving towards like totally conscious death or something I'm saying like even in delirious states there can be moments where there's just like real connectivity maybe we don't understand cognitively totally what's happening but your kid is sitting there telling you stories about the things that were important to them in their experience of you or there's some sensation in your hand that's receiving input from your spouse or the light you know like we just don't know that experiences so if we work towards environments and a focus on promoting the idea of connection I guess I just really believe that that trenslates regardless of mental status or like mental clarity and I think you know you said something earlier that like most people three weeks there's probably delirium I don't know that I think that's true oh yeah I don't or not me yeah I don't think it's most I think days before you maybe days obviously so common but I think I think there's option opportunity for connection the whole time well yeah especially if you include to yourself yeah and to other parts yourself then for sure and especially if also once you include inan objects and a nonhuman things IMean I have some of the most connected experience in my life have been with dogs you know for so once you broaden the scope of what you can connect to I think bridge it's points are really well placed you may have also allow surprise and to feel connection to a perfect strenger has happened to me I felt like my life has been saved by strengers many times one way or another say more just you know I'm just desponding about especially earlier days in these shoes and you know and it's feeling so alone and so in pain or whatever it is or just tired but just a kind of a person walking by just a little bit of eye contact a little wink just say hey I see you you see me just that infinite connect you just say nothing you may be they hold the door open but just just a little connectivity just the realization that it is an illusion to say you're alone um it's a really it can feel very real but none of us is actually alone so as you head towards the cosmos you know you know you are there's room this comes up a psychedelic work there's room to feel connected all sorts of things you can't name but you feel that connection you know so how much of either of you followed the sort of psilocybin work the Roland Griffiths work the end of life stuff and and what is your what is your take on um again not with standing the regulatory challenges of that um what is your take on that literature and it's it's efficacy I think I think anecdotally I have seen psychedelic experiences be incredibly helpful to folks that have kind of run into a place in themselves where they don't have you know they've kind of just hit a wall in their own imagination in their own mind as to what this experiences or what it can be that there's just this kind of opening that can happen um sometimes incredibly subtly that allows for just some you know slightly different insight not generated by the brain that you know so well or the parts of your brain that know so well and I think it can be amazing super helpful I'm really in my own experience and those of people I've worked with you know it's easy start feeling evangelical like this we should just be putting psilocybin out there like it looks in the water you know it's been there and let's be careful IMean I think we're gonna want to learn from reality as we begin to do more of this work in study let's be true to what we learn but on the whole these substances these medicines have been able to achieve you know in a session with a patient what you know months or years of talk therapy other things have been accomplished and you know it's not necessarily about learning something in those experiences can be but Mike's in for my time whether it's more that I get past my thoughts and I get into this embodied felt thing it's not a new it's not an epiphany it's just I feel the power of that epiphany or that idea in my bones and my flesh it's a kind of different kind of knowing which then allows for a super sense of connectivity you can't be disconnected that's just you know you're you are connected and you feel that and the therapy of that also you get to see what a well how silly our minds can be and it doesn't learn that very simple bumper sticker truth have don't believe everything you think and you then you come out of there with a new relationship to how you hold your thoughts and people get to that by other means right through meditation through prayer through deep trenscendent communal experiences right so it's it's accessible by way of other avenues you've ever spent a lot of time with people in by definition the final stage of their life what what have you learned what have you learned the changes the way you live your life or the way you want to live your life well I can say something you know there's again huge beautiful question jazz Peter me but one is and maybe this is some really freer audience I think we all would love to you know I think many of us would say we'd love to be fearless and learn to go into our death unifraid or live a life so conscious that we have no regrets I like to kind of just my patience have taught me to kind of undo those strengle holds a little bit it's more the truth that I've learned from folks at the end is more like have a change of relationship to fear your relationship to regret the mark of living with no regrets yeah there might be an an or maybe something for you in that but I I'm not sure how if you're being really honest with yourself how possible that is so it's not necessarily it's it the lesson has something to do with coming around to accepting everything that's in you including the gnarly stuff like regret and fear and even suffering are there certain regrets that people have shared with you more more often than others well invariably or a bit invariably but they all the common thread depending sort whether it's I regret working to my chariote you know didn't spend this I didn't say tell my kids I love them that sort of the standard regret menu what they all seem to have in common is they regret not letting themselves feel or not letting themselves be true to the what they actually felt something got in their shame or something else wedged in themselves and separated themselves from themselves or separated themselves from other people they love and the regret has something to do about artificially or accidentally putting a wedge between you and anything you know like it could be spent a lifetime running from fear but if you watch a lot of people come around to when they finally got the cue that fear was just a natural part of being in a body like they became okay with fear they took away that sort of secondary shaming of fear and then fear became this it was sort of right size to them and it was defamed and I've seen that play out a lot of the same with regret you know so it's I think that the commonality back to your question is something to do with not being quite true to themselves or not allowing a trying to keep something out of their experience and all the work they did and when they kind of realized that it's all got to go anyway kind of welcome even pain just to get to feel anything is kind of wild and magical do people need to be really close to the end to typically come to that near inevitable realization or is that something people are realizing six months out where they can do something about it where they still have all their faculties and they can still you know mend a bridge or mend a relationship yeah absolutely they can happen anytime kids back to kids are doing you know they're coming their own works up they can do that pretty and so yes we can do this we can learn to do this is one another reason why we would invite the subject into our daily lives if you look at your window death and life for happening all the time you see it on your windshield you see it's like this is it's all over the place if you can sort of really be aware let these messages in then you can let the lessons in too towards reconciliation or why hold a grudge why be on any why would you ever cause suffering in another person knowingly or in yourself included etc so yeah and Buddhism was sort of a lot sort of founded around this question and to give you a life of practice around meditation how do you hold your mind so that you don't suffer unnecessarily so that you can be okay with the fact of your death so yeah there are bodies of thought and just your own personal experience of living daily life if you let it in you can gain these lessons anytime along the way of life yeah IMean I thought I don't you know if I think about my own learning like you you can't I don't think really hang out in this space a lot and not really wrestle with the reality that we don't know when we're going to die which means that this is my life IMean I think that's I've got too young kids so regular I'm kind of like okay this is my life just as like a management strategy but I think there's also like a a a tethered the reality that like this moment is what I have right it is not it may start to sound trait but it is not tomorrow is not promised to me ten years is not promised to me and if thought is true can I use that as this reminder that like this moment the way that I speak to you being tender when I do things out of my value system right staying really connected to now right is the invitation that comes from or comes next to our has come for me in being so aware of mortality right and that you do not have to be sick you do not have to be facing that in your life no one in your life has to be dying right now to be really to just take pause me like this is my life this moment and then the next do I remember that all the time absolutely not but it is a very available reminder practice yeah I stay intentionally stay connected to it I intentionally make it something my kids can be connected to because it's an arguable right we can we can have three different takes on everything that we've said today but it is an arguable that we are always living in the reality that we don't know when we're going to die yeah amen sister and I think that's that's a good back to sort of the do's and don'ts do have a relationship with all with mystery with not knowing you know do have a relationship with the present moment you know those are some pretty good do's I don't want to what I'm saying is not like light or easy it doesn't make me not afraid it doesn't make me you know not I feel very aware of how much I want to be alive and how long I hope my life is and also humbled by the fact that like what I have influence over and control over really in arguably is right now now you're not being ashamed of your fear and that's a difference I think a lot of people would be afraid and then what they're really experiencing is the shame of being fearful I'm very terrified every time I get on the plane yeah so and I think also sort of debatailing to is this word control comes up yeah it's a big one and I think in terms of if we're you know remotely dispense any advice you know it would be the frenety prayer it comes up a lot one way another I think a lot of your listeners will know this essentially sort of the ability to discern what you can control and focus some efforts there and let go of all the things you can't control and maybe in the middle identify that even though there are some huge things we can't control there is a lot we can influence right and that those are different and that there's like kind of a spets spectrum between control influence and like you know surrender and how do we build our flexibility well and how do you learn to sit with I think that message of the frenety prayer often I hear people myself included in the past but some friends take that that wisdom of that message and say okay I'm just gonna focus my attention on what I can control so I'm saying like I'm and then they have a lifetime of sort of focusing their line of sight in one direction I think what we let go of is the other half of that message which is not I don't give it shit about it because you can't control it like learn sit with all that you can't control practice not being in control that will serve you very well as you had to your death what what about the role of forgiveness how often do you encounter the dying who are wrestling with needing the forgiveness of someone or needing to forgive someone it's a big theme it's written about a fair amount that I love you know the things to kind of focus on I'm saying out loud I love you as I forgive you please forgive me these are thank you these are and there's you know these are tried and true messages that seem to cut a cross culture and stand up pretty well but so back to your specific question about forgiveness I don't know how to often I guess I would say more commonly what I see people needing to learn how to do is forgive themselves is probably if you know picking something in sort of common that one comes I see that a lot how does it present and how do you encounter it being at odds with themselves you know when there is no buggy man there is no they're just not comfortable with themselves they're at odds with themselves self-loathing self-critical even in the final weeks of life so if they've had enough so you know we have a bias there's a bias all the people we've seen have had the benefit of hospice and bad of care and so they've been loved on they've been heard they've been you know so there's an inborn bias to our experiences I don't know if I have like a good answer about the forgiveness piece I think I think it comes up I don't know that I think it comes up a lot a lot yeah again I think that might be the bias of people that you've spent time with over time those things have gotten to they're not a death there's no need for a death bed IMean there's not a lot of trueisms in this space that I generally vibe with and I'm pretty allergic to most of them but I will say that I do think there's kind of something to like people die the way that they live right like for most people those who lived in love die surrounded by love kind of thing yeah that or like if you had a lot of people around you maybe there's gonna be more people around you if you a person that dug into your life and really investigated your mind and you did that really easily and you shared your reflections and like that's also more likely to happen when you're dying right so if there's an experience you would like to happen if you're imagining into the future you're like I think dying in this way would be okay or more tolerable or nice or beautiful start doing it now like you want to forget like you're worried about forgiveness like investigate that now right you want to feel more connected how do you do that you want to be in your body more how do you do that right like that's the best way to get there at the end is that you're building those muscles now IMean some people do one-eighties with with a big diagnosis or the awareness that they're dying but mostly we lean on the places that we have hyper developed right because they're comforting because they're familiar in the face of this kind of vast thing IMean that might be the single most important insight of them all which is we die how we lived and we will what's the expression we we we rise to the level of our trening it's really good effect right and it's in sports we talk about that right at fatigue you rise to level of your trening and so we will we will default to our regular strategies the strategies that got us through life are probably the strategies that will get us through death and so what we should all be doing is imagining the death we want and begin practicing that at life and make that our scaffolding today. I think that about as good as advice as I can imagine is especially if you feel in the caveat that long the way I learn to deal with things when they don't go as planned you know again so like so that you don't have this sense of failure at the end IMean one of the saddest things I think we see as people who feel like they're failing at dying so no one to set it up as an accomplishment per se or an achievement per say but your advice that sounds really good to me. Right like we can't control for the outcome with certainty but we can build the muscles and the capacities that that are most likely going there are going to help us land in that place you know if you're a person who builds new coping skills or new ways of being in like high stress adversity like you'll probably do that then right yeah that's sorry it feels like a throwaway line when do we begin dying IMean you don't become a different person when you're dying you're still gonna be Peter you're going to be a bridge I'm gonna be a and that you know so it has already begun that active dying we never finished answering that question what goes in that like the final day or two when the body's really shutting down so active dying has its own kind of frame and we can revisit that any old time but everything up to that is some form of living so you can begin practicing this dying thing today well let's talk about that that final thing what is that what is that last 24 to 48 hours look like so the phrase we use is active dying to distinguish it from the rest of living dying and a body is you know is actively shutting down so system by system you know you'll stop your kidneys or shut down you're not making as much urine in part because you stop drinking probably a few days because days ago because your body couldn't handle the fluids so and thanks to kidney shutting down you get a buildup of toxic metabolites and get a little intoxicated little dreamy little that may be the course so that may be the the mechanism of your delirium so you're not eating you're not drinking as a general rule you're probably a little fuzzy and you're or entirely asleep breathing so the some of the two biggies those can happen anywhere along the way but the ones that tell you you're really close or when you have modeling of the skin this sort of lazy blueish experience where your body's just not moving blood effectively and you'll see skin changes and especially the extremities and breathing patterns change oftentimes you get apnea so long periods of no breath at all you often hear something that's sort of like a frightful phrase but the death rattle so which often is sort of a a gargling sound with breathing that's just because your oral pharynx is no longer the reflexes are dying out so you're no longer moving fluids as they pull in the back ear throat which is an important note there if your if your reflexes are no longer functioning you're not likely feeling it so a death rattle sounds pretty gnarly but it's generally probably harder for the audience in the person dying but those are the things that you that are typically experience in a body that's actively dying and that's only gonna last a matter of days at most hours to do a day or two I think the other thing that's happening is the experience for the people around that person right and there's so much to say in that space but I do think having you know counsel a lot of people there is there's a feeling of preciousness right we don't know when that last breath is going to come we you know maybe we really want to be there maybe we feel like we can't but often for someone watching and waiting it can be really hard to stay connected to our own experience so like people won't get up and go to the bathroom because they don't want to miss that moment they won't eat they don't eat maybe their appetite is low anyways which you know is fine but it is a time to be thinking about really basic needs and basic comforts for everyone in the space because that influences the space and the environment for for all and most people feel like this is the dying person's experience this is like all of the focuses there we're watching every respiration we're even matching the breathing we're creating anxiety in our own bodies because of that and if we can invite attention to everyone's experience and give permission to like you need to take a walk or take a walk it may mean that they die when you're not in the room and maybe that's okay maybe they die in the one minute you're going to the bathroom for the first time in six hours like it may just be that way that's a really really important point sort of like once you understand delirium and you can contextualize what you're hearing from a loved one that point rigid so it's pointy to as such an important one a lot of loving families keep these vigils and don't sleep don't do anything so that they can be there for the death thinking that that's the most that's the highest point to be there when someone dies is in that exact moment when they take their last breath and so it's a bridge it's point this is a lived experience for everyone so you gotta keep doing yet to sleep yes and it just I don't think any of us could tell you why this is but it is just a thing you talked to anyone who worked in hospice for a while it seems to be that a lot of people need to be alone for the final their final moments on the planet to really let go and so it's almost it's like I can't tell you why but it is a thing so you going to the bathroom or taking a walk or something and then the exactly the thing that that person needs to finally let go so the messages don't leave and therefore the person will never let go you're just potentially can make it harder and harder for that person to actually finally let go so go to the bathroom take a walk kiss the person goodbye on drink some water and know that not only they may they may be gone when you come back but that may be exactly what they needed to finally let go it's a hard one or family's to take in but it's just a thing well guys thank you very much for this discussion today very very very very very very difficult discussion not one we want to have I imagine for you guys that's pretty common you go to parties nobody wants to ask you what you guys do for the heck out of great story that the girls are holding yeah yeah it's yeah so but given how much of our time on this planet we spend heading towards the inevitability the one thing we will all be 100% successful at it's certainly more in the discussion yeah and more yeah and multiple discussions as we pointed out it's slippery it's huge and it's just I'm sorry to not it's it's a windy inherently messy conversation so it's not just us struggling to articulate something as much as we are articulating the messy this didn't complexity of something yeah well thank you guys thank you thank you beater

=== FILE: 355 – Skincare strategies, the science of facial aging, and cosmetic-intervention guidance [9iHxTvG1_3k].txt ===

Why did I look better at 42 than 52? Start the discussion through the lens of preventive care. The absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin every day, it would be sunscreen. I tell my patients they have to use mineral sunskins, as opposed to chemical sunskins. cheapest trick and skincare, you can go to Walgreens and spend $6 on aquifore, and your skin will look better 30 days. guaranteed how much do you see trens that dramatically change what people are asking for? The images that are being posted are not real. I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trening and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves. So what is it that you see to know that is most disconcerting? I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks. The companies will tell you that they are the only last one year in the face of the new week. That's definitely not true. Really, I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago and I say, I want to look like that. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Tanush, Suzanne, great to have you here both. You're obviously in Austin. You traveled from Pittsburgh, right? Yes. Awesome. Well, this is a topic we get asked a lot about and sometimes when we get asked about topics, I already know quite a bit and this is absolutely an example of the opposite of that. This is a topic we get asked about a lot and I would argue that my knowledge is even below that of the general public. So I can't think of a time when I've done a discussion on the podcast on something where I know less than all things related to the health of one's skin and appearance. And so yeah, thank you very much for both being here and thank you for helping me even think about how to structure a discussion on this topic. Maybe before we jump into it, just give us each a little bit of your backgrounds. I think it was helpful to have not won but two experts here because you guys have sort of a different specialty, obviously within medicine, you have a different specialty, you overlap in things, but obviously do some things different. So Tanush tell us a little bit about your trening your background and what you focus on. So yes, thanks for having us Peter. It's a pleasure to be here to talk about something I'm quite passionate about and I know it's very confusing for a lot of listeners to understand aesthetics and we'd love to demystify it a little bit. So my background, my core specialty is ocular facial plastic surgery. I trened in eye surgery and in facial surgery mostly at UCLA. But the due tren in plastic surgery first, my original background is ophthalmology, ophthalmology okay. And then I did fellowships in ophthalmic plastic surgery and then another fellowship in facial cosmetic surgery in addition to that. My practice is limited to eye and face plastic surgery basically and that ranges from reconstruction of children, cancer, reconstruction for elderly and all the cosmetic surgeries that we can perform on the face, including nose, neck, including nose and neck. Yes. And IMoved to 16, moved to Austin 16 years ago after trening at UCLA and joined a large group here and we're also all the faculty of the medical school. So we are actively involved with academics teaching residents. We have a fellowship program, two fellowship programs in our practice and it's a real pleasure to be involved in academics because it's the cutting edge of science and we'd like to perform a clinical research and in the academic community which is how I know Susan. There's a lot of collaboration amongst specialties and we have an opportunity to dialogue and further this specialty that we care so much about. Awesome. Okay. And Susan, you are a dermatologist by trening? Yes. And then I did a cosmetic surgery fellowship and I am in academic medicine as well. I'm at the University of Pittsburgh. I've been there about 24 years. So I got to see the evolution of this entire field starting with what we used to do at the time was surgeries and then maybe a few college in injections and now we have the plethora of all these tools that are disposal. And I tren residents medical students and I have visiting physicians from all over the world that come in and I love the multi-specialty collaboration that we have because we both belong to the American Academy of Cosmetics surgery and we hear a different approach from different specialists maybe on the same procedures. In my practice I focus on everything with regards to skin rejuvenation, peels, lasers. I also do a lot of fat grafting. We do body liposuction, mini face lifts, eye lifts, but everything when it comes to the face is about really enhancing the appearance of the skin first because my feeling is that's the most important thing that everyone sees. So what a patient comes in like you who has not had anything done or doesn't know about the field. I actually like that because I can take that opportunity to really educate them and pick the right things for them. I appreciate you noticing I've had nothing done. We were talking before the podcast but it's worth me stating this now again for everybody to hear. There is something about this field of medicine that I have such a block in my brain to understanding. And Tunution I have met before, Tunution helped me with a scar so Brett Kotlus, a friend of mine who's actually been a former guest on the podcast introduced us. I faced planted one morning, due to some hypertension and sustained a pretty nice scar here that I think for the most part is largely invisible today probably in part because my face is leather to begin with. But I think in part because we did some five-few micro abrasion, we did a whole bunch of stuff and I was actually pretty diligent about staying out of the sun for the period of time after it, et cetera. And so I think we've also done a Botox treatment which it certainly reduced the wrinkles. Obviously it's long gone but I'd love to talk about that. My wife and her friends are, it's almost like they've done fellowships themselves the way they talk about this stuff and maybe that is just true of women in their forties. But the way they go on about these techniques, it must sound like that when I talk about cars in front of them. Like it's so foreign. So as I was saying earlier, I have taken a strategy towards my appearance that is probably illogical which is I'm just going to ignore it because I don't understand it and I'm going to focus on things I understand. I would view it as an enormous win of this podcast if in a few hours I decided to do something that was sustainable and going to help me look a little better at 62 than I should look. I'm 52 today. I looked at a picture of myself 10 years ago before this podcast. What a difference 10 years has made. I look so much worse today than I did 10 years ago and I guess that's not uncommon, right? I would guess 42 to 52 is a big reduction in appearance but it also made me realize, wow, the next 10 years that reduction will probably be greater if I don't do something proactive and to just find make one final point about my abject laziness on this topic. I can't even bring myself, this is going to sound so disgusting. I can't even bring myself to wash my face before bed which my wife is like, you are so disgusting, just wash your face. But I'm like, it's not like I'm that greasy who cares and she's like, she's always buying products for me. I just can't bring myself to do it. So you guys have your work cut out for me because if I can be educated on this, you can change the world. I was about to say that, Tynge, we have our work cut out. Let's start a little bit with the biology of the aging face and again we're going to limit our discussion today to the neck up, not that there isn't other things that are completely relevant around cosmetics but that's just a big enough topic, right? I told you that when I looked at myself 10 years ago, I couldn't believe how much better I looked. But I'd have a hard time telling you why. I can't put my finger on it, but I bet you can without me showing you those pictures. Why did I look better at 42 than 52? That's such a great question. And that's exactly how my patients come in. A lot of times they'll come in and they'll say, I feel like I look tired. I don't know exactly what's going on but I feel like I look tired. And I have these beautiful diagrams in my office and I show them the face of someone who's 20. The face of someone who's in their late 60s and I walk them through the changes. And the first thing I do is we show them the diagram with the skin peeled off. And you see about 11 different fat compartments in the youthful face that on each side of the face that are plump, they're robust, they're giving volume and they're giving a padding between the skin and the muscle and the underlying bones. And then you look at someone who's in their late 60s and you peel the skin away and you see a dramatic atrophy in all those fat pads. A few might increase in size but the vast majority undergo atrophy. And then in addition to that I show them what the bones are doing at that age too. So we will look at the volume of the 20 year old and the opening around the eyes are nice and tight. The cheekbones are nice and wide. The jawline has a really good definition. And then you look at someone who's in their 60s and all of a sudden the opening around the eyes are wider. Really? The cheekbones are less wide. Jobones less wide, less height. And so now you've got the escalpholding that's diminished and all the skin looks like it's just hanging. And that's what's happening but it starts early. So what I see on most of my patients when they come in and say I look tired and you said it. You look at your pictures 10 years ago. You look now and you don't know what's different. The first change is around the eyes and I'm sure it's in there. It can add to that. But basically what's happening is you're getting more bone loss around the eyes, more fat atrophy around the eyes. So you're starting to see the underlying anatomy which was padded before. So first of all this is completely news to me. Is this loss of bone comparable to what we would see in the reduction of bone density in a person's hips as they age? So a lot of it is hormonal. A lot of it is hormonal and you see it especially in women. If they start to see the aging changes they'll start to identify that in their early 40s. So this in other words is probably another reason why women would benefit from hormonal replacement therapy because maintaining estrogen levels would maintain bone health. Absolutely. And actually that's something we need to stress more and more to them because it starts in their early 40s. And then it just accentuates over time. But by time they hit 50 all of a sudden now for looking at them cross-sectionally a group of 50 euros compared to guides were 50. The men are holding up pretty good. Their facial bone structures good. Their fat volume is good. Their muscle thickness and skin thickness is good. But from 50 to 60 or 70 women will age about 20 years faster than men in the lower face especially. They will get so much atrophy and the mandible that those start to get that that's why women start to say I hate my neck and hate the loose skin and my neck. And if then it because if the mandibles retracting the neck becomes looser. Yes. Again this is remarkable because if you bringing it back to the one thing I know about bone it's when you look at men and women aging from a skeletal system. They're both going through a comparable decline starting in their 20s because we both peak both men women peak in the early 20s. But at about 50 women fall off a cliff. Whereas men just continue a linear decline and so the gap really widenes interesting to realize that the exact same thing is happening in the face. That's exactly it and that's why women come in the first things they say when they're 50s I hate my neck. And I think we jump to try to surgically correct it or to augment it with fillers or neuromodulators to keep the muscle from pulling it down. But I think we have to have a talk about hormone replacement. You have to catch those women before they're far along into menopause. Again I'm blown away by that fact. If I get hopped in for a second I love the direction of this conversation because I don't know if people realize how much science there is about the aging process. There were some seminal studies by Rorek and Pessa in the 90s and 2000s that kind of delineated a lot of what Susan's talking about where they looked at CT scans of similar and at the same individual over time. I think some of those studies had a 50 to 20 year span and there was quantitative calculations of bone density and bone projection of the mandible, the maxilla, the frontal bone and these bone structures all received with aging. And the bone is the foundation for the face. And so when we're talking about youthful fullness of a face a lot of that is the bone structure. And then as Susan said of course the fact compartments are a critical component of our facial aesthetics. And as we lose all that volume the reason why people start to look more skeletal as we age one of the most common areas that I see in my practice is people talking about their under eye bags and their you know the lines that are showing up and their eyelids and their cheek area. It's because we have ligaments that attach the skin down to the bone. It's called the osteocutaneous ligament to the network of the face. And those ligaments are the same for every single individual no matter what your ethnicity is. Of course there's variations on the theme but the orbital retaining ligament, the male are ligament, the temporal ligament, the mandible are ligament, the mass that are these ligaments are always present and then as we lose that facial volume from fat atrophy and the bones move backwards these ligaments are tugging on the skin and these deep lines start to show up. And that's really I would say one of the fundamental changes we see with aging of the face. What I guess I don't understand is the following. Again I'm just going to use myself as the example because I think I'm probably reflective of many people. Ten years ago I was less fat than I am today. Same body weight by the way I almost to the pound I'm the same as I was ten years ago. But I would bet my body fat was two or three percent lower. In other words I have accumulated fat in my body. Why am I losing fat in my face? What is it about facial subcutaneous fat depose that atrophies when for virtually every person the opposite is happening when they age they're actually adding at a post tissue subcutaneously and unfortunately often viscerally. So if IMay answer that one it's interesting because I talk a lot to my patients about that now. The vast majority of my patients are female. So they'll come in and they'll see me and I can look at their face. Let's say they're under late 30s or early 40s and I can guess how many kids they've had. Because what happens is you gain weight in pregnancy doesn't have to even be a lot. But then most people with their fit they lose that post pregnancy weight. I've had none by the way just in case you were wondering. That's good to know. And then they lose that post pregnancy weight and what happens is they go back to being in the same weight that they were before they got pregnant but their face is there. Second baby more so by the third baby it takes a significant toll on the face that weight gain weight loss so you can tell on looking at a female face almost how many times they've gone through that weight gain weight loss. And so what happens the facial fat pads are very unique metabolically. Like IMentioned most of the time they're just afterfing as we age. There are a couple compartments that might in time get thicker such as the nasal labial fat compartment which is why some people have that deep fold. But for the most part they are afterfie and so if you go through this yo yo change with your weight and you're progressively getting thinner and again and some weight back it doesn't go to the face. It goes to parts of the body we don't want but the face continues to undergo that weight loss or the volume atrophy. But do we know biologically because it's almost like a lipid dystrophy where the fat cell becomes defective and can't reacumulate triglyceride or whatever it is whatever form it's going to store it in. I think this is a the edge of our like so many things in medicine. There are things that we know and a lot that we don't know. Yes so we know that it's happening we don't actually know the biochemical mechanisms. I think we're just starting to understand the individual receptors and specific nature of different areas of fat. So for example even in the eyelid region when we're doing surgery on the face and we're doing surgery on the upper eyelid we will see that the fat pads have different colors. So the medial orbital fat pad is lighter substantially compared to the much yellower and more orange lateral fat pad and that color will be different than the buckle fat pad. And one of the differences there's beta-carantine differences in the fat pads and that's probably just one of maybe a hundred that we'll eventually find out is contributing to the differences in the fat population. So we know that facial fat is different from abdominal fat which is different from lower extremity fat and we know this also practically speaking because when we're doing fat grafting procedures the source of the fat can have a different long-term effect when it's ejected into the face depending on what the source was. And so so we know that fat is not the same throughout the body and it's not the same in the face. There is a general consensus that beta-carantine is an anti-inflammatory mediator and higher concentrations and lower concentrations of beta-carantine can have some effect on the metabolic health and of fat especially how it responds to stress. And so in the world of longevity there's a lot of discussions about you know managing cortisol levels like sleep is helpful you know having lifestyles that reduce your overall stress level is good for your overall health in numerous ways. That's also true for the fat and the skin of the face because again a lot of this is not fully explained but we're starting to get more and more details as basic science progresses in this area that these fat compartments and the skin which we can talk more about is exclusive to the sensitive to stress that the body is experiencing cumulatively over time. So you know a lot of times people feel like they're really aging in their 40s you know people have midlife crisis there crises there are probably experiencing the maximum stress in their life at that stage typically and I'm just generalizing here but you know people will have a busy career they've got kids they've got financial worries and so people are under a lot of stress in their 30s and 40s and that contributes to some of the more rapid facial volume loss changes some of the skin aging changes with elasticity college and the last and changes at a curve of time and so that's where I think that this conversation really plugs in quite well into the line of education that you're providing your followers in terms of longevity benefits because the overlaps here with cortisol stress and what's interesting is that chronic elevation of cortisol in the body is actually anabolic to fat right you accumulate fat it's catabolic to muscle muscle decays fat accumulates it sounds like you're saying okay that's that's true from the neck down but above the neck chronic elevation of cortisol might have the opposite effect it might actually be catabolic to fat and therefore it accentuates the fat loss is that am I hearing you correctly in that yes I believe that's correct and and just yesterday in my clinic I had a perfect example of this had patients back to back one was 68 year old she was a six year old woman who has lived a very comfortable life she comes from affluence hasn't really had to work too hard in her life and has maintained things of course she's just skin care products and you know she's had a little bit of filters and Botox but no surgery and she looked ten years younger than her state of age because of the kind of life she's been living and then the next patient I saw was from rural Texas has been in the sign has never been taken care of her skin you know was working kind of a blue collar job difficult life a couple marriages failed she looked like she was ten years older and then this is common I'm sure you see this all the time as well as this and so so lifestyle stress factors clearly have an effect and one of the reasons why Peter perhaps this is not an area that you've kind of delved into in your vast experience in medicine is because thEQuality of science and aesthetics has historically been pretty poor you're giving me way too much credit I wish I could say that was I have delved into plenty of things where the science is poor there is some other mental block I have it might be that I'm not smart enough to understand it all but we'll continue and I appreciate your another reason why it becomes very murky to sort through the science and I'm sure this exists in other areas of medicine too but a lot of the individuals corporations you know factors forces that are delivering science to the masses and to physicians who are eating it up and you know regurgitating it to their patients these sources arEQuestionable they're they're popular profiting you know as you I'm sure realize the aesthetic industry is a very very lucrative industry worldwide especially in the United States and all the forces that are delivering the science I'm sorry not I shouldn't say all the forces there's a lot of forces where those that are delivering the science have a vested interest in receiving monetary benefit from what they're pushing out there that makes things murky but I think going back to the fat compartments think about it with our patients in general you know the the role of the fat compartments in the face are to allow muscle glide so the muscles can move over each other when you smile talk eat chew all of that and now you don't understand why they should undergo such atrophy over time for such an important function but then we look at the metabolic activity of the fat and other areas of the body and it's very different so when we do fat grafting for example and we take fat from the abdomen which has the highest concentration stem cells free a dipocytes there and put them in the face the fat starts to be more like the fat from the abdomen when you put it in the face and if they gain weight it retains its source yes okay and then when they gain weight you have to tell your patients specifically don't try to gain more than a few pounds because it will hypertrophy like it would in the abdomen if they gained weight interesting is there an evolutionary explanation for any of this IMean I don't know if aesthetics if you think about this through an evolutionary lens but IMean historically we didn't need to look good beyond our 20s if looking if the purpose of looking good was to attract a mate so again none of us sitting around this table need to look good into our witty in terms because we're not reproducing do you think that factors into any of these observations 100% yes and so I think it's also good for the sake of the overall podcast for us to talk about the evolutionary aspects of beauty for just a moment which could be a whole separate podcast you could invite Nancy Etkov from Harvard to come talk to you about the psychology of beauty she wrote the definitive book on it and summarizes all of evolutionary beauty science I have all of my fellow's read her book because I think it's just a beautiful companion and evolution of beauty is a fascinating topic because when you think back to the evolution of humans you know why do we even care about beauty and so the interesting fact is that we're actually genetically hardwired to appreciate beauty and so there's this famous study from the University of Texas in the 1980s due to its Langlaw is sort of a well-known name in psychology she did what's called a preferential looking study of infants I don't know if you heard of this study but it's fascinating she took newborn infants who were literally weeks old barely able to see six inches away from their face and she showed them pictures that are considered beautiful faces of the beautiful and faces that are less beautiful and these newborn infants who've not yet been influenced by society preferentially we're looking at the beautiful faces and so that that natural drive for us to appreciate beauty is present even at birth does that suggest that that there is a definition of beauty that arcs time because I was actually going to ask a question which would be a great you know detour for us to take after this point about how much is the definition of beauty changing in other words if you took Matthew McConaughey and trensported him back 10,000 years ago would he still be a hunk is sort of where I was going but continue with this point then let's come back on yeah I think that's the evolution that's a great that's a great question and I would say that the answer is generally yes there's two layers here the first layer is the genetic biologic drive that we have to appreciate beauty in men and women and then of course there is a societal impact that conditions us to appreciate certain versions of that beauty but the fundamentals are a heaven studied in the 90s and the fundamentals are that all humans across ethnicities all over the world have been studied and they appreciate certain features of beauty so there's symmetry of the face facial proportion and then they also appreciate sexual dimorphisms those are kind of the three categories and so symmetry when when a face is symmetric it's sort of canoes if you're out there in the reproductive world looking at the pool of your options symmetry means that this individual most likely has had good development nourishment and is most likely going to have good genetics for me to potentially connect with and pass on genetics together with facial proportion is similar in fact to go a little deeper into that averageness is really what people are looking for and that on the surface that doesn't sound so attractive to be average but if you take a hundred faces of men hundred faces of women and average them all down to a single composite you will average someone who has a little bit of a big nose or a small jaw or some aspect of their forehead shape and all that gets averaged down into a composite that is considered universally beautiful across cultures and again that sort of unconsciously in the mating pool from an evolutionary standpoint is connoting healthy genetics again to be able to pass on your your genetics with and then the third area which is sexual dimorphism we're talking here about strong jaws and med full lips or big eyes and women these tend to connote either higher estrogen levels or higher testosterone levels depending on what are you're looking at women or men and again that's fertility that's subconscious communication of fertility so those are the genetic absolutes that exist in all of us on the planet and then on top of that as you're kind of bringing up you know social media in this culture this particular wave you know wearing your hairs considered beautiful those are conditioned upon us based on society but it overlaps on top of that underlying genetic basis and how most can those things override again I'll just use examples that we can all appreciate like you know IMight I was talking with my daughter about Cindy Crawford we were you know going and I was like look like look at a picture of Cindy today look at a picture of Cindy in the mid-1990s IMean there's simply no way to describe beauty in any other way like you it doesn't matter what your type is everybody would acknowledge Cindy is absurdly beautiful and so you're saying she is hitting it out of the park on those three things independent of what the invoke look of the moment is right so if if it becomes the case that blons are really attractive it doesn't matter like Cindy will override that if it becomes the thing that women who a 30 pounds are attractive it doesn't matter Cindy will override that I think you feel if you look at even different races that's a beautiful person in each of those they actually all have similar measurements so there are these masks that you can superimpose onto any image and really dissect down every single angle whether it's the cheek angle the jawline angle the shape of the nose the eyes and all if you look at that across different races they all have that same kind of measurement that they talking about the same the symmetry the upper third the middle third lower third the face the fifth's going across the face all of that if you look at a beautiful person no matter what race they are they all have kind of hit those measurements now then there are nuances like you said you change your hair you change your makeup you can trensform yourself but if you take someone without makeup and just look at them that way they all kind of conform to those measurements doesn't this plot imply that over time beauty should be one of the most preserved concentrated traits of our evolution given the presumably the difficulty in acquiring a mate absent beauty in other words does it suggest that if you compared what we as a population look like today in 2025 to what we looked like 2,000 years ago 10,000 years ago a 100,000 years ago are we monotonically getting more attractive as a species can I jump in on one thing on this you would think so right because we're selected to be ramping it up exactly so we should be marrying someone that looks better or mating with someone that looks better and having our marginally look better but what's different is our diet so go back 100 years 200 years a thousand years we had to chew a lot more to really digest our food we were working our ambassadors we were working our jawline our palates were not as high our jawline was a lot wider our teeth were stronger and then as we have changed our diet and everything is cooked and we don't have to make as much effort to chew it you actually get more crowding in your of your teeth your jawline is a little bit less strong your palate changes more people become nose free mouth free there's as opposed to nose free there's that changes the shape of your face and that has been measured anthropologically and so it's interesting because there's a whole book on breath and they go through the anthropology of all that and the changes in the skeletons that they've gone back and studied and so that does fundamentally change now we have kids that have to have teeth extracted or we have to have palate expander now because we realize when we extracted teeth before we made the faces more narrow and so now the thinking is let's preserve the teeth expand the palate when the child is 10 allow those teeth come in so there's less grinding I'm so crowding and then that face will be better and a stronger jawline so it is something that we've changed and then just to kind of head into the area of sociology for just a moment 10,000 years ago if you were born in some place on earth Peter you're the pool the genetic pool that you'd be interacting with the tiny was tiny you know there's some fact that I'm probably gonna miss state but somewhere around 1900 most people on this planet had not moved within 10 miles of where they're born and now it's totally different and with social media and the way that we can connect with people around the world not only because we can fly all around the world but we're also seeing people on screens the the the apparent genetic pool of faces that we're looking at has exponentially blown up into this very strenge world that we're living in in 2025 compared to where our evolutionary biology has taken us and I wonder also at what point in our development did other I don't want to say higher order but other things became priorities in finding a mate like I think for most all of us I think when we were looking for appearance was probably not the top of the list it was one of the factors you had to be attracted to the person but I would guess for all of us it was will this person be a great spouse will this person be a great parent does this person share my goals and values and blah blah blah blah it's hard to imagine our ancestors were we're had the luxury of maybe thinking about those things so yeah all of this is to say it's way more complex today but it is it is just as to hear you guys describe this it's entirely fascinating to play the thought experiment of trensport a hyper attractive person today back in time 10,000 years and I would just be so curious as to how they would react to that individual I think it's a fascinating thought experiment and I think that if they meet those criteria that we're defining they would be considered a honk or a beauty yeah and then one last thing and then we can certainly move on to the next topic but in terms of timing it is important for us to be evolutionarily attractive historically not in the modern era until you're about 20 or 25 because we weren't supposed to live this long one of the issues that comes up with longevity and and trying to maximize our help span is that we were not really supposed to be living this long and healthy this long and so evolutionarily you know modern nature is not helping us with our appearance our appearance was supposed to carry us through until about 20 or 25 at which point you know your kids are old you know most people were procreating at 14 and then at 25 their kids were at the point where they were getting ready to procreate and then you know you're let out to let out to pasture at that point basically so so evolutionarily what we do every day with our patients is really fighting biology we're fighting genetics we're fighting environmental and natural existence that we have as a luxury of being born in this era how much do you see even even just speak about it through the length of your actuALCAReers how much do you see trens that dramatically change what people are asking for in other words Susan 25 years ago did men or women come into your practice significantly looking for something different in terms of an appearance and an outcome that they wanted you to shape yeah I would say that's such a loaded question because 25 years ago if we think back there was no social media television was you know very basic they talked the maybe it was some shows that had life people on their on different shows where they would talk about beauty or fashion but you had to actually tune in and watch those shows to be able to see the trens magazines came out and that was the extent of it now you have social media and various channels on social media and then you have what we now know as influencers and they're changing what our patients are seeing on what's driving them and the biggest one that I can talk about is basically that very well known family in California that has monetized their appearance and set a lot of trens for better or for worse it's great to see that they're making it okay to talk about enhancing your appearance or fixing something that bothers you but where I draw the line is when they start putting out their trensformations and this tren now is something that everyone wants to emulate and you're talking about young women changing physically changing their body drastically to conform to what you said is a tren which is exactly it and trens as the word says are not permanent so what happens when that tren ends the celebrities have the money to go to the doctors and reverse all that now will take surgery and they will have scars to show for it or hide for it from that but the patients that follow them these young women don't have all of that income to go back and then re-trensform their body and they don't know the implications of that so I think we have a duty as doctors definitely to try to educate our patients about not following trens so strongly and look beyond the monetary aspect of it and so from that standpoint I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trening and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves because I don't know in your pages but I know people want to come in for the enhanced butterx the Brazilian butt lifts and the small ways and you know that's something again that's being undone by that family now and you're going to see a whole tren that's coming up that doesn't look like that so what are what are kind of the top above the neck tren so so what I see as I look around is I see lip size being something that's getting bigger smaller bigger smaller where are we today by the way in lip size so just to continue Susan's lines of line of thought there we're in this again in usual era where the influencers that are affecting society are much more in our faces than they have been historically and they're affecting young people at much younger age which is why we just let my 16 year old daughter have a social media account and that influence so these influencers is it's quite powerful because what happens is on social media which is the primary exposure that people are receiving these days about beauty the images that are being posted are not real they're filtered their unrealistic exaggerations of some of those three original factors that we're talking about the symmetry proportion people will photograph themselves in such way with a look they look more proportionate they will you know they'll pull their jaw on certain way to make their proportions look look better someone has to teach me how to do this because anytime I see a video of myself you know I'm like that is the worst looking thing I've ever seen like I need to learn these tricks you know 20 year old and a lot of this is subconscious posing that's a term that I have you know have used for this concept where people are subconsciously posing like for example if you like a lot of people when they walk past a shiny building will stop and look at themselves and kind of like adjust themselves a little bit but the way is that new or is that something we would have all like in other words did our ancestors walk by a stream where the water was still and look at themselves do we IMean not that we can know that but possibly I think so but I think the it's becoming so much more exaggerated now to the point where we can you know confidently state that social media influencers are selling exaggerated forms of beauty ideals like the sexual dimorphism so we talked earlier about like larger lips or bigger eyes one of the most popular procedures in northeast Asia is surgeries to make the eyes wider you actually cut into the canvas and perform toaster surgery to make the eye look bigger and then of course this tren to have bigger lips you know fillers are being used left and right unfortunately to overdue lip volume and plump up lips and because the social media influencers are posting it it's becoming more exaggerated because these exaggerated gender traits are becoming normalized and so again the family that's as it's mentioning in in California they normalized over overdone lips to the point where people come in asking for it and we have to say no I'm sorry this is not a good direction for us to take you in so what where do you sort of interrupt to news but yeah where do you put you because clearly both of you seem to be more on the um well let me take a step back I was talking to somebody yesterday where I said one of the marks of a great surgeon is a person who is happy to say no is happy to say I'm not going to do this because I'm so good that I don't need your business like I can be as selective as I want about what I do um that allows two things that allows the right patient selection to get a good outcome so the discussion I had with a patient yesterday was about was about an orthopedic surgery issue and you know the doctor said yeah I think it's time to do the surgery and he was the patient was saying to me well he does sort of have a vested interest in doing the surgery after all he's a surgeon I said yes but I can speak about this surgeon in particular I've watched him say no to 100 patients because patient selection is the most important thing for him to drive amazing outcomes and he'll say no until it's time in in in the cosmetic world you add another layer to that decision and clearly you guys are both on the spectrum of you both you're both you know you're both the top of your field so you don't need an incremental patient you're happy to say no there's also it sounds like an ethical reason for you to say no my where I'm going with my rambling question is where do you think the field is on the whole are you guys the outliers or are you guys the majority is there either a handful of bad actors out there that will take any money from any 17 year old who's you know being dupped into thinking this is the way they need to look um I'm trying to get a sense of this scale of this problem I would say the vast majority of physicians are ethical um I do think there are some out there though where it is something that's monetized so they will mask treat patients you know their goal is to have surgery after surgery coming in and basically letting the patients make their own informed decision about it to an extent but I always look at it akin to managing hypertension or diabetes we never let the patients determine how much insulin or how much anti-habitants of medication to take and I don't think we should let the patients say that they want to trensform themselves to some completely different person I just ethically think that's wrong I think that brings to mind a whole bunch of other psychological issues that might be playing there including what we call social media just morphism where people come in with pictures of themselves with a filter and say can you make me look like this picture and so there's recognized diagnosis of DSM five and oh and the DSM five I don't know if it's made it that far away it's something that is mentioned at different meetings now so I don't know that is made into the DSM five if not it probably six right if I could chime in I think that you know Susan's obviously a very ethical you know outstanding surgeon and physician but I do have to say I'm an optimist I have to say that I think the situation's worse than what you're saying I think that there are unfortunately financial incentives for physicians, nurses and the the broad spectrum of people that perform aesthetic treatments including you know Botox and filler injections it's very poorly regulated there are tons of people out there ranging from hairdressers all up to surgeons who will be happy to take your money and find a place to put the syringe of filler because they know it's going to be money revenue into their practice and so I don't want to be overly negative but I think this is sort of a cautionary warning to people who are listening to this podcast that when you're delving in the area of aesthetic enhancement you have to understand that there's an overlay where the person that you're seeking out advice from has a substantial financial incentive to treat you and it's I think it's a real issue I do yeah it's I'll tell tell you one of the things I always caution patients toward in my world is you need to be really careful when you're seeing a quote unquote longevity doc who is selling tests and selling treatments for the results of that test right when you go to see somebody and they're selling a biologic clock whose treatment is this supplement and they're monetizing those two things I just don't see how you can trust that individual I don't see how even a person with good intentions can't get conflicted there and I guess I never thought of it until you said that but the entire aesthetic industry is effectively that because you're not just selling a procedure you're often selling a treatment like you're you're you're you're getting paid on both ends and what's happened is like ten years were saying the the providers have changed so before it used to be only dermatologists that would do the injectables and then it became dermatologists in plastic surgeons and then it became the RNs and the physician assistants and those are still all medical providers including dentists who are very well trened can do that but then you get in certain states lack of regulation so you're seeing unqualified people who are not medical providers doing injectables and laser treatments that they may not be trened for and all of a sudden you start to open up a whole Pandora's box of complications there and this is a shame because patients might not know enough to ask about qualifications they might see that it's a nice storefront the person wearing a lab coat they look professional so from that standpoint they might go in trusting that this person has their best interest there might not be a physician overseeing everything we feel very strongly in our practices that there is a physician overseeing every treatment whether we're doing it our nurses or our peers are doing it we're overseeing all of that to make sure that if there's a complication that complication is ours no matter what we're going to take care of that patient so it is a shame and I do warn a lot of young residents coming into the field to enter the fields if they truly love the field and are passionate about dermatology, ophthalmology, aquaphystics all of that because if they're going into I think they're going to be the next glamorous doctor on social media they're not going to have a lot of treatments that they can offer because at that point all these other providers are doing those treatments they're going to have to find a niche for themselves to make a name for themselves doing something differently so it's really fascinating right now the times that we're living in. Do you see a change in residents today so when I was in medical school which is almost 30 years ago now that people and maybe it's just it's such a small sample that it's in a relevant statement but when I think back to everybody I knew that ultimately chose plastic surgery they all had a very artistic bet to them right like they I'm not going to say that they didn't pick it because it was also a lucrative field and things like that maybe if plastic surgeons made 50,000 a year they wouldn't have done it but I never got the sense that that was their primary motivation when I think back to my friends in medical school that went into plastics they were artists they really took an interest in the art of this do you still see incoming residents largely of that philosophy where they're interested in the aesthetic component of it the underlying physiology of it in other words they cut from the cloth you guys are cut from or do you see a tren towards no this is literally a cash machine and this you know it's one again as reimbursements are going lower and lower and lower across the entire field of medicine it is clearly more attractive to be in specialties where reimbursements either remain very high and or there's a it's mostly cash well I'll take a more optimistic tone here I think that those who are coming into residency and fellowships in the world of aesthetics I think really still have that same artistic mindset people who are painters or musicians they have that artistic mind and it's something we actually look for in our fellowship when we're considering candidates because we know that they have that right brain mentality of being able to handle medical problems but the the reality is that as you said medical reimbursements are going down the lucrative nature of aesthetics is high and getting higher as time goes by and so someone can go through all the trening and then when they see that all are scuffing the door they're just going to want more of that and it can it can distort their ethics and they may not even realize they're doing it I'm not saying that there are physicians out there who are knowingly duping patients into having treatments but I think it just becomes as unconscious a drive because of the finances we were talking about that earlier and I do think it's a challenge because here we go again Medicare just got cut again in terms of reimbursements and that's sad because we're talking about in our university practices there's a huge push for doctors to see more patients because reimbursement is dropping and so the only way that the medical centers can compensate is to increase the volume there's only so many patients so in a day that we can see and offer really good care so to notion I have a very unique practice because most of our patients are self-pay so we have the luxury of time we can talk to our patients get to know them to the point that a lot of our patients come to us seeking medical advice and opinions on other advice that they've gotten from other physicians and we can help them to decipher the facts whereas there are other physicians may be fabulous but they have to see 30, 40 people on a day and that's a shame that's that's the detriment now that the physicians market is in because we're burning out a lot of really good physicians who want to give good care but find themselves having to see more and more patients so they can only spend 10 minutes of patient and that's really unfair and that's not why all of us go into medicine and for both of us we entered our fields before all of these devices and treatments exist it's I think we did come into it with a passion for what we love but we both have an artistic bandage which are personalities as well so we kind of gravitated towards this I want to put a bow on the social media thing for a moment um what is the most concerning tren or what is the most concerning request you are getting from people that you believe is sort of unique to the social media phenomenon what I'm seeing a lot more are teenagers now coming in asking for fillers and your imagiliters and their in their forehead fillers and your lips and that's sad because but why would IMean what an era modulator do anything when you're at that age anyway no but they're now being told that even 18 for example it's okay to start preventative Botox you don't need that until you're a lot further along in age so that's just an abject lie that they're being told yes and unfortunately they're also being made to feel very poorly about their shape of their lips they're being inundated with images unlike tenors of saying these are highly filtered images we know a lot of people who will take in their ways taken their thighs all of that change the proportions and then post that image and and what I try to tell patients is that what you see in terms of images that are on social media a are filtered b are taken um with certain angles of the camera to enhance someone's appearance and we will never at least in my practice take someone's photo that they took on their phone and then try to enhance them to look like their photo because what's happening is that you're going to make them look very different in life in real life so how you photograph you're only going to photograph beautifully if you're the most symmetric person and that's why even the most beautiful model on in a photograph if you look at them in person they're very pretty but you wouldn't think that they're supermodels sometimes but when they photograph they photograph beautifully because of their symmetry but for us with our forward facing cameras that we pinpoint ourselves to take our selfies they're going to just sort our face if you tilt one way you elongate the face so they're different way you shorten the face and patients get hung up on that and that's really sad because in real life they look fabulous now is this a 95 five female male problem that is arising from social media or other other and is the I guess from the purpose of this discussion I would guess it's mostly female my guess is the male issue is probably much more on antibiotics deroyed abuse and things that that young men are being influenced by is that safe to assume so what is it that you see tenures that is most disconcerting is there a particular product or a particular procedure that is that is showing up that is would have been unheard of before social media I was at two areas one is because fillers are non-surgical relatively accessible price points and low risk and are ubiquitous you can find a clinic within one mile if you live in a major city I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks over a volumization has become an epidemic and it's a serious problem not only because it looks exaggerated and distorted and strenge but even when as a facial surgeon I go into perform surgeries I will find that filler has disrupted normal anatomy and so decades later the companies will tell you that filler only lasts one year in the face of the yet refilled it that's definitely not true really we see we have patients coming in who don't mention that they've had filters in the past but then in surgery I will see filler in their cheek or in their face because they had eight or ten years ago and it's still there and it's stretching the ligaments it's changing the structure of the tissues it actually makes routine surgical procedures later more challenging so that's one area and by the way other biologic features of the individual that would make that more or less true are there some people in whom fillers go away after a year or are you saying that for the most part they last long that's also another whole complex topic is the metabolism of howlonic acid and some people are higher metabolizers some are slower metabolizers and we actually don't have a good sense of that we have some general concepts just based on experience but there's very little science on that we can't really predict to one doesn't know one really doesn't know okay and I'm sorry you you're gonna get to a second point yeah no uh the second point is from a surgical standpoint there is a tren right now where people are asking for this high arched brow effect where it's a hyper exaggerated the tail the brow comes up very high it's called a snatched look about once every week or two I've got someone who seriously wants to have their face distorted with a surgical procedure with me and I have to say I'm sorry we're not gonna do that is it safe to say that anyone who walks into a physician's office to do this needs to be able to be over 18 to provide consent but is it safe to say or is it is it is it is it the case that people younger than 18 can do this in less reputable places without parent consent do we know this it should be 18 it's like an animal procedure you have to be 18 years of age to consent there are rare instances where where I will treat someone who's 16 or 17 if the parent is there and if it's for something for example a patient has a hump bond there knows that they don't like but they're not ready to commit to a rhinoplasty so I can use fillers in a creative way to help reduce their appearance of that but that's very far and few between the parent is there yes absolutely I did have a very interesting incidents where I had an 18 year old though come in and she had just had a rhinoplasty and was coming to see me for fillers and for neuromodulators and I asked her I said your 18s is someone here with you from under your parents and nobody was there with her and the interesting thing is so she is 18 thinking that she's an adult but she's only a junior in high school so I was very conflicted I kept referring back to something along the lines of you need to talk to your parents you need to tell them what we discussed here that really bothered me for a long time that here is this 18 year old who's still in high school that wants to do things and I don't see a parent there with her but I think I think it's not a huge problem probably across the board that people under 18 are getting treatments but they're getting fed all of this societal pressure I like to use the term beauty pressure they're getting like peer pressures beauty pressure that's now more extreme because of social media they're getting all this beauty pressure at a very young age 12 13 onwards and so by the time they get into their 20s they've been thinking about this for years and years and years and they're ready to dive into it now there's probably not a lot of people in my audience that are particularly young but maybe we can start the discussion through the lens of preventive care right so we can talk about preventive care and then move into sort of you know maybe where I am now where IMiss the boat on pure prevention and I now need to start being active so for the person who's listening to this who's you know still in their prime from a from a from a aesthetic perspective so I guess they're in their 20s right we would say maybe even in their 30s depending on their genes the only thing I know is wearing sunscreen is a net positive right so yeah clear there I understand enough to say that UV damages skin is it damaging a last in is it damaging collagen or is it purely just these sun spots that it creates what is it that sun is doing that is damaging quite a bit okay so I'm glad you mentioned sunscreen because if anyone's gonna come and say what's the absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin everyday it would be sunscreen and in fact there was a four-year study out of Australia that followed people for four years and either they wore sunscreen or they didn't and the ones that did aged better was it randomized it was randomized so it aged better they aged better fewer lines fewer wrinkles and that's in a country that has a lot of sun so that shows you the power of using sunscreen now I'll take it a step further I tell my patients they have to use mineral suns as opposed to chemical suns screens because I'm not convinced of the safety of able bands on oxy bands on as hormone disruptors I do think there are some scientific studies that suggest maybe they play a role in fertility you can measure them in the bloodstream especially if you're putting them over the entire body the body the skin is a great portal for chemicals and enter into the bloodstream if it's the right size chemical so there have been already studies done I show a huge spike in the amount of these in your bloodstream after application after saying this for 15 years I think the FDA just a couple weeks ago finally told the companies they must do animal safety studies it's about time it's very late yeah so late I gave it very late and also the I'm starting trouble just I'm so on board with you about the problems with chemical suns screens because the other problem it creates is that patients think they're covered and then the chemicals that are actually protecting against the UV damage become inactivated over time and you don't know because you still have the film on you and you don't know at what time of day you no longer have any solar protection it's within an hour it's within an hour you put a sunscreen SPF 70 on go outside and it's going to be if it's strong sun it's going to be deactivated within an hour people will burn on SPF 70 SPF 100 there should be nothing above the SPF 50 mineral because you can't get into a formula what is the use case for the chemical sunscreen are they less expensive like what are they water like what was the rationale for the they blend in they blend in very easily so the people love it because there's no white film when they put it on a mineral sunscreen takes a little bit more work to blend it in or it's going to cost more because you're going to have to get a micronized or micronized formula of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide so my L to MD 30 to 50 I think I have one of each I'm pretty sure that's a mineral sunscreen it's you have to work to put it in right as that yes and some of them I'll to make some mineral some chemical wine so just double check got it okay and they make a confusing on purpose by the way so you have to go out of your way to actually find formulas that are primarily mineral because the companies want to sell you both products and they know that customer satisfaction is higher with the higher with chemical and you know this doesn't have to do this this conversation specifically but Susan has created skincare and so if I created skincare so we've we've really dived into this world of skincare and the marketing of skincare can really mislead consumers and companies that are creating skincare are motivated by they want people to be happy with their SPF when it's a chemical sunscreen they're going to be happier with it because it doesn't have that white pastey effect but it's just not as effective got it and the other thing that happens if you look at the amount of skincare cancer in the US it's increasing including melanoma so why do we have generations now of people from the late 90s on up who say they use sunscreen all of them and our skin cancer rate are going up I think it's too fold I think it's because a like you said to know the sunscreen's degraded very quickly when they put on a chemical sunscreen and I'm going to take a one step further when those chemical sunscreen absorb those harmful rays whether it's UVB or UVA the cells the chemicals absorb them and they neutralize those rays but they cause reactive oxygen species and those reactive oxygen species damage the DNA of the cells which then accentuates the damage that you're getting from whatever other UVA gets through the sunscreen so you're really causing more damage and probably causing these cells to become more atypical over time by the way you know that there's a there's a group of people who argue that and I don't agree with this at all that that argue that sun and UV rays have no causal role in melanoma and the the argument they put forth is sunscreen use has been increasing and yet we see a significant increase in the incidence of melanoma so they're pointing at the same observation they're offering a different argument I find your argument far more compelling yeah I think everyone should be using a mineral sunscreen so that's number one I think it's okay let's again just about the why so what is it that ultraviolet energy is doing to my skin that is deleterious so I'm going to throw out more than ultraviolet so we know there's UVA yep and UVA is the longer wavelength between the two ultraviolet rays that reach thirds that's a for aging we have UVB that's B for burns that's the one that causes a lot of the redness in the sunburns and leaves behind a lot of the atypia in the cells so UVB probably causes more skin cancers than UVA but they're both implicated but add to it we have high energy viscible we have visible light we have infrared light all coming from the sun so if we have five different rays and they all play a role in how we age so we worry about UVA UVB with regards to skin cancer but high energy viscible light and visible light also play a role in terms of hyperpigmentation infrared as well and now there's some evidence maybe suggesting that because infrared light can reach deeper into the skin it may have a role on fat atrophy and bone remodeling interesting so I'd like to see more studies on that I don't know how you could possibly do that in an ethical way but that's really good you could do it in animals IMean you could you could do animals studies assuming you you you had a comparable model for for for fat and bone because then that's the only way you'd have to use the isolated spectrum right you couldn't do it in sunlight because then you can't I assume you wouldn't be able to disentangle which energy wave was causing the effect but that's an interesting thought the yeah I think most of us think that IMean most of us I've always thought well the sunspots are unattractive but you know my pigments dark enough that they don't really show up that much and so okay so we know what's sun is doing I'm starting to drop you to about one more addition to talk about with the UV damage because we could probably spend the whole podcast on UV injuries but you know in addition to everything this isn't said a couple more things that I think are important to hear are for listeners is that UV also not only do know that a damage is a DNA and can lead to tumors cancer's melanoma but it also injures collagen particles elastic and particles a lot of the ultra structure of not only the cellulose have intracellular infrastructure but also extra cellular infrastructure so the matrix of the subcutaneous tissues the dermis is built by this beautiful scaffolding if you look at an 18 year old skin under the microscope it's this thick beautiful blanket layer of a volume because you've got this collagen elastic structure that's holding this holding up and is filled with water molecules that have lots of space to move around in and signals going back and forth so all of that collagen elastic framework also gets heavily injured by UV over time and it becomes cumulative and that leads to you know thinning of the skin loss of the subcutaneous fat layer loss of those intracellular connections so that people start to get pitting and find reliance and wrinkles and so that's just from an aesthetic standpoint just another area just to know from from UV damage so it is so I'm sure you've heard this before but so all of my black friends now are looking infinitely like on a relative basis their aging is slowing down and so they always say black don't crack and so how much of the difference that we see in black skin versus white skin is due to less damage from UV versus other genetic differences that enhance what you're describing it's almost completely what you're saying is the protection value of the increased malin and particles that people with darker skin have there's a fitspatric scale from one to six where we talk about the fitspatric one is someone who's extremely fair blonde blood burns all the time never tans and it goes all the way to fitspatric six which is dark the darkest skin that you'll see can't burn ever tans can't burn and we're all somewhere in that spectrum so i'm a three three plus okay we'll be yep maybe so basically yeah is there basically a linear relationship between one and six in terms of how well you will age skin wise i think yeah that's about right okay and and the melanin factors huge IMean just um you know just to counter that argument earlier about people who talk about trying to put sunscreens um and and so the the melanin evolutionarily if you actually look at what's happening when melanin is inside the cell it's not just randomly dispersed it's actually um the melanin forms a parasol over the nucleus to protect the DNA to protect the DNA so evolution has is showing us microscopically why it's so important to protect ourselves from the UV because we get this parasol of melanin it sits on top of the nucleus to protect it and when we were exposed when we're fitspatric two to six or two to five and you're exposed to sunlight we get immediate upregulation of melanin production by the tyrosine kinestrathaway and all of that melanin you know doubles and triple so that's why we're tannning that's why we're tannning is not an aesthetic it happens to be aesthetic but the reason we tan is to create more melanin to protect our DNA yes and it's only aesthetic in this day and age because it used to be that if you were tan you worked in the fields so it was not a sign of prosperity and affluence so it is only aesthetic in our current day and age but yes melanin's our own antioxidant so a very good antioxidant that's how it works okay to your point we could spend the rest of the podcast on it we won't we've established the fact that step one the no regret move protect your skin in the sun what's the next level thing that one can do for prevention so we may be on the same line it might be a little bit different I would say step two would be a retinoid of some sort and it could be in your was worried you were going to say that I know that's one more thing I have to apply well here's what I tell patients because you said you don't wash your face at night right do you guys see a brush your teeth at night do I'm a little bit of a little bit just flosser and teeth brush your tooth brush put your little tube of retinoid that's what I tell my patients so retinoids we have different categories there's retinal which is the weakest one and your body will go put it through two enzymatic changes to become retinoid gas it which is what you get the pharmacy and that's great if you're in your 20s late teens early 20s and you're just trying to be preventative with how your skin is aging and it's the same time maybe addressing some acne. Once you hit late 20s into your 30s and early 40s you need maybe something a little stronger and that's where a retinal to hide is a little bit better and that's the next conversion so retinal becomes a retinal to hide which then becomes retinoid gases so retinal to hide that middle step and there's more actual enzyme in your body that can convert retinal to hide to retinoid acid and that's less irritating for people to use so in your case if you get irritated very easily and you're going to quit it gives us an option to give patients something that's highly efficacious that is going to irritate their skin less because it gets converted to the active form after it's been absorbed into the skin and then the gold standard is retinoid acid and that has multiple different strens but that's someone who's in their mid 40s and up they're going to need it continuously to keep boosting collagen because our peak collagen production you want to venture a guess as to what age we picked in our collagen production. I would say late teens early 20s. Yeah 18. That was when our fiberglass were making the most of the matrix that I guess that because that's when in women bone density peaks in at about 18 for minutes about 20 21. Yes exactly so 18 we started to make less collagen elastin and glycosamine are like that so if we can add a retinoid in there we're telling the fiberglass to boost more of those production of those ingredients those peptides and those collagen matrix. If we are looking at the melanocytes those retinoids also normalize the function of melanocytes so that they're less aggregated less overactive and they also help to normalize the turnover of the keratinocytes. So they're working on the major cellular structure of the skin at the level of the DNA. Now my recollection is there were two concentrations of this stuff that you could get. Is that ring enough? The prescription? Yes. There's three point 025.05.05.1 and then there's like 0.04.08. Those firsT3 are the major. And also custom formulations. Yes. Yeah. And the few times I'd tried to use this like I couldn't do it every day it just got me too red. Did that mean I was on too high a formulation I should have gone back to the aldehyde I was too young I probably tried this 10 years ago and never did it again. So I have I take a different approach and even most of my colleagues I tell people if they're trying to achieve a goal whether it's treating malasma, sun damage or they're getting ready for a child's wedding or we have to do a procedure. I would tell them to tough it out because if you use a red nook acid every single day your body acclimates to it very quickly it may take six weeks, seven weeks, eight weeks but you get your skin used to it and then you reap all the benefits but some patients are always going to quit. So from that standpoint then yeah so we would give you five days week right now the height two days a week red nook acid and tell you to start that way and then maybe as your skin acclimates to it you can change that proportion. Okay and by the way do you become more light sensitive when you take this to you? Does it make you? Does it make it even more important that you're wearing sunscreen in the sun? So those studies came out very early on which is why people start to say oh I stopped my red nook in the summer and that's the last thing you should do because initially when you start a red nook you will get exfoliation at the level of the dead layer of the skin the student cornium but after you've been on the red nook for a long time that builds back up. So you become less light sensitive you might always still be a little bit but you're a lot less light sensitive than when you first start a red nook but you should always have a sunscreen on and a hat and red noids have been shown that even if you get sun exposure they have the ability to repair some of that DNA damage early on so you really want to be on a red noid all the time. Okay anything you would add to that ten years on the red noid before we go on? No I think that was great I totally agree with everything Susan just said I have a slightly different protocol with red noids and people who are sensitive IMight have them start out two or three times a week and then gradually build up to kind of nightly use over a couple of months that's one way to avoid the inflammatory aspect of red noid and then the other option would be to mix it with some over the counter hydrochordes on one percent cream I know people get really worked up about putting steroids on their face but over the counter hydrochordes on one percent is so such a low concentration that it's just enough to reduce some of that annoying irritation from the red noin in that first few weeks or months but I was going to also add you know when people are thinking about the core aspects of what should they be using on their other starting to notice some changes in their 20s or 30s in addition to sunscreen and red noids I think that vitamin C is a really important molecule to get onto the skin also. Try that too let me tell you why I stopped it was mixed with like ferric acid. For like acid. Yes yes and it's stuck. I just hated the smell of it. And the reason for that is because vitamin C is a notoriously complicated, easily reduced molecule and when manufacturers are formulating their vitamin C serums it might be a year from when it leaves the factory and gets on to your skin if for lucky and in that year all of the relatively inexpensive vitamin C serums are going to degrade and not actually have any bioavailability when that vitamin C is applied to the skin. And so the relatively more expensive formulations are being produced by manufacturers that are doing all sorts of manufacturing flips and tricks to try and stabilize that vitamin C. The product you're talking about which I think I can try guess is they use the ferric acid to stabilize the vitamin C so that it maintains its bioavailability. Other formulations of vitamin C will use an oil-based formula that's not equalous because then the vitamin C is much less likely to be reduced in that kind of formulation but those products tend to be petroleum oil-based and also have all sorts of negatives associated with it and then there are some products that will micro-encapsulate or find other creative ways of making sure that the vitamin C is actually bioavailable when it hits your skin so that product may have not worked for you but there are other options to find a stable vitamin C and this is one of those products where again we have our own custom formulas but I'll tell people who are price sensitive, go to Walgreens, buy a retinoid, buy a sunscreen you don't need to spend more than ten or fifteen dollars on effective products but vitamin C is something where you have to spend the money on it. And by the way what retinoid can you buy at Wal-Mart? Retinoid? And some retinoid. I see you can't get retinoid acid in that prescription rate. God right. And is there any downside of using retinoid you just need a lot more of it to make sure you get? The problem is if you try to push that enzymatic chain reaction you'll get dermatitis. Got it. Okay so in other words if you can afford it it's better to get the prescription and I'm guessing retinoid acid is not expensive. That's the finally it's come back down in price. I think now that they realize more and more people are willing to spend out of a lot of pocket to buy it. It's about eighty to a hundred dollars for a tube. That's two less. That's abouT3 months. Okay. It's just lasting longer you're not putting enough. And just show me is though I'm doing this like we're going to talk about how to wash the face and do all that because I'm guessing you don't do this without washing your face especially if you've had sunscreen on all day. Are you putting this on like all over your face like this even over my beard and stuff? So I tell people first things first you have to put the right amount on. Okay. Because every time we give anyone any prescription we tell them to take this many milligrams once a day twice a day. We don't do a good job. Yeah right. I have time people how much sunscreen to put on how much retinoid to put on. So I always saw them hold up your finger and it should be from the tip of your index finger to your DIP joint. Oh my god. And that's a finger tip unit. If you can do a finger tip unit of retinoid every night that's a great way to measure the beginning enough on and how you can see your face. You can see I'm getting a triponin leak right now just thinking about applying that much stuff. Yeah and I have them put on their face including the under eye area because that's the thinnest skin. Yep. And that's the skin that's going to wrinkle and aged the first. So most people are afraid to go around their eyes and I tell them just don't get it in your eyes. Go around but make sure you're getting that under eye area. Once a week maybe on the upper eyelid and then once or twice a week on the neck because again this is the thinnest skin. We've got to keep the skin building collagen and the last skin. Okay. The vitamin C and for look acid would you put that on after? First. So you always put the liquid before the thickest stuff. So you're going to thinnest the thickest. Okay. Let's talk to that about how you wash your face before you begin this procedure. So I've just come in from whatever I've done. I've you know I'm brushing my teeth because that's the only time I'll do this and I'm going to wash my face now. What should I do? I'm guessing that the hand sanitizer next to my sink is another thing to use. So there's been a huge shift in so many areas of skin care that is now sinking more with what science is telling us. And so historically there was a belief that you would need to strip all the oil off your face and debris and dirt before you apply products. We're talking about you know skincare routines from 10 or 20 years ago and we now know that that is harmful. It creates inflammation. It disrupts the microbiome of the skin. It does all sorts of negative things. And so a modern clenser that we suggest is usually something that is glycerin based usually there's also other versions but it's a it's a way of clensing the skin without overly stripping the oils out of the skin. And glycerin based clensers don't don't foam and so that's certainly my bias. I'm sure you might have some some other thoughts Susan but that's the first step to get the debris and superficial oils off the face and you know previously a product. And then as Susan said you go from thin to thick and so usually on top of that will be serums like vitamin C serum or retinols. And then finally you'll put a moisturizer on. Okay, so I think I'll see you. Any antioxidants serum? Okay. So we mentioned vitamin C with there's so many other great antioxidants serum that contains salamarin, fluoratin, glycerin. So how does one pick? How do you have that? That's where you have to look and see who's invested into in the clinical research based behind the products that they're promoting. So you tell me what are you guys we're using? IMean, I would say that generically speaking, if you can find a vitamin C serum that has a higher quality vehicle to make sure the bioavailability of the vitamin C gets to your skin, that product is going to have additional you know associated antioxidants that are going to be very useful and helpful. And you know again to avoid naming brand names here, you can find that quite easily and especially with the advice that we go ahead and name brands because honestly people just want to know. So let's just give some brands that you guys trust. Maybe across a range of price points. Sure. IMean, I'll give you some names. So I'll give you my brand name, but then also brands that I suggest other people as well. My brand name is called obvious skincare and it is designed to AVIA, AVIA. And we formulate these products to have metacluid efficacy, but we also incorporate some Ayurvedic wisdom, which is anti-inflammatory. So it has turmeric and other kind of eastern botanicals for anti-inflammatory here. And we have a vitamin C serum that is my micro encapsulated that also has a retinol in it and also has various other antioxidants that are nice and I'd that are all useful to apply to the skin right after you've washed it. Now there are other brands as well. You know, IMean we can name a hundred of them, probably. You know, I think uh but if you couldn't use yours, what are two others? You know, skin suitacles is probably one of them. That's the one I tried. Yes. When you said for like a 50. Yes. And that's a wonderful brand. IMean they they're really have names. But there's no getting out of this stink of it. There is this year ago again with a different brand. A different vitamin C form. So they they chose to use the the phrology approach to to kind of stabilize the vitamin C. But there there's many other brands as well. So what's another non-stinky one? Obajim. Obajim. Obajim. That's yours. No, actually that's not me. So that company's publicly owned and I only formulate for them a Susan Obajim D line. But their vitamin C serum has been around quite a number of years. Got it. So it's not you just yeah. So the original founder of Obajim Zeno, by my father. But he has since left that company. Got it. Okay. And so this brand has been time tested for 35 years now. And they make their vitamin C under an nitrogen vapor. So it makes it so much more difficult and challenging to produce. But it's a very stable form of eliscorbic acid without the phrologic. So what is here right here is this is not unlike what's the best diet for me. The best diet is the one that allows you to maintain energy balance that requires the fewest amounts of neurons to stay on. So I need to geT3 of these and figure out which one is the least annoying for me to put on. And it's no offense to that company. It won't be skin-suiticles because every time I've tried it the smell of the the the the phyriolomic acid or whatever has just been annoying to me. So I also know in Obajim they not I didn't do the study for them. But they have a study that shows that their eliscorbic acid penetrates abouT4 times deeper than the one from skin-suiticles. Okay great. So I'm going to try both of you. And just to name some other brands. IMean their skin better is another one that I think you know produces good products. And you know maybe it's worth also mentioned because we haven't done this yet. Why is vitamin C so important? I assume it has to be pro-lean and collagen. That's one aspect. So vitamin C is sort of like a wonder molecule when it comes to facial aesthetics because yes, it is a precursor for the collagen synthesis pathway in the pro-lean synthesis pathway. But it also is a powerful antioxidant. And so antioxidant application to the skin not only has the power to remove injury, oxidative injury that has happened during the day. But it also has the ability to reverse some existing damage that's in place. Vitamin C also regulates the tyrosine kinisc pathway which is sort of a scientific way of saying that complexion which you know people talk about wanting to have good complexion. What does that mean? Complexion is something that across societies no matter what your physpatriarch scale is. People like to have a good complexion. And that means having an even skin tone which is even distribution of melanin. It doesn't matter if you're black or white or brown. You want to have people desire to have their skin look even without splotchy areas of pigmentation or nearby areas of relative depigmentation. And so regulating the tyrosine kind of pathway so that there's an even production of melanin throughout the skin is something that is valuable, very valuable and an aesthetic sense. And that's something vitamin C does as well. Okay. We're going to go from the serum to the retinoc acid. Again, I'm being selfish and talking about my demographics. So people that are 40s, 50s and beyond. And then it sounds like the last thing you said we want to do is as a moisturizer. Yeah, that's a curve. Okay. Yeah, I would say the cheapest trick in skin care, which actually is really true, is that deep moisturization locks down the skin barrier function and allows the skin trigger of the skin, dermis, epithelium to thicken just by having that a close of barrier. So you can go to Walgreens and spend six dollars on aquifer, which is basically petroleum jelly and put it on your face nightly. And your skin will look better in 30 days guaranteed because your skin will thicken and a lot of the fine lines and crinkles will actually start to disappear because your skin is being more hydrated. That's hydration. That's hydration. Yeah. What if I don't want to grease up my pale. Yeah, I'm not saying that as sort of like tongue and cheek. I've got it. I'm not telling people to do that. Okay. But if you actually did a double line of study, you would see that there are things real in the world. Yeah. But the reason IMentioned that is that good deep hydration can be performed with an inexpensive product that you're using regularly and it'll make a real difference because the moisturization, especially overnight while you're sleeping, is a powerful tool for aesthetics. And you know, I don't, I like I wouldn't give you though, I'm moisturizer. So you can just tell I'm a grease ball to begin with. How long you have young thicker skin? So again, just like a woman aged 20 years faster than guys in terms of the bone remodeling and fat, atrophy the skin as well. So you say my routine would be done after the retinoic acid. From my standpoint, yes. At this point. And then we might revisit that in a few years. Yes. And I tend to give moisturizers as women become more mature. I don't want you to work older because they do start to make less of their natural moisturizing factor. That's even started to diminish even when we're 18. So most people, I think, into their mid 40s and 50s even might not always need a moisturizer with everything that they put on at night. But one caveat to sorry is that your morning sunscreen and your serums have some moisturism quality to them all. Exactly. And I always have them put a super antilex in a serum or vitamin C serum on it night before their retinoid. Because my feeling on this is that you spend the whole day outside or in your car or being hit by LED lights and ultraviolet lights. Those are also damaging the skin. And so I think you should have an antilex that are on first thing in the morning, but it's going to get depleted by the end of the day. And so by the end of the day. We're going to answer our MS that are we putting the serum on in the morning. Yes. And at night. And I always have them repeated at night because it's depleted all day long. Oh, God. And we know that the cells undergo mightophagey and auto-fagy at night. We want to help the repair factor. We want to put on an antilex at night again just to replenish the skin. And the red nooc acid. It also goes on top of that. And the red nooc acid. No, no, no, no, no, no, and the red nooc acid has anti-inflammatory properties to it. In addition to all the good things that doesn't terms of building up collagen in the last minute. Okay. So just to go through this because I'm you can tell not the sharpest tool in the shed. My AM routine is going to be wash. Okay. Let's assume I just came out of the shower. All right. Okay. So you're serum. And then by the way, the shower don't use your body soap on your face because it's going to strip the oil out of your face. So again, you need a separate facial clenser. Oh, God. What do I need? The same glycerol-based thing. Well, it depends on your skin type too. Like I tend to be maybe a little bit more picky about. IMean, do you see the saw that crap that I like I'm I've got like a 299 bottle body wash from Target that I scrub head to toe. Like I am the lowest com like put it this way. When my wife met me in the hospital, the first thing she noticed was how disgusting I was in that I used to take alcohol pads and clen my face. Like just like that was my shower in the hospital. That probably wasn't bad. It was a little harsh. But IMean, it's just like, there were things you could do. All right. So we're going to do so. Yeah. We're going to do serum. Yes. And then we're going to do sunscreen. Yes. That's the morning routine. And some people might in there need depending on if they have clogged pores or your skin they might need it. All the alpha hydroxy acid or polyhydroxy acid before their sunscreen. But you've nailed it right there. That's a very simple region when you can follow. Okay. And then the PM is soap serum. We prefer if you call it a clenser, right? Yes. I so kind of do so. The door to the Target. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. No. Glistro. And now the difference is, you know, I do have lots of patients like you Peter who are minimalist. So again, it's trying to get them to use whatever they can to protect their skin. And hopefully, such an improve the aging process. All right. IMight. IMight just to do the experiment for 90 days. Try to commit to clenser serum sunscreen in the morning. clenser serum retinoc acid in the evening. That we agree that would be. Yes. Okay. By the way, in the show notes, we'll get from you products that you guys like, including your own. I just want to let people kind of look through this and decide. And, you know, obviously you guys disclose your own products. Great. But let people see the full breadth of things. Yeah. You know, I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm sorry. And one of the things to ask about, though, especially when they're very into their nutrition and eating healthy, they say, well, why do I need to apply an anti-oxidant if I'm eating a lot of antioxidants? Sure. And the skin being the largest organ in your body is very unique. It's very good at keeping things out or from the inside coming out as well. So outside things like water pollution, it tries to protect that from getting in and does a good job at keeping kind of homey astasis. So they have shown that the level of vitamin C that you're going to achieve in the skin by topical application far exceeds what you can do by ingesting it. The amount you would have to ingest to get the right amount in the skin. You'd have GI issues. Which that would definitely make you quit. Before we leave this, I guess one thing I just want to chat about is acne. Again, it's mostly something I that adolescent, sir experiencing, but adults get acne as well. Is that something you guys spend much time on? I do. What, give me, give me the sort of playbook you have on on acne. I assume it involves spironalactone. If it looks to be, you know, an endocrine in nature be very curious to hear about, you know, acutane. I hear horror stories about it, but obviously it probably works very well. What do people need to be aware of? What's your playbook for addressing acne? So my number one thing I tell people is for themselves or their children. Try to treat the acne before it scars because I cannot tell you how many times I see patients for consoles for acne scars. They're in their 70s and they're so crying about it as if it was yesterday. They've traumatized all their life with these acne. And what causes acne to scar? So it depends on how inflammatory your acne is. There are different types of acne. There's combidonal acne which are just your run of the mill, small pimples, whiteheads, blackheads. Those don't typically scar unless someone picks at them. Okay. So number one rule for patients. Don't pick at your skin. Second thing, they can have a little bit more inflammatory acne and those tend to be the red ones that come up and there may be pus sure, pus sure there on the skin. And if you don't pick at them, those also might heal without spying and then they're cystic acne. And those are a completely different type of acne where you're getting inflammation that's the patient's pile of sebaceous unit which is a heraphylocal in the oil gland feeding in there and you get swelling deep in the dermis and then you might get enough inflammation and rupture of that cyst that you leave a divot at that point and that causes what we call a valley scar or you might have enough damage in it. Even if not picked. Even if not picked. So cystic acne is a true, in my standpoint, a medical emergency because you want to try to make it possible. Maybe not a level of event ofphyxis but correct. Correct. Correct. Correct. It's a dermatologic medical emergency. Yes. Yes. Because it can cause so much psychological trauma to the child. People with cystic acne, even bad inflammatory acne, they're shy to go out in public. They want to hide their face to hide their face to the face. The percentage of adolescents will develop cystic acne. I don't know that I can quote the exact percentage is about 20%. Oh wow, so pretty high. Yes. And so the most patient is very difficult to fix later. Yes. And those patients, I'm not a big fan of antibiotic use. I don't want to alter their gut microbiome. I do think that we're just touching on a surface of how important that is. Those patients I would quickly move to acutane because nothing topical is going to work. And so what about orthodoxy? What about orthodoxy? What about therapy? Okay, say more about that. So photodynamic therapy is where you take a molecule like alpha, aminolevealonic acid, aLA and you paint it on the skin and you let it incubate for about an hour and then you shine a red light onto the skin to activate it. And that chemical gets into the sebaceous glands and purgulate the sound through the skin. And when you activate it, it causes a heat reaction and basically induces damage in that whole area that's picking up that medication. So you're basically causing the oil glancet shut down. You're taking away the nitous for the inflammatory acne. And for some patients who cannot take acutane or isotrachnoine, that's a great alternative for them. It does feel uncomfortable. And not every doctor offers it, but it's a great adjunct or alternative if they can't take I so try to know it. And would antibiotics work if not for the limitations and side effects of long-term systemic antibiotics? So antibiotics will work just more degree. They might help shut down maybe a good proportion of that cystic acne fur, but they won't get to the root cause, which is the sebaceous unit over a production of oils, the bacteria that are in their feeding off of that and the whole cascade. And there's something genetic, cystic acne tends to run in families. So there's some kind of genetic tendency towards that milieu that causes a cystic acne. And how does acutane work with some mechanism? So acutane is a type of red noise and it's basically going to go in there and dry up the oil production that's in these overactive sebaceous glands that are being driven by your angeregant. But you have to take it orally, it doesn't work top of the effect. Correct. So they have used some topical variations of it for psoriasis and things like that, but the best is to take it orally because then you bypass a lot of the surface dermatitis. What is the main side effect or toxicity that people are trying to avoid with that? You can tell what is it of a bad name? So it has a couple of bad connotations with it. First it dries everyone out. So for the five months you're on it, you're going to have dry lips, dry eyes. Some people complain that your skin is too dry. Some people on very high doses might get shedding of the hair. Well, and then you're not allowed to drink alcohol while you're on it so that's a whole other issue with kids and making sure they're compliant with that because it is metabolized by the liver. And other than that, patients that they're using a correctly tolerated very well, it got some better obesity. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Sorry, say you're going to about a genocity because you want to treat, you're not, you're not getting pregnant on it because it will cause defects. So we have to go through this whole FDA required modules with the patients to make sure that there are used in two forms of birth control for the female patients. While they're on it, they're not donating blood while they're on it. But it got a very bad reputation when I think it was a child or son of a senator committed suicide while on that medication. And they said it was a depression induced by the medication when it turns out when people look scientifically at the right direction. Yeah, that sounds like junk science written all over it's based on the issue. Exactly. Would you look at depression scores and acne patients with cystic acne? It's significant. Yeah. And their depression actually improves when they take something like acne and do you have them on a true liver function test while patients are on it the same way you do with limc d'ol or any of the toe fungus type things as if that severe potentially. It could be. We had changes to your lipid profile while you're on it. It can elevate your triglycerides and elevate your cholesterol. And there were very few instances we would adjust so those we just tell people to try to eat healthier or rather on it, especially triglyceride elevation. Liver enzymes, it's a rare patient that gets a real significant bump but you want to watch for that because you want to stop the medication if that's the case. It's a very proxy to make sure they're not drinking. It's sort of a way of finding out if they're falling the rules. Yes, we tell them we can tell. Yeah. And I don't prescribe a decade. This is usually something that the dermatologist should be doing. The specific physicians are hurt. Yes. And you mentioned five months. Does that imply that you do this very lengthy five month treatment and then you're done with this? It eradicates the sebaceous cysts, the sebaceous glands to the level where the child, the teenager is done with this treatment afterwards. For 85% of people that take it for five months are done. You've got this small subset, then you need to take it again. And then I have my adult patients who might not have a lot of acne but they're very oily. I put them on at one month out of the year. Just to dry them up a little bit. And it helps them feel better, it makes their pores look tighter, it makes their skin have a better texture to it because we always said, if you have oily skin, you're going to age better. That's so not true. You're just going to oils and inflammatory on the skin. So from that standpoint, I'd rather have them use it to dry them up for about a month and then allow them to enjoy the beautiful skin for the rest of the year. How does one know? IMean, it sounds like a dumb question. How does one know if they have oily skin? Like I've always thought I have oily skin, do I? Well, your pores would be enlarged and you would literally some people have to blot their face in the day. Okay, that's, I don't know about, but okay. Let's move on now to, by the way, that was super interesting to me. Just kind of, and by the way, I want to make sure we also get good products. We didn't talk about it. But can you tell me, you mentioned for the clenser, it just needs to be glycerol-based, are these easy over-the-counter things to find? Should I be going to target or Walgreens and literally just going through the skin aisle and looking for clensers that are glycerol-based that won't lather when I use them? Is that the litmus test? IMean, it's one way to do it. And we can also provide divisobunchal-links to products. You can include your own. I don't care. Yeah. Just just... And if you're a lawyer, I'm going to give you one that's not quite so hydrating when you wash. Okay. All right, let us move now into the really confusing realm of... I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong, but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago. And I say, I want to look like that. And I should have brought a picture in of me so you could actually see it. But like, you've already described it without having seen the picture, right? I don't have bags under my eyes. My skin just looks better. Everything just looks better. Part of it is color. I will admit, 10 years ago, there was no gray anywhere in my beard. We're not going to fix that problem. That's fine. But aside from that, oh, and the wrinkles in my forehead. Like, I noticed in pictures of me in the past, I had some wrinkles. Now it looks like I have a wrinkle farm. Right? So again, go over the changes. Assuming I had that photo, how would you describe them pathologically? Maybe that's too strong a word, but you know what IMean? So I think there are three basic changes that happen to every single person with aging. And we've touched on this a little bit and will dive deeper now. So there's skin changes. There are volume changes. There are gravitational changes. And maybe we should throw on the fourth, which is, you know, bone structural foundational changes. And so those happen to everybody. When we see patients in our clinics who are presenting the way you've just suggested, we will spend extra time analyzing the individual nuances of skin, volume, bone ligament to anatomy, gravitational changes that are specific to your face. And then also we'll just rely on just general knowledge that we have about what types of aging changes we see at this point. And it's a very complex process. I tried to analyze this a little bit before walking into this podcast today. Like, what am I actually thinking about when I'm starting to come and hit with the patient? As soon as I see the patient, while I'm, you know, making some niceties and saying hello and get to know them, I'm already analyzing, I'm already looking at their skin. I'm looking at the bone structure. I'm analyzing the facial proportion. I'm looking at areas where there's volume loss. It's obvious. I'm looking at the dynamic movement of the forehead and the face. I'm analyzing how much heaviness is on the eyes. It might be driving front-tiles muscle tone. It's causing forehead wrinkles. I'll be looking for facial asymmetries. So a lot of the physical exam that we do in our offices happens in the first 15 seconds because we're just, this is what we do and it just happens quickly in our mind. It's a big difference. It's that blink moment. You live in my ear. I know what I'm going to do on them. Yes. Yes. The urologist doesn't have this advantage. He can't, you know, examine the prostate and the scrodyle tissue during that first 15 seconds. Very good boy. Yes. So, so we do that when we walk into the room that analysis already happens. And then, because I've already got that sort of snapshot anatomic analysis already in my mind, then the next step that I'm doing is, and I'd love to hear what your processes is. But the next step is I'm now going into their mind and trying to understand their psychology and what their motivation is. And the problem that we have is that the patient doesn't know what words to say. They're like me for them to communicate what's actually driving them. And so I have to pull that out of them. This was a little bit of detective work, a little bit of background. My parents are both psychiatrists. I actually went to medical school thinking I was going to go into psychiatry. And then I rapidly pivoted into surgery and ended up where I am. But that initial love and appreciation for what's happening inside the neuronal processing and subconscious is something that we actually work with every single day in our offices. And so the next step that happens in the consultation is, I would say hopefully. IMean, to me that's a great thing. But I don't know. I'm not to be a downer. I don't know that that's true of every person who is dealing with aesthetics. I would guess there are a lot of people who are just kind of doing this in a coin-operated way. Cooked kind of. Yeah. I think you're right. Unfortunately, there is a there can be tendency to take a cookie cutter approach where you recognize this and here's a it's a knee jerk reaction. There's wrinkles on the forehead and jack bowtocks. You know, there's gels do a face left. That's not the way that we should be practicing aesthetics. Every single individual has a totally customized situation anatomically physiologically and psychologically. And so our job is to try and figure that out when the patient doesn't have the ability to express. So sometimes it's almost overlaps into pediatrics, which is something that I know you've got some history with in surgery. But you know, you're trying to do a physical exam and get history from someone who's unable to communicate what they're actually able what they want you to figure out. And so we'll all start asking questions. Did you like the way you looked when you were 20? If they say yes, that means that they actually like their natural facial proportions and they're probably looking more for a rejuvenation. But if they say, you know, I always had a heavy eyelid and an ever could make up on my then I know that there may be looking for something that's a more substantial result in that particular area. That's just one example. And then I'll try to get to know them from just what are the what kind of what's their occupation, what's their situation at home. Do they have kids? Tell me a little bit about your life. I'm trying to understand their social history to see if there's any red flags that would stop the process and say, okay, this is not the right time to be considering aesthetics. You got to get your mental health in order before we proceed, which is something that I would very openly tell a patient at the right time in the consultation. But if a woman came in and said, my husband is leaving me, right, which is unfortunately probably not an uncommon thing. And let's make it more extreme, right? A 50 year old woman comes in and says, my husband of 25 years is leaving me for a 20 year old, understandably she's in derress. And she's probably comparing herself to a 25 year old. Would that be a non starter in your mind? So the scenario you described is actually very common. Yeah. I see this kind of situation all the time. And then, and this is why a schedule 45 minutes or an hour for initial consultations, because once we start talking about that, tears may start flowing because the patient is now in a safe zone talking to a medical professional is actually listening to them. We were talking about time in a clinic before. And so then we start to fall into the role of a therapist and we're letting them express because I want to see how deep is this trauma? I'm trying to understand, is this something that is now a non starter or what should we do here? Because there are scenarios where someone is in that kind of scenario situation where we certainly would not want to make any drastic moves or big changes or shifts. But is it appropriate to recognize that this person is, you know, desiring something that is a reasonable goal, but the current emotional state is not appropriate to do the procedure to get there. So maybe we say, look, let's do something irreversible. Or is we do something reversible? Yes, exactly. Because the fear, sorry to interrupt, but I'm guessing that the fear here is if you say no to her, she's going to find some guy down the block who will do anything. And it's better that you do something small and develop a relationship with her that will ultimately serve her interests. But you can't give her everything she wants at the moment. Is that a fair assessment? Very well said. I, that is exactly right. We're trying to build that trust and build that relationship on the front end so that this individual who's trying to get from A to B, we're going to take them there safely. Whether it's, you know, over a couple of months or 10 years, we're going to try to get to that goal and there may be some obstacles along the way and choices that we have to make, we'll navigate it together. And it's all built on building that relationship on the front end. So the trust exists where I can tell the patient, we are not going to do this maneuver right now. And then that patient will listen to me because the trust has been built up enough that this individual knows that I have their best interest in mind and we're going to get to that goal eventually. And so, so yes, this scenario that you're describing, the individual might be best served with. Okay, look, I think we can get there one day with procedures. But right now, I'm going to refer you to a therapist. You have a lot going on your life right now. Let's do some simple things that we're not going to regret like neuromodulators and fillers and some skin treatments or lasers, things that are low-risk, they're not going to create any scars or permanent changes and then we can eventually get to that next step. We're not going to do the face lift next week. Correct. Yes, that's on hold. So, so, you know, the first step is we do this kind of snapshot anatomic dynamic analysis. This is not just a single image, just we're looking at the muscle movement and then the second step is this deep dive into the social situations, psychology. And then, presuming that everything's kind of moving along smoothly and now we're getting ready to talk about what we're, you know, what should we do now? Then I'll spend time educating the patient on their actual anatomy because they've never actually had that information presented to them. Right. So, I will put the mirror in front of the patient and I will say, let's go through what I'm seeing with on your exam today, together and we'll start at the top and I'll go through every little detail and I'll throw in little caveats like, I'm sorry, I'm not trying to make you feel bad about your features but you're here for me to tell you, so I'm going to tell you everything. We're going to talk about your bones, we're going to talk about the wrinkles, we're going to talk about the asymmetry you never noticed, which, by the way, is almost always the case. People don't notice that I asymmetries and so we point out these asymmetries to them. And then after that kind of, relatively lengthy discussion about their individual anatomy, then we'll start to say, okay, now you initially told me that these are some of the areas about are you? Here's what we could do to fix your eye region, your cheek, your mouth, your jaw, whatever it is and I'll present typically options that go from minimally invasive to more substantial and based on how the individual is responding to the conversation, I can usually, at this point, 20 years in my practice, dial in, like, what is the appropriate scope for this patient? They don't really know whether they want to face a turn-out, maybe I need to explain them the complications where the incisions are, so they really understand what that procedure means and then if that seems like it's too much of them, we will dial it back and I'll have to tell them, look, we're not going to be able to get the results of a face of a lot of faces, but I don't think you're ready for a face left, so maybe we should start with something smaller and kind of taking baby steps and then just to conclude, usually we'll end up finally telling the patient what they showed up to here, which is my opinion. And I won't give them my opinion about what we should do until we've gone through this whole process and I've watched their body language as we've talked about procedures, sometimes I'll suggest something that's minimally invasive and they seem uninterested because it's not enough for them and I'll read that body language and kind of dial in the treatment for what I suggest for them. And so that'll happen at the end of the consultation, typically. So I know that was a long answer, but that that does, I would say, describe my typical consultation. How about Jesus? Pretty much everything that Tanish said. And I was so glad to hear that you talked to the patient about their mental state at that time too because we do a lot of almost like psychology and therapy with our patients. If they open up to you, then that's an honor to you and you have to take that and you have to help them through that issue. And my I have a psychology background as well. So I was biology and psychology double major in schools and I find that I use it a lot. It's so important. But I approach patients very similarly, but I try to put things in terms that they can understand. So I tell them there are the five hours of rejuvenation. And it doesn't mean they need all of it at that point in time, but at some point in their life they're going to need one of them. And they'll make it through all all five. And that is we need to relax over active muscles and I'm showing them on their face the movements. I will say we need to refill lost volume, whether it's through fat, grafting, which is still one of my favorite procedures to do, or refilling with fillers. And I tell them we need to resurface the skin because to me, the how the skin looks is absolutely much more important than how tight they are. So patients sometimes come in. They're like, I just want to lift here and they want to lift their lower face. And their skin is terribly wrinkled and they have hyperpigmentation and sun spots. And I'll tell them if I lift you now, no one's going to notice that you look better. But if IMake your skin look better, people are going to notice you look better before I even do the surgery. So we have relax, refill, resurface. We need to do rejuvenating. So there are going to be times that you can't lift in, as I fill enough, you have to lift. So they either will lift with devices, such as micro-needrelation, radio frequency devices, or ultrasound devices to tighten the skin, or a facelift, just some sort. So those you need to do. And then what people don't realize my fifth are is that you have to keep renewing because the aging process continues. And the minute they leave their office, everything you just did on them looks great and they start to diminish. And that's what we talked about a month. That's what we were just talking about. Yes. The renewal was the maintenance. Absolutely. So you have to keep renewing because otherwise you're going to lose that benefit. And what do IMean by renewing? You definitely maintain your neuromodulators and your fillers. But they have to be strategically placed. You don't need a lot of fillers. You need to keep the skin priming itself and turning over. And so you can achieve a lot of that at home. And I think people underestimate how much they can do at home with their skincare regiments. And then have to do less in the office. And that's my big emphasis. Do more at home. And then let us do in the office a little boost here and there afterwards. And so those five hours make it very easy for these patients to comprehend. And they might not need all that. Yeah. But at some point in their life, they're going to have all those five hours. So what I want to do then is I want you to go through the five hours looking at me and to New York. I want you to go through your four changes looking at me. So just feel free to brutalize me. You're not going to humiliate me. So let's start. So Susan, you look at me and let's start with relax. What needs to be relaxed in my face? Yeah. So here's the thing. You do move your eyebrows a lot in your forehead. So you've got a lot of forehead wrinkles. I do notice the glabella 11's. Where are the Barbies of those little sharp lines there? Yep. So knit your brows for me. Yeah. And so raise your eyebrows up. Now, part of the reason you're raising your eyebrows maybe now more than you did 10 years ago is you have a little more hooding on your upper eyelids and your eyelids are almost touching your eyelashes. And when that happens, you're sending a signal to the forehead to lift so you can see better. And is that because I've lost elasticity in the eyelid and it's just drooping more? Well, no, more so going back to what we were talking about in the Boney structure. That's right about that. That atrophy, including the brow fat pad. And so now you've got a dissent a little bit of your brow, but a little more of the extra redundant skin there. I got it. So part. So I'm actually using this muscle more to try to keep these guys up. Exactly. Now, if you go to someone who doesn't evaluate you like we do, they might look at your forehead like target practice and say, I'm going to use a new emodulator across that entire forehead and make it so you can't move. And then you're going to walk around very, very, very quickly. I would feel silly. I wouldn't want to look that way. You would feel very,hood and very heavy. And I've done that on purpose to myself just to see what patient's experience. So, and it's not a nice feeling. Secondly, you are very fit. So you have not a lot of fat in your face. And like I said, it doesn't matter what you think your weight is on your body. Now, how much fat percentage you have on your body, you've atrophy some of the facial fat pads. So if you've exposed the entire orbital rim, I can see that. And you may also notice I have a scar here. And it has created an asymmetry in the drooping. So from back in the when my teenage years when I was boxing, I actually I was split to my cheek. Wow. There. So that is a very deep scar that I I suspect the connective tissue there is actually tethered near the bone. And we can free that up with subsision. So that is kind of similar to the micronatal intonuced it on your other scar. But this is under the scar, the whole length of it, and subsizing or freeing up that tethering in that adhesion. Got it. With or without adding fat or filler. But I would. So if you look at what makes the eyes look beautiful, it's definitely having a little more platform show on the upper eyelid. But also it's reducing what we call the length of the lid cheek junction. So the length of from your eyelash line, yeah. Down until where you can actually see the cheek, that's elongating. And me. Yeah. Because you've lost all that volume that was up here. I think that if you were to ask me Peter, what are you most self conscious of aesthetically? I think this is it. I think it is this thinness here, which I believe makes me look constantly tired even when I feel like a million bucks. I think I'm more subconscious of this than I am my wrinkled forehead. Yeah. And that's where I would either use a little bit of your own fat if we could find some. Oh, I've got plenty. I would use that to rebuild the seria and shorten that lid cheek junction so that we create more of a youthful length, rather than this kind of long color. And why we're going to talk about this of course. But but when do you guys make the decision of an an autographed of fat versus restyline you mentioned earlier? I love fat if we can do it. Now with the advent of fillers, the volume of fat grafting we do goes down by just to lay the yesterday. And I'll tell you why. Yeah. On her, she came in and she had never had anything before. And she was hollow everywhere. So yes, we could use seven 69. Okay. So yes, we could use lots of fillers, but she'll spend of small fortune putting a lot of fillers in her face over time. And I personally don't like to inject more than two or three syringes of filler in one visit. So it's going to take a process to build up different areas on her because I just don't want to have a reaction and I also want to see where I'm placing everything. But in her case, we would straight for the fat because she has a thin face, but she has a normal body mass index. So her fat is going to do well. How much filler would I require for just what would you guess? I'd start with a syringe between both under eyelids and then I would do another syringe probably abouT3 or four months if I need to. And that what's the cost of each syringe? Yeah, not the not your cost to patients. Yeah, about 800 to a thousand dollars depending on the filler. Again, what is the cost of the procedure, the fat graph procedure? That's obviously much more, but it's a lifetime because it's about 5,000. Okay. So five years worth of treatment basically. So it's cheaper in the long run to do a fat graph, presumably. Yes. But also, remember that we're just talking about your under eyes. But let's say you're my typical patient. They need their temples filled. They need their cheeks filled. They need their chin filled jawline enhancement. So yesterday I did about 35, 40 ml of fat on my patient. So that if you were to multiply that by it's very expensive. Are my temples too sunk in? Yours are still good. So in your cheekbones are still good. Your jawline is still good. I would put a little near my gelator, a boat hox in your puttism on my sok is I am starting to see some puttism of vending there. Mine's worn off so you don't want to look at mine. But that helps to relax that muscle that does nothing but pull the lower face down. I would possibly add a little volume right in your male eye. In your case, I would love a biosumeletory filler, something like polyelactic acid or sculpturase the other name for it to start building collagen and thicken your dermis thickness in here because I'm starting to see some of your buckle fat fat at the afterfie as well. And that just goes along with how fit you are. So using this to build your own collagen is a great way because in a few or female, very thin, we would have an issue because those patients tend to burn through their fillets very quickly. So if we can get a biosumeletory filler on board where they're building their own collagen, sometimes it works a little better. Now do you ever look at a patient like me and say, your your most fat depleted here and here, but you're not yet fat depleted here and here, I only want to do one fat graft on you. So let's cost aside. Let's use fillers until I have to do this procedure once and for all. And then I'll literally just take a bunch of fat off you and do it. Absolutely. Is that a better approach or do you are you afraid to do multiple fat grafts? Oh no, I have patients that come for fat grafting as they need it. So I've done some patients three, four times. But I have turned down a lot of patients who come in actually asking for fat grafting for lips or for under eyes. And I tell them that since they don't need it elsewhere, that's too much of a procedure to go through for like one end of time at Gary and in the lips, it doesn't hold as long. But under the eyes, it works beautifully, but I would do it when they need it elsewhere. I will probably never need lip fat grafting. When I was little people made fun of the size of my lips. So I'm pretty sure I'm safe on that. Okay, before we go on to resurfacing to news, what would you change or add or how would you approach my face? Well, I think you know, Susan's an analysis was spot on, I agree. You know, I think that what I hear you saying is the biggest issue that bothers you is your under eye area. So because your someone who's never had a procedure before, you know, actually Brett Kotlus did stick restal in in there. Gosh, how many years ago? Probably 2018, 2017. Okay. I'll tell you what I remember of the procedure. I was amazed at how much I bruised. He told me I would. So it's not like this was an unexpected complication. But I looked like I had two black eyes for a couple of days. Otherwise it looked really good. And then it went away after a period of time. But it definitely was not a year that it lasted. So I also suspect IMetabolized it very quickly. I also am relaxing filler. So the reason he also mentioned that this scar was problematic. He said that scar is creating and it's very difficult to fill this eye. And you might ask, well, why didn't you just keep doing it? Just the same reason I don't do anything. Just sheer laziness. I was just like the thought of actually doing that again having a couple black eyes for a couple days, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, I just started to give up. But I have that one experience. So your under eye area and by the way, being lit this way is an abomination. But just by the way, bruising from fillers is a lot less these days because we don't just need to let us much anymore. We actually use cannulas which are blunt tipped catheters and they don't typically bruise hardly much at all. So that's one big change that's happened in the last five eight years is switching to cannulas. And people have different philosophies on that. Some people use needles for specific locations. But just wanted to mention that that bruising or under eye would probably be less if you had fillers again. But again, kind of going back to the way that I do a cosmetic exam. Because I just heard you say that they bothers me most is this area. And we could list off another 10 things that arEQuote unquote. Like I didn't even notice this. So now you give me something to be self-conscious. I was shoot a fastest thing. I'm just going to point out something. I wanted you to. I told you to. I totally teasing. Totally teasing. So I would laser focus on the area that the patient is now presenting to me as their major reason for even calling up my office and making an appointment is probably because they wanted to address this and yes, they're curiously interested in all the other things that I had to say. But because this patient, you know, in this case you is never had surgery on their face. It's probably not looking for massive shifts in their face. I would probably laser focus on this one area not just because it's what you pointed out. But also in the realm of rejuvenation procedures that we perform surgically or non-surgically, the eye region is probably the sweet spot. You know, just again going back to psychology evolution, we focus on people's eyes in conversation. When we talk about beauty, we're looking at the eyes. So when people's eyes are now starting to become further and further away from the way they remembered when they were younger, it creates this discomfort. It's the self-discrepancy theory from psychology where you've got the self image of yourself and then you look at yourself you're like, wait a second, that's not what IMean. And then it creates this discomfort of like, is that what I really look like and then it creates the psychological effect of like maybe a little less confidence or dissatisfaction with your parents? That's the big motivator for why people actually end up coming to see someone like us is because that self-discrepancy theory is kicking in and they're the delta between their self view and their actual appearance is getting greater and greater. It's one of the reasons I get sounds ridiculous that I'm saying this on video and that I have a podcast, I freaking hate being on video. I don't mind the sound of my voice. The seeing me on a video and as you know in this type of a situation you're always overhead lead, it is an unbearable appearance because when you have these bags under your eyes overhead lighting just makes it look 10 times worse. So if I if I pass myself in the mirror, I'm like, I notice it. If someone ever sends me a clip of me on video like on YouTube or on I'm like, how in the hell are we allowing this to be in the public domain? IMean, it's a part of it maybe what we were mentioning earlier that subconscious posing because when you're looking at the mirror you know you're looking at the mirror and your subconscious makes you lift your teeth. Maybe I angle my head differently. Angle your head or you smile a little bit and it pulls the cheek up and minimizes that hollow between your under iron or cheek and everybody does this and that's why people tend to be shocked by photographs that are taken of them when they weren't prepared for it because they're not prepared to pose for the picture and they're flat, undynamic face in a photograph that's taken like that is shocking to them and it is often a big motivator for them to come to see us. I also made the mistake of once reading some comments on social media where people were just ripping me apart for how horrible I look and it's like you can say what you want like I don't care but you do care if you read a bunch of people saying you look horrible you're like, that sucks. I don't like that. But you know when people show you that picture of themselves that someone took because they bring it to the console they bring the picture like, oh my gosh, saw myself last week, look at how I look and you're like, give me your phone. I take their phone, I take a picture of them in the exam room and show them like look how good you look. This was one last second in one way you were moving your mouth or tilting your head or shadow. You don't look like that. So delete that picture, we will not address how you look in a next second compared to how you look at the rest of the day. Totally agree. So and then what about the Rinkle situation? Yeah, so I would cut what I would do is I would kind of go through all of the areas the four areas that we're talking about and then I would laser focus on the eyes. So to go to the four areas, we're talking about skin. Yes. We've done a lot of discussion already on skin care. I think that you should start a skin care regiment. I think you'll appreciate it as time goes by. I'm going to come into three months for sure. You have you have uneven pigmentation in your face. Yep. You have some fine lines that are more concentrated in the I region because that's the eyelid skin is that's been used on the entire body. And there's it's the one area of the body and you're a surgeon by trening. You know that when you cut into the body, there's always a fat layer. Yep. Not in the eyelids. So the eyelid does not have a subcutaneous fat layer. It's the only place in the body. And so to what's underneath the skin, the muscle directly. And so there are four causes of dark circles on the eyes. There's visibility of your big layer of muscle. There's shadowing, which is why you probably don't like your appearance in this kind of situation because the shadowing is visible down here. There's hemacidarin deposition and then there's hyper pigmentation. So those are the four reasons why people get dark circles on the eyes and you actually have all four of them wonderful. And then so we would definitely want you to get onto a good quality skin care regiment because it's one of the four areas that needs to be addressed. Not only to reverse some changes but for prevention purposes. Yep. And when it comes to volume loss, I think Susan sort of already picked you apart there. You've got you know volume loss in the mid-face. I think your temporal volume loss is enough where if you are going to have some kind of volume treatment putting a little bit in it would be nice. Your left temples sink in a little more than the right. I can only see his, oh, okay. Yeah, I'm mostly looking at this side of his face. Yeah, the right temples less, less hollow is not common. Yes. Extremely common. So when I put that mirror up in front of patients to start pointing out their asymmetries, I'm not kidding, 95 to 99 percent of the time. People are unaware of their own asymmetries until I point them out to them. And the reason why it's important to point it out to them because if I'm going to be employed to manipulate their face, they need to know where the starting point was. And that's do we want to fix asymmetries all the time, like doesn't matter? Sometimes we don't want to make it worse for certainly, you know, that's probably a big, big factor. And then if there's a way to make it better when we're doing the neighbors will dial that in because again going back to the three, you know, biological reasons of why people perceive beauty, it'll make that person look more, more handsome or beautiful. Okay. And some people do have significant asymmetries that do. Yeah, ladies for some reason we're one jawline heel is aging beautifully and very well defined. And the other one's like a centimeter shorter. Yes. And Peter has some of the asymmetries too. IMean his right side of the face, even though you had that injury on your right cheek, your right side of your face is the smaller side of your face. So imagine in euro, I had more literally no idea. Yes. And the other funny thing is that when people, another reason why people feel uncomfortable in the sea photographs of themselves is because you're used to looking at your mirror image of yourself. Think about this. That's right. You're nobody on the planet has actually ever seen themselves. You've only seen yourself in the mirror, or you've seen a photograph yourself. You actually don't really know what you look like in in the flesh. And so because there's that discrepancy between the mirror and a photograph, because the mirror is a flipped image of yourself and the photograph is not, that's why people don't like photographs of themselves, especially when they're more asymmetric. So so if we measure the distance between the outside corner of your eye to your mouth, yeah, it's about 10% longer on your left side because the bone structure is white or so. So get imagine you're laying in euro, right? You're in the womb. And you're probably spending more time on one side of your face. There's so many factors we can imagine as to why, why do we get facially symmetry? It's because of maybe the growth rates were different. Maybe there's a slightly different side of kind difference between the left and the right at six weeks. And then maybe you're laying on one side of your face for two months. These are all the reasons why we end up with a little asymmetry. And these things are present at birth and they become more exaggerated as we age because when you have that de-volumeization of the fat pockets, it shows them. It shows up. The underlying bone structure starts to become more visible. And then finally, if we saw some pictures of you when you're 20 and we put them side by side with you right now, even though you have a great job bone, it's probably lost about 10 to 15% of the volume that you had when you were 20. And so comprehensive treatment would be to volume eyes either with some fillers or some fat grafting to the areas of volume we talked about. The skin care regimen we talked about, I would probably put some volume along the jaw and your cheekbone because you've lost that projection with aging. We just know that some of your age is going to have a certain degree of detection volume along the job. How do you keep it in the area you want it to be without it looking sort of odd and protruding? So the art of fillers and fat grafting is really truly an art. It's there's depth of placement. We're placing it in the pre-periostial layer to emulate as if it were a larger bone structure. If you're trying to hide jowling, then you might put it into the muscle layer because you're trying to plump up the valley next to the hill so that it becomes smoother or looking. So those are some of the art of the right choosing the right filler? Choosing the right filler is fat always a superior filler. Not necessarily. I do like fat because it's your onlyving tissue and of course it has those stem cells in it that can become multiple different types of tissues. So if you place it at the periostial level, it can build bone. If you put it in fat, it becomes fat and if you put it along muscle, it can turn into muscle and if you put it under the skin, it enhances how the skin ages. So something anecdotally that there are many of us that do a lot of fat grafting were on a panel one day talking about it before when you about this stem cells being in the fat we're talking 15, 20 years ago. We're talking about the fat grafting patients and how they all uniform the look like they just age better and their skin ages better and now you realize it's all of that. Where do you harvest from? The most numerous areas of preadipicides, I should say the tissue that has the most preadipicides is the abdomen. So subcutaneous abdomen. But I really like the flanks because it turns out you don't just want the fat and the fat stem cells, you need all the connective tissue stem cells as well. And when you go to the flanks the reason the flanks feel so firm even though they may have fat in them is they have a large septate and germal tissue there. And when you aspirate the fat you're also aspirating along with it's some of that germal tissue. So you're getting the matrix and the scaffolding cells that will help that fat also repopulate. And just give me a sense of volume. So if you if you decided to go full bore on somebody and do temporal and eye and you know outside of the lip and jaw you you're how much fat are you putting in and how much fat and tissue do you need to harvest to acquire the necessary volume. So we may differ in our technique so let Tanish speak to his I will typically harvest about 120 cc's of fat. So we're talking about an area about the size of a small canto. And just to put that in perspective if a person undergoes liposuction how much is being harvested. Probably so usually we're filling canisters of fat leaders. So this is not 234 leaders of fat. Okay so this is not going to make a material difference in your subcutaneous fat depo in your body. Correct and if we are just sickly do it we can take it from both sides so that you don't have any defects or asymmetry. But people always have an asymmetry even on their body. So I tell them you know the benefit of this is I'm taking also the fat and evening you out would do other happen there like I never even knew I was asymmetric. So I typically harvest about 120 cc's and then we centrifuge it and it condenses it down so it takes off all the anaesthetic fluid you put in we have albumin in there to restore some of the on-cardic pressure as well. And we are taking people's on PRP spending that spending their blood down to get the PRP the platelet rich plasma and adding that in along with something that we call mental fat. So turns out if you take fat and you graft it into tissue a certain percentage will take. But if you take fat and then you add in extra stem cells more of that tissue will take. So what we do is we harvest extra fat and extract the mental fat from that meaning all the preadipicides by running it through some meshes and adding that back into supplement the fat. But it's a patient cell. It's a tallus. Everything the PRP all of that. Okay, how does your protocol differ from that? Very similar remarkably and full disclosure when I was coming through trening in 2005 to 2007 finishing my fellowships. I spent a lot of time listening to Dr. Abaji's talks at conferences so my fat trensfer technique has basically mirrored hers for quite some time. I probably do a little less harvesting a little less injecting because most of my fat grafting is being done in conjunction with a facelift or an upper and lower eyelid surgery called blood for plastic. So when I'm surgically manipulating the tissues, I'm lifting and moving tissues and so I'm not in need of as much volume to make the change that we're looking for, but very similar overall. Okay, that gets to the eyelid problem. You alluded to a procedure that lifts the eyelids and doing so presumably makes you require less these frontalis muscles. Yeah. So do I need, are my eyelids a problem? So the short answer is at this point you would probably qualify for your insurance company to cover your upper eyelid surgery because that's how droopy they are. Holy. Yeah. They're sitting on your eyelashes. Yes. No, it's so IMean this is whole air. I had no idea how bad I was. No. I was. No, I was. No, no, but but yeah, if you're telling me insurance would cover a cosmetic procedure in me. If we did a visual feel test on you where you relaxed your forehead muscles and you were required to look straight ahead and kind of hit a button every time you saw a light flash in your peripheral field and we did the same test with your eyelids taped up. You'd probably have a 30% difference in your peripheral field. So this could be affecting my driving. Probably you're probably finding yourself having to look a little harder at your blind spot because of that. Now it becomes a very complicated issue. One of the most comments things that we'll see in our practice here in Austin is that patients come in and say, I think I need to have my eyelids done and then we say yes but and the thing is people don't realize that the face is not isolated into individual pieces of anatomy. Your eyelid is connected to your eyebrow which is connected to your forehead. So if we're going to do an upper eyelid surgery because you're constantly lifting your forehead muscle to be able to see better your brain's compensating for this pathology, if we do an upper blood for plastic, whether it's insurance, or cosmetic, or whatever, all of a sudden that visual field will improve and your front-tell muscle automatically relax and your brow will come down and it'll create a new problem that you didn't know you had. And so these are some of the conversations we have to have with patients that maybe we leave you alone unless you're also ready to have your forehead lifted or at least have what we call a medical brow left with Botox. So muscles pull the eyebrows up, muscles pull the eyebrow down. If you preferentially inject Botox into the depressed remusals which are here and here, naturally the tone of the front-tell so we'll lift the forehead a little bit, even without wrinkled showing. And so it's all tell patients look if we do an upper blood surgery that'll be fine but we either have to commit to regular use of Botox to keep your eyebrows in check or we have to do a brow left at the same time. And if you're not ready for that, where's the incision for the brow left? You do it through the same incision? I would say they want to come to designing surgeries what I tren my fellows and residents is that there is no single surgery. Every single surgery is totally custom designed for the individual patients anatomy. There's general patterns we use but we should always infinitely manipulate the procedure to achieve the goal we're trying to do artistically. In your case it's complex because someone here doesn't have hair. We usually would hide its cisions behind the hairline. It is possible for you to have an endoscopic forehead reset kind of procedure and we would make the incisions further back and smaller and it'll be a more technically challenging procedure but there's a way to lift the forehead with incisions that would not be socially visible and then those incisions can be closed in such a way that as time goes by especially with post surgical treatments like microneedling with fibrillary or so on topical treatments that you can get those scars to become what I call socially invisible. Which IMean it just to me seems like I could never commit to that much work. You know what IMean? So does that mean I'm just stuck with no reason? So then in the conversation with the patient what we would come to probably in your case is okay we can do a blood for plastic which is an upper lip surgery but we're going to undertreat you. We're going to do less than what you think you need. It's not going to make a huge shift but on the other hand we also don't want to change the entire relationship neurologically that your front house muscle has with your eyelid. So we by taking a patient through all the potential pathways they sometimes recognize they can't get what they thought they were coming for and we're going to undertreat them so we avoid a potential problem. And similar things happen with the under eye area so you know your under eye area is pretty complex too because you do have bulging fat visible in the under eye area which by the way is exactly the same contour that you had when you're 20 it's just become unveiled because you've lost volume and the cheek has descended and now we're looking at the orbital retaining ligament and the male are ligament. So this line right here corresponds to when you're looking at a skeleton and there's a big circles where the eyes are supposed to be. This is that bottom half of the circle where the ligament is stuck down. So if you put your finger on the skin right below an eye bag you'll be touching the edge of your orbital rim bone right there. And so from my standpoint if we're going to do something that is definitive to treat that it's going to also have to treat the volume issue in your cheek. It's also going to have to address some of the skin textual issues in the region and then sometimes some people have an issue where there's a triangle that catches between the orbital rim which is that at how low we were talking about in the under eye area and another line that exists in the cheek a little bit lower and it creates a triangle where fluid can collect. So I don't know if you've noticed that but you've got that little triangle right here on both sides and that area is called a malear mound. It's kind of like a sponge under the skin. It collects fluid. It's worse in the mornings because we're laying flat and we have a little more demonar face. If you've had salty food the night before it'll kind of puff up a little more. People will use preparation H. This is a time-tested kind of home remedy to try to shrink down that swelling that's present there. So but this would have to be part of what's addressed. If we were going to address your under eyes and if we were going to do something to address your under eyes it would be something that would reduce the bulk of the bag fill volume in the cheek, smooth the skin out and address that malear mound. And so this is a common maneuver of what we would do in our practice, which is we would under anesthesia make a hidden incision behind the eyelid and take those eyelid fat pads that are making that bag and create a pocket down in front of the cheekbone where the volume loss is occurring and where the ligaments are showing their hollowing and then move that fat down. That's called a trensposition or a blood for plastic. So one of the big changes that's happened in aesthetic surgery from 1995 to now is back in the old days of cosmetic surgery. There was a lot of cutting fat out, cutting skin out to make eyelids look tighter, cutting skin in front of the ears to tighten the face, doing surgeries at mostly removed tissue. And now we're becoming much more sophisticated where we're actually manipulating the ligament as attachments to the bone. And so because we're recognizing the ligament, you don't have to remove the skin. We don't really have as much. Yes. And so so if you do, you can tighten it with lasers and peel. Yes. So so you're just to kind of conclude what the suggestion would be for some of with your kind of anatomy, we would trenspose the fat, which would two birds one stone reduce bulk here, add volume here, three birds actually, because they would basically eliminate the visibility of the ligament because there's fat under it now, which is pushing it forward. And then we would do something to improve the skin. S is inset either a laser resurfacing or a chemical peel. And then there's a new technique that we're using where we're injecting tetricycleing into areas of swelling of the face. So this is pretty cutting edge. You know, it's been around for several years now and we've got pretty good experiences with this technique. But tetricycleing is an old drug that was repurposed by the pulmonologists to address pulmonary issues where they want the plurra to stick to the lining better. And because it has that property of basically creating fiberous attachments, it can be used to shrink that sponge down by injecting delicately into the male armail and to kind of flatten it. And so that would be the constellation of procedures. And then we can go wrong here, because, you know, I think for many people that would be contemplating something like this, you know, it's one thing if you are having a procedure where, you know, well, first of all, this is a cosmetic procedure. So out of the gate, A, it's not essential, B, if you don't look better when it's done, it's, it's the worst possible outcome. And then, C, it's the most visible part of your body. You know, I've heard stories of women who have breast augmentations where they have complications. And, you know, at least the breasts aren't always visible, meaning the actual skin itself. So even if you have to re-operate and it creates another scar, you know, it's only visible to her partner, right? But here, it's just the highest stakes game. So how do you navigate complications, risks, and mitigation strategies? And that's what we were talking about before you have to make sure that whoever's doing your treatments, A is well trened, qualified to do the injections, and can manage the complications, because everyone's going to have complications. We've had complications, since speaking for me, I'm sure you've seen, of course, you can't treat patients and then not do enough cases, not have a complication. But there are some really notable complications that are vision threatening or tissue threatening. So when you're treating around the eyes, for example, or even into the temples, there are reported instances of stroke and death and vision loss, and including treating around the nose, because all of these vessels interconnect with the internal corroded system. So anywhere you inject filler and again into a vessel on the outside of the same. You can create an embolism and it's going to go follow the path of least resistance. Once you pull this into the tissue, it's going to backflow, but then it's going to be pushed forward again. It's going to go to the opt-out migratory and may go into your central nervous system. I'm sorry, into your brain, I should say, and the vascular trigger that I create a stroke. Now, some of the more serious strokes were caused by people injecting fat with needles, but all of these other complications really come from injecting fillers in this kind of central face area. So there's a technique, there's knowledge of the anatomy, there's knowledge of how to do, to do very little pressure, aspirate where you need to aspirate depending on the filler you're using and watching the tissue looking for a sign of any kind of embolists that's formal. Now, what about the, obviously less consequential, but still troubling side effects where hey, the person doesn't have a good cosmetic outcome. So they didn't have a stroke, they're alive, their vision is fine, but they don't look better. Something went wrong. What would go wrong? What are the things that go wrong here? I would say the most common types of complications that will see either, you know, I will any surgeon will have complications, I've had complications, but in our practices and in my practice, I will see a lot of patients refer to and with complications where we have to try to identify how to improve a bad outcome. So the most common reasons why bad outcomes occur in the world of cosmetic surgery and you're right, the stakes are high is because either the wrong procedure was done, which is much more common than one might expect, or there was a technical issue where the surgery was done correctly. So those are the most common causes. Now, you know, I will certainly have patients where I will do my very best and one site will be a little asymmetric and six months after surgery, you might have to go to the procedure room to do a minor touch up to kind of enhance things. That's one level of a problem, but when it comes to the more substantial disfiguring situations where people had been quote unquote boxed is the word people had to use for that. It's usually the wrong procedure was done or it wasn't done well. And I think that that is a very scary topic for listeners to be thinking about if they're even considering going down the pathway of rejuvenation or some sort of plastic surgery procedure on their face. And it can be very confusing because you're getting so much information from marketing and social media and physicians who perform cosmetic procedures are advertising and showing their best before and afters. And so how do someone figure out how how to navigate this? And I would say probably the best advice that we could give someone who's thinking about going down this pathway is you got to take the narrative into your own hands. You have to understand your own anatomy. You have to do a deep dive in understanding some of the techniques, not some all the techniques that are available to address the issues that are your particular concern. And that might require multiple consultations. It might require choosing good resources online which are usually society websites. So the American Academy of Dermatology, the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, ASPS which is a plastic surgery society. These society websites will have accurate information on procedures and you should avoid getting secondhand information from people you know or from social media. But you got to do your homework. You have to learn the anatomy. You have to understand your own situation and your choices that are available to you. And then it's kind of like analogous to dating and marriage. How do you know when it's the right person you just know? IMean let's go deeper into that. So if you were walking into, if I said hey I'm going to introduce you to my friend and she's going to go and sit down with a surgeon. You're not going to do the procedure on her even though you'd be fully qualified to do it. And she's not going to, you're not going to do the procedure. But I want you to be her advocate while she sits in the consultation room and you can tell her what questions to ask and you can help her interpret the results. But your job is to help her find the best doctor. What are thEQuestions you're asking and what are the red flags you're looking for and what are the green flags that are making you say I like and trust this person? I think it starts with the your rapport with the patient too. You can quickly get a sense with the doctor you're working with if you and here she can see I to I in terms of what you're seeing, what they're seeing, how knowledgeable they are describing the procedures that they're suggesting for you just it makes sense. You know, do you really, for example, if they're trying you need a brow lift? Is that in your scenes, several other people and no one mentioned a brow lift? Maybe you need to think about why did this person mentioned a brow lift in the other one? Sitting or if everyone says you need a brow lift and one person says you don't, you have to figure out and go back and look in the mirror and try to understand what they're trying to point out to you as to what makes sense from that standpoint. Is it a comprehensive approach or are they just attacking basically the issue that you have that you are bothered by? I think people should take a comprehensive approach and just at least get that information, even if they don't act on all of that, the person in value waiting you should give you an overall look at everything just like we tend to just like I did addressing all the different areas that may be you didn't even know to ask about. And on top of that, understanding there are strong suit. I don't do rhinoplasty, if I start telling a patient I'm going to do a rhinoplasty and then they should run. They should ask me what how often are you doing this? What are your complication rates? What is the retreatment rate? How happy are your patients with this procedure? So to everything I do, I can show them my before and after as I can tell them, this is, and I show them multiple, for example a facelift. I'll show them different faces because everyone has a different shape face. You can't do the same, you get the same result depending on their anatomy. So I'll show them different things. I'll say now this one looks more like you're a neck and you're a jawline. This is kind of the result you can hope to get. And I tell them the complication is in my hands. I tell them the overall complication is by my hands. This is what I see. And it's one of the challenges. By the way, that's exactly what I tell people in general when they're interacting with with surgeons is it's one thing to know the complication rate when you're getting a colonoscopy. It's another thing to know their complication rate and their patient population. Because it's not always the case. For example, if you're having cardiac surgery, a low complication rate rate isn't always a great thing. It might mean low complexity. So anyway, it gets more complicated. Anything you would add to that, tenures as far as questions that they should be asking or red flags or green flags? Sure. Yeah, I think I agree completely there with what Susan said. And maybe some additional things to add, which some of these things matter more than others. But I think having had the right trening and board certification is one level that should be met. Whoever is doing your procedure should have board certification in the thing that they're addressed. Yes. Yes. And then so sorry, just in a room for eyes. What percentage of people doing eye procedures like a lift a blood to pass? Would be ocular plastics trened? Is that a rare thing? Is that uncommon or common? It's the most common procedure that an eye-coupoc surgery would do. Right. How many nonocular plasticians would do that procedure? A lot. A lot. Yeah. So in 2025, there's so much more overlap that's happening than what used to exist. Because each field that has an aesthetic aspect to it, we're talking about dermatology, plastic surgery, E&T, off-the-mology, or maxillofacial surgery. These are the most common specialties that have an aesthetic overlap. The aesthetic focus in these trening programs has dramatically ramped up in the last 20 years where the pardon parcel of these trening programs include aesthetic surgery. But in addition to those board certifications, I think that experience matters. What's the minimum number of procedures you want to see done by the practitioner in a year to say, yep, you've got enough reps? You know, it really depends on the procedure. Okay. For a rhinoplasty, something like that. For a rhinoplasty, you're going to want to have someone, is it least doing 25 a year? Okay. For a facelift? For a facelift, do you want someone who's doing at least 25 a year? I think it also is going to matter how many other procedures they do, too. Because someone who's doing face and body might be doing a lot of body life perception. So they're doing faces, but they're doing also body life, maybe they're doing eyes, all of that. Do you want generalists or do you want specialists? Do you want people who are like, if you're going to get something done to your face, my intuition, which could be entirely incorrect is, I don't care. I don't want them doing breasts and butts and life, but like I want them to be maniacally focused on the thing that I want them to do to me. Is that a fair explanation? So I practice, I do five things. For example, by doing those five things a lot. But I don't do only one. So you don't do only one, even though you're aqua plastic and your facial plastic as well, though. Yes. Yeah. So I generally agree with what you're saying is that, I don't do any body surgery. So I'll refer that all out to people who specialize in that. And most people who do body cosmetic surgery will focus on body cosmetic surgery, because facial cosmetic surgery is a different animal altogether. And so I think that that kind of specialization matters. And look, I was a young surgeon once and certainly going to a surgeon who's right out of trening can be fine for a limited isolated procedure, but I'm sorry to the young physicians in the audience. But a few years of trening is usually helpful in building your repertoire and experience to be able to handle complications. And sophisticated listeners would probably naturally end up choosing more experienced surgeons for that reason. And you know, I think another important thing is that this is a creative specialty we're talking about. And so you want to choose someone who is evolving and moving with the times. And preferably is helping to advance that edge of medicine. That means that they're constantly thinking and questioning and improving the results and not resting on laurels and not stagnating in one particular way of performing a procedure. I think that's a very, very important aspect of trying to identify. So in that sense, do academics, because you would normally not associate cosmetic surgery with an academic affiliation. You would normally say, well, I get it if I have an oncologic issue. There's an advantage to being in an academic setting because of the research and because of the affiliation with the other branches of oncology. It's not where you can come up with some. But you know, you don't always think that way about people doing cosmetic surgery. But what you're saying would probably fit more neatly into the box of someone with an academic affiliation, right? I agree. And the interesting thing about aesthetic surgery is that it's a little bit of the black sheep in the world of medicine. So academic, cosmetic surgery, academic, plastic surgery is different from the traditional sense of what academic might mean. So in the world of facial aesthetics, you can have a single surgeon in private practice, no university affiliation, who's 100% academic because they are publishing, they're going to meetings, they're lecturing. They are helping to move the dial in the artistic world of what we're doing in facelifts or eyelid surgeries or brow lifting. And it might be someone who's at university at full time, but it doesn't have to be. And that's very unique to aesthetic surgery. I also think that the universities don't support their aesthetic doctors. So a lot of times universities cannot figure out a model that works for them to profit share or to find a compensation model for an aesthetic doctor that's appealing to them to make them not going to private practice. So they end up changing themselves and then the doctors leave and they're going to private practice. Whereas I think if you can get the universities to wrap their head around how to build out a really strong academic practice, like we did in our with our university at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, we were rare. We were one of the first in the nation to purposely build an academically based cosmetic surgery practice with the intention of trening plastic surgery residents if they want to rotate ocular plastic, facial plastics, dermatology residents and people from... IMean, it makes it a lot of sense because of the amazing overlap between surgery and general, especially oncologic surgery and reconstruction. Like if you think about it every time a woman undergoes a mastectomy, she should be immediately plugged into a plastic surgeon to, if nothing else, make sure that that reconstruction is as cosmeticly pleasing as possible and then you think about all the head and neck cancers and things like that. There's a clear incentive, maybe incentives are wrong word. Just if nothing else a business case to be made for better patient care with the integration of that type of service. The universities can't see that though. The problem is they think it's a one size fits all and they don't understand the differences. Like for example, your cosmetic practice has to have a more aesthetic look. It's going to cost them more to build it out and the device is, they need investments and it's really hard to get some of these universities to see that. You have to work with them and become your own business manager for example, and propose to them a business plan to return on investment, all of that. But practically speaking for the listeners, if you're trying to find someone to help you on a path in the category of aesthetic surgery, finding someone who is speaking at conferences, teaching, involved in the cutting edge of medicine, I think that's definitely a qualification. I think another thing that you mentioned earlier is maybe asking them how often they are receiving complications and managing them. That's probably a sign of skill and seniority in the field. If you're kind of the person who's, and again, it's not about calling out who those complications belong to, but it's hey, you know, I'm sure. Okay, so last and we talked for a lot longer than I thought we would, but I'm sorry if we can get you to hold on for a minute longer. We can't get out of this podcast without me understanding the difference between lasers, micro abrogens, micro needleing, chemical peels, I can't understand any of these things, but you mentioned resurfacing, you mentioned my skin sucks. So clearly before I go on the path of my rejuvenating anti-aging protocol, IMight as well do something to fix the situation we have going on here. And so tell me about sure, I think we can do a crash course. I know this podcast is running long, but it's just a massive subject to cover. The start with lasers. IMean, could we take one step back, maybe? Please. And talk about the difference between a blade of a non-ablative and maybe talk about peels. So maybe the way to go is there are various technologies that will in a controlled manner injure the skin to harness the body's natural healing cascade, which then will produce the aesthetic benefits we're looking for, which is more college in production, smoother skin, you know, less pigment issues. And that's the goal, right? And so the bottom line is there's a relationship with how aggressive the treatment is and how much of an aesthetic improvement we're going to get. But the more aggressive it is, the more downtime there is. So that's all, that's always the kind of balancing act. And that's why there's such a confusing array of options that exist, because there's a huge spectrum going from the least invasive, which has the least result to the most aggressive with the best result. And so I guess to generalize, there are treatments that are not truly a blade of meaning they're going to penetrate through the skin. And then there are treatments that are shall I, I think hopefully I set that up for uses and to maybe go from there. So that's the definition. A blade of means it penetrates the skin? No, oh yes, a blade of yes, and a non-ablative, not doesn't penetrate the skin. So what are the non-ablative, which are presumably the less severe, which means shorter recovery time, less overall response? So non-ablative things, you can start with even your topical skin care region, because that is going to be model the skin and set the stage for you to even prime it. So you make more collagen. And then you can do things such as light chemical peels, which are only going to affect the epidermis of the skin. You can do things like non-ablative fractional lasers. And those are going to again send tiny, fractionated beams of light onto the very surface of the skin and just damage the upper layers of the epidermis. And that's going to stimulate a cascade of cytokines to build on the collagen and texture, but it's going to be minor. And they might help with some minor pigmentation issues. Those are non-ablative devices for resurfacing. What was the last one? Not a fractional, non-ablative fractional lasers. We also have non-ablative vascular lasers. Those are lasers that are going to penetrate with a beam of light to hit the dilated blood vessels and people who have rosacea and some brand name on one of a non-ablative fractional. Faxle or a clear embrilliant. And other different ones, yeah, there are different ones. So Faxle has multiple different ones. Clear embrilliant is just superficial. And then you have non-ablative things like vascular laser that will help treat broken blood vessels, scars, texture change. And that one, even though it's shadowing some of the dilated blood vessels deep in the skin, it's not leaving an open wound on the surface. So when we say non-ablative, there might be things happening deep down, but the surface of the skin is intact. So there's no one. We might want to pause on that category for one second, just because that is probably the one of the most high-yield areas for someone to try out as an initial kind of intervention at a, you know, with a physician or provider. Because the downtime's easy, we're talking about non-ablative, you know, like for example, intense pulse light or broadband light, which is IPL or BBL for short, those are in the category that Susan just mentioned of non-ablative light treatments. And it's a huge, huge category. There are so many devices in this category that it would be kind of silly to even list them. But they're very effective in that they don't have a lot of downtime and produce improvements that are real for patients. Starting to run, I just thought I thought we should pause there for one second. Absolutely. And actually the last one. So the box boxie is another non-ablative. So I'd have to look and see what the technology on boxie is. Okay. If it's, if I'm not mistaken, I think that one might be a video frequency micro-needling. I think that's right. Yes. So that one depends. It depends. It is semi-ablative because you're literally piercing the skin with a bunch of needles. Got it. And delivering radio frequency energy through those needles. And those will seem like college, college and so anything that generates heat in the skin to a certain level will to a certain temperature. I should say, well, then cause the formation and something called heat shock protein. And that causes a whole cascade of other activity within the dermis of the cells. The dermis of the skin to make you produce collagen, elastin, shrink the overactive sebaceous glands and reduce some of the dilated blood vessel. So there is a lot of benefit beyond just treating the vasculature that you see. So I tell patients, like for example, we treat the arosatia and they get improvement after two or three sessions. They should come every year and repeat it, even if the arosatia is quite because it really does help with anti-aging. And so from that standpoint, those are your non-ablative. And then if we go to a blade, we've got deeper chemical pills. We've got the modified TCA pills. We've got modified phenol pills. And then we have our a blade of and so we don't need to worry about brand names at this point. We're really talking to the practitioner and saying, do we want to move into an ablative pill? I'm going to get a better result, but I'm going to have a greater downtime. And presumably I need to do it less frequently. Yes, and that's exactly what you said is key. I think the big mistake is to come in and say, oh, all my friends are having moxie. I want moxie. Let's talk about what it is. We might have something that does similar results or maybe even something that just better results. And maybe it's not the right choice for you, even though your friend thinks you should get it. And so the field is so confusing to consumers and honestly even practitioners because it's a gold rush, right? There's so much money to be made in this area. Every company is getting private equity money and getting an FDA approval for some kind of device because they want a piece of the action. And they're purposefully confusing everybody because it's like snake oil. You know, it really wants to sell their product. And some of the products work well. Some don't. Any products you think people should just absolutely avoid just based on lack of efficacy? No, but I do caution my younger patients. The ones who are under the age of 40, even up to 45 in some cases, to really avoid doing things such as ultrasound tissue tightening, radio frequency tissue tightening at that younger village because there is some fat activity that happens. And I would caution against prematurely aging their face. Yeah, I agree. IMean those are the categories that are probably have the most hoop law with the least effect. Yeah. Is ultrasound based energy? And look, IMean, there once was a time where that was the only non-surgical option for tightening the neck, but it didn't do a great job and most people have left it by the wayside. I like it though, in addition to a biostimulatory filler. So you inject a little sculpture under the skin and then you come over it with a... Autistic properties can exist for the devices. And that's what I was going to say is, if you know your physics with all these devices, you can achieve so much with your lasers beyond what the company tries to sell you. How do you then decide? I understand why I understand that fork in the road between a blade of a non-ablative, but let's say once you commit to an ablative therapy, how are you deciding between a chemical peel, a laser, a micronetal? And I vaguely remember my wife telling me something or overhearing her and her friends saying that if, um, if you had malasma, you couldn't do this one, but you could do this one. What are some of the do's and don'ts as you navigate that? So I think there are a lot of nuances this conversation, but to generalize a little bit, chemical peels are generally safe for all skin tones, generally. Laser resurfacing, a blade of laser resurfacing can be riskier for higher-fifth Patrick skin types that have more pigmentation because the melanin cells are sitting deeper in the skin and the deeper the laser goes, the more it can create permanent injury to pigment cells and create permanent pigment problems. Whereas the chemical peels you can control that depth a little differently. And so that's one I would say generalization that that's probably worth mentioning. I would not, I should not do a laser peel because I'm a, you can have a laser, but you're the kind of person who needs a lot of preparation and caution heading into it. You would need to probably get onto a regiment to control your pigment cells with hydrochlorine. Why would I bother? Like why would take their risk? Why not just do a chemical peeler? I see. So I guess just to complete the conversation about the different categories, the most effective, uh, non-surgical skin interventions are in the category of a blade of lasers and phenol peels because they go the deepest. And to see, I'm going to have to throw that in the lab. TCA, sure. TCA. TCA peels are something that should be done by someone who's really not so they're doing. Yeah and I, so going to your point, how do I choose? Sometimes on the same patient I'll do all three. So on most of their face IMay do a medium depth TCA peel, especially because I can get the ears, I can get into the brows, I can feather onto the neck, into the hair line so I don't leave any area unresurface. And the medium depth peels are going to go just to the level what's called the peeler dermis, which is the sweet spot for tissue tightening. And peels of that sort. And this is TCA or phenol. TCA. And these peels penetrate in the prickly into pores. So I love peels for large pores. And you'll see the solution sitting in the pores and they'll just go a little bit deeper just in those pores and as the tissue heals will contract. Then IMay take a patient who has very deep, perioral lines and use my fractionated oblative CO2 laser on those. And then someone with redundant skin on the lower eyelids, IMay take my phenol peel and apply it there. So in one sitting, the patient might have all three. Great shot. I'm going to pick and choose where I do it. In some patients IMay depending if they don't want an eye lift or I didn't eye lift on them a number of years ago and they're just trying to get redundant skin. IMay just oblate that tissue with either my laser or the phenol peel and get a mini eye lift again that might buy them two or three more yes. And what is the downtime from an ablative intervention? You know again every treatment is customized to the patients who can vary but in general a patient who's going to have an ablative CO2 laser which I would say is sort of the relative gold standard for an ablative laser is going to have seven to 10 days of requiring an occlusive dressing with some kind of ointment. So that's a real downtime there. And then in weeks from weeks one to three their skin will be trensitioning and epithelializing. The start to return in normal activities but they'll still scare children at a grocery store for three weeks. There'll be red. A lot of redness and swelling still. And then beyond three weeks they can use concealer which we actually encourage them to do because it's a built in UV protection also and they can kind of get back to life but without makeup on some people can have redness for months. And again I'm going to expect this person to do this procedure how often. This might be one every five or ten years to have a full ablative CO2 laser. Is it uncomfortable? If they're awake it can be these can be done under some sedation. It's also quite common these days to have these done with nitrous delivery device. So they're now FDA approved devices that mix oxygen and nitrous so that it can be done in the office without an anesthesiologist because they're getting 50% oxygen but yet they're getting the benefit of the nitrous as well. The graph and guess. Yes. For nox. Exactly. Yes. IMean that sounds absolutely unappealing. So I was able to paint the picture of the most aggressive skin laser that we do and of course it can be dialed down like if a patient has a certain timeframe in mind I'll tell them. All right. So what would I do? So I can't go a week off. IMean a week offline would be tough. Doable but tough. Yeah. Certainly three weeks for a week's offline not an option. So one thing that is useful information is that some of the lasers that are still a blade of but are dialed down in their intensity. So now we're talking about fractionated lasers at lower intensity. They can have a downtime that's a weaker less, more or less. And then it's not going to produce the same results but the effects stack over time. So if you committed to doing a light-erbium laser and the reason why I'm talking about urban laser instead of a CO2 laser is because the urban laser is tend to burn with a little less heat, thermal injury and so the recovery is a little bit faster. If you committed to doing this once a quarter, like as time goes by you would get a similar effect to the full blade of CO2 laser that you do in one sitting. So I would also say that you can manipulate other things. So we'll take a clear and brilliant laser and apply a light chemical peel solution on top of that the same day. So do you not a blade of therapies? Correct. And then you get like three or four days of peeling and then you're done. And someone like you because you're a male, you have thicker skin, you need us to push it a little more than just what the clear brilliant will do or the light peel by itself. But synergistically, they can have a nice effect. And over time, there'll be cumulative improvement in your skin, especially if you follow your home regimen. But what I would tell people like you Peter is that really think about it a hard and embrace this investment in yourself because you do everything else right. You eat, you exercise, you watch the sun. It's much, much better to do this now at your age than to wait five or ten more years and say I wish I had done it because at that point what you need might be a lot more drastic. And to maybe bring this full circle, Susan, I know we're concluding the podcast here now. You know, beauty and aesthetics is an integral part of being human. And that's why we're even having this conversation because people really want to know how to navigate this world of aesthetics and choosing to make changes that are appropriate for your situation will has a potential of increasing quality of life. Humans as we age and we live longer and longer and longer, you may have someone who's 60 or 70 years old who's following Peter at T. as regimen and you know, they're out there playing golf, living their marginal decade, the way they want to. But they also care about their parents. You've seen this right, Susan, that I've patients who are 94 years old who are coming in for skin cancer reconstruction after most surgery and you're not thinking at all about putting your aesthetic head on. I'm now a reconstructive surgeon. This 94 year old woman is terribly concerned about what is going to look like afterwards. So that desire for our to limit the delta of the self-discrepancy at the area for ourselves continues until we're no longer on this planet. Well guys, thank you very much. This was fantastic and honestly a accomplished goal number one, which is I feel like I have a greater understanding of the solution space. Again, I think I'm going to probably have you guys send me a few links on some of the serums and clensers. And I guess I need to get a prescription for some retinae or steal my wife's. I'll double check my sunscreen. I know that my sunscreen that I use like when I'm going outside for prolonged periods of time. My altar MD is a good one. I don't think I have a good daily throw it on like just because I'm indoors even and I'm going outside for five minutes here and there. So I need to double check on that. So I think that's a win. I guess if I do nothing but commit to a daily skin routine, that's great. I will admit this whole blade of non-ablative skin thing has me a little shaken up and now reeling in the idea that I just don't know if I have the intestinal fortitude to go through with an ablative therapy. But maybe I start with some baby steps like two non-ablative therapies. And then I think we're going to have to, you know, think about, do I want to fix my face? How far down the rabbit hole do I want to go with the under eyes, over eyes and all that stuff? But the point here is I think I've I have a better understanding and I hope that more importantly the people listening are able to see bits of themselves in me because I think I'm not that uncommon in my problems. So hopefully they've been able to pick up on these things as well. So thank you very much guys. This was a different podcast nonetheless but it was super interesting for me. Thank you. Thank you for having us. It was fun. And we didn't mean to pick you up right. I asked you too. So I know it was a portfolio period. Thanks Peter. We appreciate the opportunity to be here and have this conversation.

=== FILE: 357 ‒ A new era of longevity science： models of aging, rapamycin trials, biological clocks, & more [7yNvz_0Q1eQ].txt ===

What do we think is actually causing aging? Can we stop aging? Can we reverse aging? Maybe the most important question in biology. All of the interventions that extend lifespan reduce chronic inflammation. But if we fundamentally want to get to a point where maximal human lifespan is changed and health span is fundamentally altered, we have to bend the slope of that line. Yeah. What is the probability in your mind that Rapa Mison is doing that? We're doing a study like this in Singapore on humans. Okay. Six months intervention with Rapa Mison. I'd like to just quit my job and do nothing other than these experiments. Did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well? We haven't published it yet, but I am happy to talk a little bit about it. We don't have human data, but the mouth state is really good on your relief in A. I think a lot of these supplements are impacting exercise. And so it's kind of a win-win. There's so many ways to just help a person find another five years of life and dramatically improve health span. Do you think that immortality is impossible? Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Brian, thank you so much for being here. You might actually hold the record for longest journey taken to come to this podcast. In fact, I don't know if anybody could travel a greater distance than from Singapore to come out here. So thank you very much. It's my pleasure to be here. And I don't think you can get further from here from Singapore. So let's tell folks a little bit about how you wound up in Singapore. I guess just I'll speed things through a bit, but by way of background, obviously, you used to run an institute called the Buck Institute. Tell folks a little bit about what the buck is and what you did there. Yeah, it's a fascinating institute because it was really the first institute solely devoted to understanding aging and longevity. And it started in around 2000 with some money that was donated by a woman who died in Marin County, North of San Francisco. And I was the second CEO there in 2010. There about 20 faculty at the time all devoted to either aging or aspects of aging, very basic science. And as you can imagine, in the 2000s and around 2010, that was a significant component of the aging research field. It was still a very small field. And so the goal was really to help that institute grow. And it was tough times in the 2010s because the funding levels were low. And it was right before the real interest in aging in longevity happened around 2017, 2018. So we were really struggling to keep the doors open. And I think the buck's doing a lot better now. And as well as the rest of the aging field. At the time that you were there, how much of the funding came from NIH and how much came from either donations or industry? Yeah, it was very heavily oriented to NIH. And our goal was to get more industry funding. We started seven companies when I was there. Some of which are still hanging around. And also really tried to wrap up the philanthropy. But in a philanthropy for aging, wasn't really happening until around 2017, 2018 when people started really getting the idea that you could slow aging and prevent all these diseases and stay healthy and functional. And so that revolution happened around that time. The faculty there are, it's quite the star-studded cast, right? IMean, Eric burdens there. Judith MPs, he was there until she passed away. Yeah, that's an opportunity. So IMean, you really had a collection of people doing great work, right? Yeah, well Eric came after I left. He took over as an ex-ceo. But yeah, Judy was there, Henry Jasper. He's gone on the gin and tech. But Gordon, let's go on a bunch of other people working on aging. So it was a good group of people for sure. What do you think led to this interest that you've alluded to in 2017, 2018, in this idea of, you know, well, you describe it as you see fit. But something happened in 2017, 2018 that's brought a lot more interest into the field. However, one describes it. I think you just reach an inflection point. It's really hard to know what triggers it. Calico started a few years before that. We're Google's alphabet companies that was focused on longevity. They've not been very open about what they're doing. But it triggered a lot of publicity for the longevity field. It got Silicon Valley interested. And I think that I've been mattening. I use this slide that you have aging, pointing to all these different diseases. We started using that slide around 2005. And we were making the point around healthspend shortly afterwards. And really this idea of preventing disease and keeping people healthy interacting earlier. And I don't know. I'm so sick of that slide. I can't look at it anymore. But it's finally, and we weren't the only ones doing it. But I think there were a few of us doing it. And it really, finally, I think helped trigger a movement hopefully. Do you think the field would have, and these are dumb questions, as I realize as I'm asking it, but do you think the field would have accelerated sooner had it not been for some notable setbacks? For example, I don't remember exactly when GSK bought RISMera Troll. But I believe it was around 2006, 2007. It was clear to me, I think, by about 2010, that was not going to work. And I think it was probably clear to GSK around that time as well. I think. Yeah, it may be sooner. So do you think that that type of hype with nothing to show for it was a kind of a negative force in that equation? And maybe this, you know, in flexion point, could have happened sooner. I e-juring your earlier tenure there, could have been easier to have raised funds if there had been less of those examples. I think it's hard to know. IMean, it's unfortunate. I'm what happened. IMean, in one way, the investors made money off of that deal. And so, you know, in that sense, it was a success, but what was developed was not going to go anywhere, and that's unfortunate. I think that it probably slowed things down a little bit. Yeah. And I think because there's always this doubt about whether you can slow the aging process. And so when you have a major, you know, effort that's triggered around trying to do that, even though they ended up focusing on disease. And we can talk about the struggles of longevity biotic companies in that way. But when something like that, you know, fails, it probably does slow down other investor interest. Today, you're, um, insting a poor, tell me what you're doing there. So, you know, I kind of have one foot in academics and one foot in the private sector of these days. And the academic side were really focused on targeting aging. And, you know, and that comes back to what I alluded to at the biotech companies a minute ago. A lot of them are targeting aging pathways. But to raise money and get their drugs tested, they have to turn to some disease indication, which is understandable. And companies I'm involved with do that too. But, um, that's not what we really want to do. What we really want to do is slow the aging process and keep you from getting sick. And so, in an academic setting, we can test that clinically. So we basically have a whole range of animal models, a pipeline from yeast worms, flies, killyfish mice and humans. And we, you know, billion years of evolution there. Yeah. We bring interventions in and at the right place, validate them, really believing the idea that if it works across different model organisms, it's more likely to work in humans. And then we design human clinical intervention studies to validate that they're targeting the aging process. I don't think anybody knows exactly how to do that yet, including us, but we're doing our best and learning as we go. How is it funded the Institute, you're at? Yeah, mostly through the University and the government and Singapore, but we also have some philanthropy and we do contract sponsored research to test interventions from companies as well sometimes. How many PIs are there? So I run a program that has about 35 PIs in it. But a lot of them are doing other things. They're not all focused on that one concept. I just told you they have their projects around Alzheimer's disease or we just have this guy. Michael Cheese working on sleep and aging, which is so understudied, you know. And so it's kind of like an academic department, you know, people have their own projects. They're focusing on. Is there any department in the at a US university that brings together as many people that are focused on specifics of aging this way? Yeah, I don't think so. I'll, although I would say it depends on how you define aging. Yeah, if you branch it out to cancer. Yeah, yeah, then definitely, but I'm not sure if it's this focused on actual aging process. So let's kind of start with a question that I think will end up coming back to because it's so fundamental. I enjoy, you know, I enjoy going down the rabbit hole of fundamental questions in physics. Sounds good. And we're not going to do that. But I think the fundamental questions in biology, I think some of them center around aging. And so what do we think is actually causing aging? Okay, so I'm going to foreshare the physics since you asked that. Because we just had the first ever international conference on gyrophysics and Singapore. And it, I was one of the organizers and the reason I got behind it is the very question you just asked, you know, we've been debating what aging is for the longest time. And I think we would argue for two hours in some conference room somewhere in the world. And at the end of it, we would come up with the definition. Shit happens in the new talk. You know, it's really just, it's frustrating. I don't even want to talk about it now. And you know, Vadim Glattishov has been on like an evangelical rant about how do we define aging? We know how to define it. He asked that question in every conference. And I think it's a fair question. And we all throw our hands up in the air. And so the idea was we have a lot of data now. We're a lot of human data. And aging researchers are beginning to try to model that data. But they're not modelers. You know, I think most aging myologists are at least myself. If I have a skill, it's intuition. It's not writing equations and code, you know. And but the physics people, the theoretical physicists, and especially, they know how to model things. And they model things based on physical principles that are proven. Right. And so we've been trying to bring these groups together. And because I believe maybe the only answer to your question is that we have to write in an equation. And so early days on that, but I'm excited about where that's going. And do you think that these will be explainable through equations or do you think that this exceeds our level of intelligence to understand? And it's really going to be up to a black box that contains a neural network to understand this. And maybe we take a step back, actually. So for the listeners, they've heard us on this podcast talk about quote unquote hallmarks of aging. Maybe explain to people what the hallmarks of aging are, which I don't mean like list them all. But the content set up them. Yeah, I don't want to put you on the spot for that. But the idea that has been proposed is that there are hallmarks of aging. And why is stating those not the same as answering thEQuestion that you mean to me and everybody else struggling with? Well, this is kind of an existential crisis with me because the hallmarks of aging came on in 2014 or 2013. And then I wrote another paper right after that, called the Pillars of aging, which is kind of the poor stepchild of the hallmarks of aging. And that was because there was an NIH conference. And there were seven topics discussed in the ASPENA writer review on calling them the Pillars of Aging. So I did. But even in that review, I had the seven Pillars of Aging. But I connected them all with lines because I don't really think that these hallmarks and Pillars, which are like the pathways in the cell that are thought to be driving the aging process, inflammation, you know, epigenetic changes, these kinds of things. They're all interesting to aging and you can modify them or they get modified if you slow the aging process. But what strikes me is how entrened everything is. So if you take an intervention like Rapa Mai said that slows aging, it can impact all of the hallmarks. And so I don't really, I think those are like outputs or ways you can look at aging, but nobody is really just targeted. The idea that you can target each hallmark and then you'll live to live forever is not going to work because it's really the network that connects the hallmarks together. And to me, aging is a healthy aging is about maintaining homeostasis. It's about, you know, maintaining a responsive network and your body that sort of keep you an equilibrium responds to the events that are happening during aging, the stochastic events, the damage that's happening and it keeps you functional. And that network is highly malleable. You can influence that network by drugs or behavior. And if you do, you can drive benefit from it and you can read it out as an improvement of all the hallmarks. It's not like one thing of exercise effects only this hallmark. So I think it's, the hallmarks was good because it drove interest in the field as part of the reason a lot of investment came in the biotech sector. But it also is misleading because I think the idea that aging is 12 different things and you just need to fix all 12 of them is completely wrong. It's really about, you're body knows how to function in a healthy way. It's about trying to maintain that and maybe improve upon it. Do you look at the hallmarks, which I believe have been modified since the original paper and a few others have been added? Do you see an a rank order or a seniority of them in terms of causality? So for example, one of the hallmarks is mitochondrial dysfunction. Yeah. Now one could say that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs independent of another hallmark of aging, which you've listed epigenetic change. Alternatively, you could say actually it's the epigenetic change that occurs stochastically and that that is driving mitochondrial dysfunction. And if you reverse the epigenetic change to the previous epigenetic layout, you will correct the mitochondrial dysfunction. How do you think about the interconnectedness through the lens of causality? Yeah, I think the primacy issues of major one. I like the idea that mitochondrial might have been one of the primary drivers. Also, every time we do an experiment, we keep coming back to inflammation, all of the interventions that extend lifespan reduce chronic inflammation, or almost all of them. And then every time we create a new biologic aging clock, which we're doing a lot of now in my lab, you know, and we do principal components and figure out what the main driver is, it's always related to inflammation. And so I think there's something, it may not be inflammation, maybe a response, but it's so central that a lot of the interventions, I think, are working by dampening inflammation. But to your point, inflammation could easily be a readout state. Yeah, yeah, but it's certainly when you modify, I think when you modify, you get an outcome. You know, so it's not just an endpoint that you look at. How are you measuring inflammation and maybe walk me through how you're doing it in different model systems? So are you studying inflammation in yeast? Not so much in yeast, but you can study innate inflammation in worms and flies, because those pathways, the root of entry elements of those pathways are there. And then in mice, you have both a native and adoptive immunity that you can study. And so we look at inflammatory cytokine panels and a range of other things, and various tissues to see how that's changing over time and how interventions impact that. And we do that in humans to an our clinical stuff. And so what do you believe is the hallmark of maladaptive inflammation? Would you think that the hallmark of that is based on immune function? IE deteriorated immune function and or over aggressive immune function? Or do you think, no, the hallmark of that could simply be found in a cytokine profile that is not typical? IMean, this is maybe more of a technical question, but it's going to become interesting as we move our way into humans. Yeah, well, I think it's central to M2R. One of the things we were one of the earliest people to publish was that what's happening during aging is that baseline levels of M2R are creeping up. You can't turn the pathway off. And I think most of the interventions, certain toens M2R inflammation, it's not about doing anything super-physiologic with the interventions. It's about restoring the dynamic range that you had when you were youthful. And M2R is a great example of that. I'll bring it back to inflammation. You need M2R on when you wound your skin or you get an infection or you have a big meal in your liver, but you need it off the rest of the time. And when you're young, you're very good at maintaining that dynamic range. But what's happening with aging, at least in stem cells is that the baseline levels of M2R creeping up. People in this podcast are pretty familiar with M2R. We've had David Sabotini on any times Matt Cabernet as well. But I just want to make sure that for anybody who's here, who's either new or forgot, let's take a step back. M2R is so important to this discussion. Let's go back as far as we need to and explain M2R. Okay. Then talk about complex one, talk about complex two, talk about how one impacts the other. We're obviously going to talk about rap and mice in in that context. But take as much time as you need to make sure listeners really understand why M2R is so central across all of life that we've never known. Well, so our entry into the M2R pathway was in yeast. This is Matt Cabernet in I. And so we were screening the yeast deletion set. It's a set of strens which each gene is deleted. And looking for how many genes, by the way, in your youth? They're about 5,000. And then some of those are essential. So you can't screen those if you knock them out the yeast or dead. But about 70% of them, the yeast are still viable. And so we were trying to find ones where when you knock out a gene that the yeast lived longer. Surprisingly, there were like 300 genes that met that description. And that one thing I learned from that is that extending lifespan, at least in a simple organism like yeast, and there's also data in worms, is much easier. And anybody would have ever expected. And we can talk about that. But that's still a pretty cool tour to force in the 90s, right? You guys were doing this in the early 90s. We did the serto and stuff in the 90s. We did the full genomes screen in the 2000s. And that was in Seattle with Matt and so. But yeah, it was a lot of work. And we did it brute force. We had people sitting at microscopes dissecting yeast all the time. And I think there are 80 some authors on that paper, you know, for a yeast paper that might have been a record. But anyway, one of the main things we hit was the amtor pathway. And downstream of it is protein trenslation. We hit a lot of things in protein trenslation. And amtor is a nutrient responsive kinase. So it responds to the levels of carbohydrates and also amino acids that the cell encounters. And so that fit into the calorie restriction data, which I'm sure you've talked about that reducing calories can extend lifespan. So it seemed like it was going to be very central from the beginning in modifying aging. And I think that's proven true. Turning down amtor signaling across a wide range of species extends lifespan. I think the data in humans is also pretty. It's not fully validated, but I think that if you alter amtor signaling in the right way, you can probably slow age in humans too. Now, why is it then that the first human brush with amtor modulation shows up in the form of immune suppression? Yeah. So I think that's a bit unfortunate in a way, you know. So this wrap up my son is discovered on Easter Island and you've probably gone through the whole story of this. I feel like I'm overdue for a retell of it. But yes, yeah. It's one of my favorite. It's I'm a top five stories in science. That's pretty amazing actually. And I think I read you. Yeah, I read it. I read it. Yeah, I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I didn't even. I haven't even been there. I've been pressed. I think we're going to go back. I'm 2016. I'm 2016. So yeah. Yeah. But you know, this drug was, you know, had the ability to kill bacterial cells that was bacterial cytole, you know, they start with and then they discovered had impacts on human cells. And but the almost got thrown away and then gets restored and it makes a new life as an immune suppressor. And certainly if you use it at high enough doses and you really dampen the ability to activate tour, you can, you can impair the immune system. And especially if you combine it with cyclospor or some other anti-inflammatory or immune suppressor, then it's used for, you know, after Oregon trensplant in those contexts. And do you think that it's that necessary combination with one to two other immune suppressants that allows it to shine? And I'm actually not aware of literature that looked at a rap immune or rap amicin in isolation as a as a as a potential treatment for Oregon trensplant patients. I'm not either at high enough doses that may have that impact but I think the side effect profile would be too extreme by combining it with other drugs at lower doses. I think you're going to bigger effect. But I think the main thing for aging is that it's not immune suppressant. I think at the levels that people are taking it for longevity, which is once a week let the trough levels come down. And I don't think we're seeing immune suppression in that context at least not above background. So yeah and do you, what do you think of the the the window we got into this idea of immune modulation and maybe immune enhancement with that type of a dosing regimen vis-a-vis the the paper that John Manicon Lloyd Clikstein published about 12 years ago? Yeah I like those papers. I think there's definitely a nugget of truth in there and I think it can protect from respiratory infections if used correctly. So I still think rap amicin is the gold standard for a small molecule impact enaging. At the end of the day it may not be the best but right now I think the evidence is still the best. And I think coming back to the earlier thought when you have him to our creepy not when it shouldn't be that's driving chronic inflammation and then chronic inflammation is continuing to drive him to our so it's this feed forward circle of disruption that that that connects this nutrient pathway to inflammatory signaling. So I think that's one of the earliest events that's happening. So let's go back to something you said a second ago which is absent the equations biologists have to rely on their intuition. Yeah and so if we believe in the primacy of that deterioration that homeostatic deterioration that you just described what is driving it? Is this entropy? What is it that is changing? Well you know, entropy has been used often on ever since I started in the aging field. You know it's just a lazy term we use because we don't have something better to say. No but I think it's I think there's a nugget of truth in that and and I think ultimately and and I think that you know I work with Peter Fedach of it, Gerald and I think he's probably the deepest thinker in the aging field in terms of understanding this process of aging at a mathematical level. My only role in working with him is I had AI was a math major. Fortunately I didn't try to pursue that but I survived enough to get a math degree in college and so I'm kind of his whisper trenslator. I take what he says and try to help him reframe it in a way that the rest of the world can understand. He really thinks about things deeply and I think his view on it is that really what we're talking about is resilience. You know you can imagine you know if I'm an image you could imagine that you know when you're young you're living in this deep valley you know and you do all kinds of crazy things you get to much fast food you get sick you know and you diverge off the the bottom of the valley that lowest activation energy and you're biologically you look older but you're in a deep valley you keep getting pulled back to health and so almost no matter what you do at least in the short term you're coming back into health but if there are hills you can go over into what you would call failure states which could be chronic diseases or could be some major functional decline and that doesn't happen when you're young because it's a very steep hill but these hills are coming down as you get older and so when you diverge off the healthy state it's harder to get you back and occasionally you go over the side and then you're you know in a kind of a frailty mode once you have the later stage disease so thEQuestion is how to mathematically model that and it's you know it's more of a dynamic systems type of modeling and and when you look at the large data and I'm getting to the point where you're going to understand why why I need the physicist but when you look at the large data it it almost looks like there's a linear accumulation of damage and and so what we're doing now is we're trying to measure biologic gauge from large data sets like UK biobank and then we're breaking it down into principal components and when you do that a lot of the principal components don't track with aging they track with sex or smoking or something else the ones that track with aging usually there are a couple of them one of them is the primary driver and it's kind of going up linearly and that looks like damage and that that's probably the main driver of aging I don't it doesn't have to be damaged it could be stochastic events it could be subtle changes but when you say damage do you mean like what damage happens why I'm a guy trying to back off a bit because we don't it it may be a cluster of different types of damage it may be still casticity and not really defined as damage subtle changes here and there that each on their own have tiny little impacts but when they start to add up they they put stress on this network and eventually it starts to break down and so that looks linear and the problem is that mortality looks exponential and so if you model it into a mathematical equation that talks about these values going down that's a linear change but the chance the ball's going to go over the hill is an exponential change and so what I like about it is you can fit human data into an equation that this compatible with gumperts equations and exponential increase in mortality so I think it's on the right track IMean there's probably a lot of changes there's also another component usually in these biologic aging clocks that's age related and it's kind of oscillating and it sort of oscillates around that first component going up and I think that's why you see these methylation clocks are going up and down and changing and everything and I think of that component is how well you're functioning at the damage state you're at so you have all these events that are going bad and that's defining sort of your age maybe it says you're 50 but then you can be somewhere between 40 and 60 depending on you know how well your behavioral patterns what supplements or drugs you might be taking and those things are going up and down so that's why when you get sick you look older and then you get better you come back down you had that first driver's not changing it's the second one that's oscillating and most of the interventions seem to affect the second one which suggests that what we're doing right now is I'm going to say this and then I'm going to qualify it it suggests that what we're doing right now is sort of working around the edges you know we're we're doing things that may have five or ten years impact on health span which by the way is a revolution if that's successful I'm not I think that's a major breakthrough in medicine if we can give everybody five or ten years of extra health span but that these things may not impact maximum life spending humans and they may not get us to 150 or 200 in the kinds of ways to get there maybe a totally different kinds of intervention so we're thinking about that a lot with Peter right now and you know I trenslated my research and that trenslated as a matter my switch by research into trenslation about 10 years ago because I was like I don't want to be retired in 80 on a porch somewhere and not have any impact on humans but now I'm starting to think back a little bit to basic science because I'm starting to think that the interventions that we need to develop if we really want to have the big changes are not being done yet and we have to go back to some discovery science to do that so Brian there's a lot you said there that's really interesting and I'd like to unpack it both for myself and for the listener the first thing you said I want that I actually am not sure I understand is we have a linear process of we're going to use the word damage loosely and that over time that is increasing monotonically and linearly and not alterably no exactly superimposed on that so so we have you know damage occurring this way superimposed on that we have sort of cyclic episodic volatile change that probably explains a lot of the difference between 250 year olds that you might see you might see a 50 year old they look great you see a 50 year old they look like they're 75 right why and you or you might see it even within an individual you know boy at 50 I looked horrible but I got my act together and by 55 I've actually looked like I did you know 10 years center okay so that's this superimposed curve yeah and you're saying look everything we're doing from a trenslational perspective all the stuff Peter talks about by the way like wrote a whole book on this topic is how do you impact the oscillation yeah right well if you sleep this way if you exercise this way if you eat this way if you take this supplement this drug manage all of these factors you are absolutely going to put yourself on the better wave here right but you are not impacting this guy that's what I'm afraid is happening yeah but then you said something a moment ago that I just want to make sure I understand is your explanation for why aging follows a gump hurts curve as opposed to a linear curve is that all due to the the superimposed wave that goes on top of the linear curve or was there another reason that aging follows exponential gump hurts long now I think I had conflated too I'd hiss it once okay so let me let me associate that you've decide you've described the wave better than I do so we'll leave that but I think that you're right we're trying to get it's it's almost like we're trying to get to the best state we can be at for the damage state we're in that's right by the way I have never thought of it that way Brian I love that description and it's actually what I say to my patients because I get people that come to me and they say Peter you know I really want to live to 150 I'm told you're the guy and I say actually I'm not the guy yeah I don't believe it's possible what I believe is possible is seven to ten more years of infinitely higher quality life and if that's not what you want if you want something that is far in excess of that you're going to have to go to somebody who's got proof that they can do different yeah and I don't think there is any proof right I obviously don't think there is either but I do leave the idea open that it could be possible I think it may be feasible to do that but I don't think anything it's just I don't see any evidence that anything is coming in yeah yeah I'm a trenslationly I give you know I think the linear to exponential is the idea of the hills right so you've got a ball if you do it a two to mention you've got a curve that looks like this and you've got a ball here right and the damage is causing the the thing to come down and so the chance is the ball going over is actually now a good initial yep yep yep yep so even if you have a linear reduction in a height of the hills yeah the activation energy will increase the possibility of exponentially over the curve and by the way just trying to think through why that's the case is that the case because of is it a v squared problem and getting over the hill if we were to model it out as actual balls yeah I have a graph I I have a model of a movie that really helps people that are not mathematicians I think both of us have some understanding the math but a lot of people don't and I think that yeah it's something like that I think also it explains very well why you know treating disease doesn't work because you have 50 failure states you can go into it and each person based on their genetics and their life's value the hill to go over that failure state maybe a little bit different sometimes persons not going to go over this one but there's a chance you're going to go over a lot of different failures right and if you block one of them say you treat diabetes or something it you're still going to go over the other ones right yeah so you have the only way to really slow aging is to keep the hill higher yeah so no that's that's again that's that's both a beautiful model a mental model for how to think about it and yet still equally infuriating because I don't know why the walls are coming down yeah right why are the hills coming down what is the fundamental reason what's the particle reason I think the wall height coming down I think the hills are resilience right but even but even still why is it why is it really nobody understands yeah exactly I think that all right I'll give you a sort of half baked answer because it's all I can give you I think that the what's happening is this damage is impacting this network that's keeping you healthy this home aesthetic network and it's in little ways here and there and here and there and the network compensates for that and it does okay but it in enough damage happens you just can't compensate any more for events that are happening so when you get sick you get some you know viral infection or you fall down when you're 80 and break your hip you just don't have that homeless basis pathways in place to allow you to recover and compensate for that IMean that's sort of the best answer I can give you right now so if you had to guess and I'm hopeful that that the listeners are with us because this idea of the the linear and monotonic increasing in damage is is the thing that has to be addressed if we're going to make a step function change in human longevity right so we're we're I like how you describe it we're really tinkering around the edges right everything we do is tinkering around the edges but if we fund to mentally want to get to a point where maximal human lifespan is changed and health span is fundamentally altered we have to bend the slope of that lot so my first question for you is what is the probability in your mind that rap a mice and is doing that based on what you've seen in animal models well okay so first of all if you look at something like a worm I think that the the modeling's very different the worms are just kind of already in a failure state there are they're like designed to last for two weeks and you don't have that homeless basis that humans have and so you can get huge and fooled by interventions yeah in worms or or other organisms that don't the pathway may trenslate the humans but the effect sizing humans is going to be much smaller I suspect that's where raffle mice in is that it's it's going to give you a healthier period if you take it the right way or I don't think any intervention is going to affect everybody okay but the majority of people may benefit from that but I think it's in the modest effect size not in the change the change the okay I want to come back and talk more about raffle and m4 because you're again one of the few people along with Matt David people who can really talk and depth about it but let's now stay in the world of speculation if you if you had to even imagine something that can change the slope of the line i.e. can take I guess we define maximal lifespan as the 90th percentile of life span so let's just make a number up and say maximal human lifespan today is I don't know 105 yeah something like that okay 120 is the 90th percentile of life span up by 25 years if I told you Brian you might not be alive to see it nor will I but I have a crystal ball and in the year 2100 90 percent of humans will live to be 130 and now I say give me your best guess as to what did this is your guess going to be small molecules genetic engineering epigenetic engineering like just go down the pathway or multimodal it's going to have to be 10 different things like just this is just kind of like the fun stuff I game well I think the scary thing is that that linear accumulation it does look like entropy which in reversing the second law of that dynamics is we have to reverse it we just have to slow it it's been slowing it is a challenge right so um and if you think about it from a physics standpoint which I'm getting further and further and deeper and a pool I shouldn't be in I'm just telling you that right now but if you think even your life you're just just keep trying water if you it my motto by the way with the consulting I do is that I know what I don't know it's not a good model for consulting and I've learned but anyway um as you get into the you know the physics of it it's really about temperature and I know I don't mean temperature in terms of the temperature in the room IMean the energy in the system that's driving the changes or damage and thEQuestion is how do you lower that and so maybe what you need to do when you're looking for longevity interventions is not looking for how long a worm lives because the worm is dying for different reasons it's already in the failure mode it's about how to lower the noise in the system and lowering the noise in the system might be a way of of changing that slope so that could be trenscriptional noise it could be anything you can measure as noise that happens over time you might want to try to lower that noise that's an interesting concept now that that may also come with with secondary effects that people don't want IMean it's so right there might be a retardation of growth and development early in life and it might be one of those things where you don't want to touch the slope for the first 30 years of life yeah and and you know we're getting where is the point at which which you want to intervene yeah and I think that temporal component is really important it's taking us into a different concept and take anistic play atropey but people and it is true that if you look at all the yeast mutants at extend lifespan most of them would not make happy yeast in the wild they slow growth or they do something else affects some property like mating that that doesn't is not going to make for a yeast that survives through natural selection but if you put them in a lab they can divide more times and so a lot along the mutants have fitness cost and so thEQuestion would be that if you if you target this noise in the system which is a completely different way of thinking about interventions what will the fitness cost be with that and you're right maybe you can get around it by temporal things like the mtor path where you probably don't want to impact as a child but as an adult you know it's more important early in life than it is later in life it's only important at certain times so if you impact it the right way you can get the benefits without the cost and maybe that's possible in these these interventions but we're so early I can't even with any confidence tell you what kinds of interventions would have that impact I will say one of the thing is that I think reprogramming is potentially a way to mitigate some of the this inter intropic change because if you can replace the cells you're with new cells those new cells may have some of the damage because they come from the old cells but they they would probably get rid of a lot of the damage too and so that may be a way of changing the slope so like reprogramming which I think is still very early stage that may be so as a thought experiment if you took um if I could clone you right now or you had a twin let's just say you got a twin one of me is enough in the world you but you're in Singapore so we're gonna have an American version we're gonna have this thing of pouring version so so we have two of you and in one of you we're just gonna act as the control we're gonna give you some vehicle in the second one let's just assume I can use the fidelity of CRISPR to revert your entire epigenome in every cell of your body to what it looked like when you were 20 and anytime it gets out of whack I smack it right back to 20 year old Brian epigenome only not genome yeah not proteome not metat enough I don't change anything but epigenome well those things are good exactly they're gonna affect everything else but what is your what is your guess is to the difference in lifespan and health span of those two versions of you that's a that's an interesting question I think but I think there would be a difference for sure I'm not sure it would be a huge difference and you don't think it would be huge I'm not as sold on the primacy of the epigenetics certainly you can not so what would go wrong right so so if you look at and by the way I'm I don't know the answer of course I'm just kind of thinking through data that I've seen right so if you look at epigenetic code for two different hepatocytes liver cells one from a 20 year old one from a 50 year old and then and I tell you which one's 20 which one's 50 and then I show you a bunch of others you can always tell which one's the old one which sounds the younger one it's there's it's you can probably tell that from mitochondria a lot of other things too yes so thEQuestion is if do you just say is your belief system that just because you revert the epigenome back to what it looked like when it's 20 it's not going to change gene expression enough to move the needle I think it'll definitely influence gene expression but there's also DNA damage that's happened there are mitochondrial changes there thEQuestion we're asking is if you revert that how many of these other things can we fix and restore yes and that's the unknown answer I suspect you would have significant impact on those things but not fully restore them I I think thEQuestion of the primacy of the epigenome is an open question there nobody knows the answer yes how testable is the hypothesis how would you design the experiment to test that yeah I think that's difficult because if you want to do it in a very direct way you really need to modify the factors that are controlling epigenetic regulation but there are a lot of factors doing that it's not just DNA methylation it's histone modification there's there's nuclear packaging and nuclear lamins which are linked to aging as well and and there's it's not just one pathway to change so I think from a real real life standpoint it's hard to think about how you would do that effectively you know it certainly I think people have really jumped on it maybe when talking about aging clocks at some point people have really jumped on this idea of epigenome being a dry the driver of aging because you can get a biological gauge by measuring the DNA methylation changes across the genome well IMean I think they're asserting that that's the case I don't see any evidence that that's the case that's yeah we can come to that yeah we we we we definitely want to do like and you can get to that same point by measuring the proteomic changes by measuring the microbiome changes by looking at facial structural changes that Jackie Hans got great data on that in China so anything in a human where you have a deep enough data set that's enriched enough and you have samples across a wide enough aina age range you can make a clock that predicts their age and and the the facial clock is about as accurate as the methylation clock so I think that a lot of people have jumped on this methylation or our epigenic bandwagon but they're they're taking the association and causality and they're making a big leap there now we know that you can modify epigenetic factors and extend the lifespan of yeast and worms and flies and maybe even mice so it does have a role but you can do that with synolytic factors or nutritional regulators or you know caleristiction or a lot of other things it's not clear to me that that's a bigger effect than you're going to get from targeting these other interventions so so but to be fair none of them are completely reversing things either so they're not addressing your question yeah right go do you believe that it and this is just again we're in the philosophical we'll I'll bring it back to reality at some point today um do you think that immortality is impossible unless we define it through kind of like AI copying your brain let's put the IMean physical immortality do you believe that that is that is impossible well I like to tell people that I'm immortal because I think the mindset that gives me is a very healthy mindset for me we can come to you know you talk a lot about the emotional aspects of aging your book I love that chapter we come to that later but that's I don't really believe it's true I think the odds that you could achieve that level of change in aging is non-zero but close so I'm skeptical that that can be done I think it's fair to say but I wouldn't rule out the possibility of course nobody's ultimately going to be immortal because you're going to get hit by a boss sooner later but what you're really talking about is being immortal in terms of dying from aging yeah what I guess what I really say can one ever get to the point where resilience is high enough that you cannot die from disease I have seen nothing so far that suggests that's possible okay but but that doesn't mean it isn't possible yeah no and then that gets even to physical frailty and so our community and things like that where even when we see centenarians and super centenarians their frailty is still pretty remarkable meaning like they still look pretty feeble in frail like IMean the age adjusted they're great but at the end of the day like when they're 110 they still look like someone who's in the final years of their life just as someone would if they were 84 85 IMean I had two grandmothers that lived to almost 100 one died at 99 and the other 101 and the one at 101 I would say that at 90 she was driving at 95 I think shEQuit driving she bought the 238 game at 93 she was looked like a 93 yeah yeah but so that's like a 70 something girl exactly my point is she just had a phase shift of 20 years but it didn't undo the inevitability of that behind yeah yeah yeah I agree with that I think that you know but and right I getting us to 100 so a good goal I think so I agree completely do you think that again we're spending too much time worrying about finding immortality escape velocity understanding the core of aging when maybe we should be spending more time on how do we preserve health span in the last decade of life why is it that most people in the final decade of their life are physically too frail to enjoy life are cognitively just you know even absent Alzheimer's disease they're just not cognitively sharp enough they're in pain they're fracturing their hips they're not doing what you know what gave them joy through most of your life yeah I think that we should fund aging somewhere closer to the level we're funding cancer and answer both of thosEQuestions at the same time I think one of them is a trenslational question about how do we slow aging as much as we can right now and improve the health of the population as much as possible and the other one is a basic sciencEQuestion can we stop aging can we reverse aging no one can if anybody has the antelgy they have the answers to that they're lying to you or they're lying to themselves okay we don't know and I think that but it's maybe the most important question in biology and we should be throwing money at it so we've seen all this money going to like the private sector side by a tech company's supplement companies, longevity clinics and on and on and I think that's great by the way and I've spent a lot of my time working with those groups because I think it's important but we're not seeing the academic funding that's going into the basic science of aging and longevity and the big question still that you just raised they're still not answered and so I'm not I'm changing your your question to a plea for more funding and unfortunately the the kind of funding that supports that is usually government funding foundation funding and and that's under major threat right now so it's I'm really worried that we're not going to answer thosEQuestions well it's funny we this was a discussion that came up on a longevity round table I think most people myself included were really surprised to hear how disparate the funding differences are and how if you could put I don't know if you could reallocate 10% of funding from the disease specific pools to the age pools it could have an enormous difference based on how it's a little bit of a statement yeah so when you think about the big chronic diseases yeah cardiovascular disease cancer uh demanding diseases and metabolic diseases right those will be the big four I've often maintained that the the the least inevitable of them is ironically the one that is the most deadly today which is cardiovascular disease yeah the athletic diseases so cerebral and and cardiovascular ironically the most preventable I think because we have the best understanding of what causes them and we couple that with the most tools to prevent them whether be tools to combat hypertension, disability, me, et cetera and they're responsible to a responsive to the that lifestyle okay which of those major diseases of the other three demanding cancer metabolic do you believe is the most inevitable to our species I wouldn't put uh metabolic I agree I had a gore yeah sure because I see that more like cardiovascular high degree so if the other two cancer and demanding or neurodegenerative diseases which one is just seemingly inevitable we don't know enough about dementia to answer but I will say that cancer is a little bit different than these other diseases I think and it's not and it may be less modifiable by longevity interventions dementia we we just don't know my guess is it's highly modifiable too but there's not enough data to be sure of that like there is for metabolic and cardiovascular disease but cancer is is is an accumulation of mutation so it's a more defined event that's happening it's also an impact on the immune system that's different a little bit than normal aging so it may be less approachable from a longevity viewpoint. Yeah it's funny that's exactly my view that cancer is the most inevitable of these diseases do you think that the inevitability or the age related component stems more from the accumulation of mutations or the weakening of the immune system. It's probably both IMean you don't get to cancer without the right mutations happening but I think we're learning more and more that the immune system is playing a major role in it and that we can see that very clearly from the interventions that improve immune function and they're having a big role in certain types of tumors but I think that's going to be true for Alzheimer's and the dementia as well we've completely underestimated the role of inflammation and the immune system and those diseases as well and they may be the primary drivers you know I kind of I'm very frustrated by some of these fields one of them is Alzheimer's you know the I kind of feel like you know one of these Alzheimer's researchers they're going to die at some point of 90 and on their on their tombstone it's going to be like you know major accomplishment was the completely remove plaques from the brain died of Alzheimer's at 94 you know it's it's it's there's been so much focus on one or two mechanisms of disease that we spent 30 years not studying the others which may be more important why do you think that IMean I write about it in the book but I'm really curious is to why you think that's happened and because that's not it unfortunately that's not an isolated incident in science so why do you think it's happening in a field where the results are otherwise so dismal what's the what's the same that scientific progress happens one funeral time yeah I think that's part of it you know you get people that that have successful research programs and their postdocs get hired and all the jobs and and so when you take a field and it grows from a small field to a bigger field you everybody can draw their lineage back to four or five different p.i.s and and so whatever models and those p.i.s get really focused on those models and they see that as their ticket to prizes and things like that and so then you you focus on a subset of the disease mechanisms that the exclusion of all others and I don't want to single Alzheimer's on I think a lot of diseases meet that category but it's unfortunate because what we're realizing is that you know there's a lot of factors that contribute to any disease and I think longevity maybe an interesting way of looking at it like I think it's better like I'll take it take a mouse okay we've tried to make Alzheimer's models in mice and they they don't prove that informative why you're making your creating the disease a mouse doesn't get genetically in a young mouse and comparing that to a natural disease in an old human I think you learn more about Alzheimer's if you look at the brain nerd agenda changes that happen in the mouse normally with aging the downstream things are different but the drivers maybe the very similar to the ones that are driving Alzheimer's Alzheimer's and that may be a better model of Alzheimer's than trying to artificially create something that a mouse doesn't get so that's what I think aging is helping change that perspective that you know the drivers of aging I think are very similar between a mouse and a human the downstream events can be different but the drivers are what we care about right so let's go back to rap a mice and for a moment do you believe that the primary effect of rap a mice and is tamping down maladaptive inflammation through obviously the intermittent blunting of M.T.R. I think that's one of the major things certainly you know that there's good evidence for enhancement of autophagy there's good evidence for changes in protein trenslation and those things are not mutually exclusive to inflammatory changes anyway but I think those are the three things that we have pretty good evidence for and so but I really think that all of these interventions that we're looking at are restoring dynamic range they're not it may take super physiologic changes to change that linear line right but I don't think that's what we're looking at right now we're restoring things that happen when you were young so given that we're not likely to have a human clinical trials a rap a mice in that study aging for the simple fact that we don't even know what an aging biomarker is we're going to largely be extrapolating from animal data if we have to make decisions about humans using rap a mice and for geroprotection. I'll push back a little bit then I know where we're going with this but we're doing a study like this in Singapore on humans. Okay six month intervention with rap a mice and and we're looking as many different parameters of it we're not doing disease in fact we're taking into the six months we're taking people that are 40 to 60 they may have a precondition for a disease but they don't have anything that would be defined as a disease okay so it could be you know high glucose but not dive you know and so the and then we're looking at changes in a wide range of different biomarkers clocks which so tell me a little bit more about the study so how many subjects we're doing these I don't remember the exact numbers somewhere around 150 to 200 so it's not huge and how you're dosing it intermittently once a week yeah how much I think it's five milligrams is what's in the protocol I'd it's being run by Andrea Meyer which is one of my collaborators in Singapore so five milligrams of rap immune once a week for six months and then let's go through all the different measurements yeah so a range of clocks inflammatory cytokine panels functional measures pulsoid velocity dexa strength measurements cognitive measurements and I'm still missing a couple of them but did you expect to see changes in strength or cognition or things like that IMean do you do you worry that those are kind of the wrong outcomes to look for in a six-month study of people that are young yeah well I think that you know this comes back to what do you measure and yeah this is where I knew we were calling with this um I don't think we know IMean certainly you can change those parameters I think if you exercise you're gonna change change your steps to move especially if this was a six-month exercise trial field boots I think six-month exercise trial might also change the cognitive parameters it's possible yep so I think it's a six-month sleep correction trial would undoubtedly change the cognitive parameters yeah so I don't think it's unreasonable that a drug could do these things as well I think rap a mice and it's complicated when it comes to muscle and I know that partly because I kind of feel like I'm gonna be non-scientific for a minute I I become my own best model organism so I try all kinds of different things on myself now I know it's any equals one I'm not sure rap a mice and then skeletal muscle without exercise I'm not sure what it's gonna do I one of the things I notice is when I take rap a mice and if I do like hard run I'm a runner I've gone to more lifting the lasT3 or four years but I've I've always been a runner I don't have good runs within 24 hours of taking rap a mice and and it may be because you have to activate him to her in a context or something sorry if you take rap a 24 hours prior to a run 24 hours of running yeah now what about if you take rap a after a run do you is your is your recovery better do you feel less sense of that what I do know is if I three or four days after I take rap I am really good trening so I think what's happening is that maybe in that short window after you take it you can't activate the pathway enough but in the long term what you're doing is dampening the basal signaling and you're getting the better dynamic range so if the trough levels are low I think but that's me but you know that's just something I'm going to experiment with that Brian because I always take rap a the same day of the week and my workouts are always the same like I do the same workouts on the same days of the week I'm gonna do it adjustment on that and see and I don't what it does I didn't try it with resistance either so I don't know what it's gonna do there so what tools do we have to measure a topology in humans well you can pull out blood cells we're talking about the limit IMean we're we're talking about the limitations of what you can get from a human right yeah blood saliva that that's what we're going to think and so you can pull out blood cells and you can look at you know white cells and see you know whether a topology pathways are induced or not you can take muscle biopsies we don't really like doing that in our clinical studies because it makes it harder to get volunteers I think if you do muscle biopsies the right way they're probably not that painful to people but people have that perception and we need healthy volunteers for our studies um I would love to look at muscle I think that you know autopidges another one of these dual ad sorts though right you've got you don't want autopidges all the time you want to know and hit the appropriate levels at the right time and if it's on all the time you're gonna get muscle atrophy probably so it's again it's about dynamic range what would you need to see in this study to feel that rap amycin is geo protective because my concern I suppose would be you're not gonna see a difference in dexa you're not gonna see a difference in physical performance you're not gonna see a difference in cognitive function you might see a reduction in certain cytokines but not all cytokines I forget what the other markers that you said were but my my I guess my concern is we're not able since we can't measure aging we're not going to see enough of a signal the other oh you mentioned epigenetic clocks um in an ideal world that would be the perfect tool to measure them except for the caber Linux experiment which I'm sure you're familiar with but yeah I agree with I use I bring Matt to all my conferences now because I use that slide where he did like eight of them at once yeah IMean their multiple issues here that one issue is are the consumer testing companies do they have a standardized enough protocol that it's reliable and I think I'm skeptical that that's the case I I think there and this is you're doing in house measurement we're not using anything between control everything so we get around a lot of those problems just for the listener so they understand what we're talking about Matt Cabro and boughT4 of the top commercial tests did them in duplicate simultaneously so it took eight tests at the same moment in time and he has a funny graph that shows how pathetic they are not only do none of the tests agree with each other the identical tests rarely agree with each other yeah so just if you're listening to this and you want to go out and get a commercial test that details you how old you are biologically yeah reconsider it okay I want to tell you we have the potential for a better clock in a minute so I put a pin on talk about that yeah but yeah so consumer wise I think there's concerns I think what are you using as a control when you talk about again given how inflammation and epigenetic change might be the only two signals that you find here and again this is just me being pessimistic nanny but this is just my prediction I do not think there will be a finding in any of those other measurements but you might have a chance with inflammation and epigenome if you're not your slave to I just think here's my problem with Paul's way of Brian it is so user dependent in terms of the technician who is doing like we don't use it clinically at all because we think it's a useless test because like I think the corroded into malfikening is a useless test and that's an easier test to do because unless you have a tech who basically has a PhD and how to do vascular imaging and they're the only one that does it every minute of every day if my patients come in with a CIMT I open a bird cage I take out the poopy bottom paper I put their CIMT in there I close yeah I just I use this it is so so I just worry that all of those tests are not going to they're just going to be noise no signal but these other two might have signal so then how do you what's your control for accelerated aging or something else? There's going to be really interesting if you did a six month parallel fasting trial where if you took people and you rendered them hypocoloric you know you put them on at some draconian 60% calorie diet for six months where you really think you would tamp down inflammation and a top of G and you probe if anything's going to reprogram the epigenome in six months you think that would be a that would be a very interesting control even if you had a fraction of the number of subjects yeah IMean we're doing multiple we just the first study was with the timer release version of AKG that with PDR help help a computer right yeah okay I'd like to have more about that's finished and we're just analyzing data so I can't tell you much data but we finished the trial we did six month intervention and three month follow up so we want to see if their changes do they maintain if you stop taking the compound okay because in mice oddly they do for aging but I'm skeptical that's going to happen in humans so we're doing multiple studies so this is sort of like you're on the same time but there we will be doing the same study over and over and over again with different interventions yes yeah it's like I was just saying your ITP equivalent in yes yeah and by the way I don't know six months is long enough I don't know for doing the right test I don't think anybody knows the exam what is the cost of doing that experiment you just described it's about a million and a half sinks so that's a million and a half US dollars yeah this is really interesting and not that I'm here to do this but it's just I get asked so much by people where can I put money where can I put money so I'd like to make sure that people who are listening to this who are thinking about hey how do I fund insanely high-leverage research yeah this to me strikes a great way to get on that right would love to have that because it's really hard to raise money for this stuff yeah but if you think about if you're if you're sitting there and you're listening to this and you're saying look I'd like to put a million dollars to work on something that would dramatically change you know adding a decade to life your way better off putting in my opinion you really are better off putting money into this type of trenslational research than you are into basic science or into you know farmy research that is tends to be a little bit more you know you're just you're not gonna find me still not doing the aging yeah yeah it's I you know they're thinking about it they're starting to but they've been saying that for a long yeah no this is this is great um because you can tell I have strong opinions on ideas for how to do some of these experiments so let's talk a little bit about Alpha Keta Glutorate and why we walk us through the rationale for how that came to be something that you would put through this type of rigorous program yeah so uh company full disclosure that I'm involved with a pdl health they have a product for juman now they came to us many years ago at the back and working with Gordon let's go and I and they were like this green natural products that would have an impact on aging because you know they're the mindset of the CEO of the what became the CEO of this company was that I I can't get drugs but proof for aging at any time in the near future this work with natural products and also things that the FDA just calls grass yeah out of the gap okay and let's let's look for combinations of things that work together um because we can get IP around combinations we can't get IP around single natural products um so we screened a lot of things in worms and AKG came out as one of the best things in worms and then we started testing interventions in mice and that's led now to we're testing like we do four or five different interventions studies in mice every six months now um not just with natural products and not just for this company but we built that into our own kind of ITP and mice too although we do it differently but anyway AKG came out as one of the biggest effects and then in the mouse studies we found that for male mice there was a combined effect with vitamin A and vitamins are an interesting discussion too and there was also a combined effect with both sexes with vitamin D and so that led to this product regimen which is AKG time release AKG very important because otherwise it's like any it goes away in five minutes if you don't have a time release version tell folks what Alphacita Glutorate is and shows it's a part of the is part of the crème cycle it's yeah it is it's a TCA cycle crème cycle central metabolite involved in hundreds of reactions it's a lot like an AD yep they're doing different things but they're both central metabolites they're both going down with aging and organisms and the ideas supplementing them back up would be beneficial um and so when we did that with AKG in mice we see about a five to ten percent increase in lifespan but a dramatic increase in frailty so when we meet increased the idea I know it's going to be yeah so that mice I would argue that you're still clearing along jumping in pervers we talk about it yep yeah so you know if we could if that trenslated to humans it would be a big impact and so that's what led to the human product by the way I think that if you did not extend lifespan by a day but you just improved health span yeah that's a home run yeah I agree for most people that is all they actually want yeah I agree I think if they get that they'll want the other two but that's yeah but yeah I never the reverse no nobody wants more life span without we're doing now I know I know I can't that's not a strategic point no yeah but yeah I completely agree with that so you know we're still excited about this product there's been with about AKG and especially the time release version and there's been you know some some studies that have been published one of which we helped analyze the data for using rudimentary methylation clocks showing that they reverse it that they reverse is aging by a few years again it's that oscillation thing we were talking about earlier I think and that's why we wanted to do a controlled placebo double-blighted clinical trial at the university and that case we're just testing the time release AKG we didn't include the vitamins because we're trying to get some mechanistic information we know what confounders in there but I'm I think as the data is still pretty good on AKG that it's going to have an impact in people so that human trial has been completed you're evaluating the data yeah you're going to have the CS signal but are you in each of these trials do you do the same measurements the the same outcomes generally yes but we we sometimes modify the primary endpoint because we want to choose a primary endpoint that's most likely impacted by the intervention in a way it doesn't matter that much because we're measuring as many things as possible anyway and of course we learn over time as we do things so we add things and we take things out they're not working well that sort of things so did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well we haven't published it yet but I am happy to talk a little bit about it we don't have human data but the mouth state is really good on your illiterate I I'm a believer it work in our hands the first what this why we haven't published yet because when we did it dramatically reduce frailty and male mice but not females and so we're repeating that because I there may be sex specific differences but we're the first ones to see that so we want to go back and see what's going on now I feel like I feel like I've written a newsletter on this where I came down on the side of this isn't doing anything is am IMistaking this for a different molecule is this the one that in theory enhances mitochondrial function is that the thought it the I just didn't enhance his mitophages so turn over of damage by the country I'm not sure I completely agree with that we do see that in cell culture but we also see mitochondrial biogenesis and so these two things are connected right if you induce mitochondrial biogenesis you'll also induce mitophagey and so it's kind of I'm not sure who's which words the chicken and where's the egg in this but it does seem to induce mitochondrial turnover but we also find other pathways we've done we when we look at a molecule if we don't know enough about it we like wrap up mice and we know it binds to amtor you're a myth and we don't know what it does an AKG also we know a lot of things it can do we don't know which ones are relevant for aging for a year of lithium we went back and did this screening assay to proteomics thermal shift assay that to look for binding partners for the compound and we have some so how tell me about the history that led to using it well for us IMean yohan oh where I published this data that it was slowing aging in mice and that's led to a lot of research so we weren't the first ones to study your a little bit and a lot of what we do is testing interventions that come from other labs because if I'm going to do a human study I want to at least see it repeated my hands in an animal first absolutely if it doesn't repeat in my hands it doesn't mean it doesn't work it may mean the conditions are different but I think it does if it does repeat it makes an argument for robustness and so that's why we started your lithium we've we also see positive effects of spermidine and glycine and other things but yeah so we we didn't make the initial discovery on your lithium but so we don't know the mechanism of action well they would argue it's increased by the condo turnover but we have a target we have targets we haven't published yet oh you didn't yeah yeah did you guys discover the target yeah we we've got a couple new targets that we haven't published yet so that could explain some of the effects and have you studied this in humans yet? No no yet that's planned but hasn't been done yet. This might be actually one of the ones where I would say unlike in the rapid trial you actually want to come up with primary outcomes that arEQuite different here this is where for example I'd want to see fat oxidation yeah I'd want to see you know what we talk about a zone two efficiency IMean if this is indeed improving my condo real function I'm not aware of a better test of my condo real function. Yeah I agree with you and and that raises the point of whether we should couple these interventions to exercise those ones for that one for sure that's a complication but it may be worth doing in this context not to get in your business you must muscle by obss these people. You're gonna have to get on way you're gonna have to get people to get to get to get a little punch by obss the other quads because it's just it's too important to understand what's happening. I think a lot of these supplements I'm gonna go back to an equals one story here. Yeah I think a lot of these supplements are impacting exercise and so it's kind of a a win-win you you you you take something you exercise better you drive benefits from that exercise so it's kind of you win twice with some of these so I'll tell you what happened recently I've been very skeptical of in eighty not that going down and restoring it won't be good but I'm skeptical it's going through sertones I think it could be doing a lot of other things but I'm also skeptical that in our in a minute or really changing in eighty levels that much and our mice don't really respond in our studies within our in a minute I've never noticed anything taking in our again that's just one person but that's me. When I last looked at this and I know I'm going to get a lot of hate mail because I always get hate mail when I talk about this the only study I've seen in humans that shows a real benefit of NR was in patience with ALS that had the patience in the NR group had a longer time before requiring ventilation than the patience on the placebo. Is there another study I'm missing? Well there've been health spent studies are getting improved health spent but by what metric? I don't I can tell you we've done them as well and we do see very subtle changes within our that are aspects of the frailty measurements in in mice or in human mice but it's not enough to really convince us it's statistically significant so I wouldn't be shocked if there's a tiny effect is what I'm saying but okay. And why do you think that is? Do you think it's that NR and NMN are not efficient vehicles to generate a NR? I think that's one thing for sure but let me tell you the rest of the story because I pretty much given up on the pathway and a company that came to me and wanted to test one of their products and this company is called I expire for them anyway. They have a new product that's sublingual in AD so they don't they specialize in technology for sublingual delivery and they make other things to. So just explain to folks why that matters you can't take NAD orally because it just gets destroyed. So typically people take NAD intravenously but if you take something under the tongue you get this magical property where it dissolves and it enters the circulation without passing through the digestion and obviously the liver where these things get chewed up. And you can do this every day right? IMean lots of drugs are given in this. Yeah, yeah. I vee just not practical on a competitive basis. How many milligrams of NAD are they? 100 milligrams and the one I'm taking also has Appagin and it which is a CD38 inhibitor. So CD38 is a consumer of NAD. So if you block that enzyme, this is another natural product. If you block that enzyme then you also effectively increase in and so I was taking that along with the regio of it which is the AKG plus vitamin A and also it would be complex but mainly AKG effect. And when I take them together, I notice this acute effect on my exercise performance. So I'm running my heart rate goes up. My respiratory rate doesn't go up as much. It goes up a little bit but normally if my heart rates at 150 or 155, I'm breathing hard, I'm breathing closer to normal when I take these two things together. I've gone off, I've gone back on. And if one is your rate of perceived exertion, tracking more with your respiratory rate or your heart rate. It's tracking more than my respiratory rate. I don't perceive that I'm exerting, I run faster when I do it. You know it would be so cool to see Brian is measuring your lactate levels at a fixed heart rate under those two different respiratory rates but under the same loads. So same do it on a treadmill just to make it ambiguous. I'd be super curious to see a lactate performance curve. I should do that. I don't think you can imagine this. I've got things telling me these two parameters. So it's really good. I like to just quit my job and do nothing other than these experiments. Yeah and like I said this may happen for no one else. I don't know. But for me it I can go off it sort of goes away. It's starting to not go away now because I've been ex- it's improving my exercise performance and now I'm getting more fit. So it's getting harder to see the effect but it still comes and goes when I go on and off either the AKG or the AKG or the energy. The other thing I'd be interested to see is let's pretend off drug heart rate 150 RPE7 velocity x. On drug I want you to go back to the same RPE. Let heart rate go higher and let velocity go higher and I'm curious as to how long you can sustain that relative to what you were doing before. And other words like does some other system get in the way that ultimately reduces your capacity? I can't answer but the first the reason I noticed is that I've taken iT3 days. I didn't even think about it. It's like every morning I do it. I was on the treadmill and running and I'm I keep pushing the speed up and I'm not getting out of breath and I was going to run 5k and ran 12k and I still didn't feel that tired at the end of it. And then I started thinking how did this happen because I know how my body performs and how many of them. So this is this molecule in trials yet with humans? It's not even have to be in trials it's a natural product so it's no but IMean it's on the market. Yes yes yes but if those of us who want to actually know if it works. Oh come on. Those of us who believe in this pesky thing got evidence. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm getting past that now I'm joking. There've been a lot of animal studies and they can show that when they I'm not even sure this is published I think I can say this. When they add sublingualy in a rat model you have to anesthetize the rats to get it the sublingual delivery. Yeah that you see it incorporated very highly in red blood cells the NAD. This was just with the NAD not epigenetic and so they're argument there is literature to support this and it's not my field but I'll just say what it is is that their channels that can take up NAD directly in certain cell types. There is yes. Yeah I had Josh Rubino it's on the podcast and he talked at length about this and yeah IMean what I took away from that discussion was intravenous NAD will work. Yeah ThEQuestion is what's it working for and so would you or belief be that the effect you experience here should be mirrored by what somebody experiences with intravenous NAD not with sanding the limitations of the frequency that they could do it? Yes I think so but the dose there's so much higher on IVN ADN it could be a too high I don't know but the interior yes and but this is so simple you just every morning gone in 30 seconds and so I think that I you know and for me again it's enhanced by the AKG too so it's you're adding two metabolites that are both going down with aging that are both involved in hundreds of different they're giving you cellular metabolic flexibility I think that's what they're doing I don't think it's one pathway they're activating and is the alfakita glutinrate with vitamin E or A that it's for a male it's vitamin A and the new product has some B complex and it is well and these are commercially available products and you're about to publish on them in humans. The regimen is already been published on the AKG by itself. Yeah uncontrolled not placebo controlled methylation study that of users okay so take what you want out of that we're not much. You can you can talk to me off my my my I don't want to try to I will say that I think community days valuable and I think if if you go back and look at the paper we didn't do the any analysis we just analyzed the data but if you go back and look at the paper I think we were very clear in that paper even in the abstract of the limitations of the finding. So I think that for community-based data it's better to have it out there and published but you have you want authors that are willing to be honest about what the data says and what the data doesn't say but yeah the study that's been completed is just AKG time release on none of the vitamins and it's placebo controlled and as many parameters as we can measure so hopefully it'll show something okay and then you're doing the one with vitamin A and E. No exactly we don't we're not doing that right now we'd love to do that but we we finance this study ourselves are the only thing the company did was supply the time release AKG and and so it would be good to go back and look at the actual product and in combined with this in AD now but I just sort of figured that out myself five months ago I don't even have any animal data that that's true it would be interesting to go back and add these things in animals but you can you know you can anesthetize a rat and do some legal delivery one time and measure the PKPD yeah but you can't do it for a moment time it's going to be a nightmare you mentioned spermity in a moment ago let's talk about that it's getting quite a bit of buzz tell us tell us everything about spermity well so we studied that a while ago and I was at the buck and we wanted to look at we were confused because at that time the data was spermity could extend lifespan but it didn't impact metabolism and I'm like almost everything in amounts of extends lifespan is some impact on metabolism so we did a high fat study with spermity and we we showed that in old animals spermity could suppress the metabolic dysfunction that came from a high fat diet in mice but we had some control mice too and actually not many but the country because the study wasn't designed to do lifespan but we left them alive and looked at survival and the spermity and extended the lifespan of the mice too. The spermity and been studied in the ITP I don't think it doesn't think it has don't call me but I don't think it has and so we we were able to repeat the lifespan effect in mice even though that wasn't the goal of our study and we showed that it restores metabolism and a calorie challenge context and so that's what made me believe that you know it's a robust molecule that we can see that effect as well so I would say I'm optimistic about spermity and as well that we have it done on spermity and occur in nature. You're um actually don't remember. It's actually occurring. It does naturally occur yes yes yes. So there's no I think it's in certain certain foods or have it but I'm worried I'm complaining that with the year of lithium so. Okay have you guys looked at alpha estradial 17? No we haven't looked at that. I would be an interesting one. Yeah I agree and I'm also run the director of an Asian Center for reproductive longevity and equality and in US and Singapore we're looking at ovarian aging and there's two things I've it's it's made me this is like you know it's like PhD biologists you know all of a sudden I'm getting asked a million questions about HRT so I decided I better learn something but there's two things that I've learned from this one is that geroprotectors tend to extend fertility in mice and it's not just one thing it's spermity and it's AKG it's been shown for met farmland and rapomice and and what is there a rapatrial going on I think it could be a ear for now and so yeah and so that's one really potentially useful avenue of trenslation for these geroprotectors I'm really excited about that. The other thing I think and maybe you have more expertise than I do so you're pleased disagree is that thEQuestion should not be should a woman do HRT thEQuestion should be is there any reason a woman should not do HRT because I just see the the value of hormone replacement to far outweigh the risk and the majority of women I don't know if you feel that way but there's some here and so 17 office interesting right because it worked in males yeah it's also non-feminizing I don't know what that really means but IMean I not sure how much I believe that but you know and so it could be triggering some of these same pathways and and I know you know the you know testosterone is another one that you know and I did the study on it and show it's a little bit of an increased risk and prostate cancer and then everybody said don't do testosterone replacement and I think that although that's been fully fully I agree now yeah and then so most men are not doing that are if they're doing it they're doing in an uncontrolled ways that in taking levels maybe to too high that could be dangerous and so I feel like that there's a lot of like men are in a better position today because one more trials have been done to undo the bad ones so traverse trial which is published probably been a year now but that sort of undid a lot of the even though the traverse had many problems with it but it undid a lot of the damage of some of the fear mongering from really bad studies that suggested testosterone and prostate cancer turns out it's the exact opposite but women unfortunately are still struggling under the dark cloud of the women's health initiative which was you know apocryphal and IMean it just you know they no one's undone it and I traveled at 25 countries again a lot of countries in Southeast Asia and so now everywhere I go if I see a doctor I'm like how many women are doing HRT and what are you finding extremely low like extreme because they're deferential to US recommendations or I think that changes and the what doctors tell people is slower in in these countries but maybe there's less risk it's also cost money right so if you have somebody that doesn't have a lot of access to finances they may be less able to do it in these countries I don't know all the reasons but I'm just I'm just looking into it now but it's stunning how how low the HRT is around the world still and and we're just missing an easy opportunity I think to help people I agree IMean I think there's a part of me that is just so interested in the front here and like how do you push the boundaries of this stuff how you know I truly could be infinitely happy working nowhere but at the front here is if thinking about the molecules but at the same time I feel just as excited about trying to figure out how to make sure people aren't scoring own goals all day yeah right like there's so many ways to just help a person without anything magical find another five years of life and dramatically improve health span well through judicious use of everything from HRT to correct exercise reasonable nutrition like there's just so many great ways to do it but obviously the idea of doing both of these is so appealing I come back every three months the you know I lived here 50 years and then I left and I come back every three months and the same two things you know you leave someplace you come back you notice things you didn't notice right and and the same two things every time I come back or I get it in the airport I don't even have to like leave the airport one is so many people are not in health they're not in shape there's so much obesity you know it's it's striking compared to almost anywhere else in the world the second one is people just seem so stressed here I don't get that I Singapore is a pretty stressed country and I still feel that people are more stressed here when I come back where are the obesity rates in Singapore relatively low but in Asia you've got this challenge with skinny diabetes right and so you have a lot of people that can't build the out of positive that they need right but they're storing all the difference between the wrong places and this is maybe even worse than so the diet is moving more Western in Asia and it's creating problems it's just not as obesity associated so and now that you're coming back do you notice a difference at all based on SGLT2 inhibitors pardon me GLP1 Agamis I think they're making a difference but I guess you know I'm not passing the airport test yet yeah I don't know how widespread they're being used either this you probably know that you know I don't think I'm familiar with the latest stats on how why they're being used let's let's go back to the kind of the epigenetic lock situation so do you think that there could be value in this as a tool right and and let me hold the bar as high as I think it would need to be to justify their use so right now we have this thing called chronologic age I can look at your birth certificate I can know how old you are and based on that I can make an estimate of how much longer you will live so if I look at a person who's 40 years old and I know nothing else about them and then I see another person who is 65 years old and I know nothing else about them I can say with a high degree of confidence that the 65 year old person will live you know I'm making this up because I'm not an actuary but somewhere between 20 and 30 more years and the 40 year old person I can say with a pretty high degree of confidence will live you know whatever somewhere between call it you know 30 to 50 more years or something like that now to me that's a pretty good test right I know I know I know I know I know a knowable measurable thing about them it's measurable I know in their birth date right and it predicts future life so do you think biological clocks will ever serve a purpose like that where I could take 250 year olds and one of them has a biological age of 40 and one of them has a biological age of 60 according to the clock and that those numbers will actually be better at predicting future life than their chronological age of 50 or do you put yourself in the camp that says no Peter that's a ridiculous standard that no biological clock could ever come to but it might tell me about their health it might be yet another biomarker that says hey the guy at 40 is just healthier than the guy at 60 and somehow by the way it's picking that signal out of a data field that I can't pick out anywhere else because they otherwise look identical we measured this recently because we collaborators of mine at in U.S. and beyond grubber and function and I had this small role in this project they decided the functions of a geriatrician he sees people all the time frustrated you know what can the geriatricians have limited things they can do they're seeing people that are already have multIMorbidity and you know the clocks are not that useful and so he's wanted to like how do we create a reliable clock that a doctor can understand and so we for what purpose for um biological age I'll tell you what I think the purpose is for a minute okay um and this build so their first generation and second generation clocks the first generation clocks try to predict your chronological age and the second one's predict some outcome so thEQuestion is we want to predict mortality we know and predict your chronological age so intrinsically if it works it's going to do better than the chronological age for the second generation clocks um so we took in hands you know data collected around 1999 2000 mortality data for 200 months and we just and and these parameters are nice and because you can actually do a consumer test of HBA one-see you know there are many labs that do that it's reproducible to a large extent much better than DNA methylation and doctors use all these parameters so the things that are in hands like LDL you know all the things in your book and I'm a Tory markers you know medical tests you know some some cognitive self-reported stuff so he's like everything is a feature and use AI linear model to try to predict mortality um and they're on the second generation of this clock now and it predicts mortality better than any other parameter in in hands it's way better than S.C.V.D. the cardiovascular disease measurement um and so recently the methylation data came out on in hands and so we could go back and compare the mortality prediction for methylation clocks some of the first generation clocks are worse than chronological age your passport is better than are predicting mortality which to me means that they're not useful because you know even if they're not designed to predict mortality if they don't capture some element of that what are they measuring you know the second generation clocks like Grim age and pheno age they do better jobs and chronological age for sure at predicting mortality yeah and it's just to be clear we've captured that out of the end-hanes database that's from in hands that's the only thing we've looked at right now okay let me make sure I understand that by death you had 200 months yeah a forward-looking data so anyway you've got 18 years of data and um you're saying we if we know the methylation of somebody at that time in the cohort 1999 to 2000 we could predict their date of death better than the actuarial data of the rage yeah okay I wasn't aware of that well it's just I'm not I don't think it's even it's been accepted for public history okay I'm not sure it's online yet okay it's not you're that's very interesting okay yeah that's because that so that basically answers a question that I've never seen answer yeah but our clinical chemistry clock does better than that those okay and and what is included in that clinical clock and what they're about 50 parameters that we measure now but see complete blood count gives you about 30 of those parameters so it's not as elaborate as you think it would yeah yeah I know I'm well and then you know it's a lot of standard markers that you are so you're probably measure also that I guess that was going to be my question yeah is it's about 300 dollars in Singapore if you did it all to know of it but anybody going to a doctor's office has most of those parameters measured anyway and if they're going to you know a wellness longevity centered all of them are probably of course yeah and so the thEQuestion I suppose is this if you're met life you already like you are better at predicting mortality than anybody on the planet I I don't know if it's met life by the way but like pick the best life insurance company yeah like this is their business yeah they're so good at predicting mortality it's frightening yeah so yeah I don't know how they're doing that so I can't come in and nobody does right yeah my point is they're looking at age yeah they're looking at a whole bunch of things in your medical history yeah they're looking at a whole bunch of blood tests your blood pressure your weight your waist your circumference all those things and they're coming up with an exceptional prediction of remaining years on life the real question is do you believe that they will incorporate a second generation uh and you know to clock or do you believe that they've already got that captured in their data set they may I don't know that's an unanswerablEQuestion I bet again I were focusing on the clinical chemistry anyway we're not doing any methylation yep so and what we're finding is hospitals want to use this now big clinical chemistry or methylation clinical chemistry and I think it's because it resonates you know when you when you show them the list of parameters yep a doctor doesn't have to be an expert in epigenetics to figure out what's going on and the other thing is it all actionable so we have principal components that we can break it down and we can see smoking in one component and we can see metabolic disease in another one and obesity and another one and we find cases we find it's up you conclusions from this are really interesting one is we find cases where nothing's out of the reference range okay so a doctor that's looking at things especially if they have a few minutes to look at they're not going to prescribe anything for this person yeah but these four parameters in this principal component are increasing you know they're they're biologic age by four years which means it's increasing there it's 50% increase in mortality risk so that these are actionable things you know you can treat LDL you can treat high blood pressure you can treat these markers right and so clinicians are actually willing to then be a little bit more aggressive and try to prescribe something or lifestyle modification there's something to treat these markers so yeah exactly that makes sense the reason that you prefer this is it doesn't just give you an answer it gives you a solution yeah that's what we're working toward and and so we're the other thing we did is we broke and hands down really interesting so you can in hands also has all the medications people are taking but the the weakness of it is a snapshot it's a cross-sectional measurement of all these things but they measured a lot of stuff and so we could look at what our people's clinical parameters out of the reference ranges should they be being prescribed some drug and they're not being given it and that goes up to about 20% and when you're 65 years old and then year 2000 in the US meaning 25% of people should be giving treated for something but they're not being treated those people have a higher biological age and pastoral mortality not surprising there's also the group that has everything every at 65 every clinical parameter looks good and they have a lower biological age they live longer but you can break that group down and you can say one group is not taking any medication and the other group is taking medication it's just their clinical parameters are managed well the people taking the medication have a lower biological education live longer and it doesn't really matter what the medication is you know it's true for the major medications you would give for metabolic and cardiovascular disease in the year 2000 so I think that's suggests that being more aggressive and getting people optimized earlier is better than just being on pretty healthy and my blood pressure is a little bit high but I don't need to take you know and so it's suggesting we need to be more aggressive I think the other thing is that it's suggesting that these drugs that were around in 2000 for these treating preconditions are actually aging drugs they're actually it's one of the last classes that we see the most common lipid and hypertension hypertension metabolic metmettmett form and it's a standard things and so do you think metformin will have zero protective properties in people who are metabolically healthy skeptical but I think what it is saying is that if you catch preconditions early enough you keep protect against the other failure states a little bit too so it's so you're more optimistic that wrap a mice and would be zero protective in humans than metformin yeah that would be my do you think there is a drug out there that you think is more likely to be zero protective in humans than rapamison at this time well the the GLP drugs and STLT2 I think are interesting I don't think how good day I'm right now but it's definitely again I don't know in people that are yeah if you're a beast I need yeah let me rest a question if we if we just took a population a middle aged healthy individuals yeah and we we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm the metformin arm the rapamison arm the STLT2 inhibitor arm and the GLP one agonist arm what is your prediction in length of life or additional years of life given in that the six arm study or whatever it is I think the lasT3 would be comparable metformin arm skeptical of so rapa STLT2 GLP one yeah I just I and we don't have data and healthy people that much with STLT2 and GLP one IMean so mechanism of action is what if these if the if the GLP one group and the STLT2 group are metabolically healthy they don't have glucose excursions that are high they're you know they're yeah I'm so what do you believe is the mechanism of action I guess you know if it I think I guess I'm going by a different statement which is most people were calling healthy or not totally metabolically healthy and so in those cases I think there would be a benefit but then I guess I know in the perfectly optimized person whether there'd be a benefit and I every time I talk to a doctor I ask them are you losing more lean muscle mass with these drugs then you are just by fasting or or lifestyle and I get if I ask 10 doctors I get 10 answers so I don't know what they I don't know what the answer to that question is but I think the reason that at least is a thought experiment it's an interesting question is because if the GLP one agonist and STLT2 inhibitors only work if you have some degree yeah of glucose yeah irregularity yeah then it begs thEQuestion well it says look glucose homeostasis is one of the most important features of living great yeah but if you could correct that with diet sleep and exercise which you can yeah I agree it's hard but you it could be done yeah then those things aren't going after fundamental pillars of aging because people who eat well who exercise well and sleep well still age yeah it's going it's answering you know matinee debate this all the time about you know and we did it we published a study in mice recently where we analyzed all the data that's out there in mice and and we tried to determine you know where's reality on interventions that extend lifespan in mice because if the short live if the control mice are really short lived which happens a lot why is that it's just really hard to control IMean if you look at the ITP data the control mice are all over the board and they're very well controlled best scientist doing the experiment we see a lot of variation too I just think it's there are some cases they're bad by variums and that make causes of problem but even in good by variums I don't know that's true in every organism in yeast in worms one cohort of worms will all live a little bit shorter one cohort of worms will live a little bit longer it's cohort dependent but I don't know why but anyway if the if the mice are short lived if your extension is there all you can say is it's longevity normalizing you don't know that it's slowing aging it's only when the controls are really long lived and you're getting extension that you can really make the argument it's longevity extending and so that gets to your question the real answer though is dependent on how many people you believe that are optimized right now because it's very this study yeah I don't know of course it it it it is a normalizing works in this population trust me with least for help for for keeping people healthy but whether it's really slowing aging is it as an open question I think I think the best case would be wrap a mice in there yeah and and then of course it begs thEQuestion which is could these effects be additive right so so would there be a benefit to a person who is on balancEQuite healthy but let's say they're they're having a one-see if it is indeed an accurate representation of their average glucose is 5.4 percent so I don't know exactly what that trenslates to it probably trenslates to an average blood glucose of 110 or so milligrams per decelerator but the data the data that show based on hemoglobin A1 see that lower is always better so 5.0 is better than 5.4 even though 5.4 is deemed completely healthy and that's that's all cause mortality data so we're saying we take a person who's at 5.4 they're not even pre-diabetic they can't even they can barely see where pre-diabetic starts let alone diabetic but we give them an sglt2 inhibitor they come from at 5.4 can I can I can volunteer for this there you go so you go from 5.4 down to 5.1 just on the basis of that we throw a glp one agonist on top of that now you're at 4.9 then we give you rap a mice and which really doesn't impact your glucose but we think it's going to do something a little bit different you would say in that situation you might believe that there's some actual general protection that not adding that formula I don't want to lose muscle mass though and which of those drugs would you be most afraid of the glp one agonist or rap a glp one agonist okay I I think lean muscle mass is like super important it's probably better to have high lean muscle mass and be a little bit more fat than it is to be low on both as my best guess now what do you make of the data that I talk about all the time which look at the hazard ratios for mortality based on high VO2 max and high muscle mass and high strength and how those three things stand out so far above anything else meaning like when you look at hazard ratios associated with smoking type 2 diabetes even cancer they are not as lethal as being incredibly weak incredibly low in muscle mass and incredibly low in fitness and do you how much causality do you think is there versus how much of that is just those are just such good markers of health I think there's causality there I think it's super important but it may only be important for squaring the curve I don't think there's much evidence that maximum lifespan is extended by these things and we don't have the human data of course the animal data can't do the experiment the animal data is pretty much with exercise is just square the curve again that's I agree with you it's a revolution if we can do that I'm not I'm not being negative about it but I don't know about maximum lifespan whether there be an effect or not but I believe it's so much that I put a lot of effort in increasing my lean mass you know and so that's why I started resistance trening because I wasn't getting as much from running I get I get more mindfulness from running yeah you know I get but I did a lot more resistance trening too so yeah I typically will tell patients that you should really think of exercise yeah I do actually think it's it's reducing your risk of chronic disease but then you still get into the whack-a-mole game if it lowers your risk of Alzheimer's disease it might not have much of an impact on cancer risk it's unclear but if it didn't if it lowered your life expectancy by six months it would still be worth it based on the health span benefits that you get and thEQuality of life that you would enjoy especially in that final decade of life probably let me come back to one point because I'm a bit of a rant about this combining interventions you know first of all I will say two things before I say what I'm going to say one is that I believe we need to empower people to make decisions on their own health and so I support hackers if they want to you know educate themselves and try different things and they know what the benefits and risk might be and what we know and we don't know more power to I feel like part of the reasons we get such low compliance and medications is that we don't empower people we don't give them choices they don't know why they're doing things we just tell them what to do and people don't respond well to that so having said that I can't pick three interventions that work well together I know in a mouse you know and we do these studies all the time the thing they're more likely to cancel each other out than to have additive effects and so if you're mixing 20 colors of our taking 20 pills it's like mixing 20 colors of paint together you're going to get some ugly gray outcome or it best you're going to get an unknown outcome that we can't predict so I'm really cautious and want to tell people that you know there are a lot of people out there promoting doing a million different things at the same time I try one or two things at the same time and I try to see how my body responds IMeasure things measure even simple measures are useful and I think that if you're doing 10 things you don't have any idea what's working and what's not working and whether things might be impairing each other and I really think that's a scary path to go down. Now what about for example how are you deciding to use the Alfakita Glutorate and the NAD if IMean because you've seen at least some evidence that each of those individually wants I've been using the the regimen with the AKG for a long time because I was involved in the research you know I'm actually in the board of the company I it's something I've done and I've just taken for years and I add one thing to it and take it away so I've tried as to Santa and I've tried Fokoid and I've tried rap a mice and I've tried a bunch of other things too so and I try to measure before and after I'm getting better at that when I first started doing it wasn't measuring that much but and so that that's the approach I take but I never take like six things at one time and it's kind of intuitive it's something's interesting to me you see an effect on the mice that I want to try it so like I want to do your a little bit and an astasat the next and if you had significantly more resources right so let's say you had a budget that is what what is your current budget this year for both animal and human research? It's complicating as the multiple streams I would say we probably spend about 4 million a year okay so if that number were multiplied by 10 or 20 yeah like if you had a 125 you had a hundred million dollar annual budget to do world changing trenslational zero science what would you be doing different I think the scale would be one we just can't when you do a combination in mice you've goT4 groups yeah and I think we if we had more money we could design sort of multifactural clinical studies and pre-clinical studies where we're testing many compounds at the same time we're sort of doing nested groups you know and and we could get a indication for things that actually could be additive together not just things that are working on their own right now we struggle to get to that next step for finances and we could apply those to human studies and combine it with lifestyle interventions too the other thing we really believe is that when you have a compound like you're a lithium you're never going to really know what to combine it with unless you know what the compound's doing so we do a lot of discovery stuff now trying to figure out not what pathway if you take a drug like rapomites and it affects every homework that doesn't tell you the primary thing the drug is doing in this case we know it binds to our your lithium we don't know so we need to know what that molecule's binding to in the cell and if we understand the mechanism at that level we can combine it better with other interventions and start to understand how to put the puzzle together of what we need to combine to get the biggest effect do you have enough human resources to deploy that kind of capital if it were available it would take a center to do it but yeah we could build it and in Singapore is very motivated by the way I have to give the government credit they've understood the aging problem before almost anybody it's taken them a long time to really figure out what to do about it and you know so they went through kind of early stages of putting roofs on sidewalk so people walk in extra hundred steps in the hot sun you know it sort of helps but you know but now I think they're really motivated to commit to targeting hellspan which you know if they do it's the right place to be because it's a small island it's a compliant population they believe in the population it's 5 million and then one extra one million workers and 5 million people that live there permanently I think that it's a good place to really take studies not just in the clinic but move them into the community and actually get validation and large populations and that's why I like being in Singapore I think the opportunities there to make it an example for how to do hellspan it's already very long live by the way so you know it's among the top three in the world depending on what statistics you want but the hellspan that people still have morbidity there they still have 10 12 years of sickness and decline if you there's a lot of frailty there you can see that just walking around so there's room for improvement for sure how will AI help in this field do you do you think it will allow for more intelligent experiments will it allow for better signal detection in messy data like IMean how do we unleash AI or is it not already for the clocks and signal detection we're using it to pick drugs now where we just publish the paper with Garrett full-end in Germany where we're trying to improve how to ask large language models question the medical questions related to longevity you know I talked a lot of doctors and they said they shouldn't be asking perplexity thesEQuestions and I'm like I'm a realist you know people are asking so this figure out how to get them thEQuestions asked you know right way to get the right thing more in terms of the research yeah just giving you yeah I think that I think what's going to happen next is AI is going to start telling us what questions to ask right now it's telling me how to analyze our data yeah it's still not very good at telling us what the next question is and I think that that's the that's the sort of the thought we get it there how do we how what yeah IMean this is a very difficult question it's not one that I'm qualified to answer but I think that thEQuestion is the trajectory that it's on now is amazing is there a barrier to go to that next step or is it just a matter of getting computational power and slightly modifying neural network algorithms or something I don't know the answer to that but I do think there's a reasonable chance of that that I'm not going to be needed in 10 years I think about this question a lot when it comes to experimental topics because I still don't have a good enough sense of what the how many trening cases and AI needs to learn this like we know for language what it took yeah we understand how many tokens were needed to to to to allow the neural networks to do what they do today and it was enormous yeah so there are some problems that might require far less input yep you might be able to do it with 10,000 hours of data yeah as opposed to billions of hours of data yeah so to me I think it's that's thEQuestion more than anything else yeah I have I was wondering if you had a point of view on the answer yeah I don't really know I all I know is half my lab is doing it now so it's AI never would have guessed that five years IMean they're trying to use AI to help them ask experimental questions yeah or interpret data you know just okay the latter I can other day yeah it we've become half dry lab which I never would have guessed in my lab so it's a meaning that half the people just sit at computers and you know aren't doing experiments animals yeah so what are you most excited about trying to uncover truth or high probability of truth in the next five years I think experimentally at least pre-clinically we want to find interventions that really combine together to have synergistic impacts I don't think there's much out there there's a mice and a metpharmand and a couple other things from the ITP but they're small effects can we break through a barrier and get 50 60% effects in mice by combining things together I think that's what pre-clinically we're excited about and the other thing I'm excited about is going back to this entropy question are there new classes of interventions that change that primary linear accumulation of quote unquote damage I'm also really excited now I'm working with longevity clinics in various countries and so we're applying the clock we bill we're also helping them try to decide which interventions to do and how hopefully collect data so it can be analyzed because I think there's so much going on I tell this joke all the time at getting scared to tell it more but you know it used to be that yeast in worms and flies were the model organisms for aging research and now billionaires are the model organisms because they're doing all kinds of stuff I can't even and I'm really curious to see what's happening some of it I guess might work some of it I guess might not work but we can't find out in the other way and I don't want to see these clinics working and in isolation and nobody's ever at least learning what's coming out of the data even if it's not perfect so I'm excited to work with these clinics and go see what they're doing right now that's maybe not the answer to your question but there's a lot of cutting edge stuff going on and I will pretty much work with people if they're doing something I consider safe and if they're honest about the data on efficacy those are the two things I ask trensparency and safety and then I'm happy to like try to interact what are you seeing that you're worried about what trens do you see that people are doing from a biohacking longevity standpoint that that have you concerned either and I'll put this in two buckets the higher bucket would be safety the second bucket would be predatory behavior around basically people getting you know having having their money wasted even if the agents that are being sold are not necessarily harmful yeah I think the first one I'm excited about gene therapy don't get me wrong I think it's interesting and it may really change the field going forward I even kind of like follow-statt but I'm follow-statt and as a protein yeah yeah but I think that those treatments are not very well proven yet and I would not do I ask thEQuestion what I you have sold 100 thousand dollars for follow-statt and gene therapy I probably don't have to spend the money and I still have a dud at so I've done MSC's though yeah I've the to try that and I think you know stem cells it's a it's a different question there I think if you're repairing soft tissue damage or something like that and injecting them directly probably works um for aging I have no idea but I think it's probably safe if you have somebody that's a good practitioner that knows what they're doing but I think there's a lot of this a problem with stem cells you go places and you really don't know who you're working with and you know if they're really treating the cells correctly if you're putting the right things in your system and so there's a safety concern they're based on the practitioner I think and so those are things that concern me I I haven't gotten totally on board with growth hormone yet IMean I think probably use correctly might be okay the data is interesting are you aware of human data that and I'm in your camp by the way which is actually had a bunch of friends over for dinner last night and this came up and yeah I was sort of uh I said look I I can't point to a study that tells you this is this is a bad idea and I've never spoken to a person who takes a modest judicious dose of growth hormone who doesn't tell me they feel that right so it's hard to believe it's not making people feel better um I also have never seen data to suggest it initiates yeah but it seems very biologically plausible that if you have cancer small amounts of cancer yeah your probability that this becomes clinically significant is higher in that case yeah again I say that with no data yeah me and so yeah my view has just been despite my own interest in trying things I I've I've left the growth hormone one off the list um is that an answerablEQuestion do you think yeah I think we could do clinical studies you know and some are being done with the rest of the safety of the concern right because you you really need to be able to try to track people for quite a long period of time so problem with the cancer is inevitable and all of these things right we we don't know what the long term yeah and and I guess you know it's a great area that you know this is a weird thing with these clinics right because you know you there's I think from what I read in your book you're you're doing sort of validated stuff you're you're you're not really out there in the stratosphere doing crazy stuff that we don't know about some of that I would like to think I'm not but I'll tell you there are people who are very critical of my use of rap a myson in in patients for for georeprotective reasons there are people who might think I'm crazy for giving people SGLT to inhibitors who don't have diabetes so yeah so I think there's things that we do not not for all of our patients and I again I fewer than 10% of our patients take rap a myson because my view is unless you're willing to have a very lengthy discussion about the pros the cons the risks the uncertainties and I don't give people an answer that says oh this is the stuff's amazing my answer is I don't know yeah here's how I think about it probabilistically here are the trade-offs and again after after you can tell I'm not a good salesman if only 10% of the patients are taking it look I think that's perfectly reasonable but there's they're cutting stewing some really out there stuff yeah and how do we know the long-term safety on it we just yeah I think I think if you're gonna go do that stuff you need to go in with your eyes open you're you're taking a risk I've just seen so many horror stories of people that have come back from parts of the because you can't do this a lot of the stuff you can't even do in the United States so they're coming back from South America Mexico places in Asia having done fallest at therapy or other sort of very questionable stem cell therapies and IMean people that have had horrible infections like literally just artifacts of the treatment never lots of practitioner problem with this yeah exactly yeah yeah but you know some great stuff happening to I work with Brumran grad hospital in Thailand and they've got a longevity clinic now and they're very grounded in good science and so yeah but the problem is if you're a consumer for these products it's really hard to know you know so how someone listening to us who's saying guys can you give me give me some rules of thumb some heristics for navigating the never never ending landscape of of longevity hacks that keep you know showing up on my Instagram feed my TikTok feed and at cocktail parties yeah IMean that could be that could be diet books and not just going to clinics in the around the world I think it's really difficult to sort that out and because it's the but there's what I was gonna say is it's it's clinical practice and research at the same time it's a very unique situation right and and there aren't many examples of that that I know of that are really maybe some functional medicine is a little bit like that too but it's uh it's interesting and and I feel like it's better for scientists to engage with you know where it's possible to engage with these clinics and try to help them then it is to just let people do things and you know and without if you can provide oversight that's helpful you should be doing it then so that's kind of how I feel about it but it's a a lot of a lot of academics don't even want to work with these clinics at all too so and and so I get criticized for working with them sometimes so it's it's it's an interesting world right now well there are a lot of things we talked about today Brian that I can't wait to follow up on myself so I'm really looking forward to the Enghane's second gen lock paper that'll be interesting again my personal curiosity there will be is that clock providing value overall the other day we have my intuition is it won't but the fact that we now at least have a clock that can outperform biological age are part of me chronologic age is a step in the right direction I'm gonna be very interesting to see some of the data that you've talked about as far as Alfaqidic ludorate you've also peaked my curiosity with the sublingual LADM sorry and so that's that's really interesting have you been able to measure NAD levels in your RBCs I have that myself there have been some studies done on that exact supplement yes I I don't think you think anything is published is done by the company but okay and I do like this idea of taking ITP winners and combining them and seeing if we can get IMean if you could get a creative value IMean that would be remarkable but even if you could just get additive benefit would be pretty amazing yeah yeah I think so too right now I think that's still a hang up for the field well this was super interesting Brian I um I I really appreciate making the time to come out here I know that being on a plane for that long is not always fun but that's where I live anyway so it's Thanks a lot

=== FILE: 359 ‒ How metabolic and immune system dysfunction drive the aging process, NAD, aging clocks, & more [818-8vS5JpA].txt ===

I talk about these things called the fore-oursemen. The four things that are basically coming for us all. I really should have added a fifth-horseman, and that is immune health. Thank you for bringing this up. There are two organs that are rate-limiting in terms of your aging, and it's a central nervous system, and the immune system. What is our strategy for mitigating immune decline? The proof is in a putt-it-putting, in a way that we know exercising, and a combination of exercise is the best anti-aging intervention we have turned over to where you wanted to around metabolism. What is it about metabolism that is really so important? I'm convinced that it is fuel utilization. I think ketones are probably the clenest fuel to burn, in terms of, again, byproducts oxidative stress. You're going to put more GLP1 in the system. You're going to overcome the resistance at the beta cell. You make more insulin, you now have better glucose control. Everybody wins. I just wanted to really experiment for myself to try to see, okay, what is this job really doing? It's been nothing short of remarkable, I think. How could it be that supplementing NAD does not lead to a longer, better life or some health benefit? Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Eric, thank you so much for coming to Austin. I know it wasn't just to talk to me. I know that the half of it was getting you to drive on the track at Kota, tomorrow with me, so we're going to have some fun there. My pleasure. But as much as I think the two of us could sit here and talk about race cars for the nexT3 hours, I don't think the audience would appreciate it or care for it as much as they will care for what we will talk about, which is your work in neuroscience. So maybe give folks a little bit of a sense of what attracted you to this field and how you're journeying background to brought you where you are. It's a bit of a serendipitous type of story in a way that I'm an MD by trening from Belgium. Did my last year of medical school at Harvard and this just sort of opened my eyes to a whole world. I was the first person and my family to go to college, so this was ending up at Harvard with some of the best teachers. Some of the best students was just mind-blowing. I went to medical school wanting to do research. There was never had that sort of a doctor fiber, I call it, so I really wanted to actually do research. So after this finished medical school and came back for the regular postdoc at the Charleston Clinic working on diabetes and metabolism. This is where the story gets so critical. Ended up becoming interested in the reason for the etiology of type 1 diabetes and worked on viruses and autoimmunity. This eventually led me to mostly a career in neurology which confuses people. So I spent many years working on a variety of viruses including HIV and herpes viruses and so on. And through that work we ended up cloning a family of protein called the some of the first epigenetic regulators, the H-dax. And the H-dax at the time that there was 1996 we were responsible for the cloning of a whole family of these epigenetic regulators ended up being important in aging and starting in around 1995, 1996 my lab slowly shifted towards the study of aging. And to this point today actually I only have one last postdoc in the lab who's working on HIV. The whole lab is actually focused on epigenetics, immunology and metabolism so that the interface between these variables. So in some way it's the beauty of an academic career which I've just followed my interest and sometimes followed the money a little bit in terms of funding. Yeah. And now IMean I had another additional responsibility which is to lead the back Institute for research on aging so I split my time between the lab and some more leadership type of activities. You mentioned two things there, metabolism and immunology. Talk a little bit more about how each of those individually contributes to aging. I think most people will intuitively understand it but but talk maybe a little deeper about it. Well first immunology is central to aging in many respects. One of the, and I hope we can talk, you get to talk about this later. There is data showing that there are two organs that are rate limiting in terms of your aging and its essential nervous system and the immune system. And the reason for this is actually one could have predicted this based on the fact that both organs are distributed organs. If you think of the immune system it's located in pretty much throughout the whole organism. And so its activity can influence the well-being or the functioning of every single organ. The same goes for the central nervous system and there's recent study coming out actually from the lab of Tony Whiskeray showing that those biomarkers that measure aging in those organs appears to be the most predictive of your lifespan. There's also incredible data showing that if you induce a specific lesion in the immune system. For example, in my small role, if you you knock out ERCC1, the inadamage, repair only in the bone marrow so that the whole immune system is affected. You actually induce, etc. in aging in the whole organism and synescence in every single organ. So there's the immune system in what model? It's been done in two different models in mice. So there's been done with the ERCC1 mutation. It's also been done by knocking down the major trens-team-fam, the major trenscription factor from mitochondria. So if you induce mitochondrial dysfunction only in the immune system, you induce secondary synescence in the whole organism. You think that would be true in mammals or in humans? That's always a million dollar question. In some way, it's been shown in two different models in mice. B6 which I don't remember the exact stren of the mouse, but there's no reason why it should be different, frankly. And it speaks to the importance of the immune system. The second way for the immune system is through chronic inflammation, which is tied, caused and effect in the whole aging process. Now, and we can talk about this later as well. I find it fascinating, you know, the whole idea of chronic inflammation, which is induced by the aging process, but which itself actually further accelerates aging. So there's really a lot of work that's being conducted in this area. The other one that you were asking is metabolism. I think is... Can I ask you a question before we go? Yeah. That's a very interesting idea that two organ systems that are going to be rate limiting in age are the central nervous system and the immune system, both at which are distributed. Where would you put the endothelium in that list as well? Right? The endothelium is also quite distributed across the organism. And do you think that there's an inevitability to basically endothelial damage as a process of aging, which of course results in the leading cause of death, the theathristalorotic diseases? Would you think of it the same way or do you think of it as different? It's not sort of defined as an organ by itself. It's a cell type, but I agree with you has incredible importance. And especially as it affects the, you know, the heart and cardiovascular system and the brain. And the brain. But I think of it as not so much as an organ but more as a sort of a principle that maintenance of barrier function. Yeah. And not only in the endothelium, but also in the skin, in the blood-brand barrier, our emerging as key areas to focus on if you want to maximize your longevity. Yeah. I want to come back to this in great detail Eric, but let's for the sake of summary and synthesis, turn over to where you wanted to around metabolism. So metabolism is essential to life expectancy if you look at and for a number of reasons. And one of them I'm convinced even though that theory has been somewhat discredited the whole oxidative stress theory of aging, I still think oxygen is one of the major problems associated with the aging process. You know, we have not been able to target the oxidative stress using antioxidant that has failed. It doesn't mean that the whole oxidative stress theory of aging is not valuable. I think living in an oxidative environment is really, you know, is one of the mechanisms that leads to aging. Not the only one aging is playomorphic. But just to make sure folks understand what you're saying Eric, you're saying that the generation of free radicals through oxygen. So I don't know how technical we want to get for people, but I think unfortunately we might need to get a little more technical and apologies to those who don't want to go this deep. But we have to talk about kind of what the role of the electrons are in oxygen and why free radicals form and what they do. So maybe we do go a little deeper here and explain what you're saying because it's a very important concept and I think we should probe it. Well, I don't know how how much IMean, maybe you do a better job at explaining this in the in for the late late person. IMean, oxidative stress is a fact that pretty much the main metabolic reaction are dependent on oxygen, which gives its electron. It's in the so-called respiratory chain. There is leakage in of these electrons that are traveling down in respiratory chain. Leakage at a specific place is, you know, if the process was 100% efficient, the whole energy would be trensferred from metabolites such as glucose and so on. But it turns out the mechanism is actually leaky. These electrons reacting with oxygen can generate these by products called radical oxygen species, which are highly reactive. Right. So they're not chemically stable the way we think of a normal atom of oxygen. No. And so they tend to react with proteins, with fatty acid and the induced lesions. And we have a whole, IMean, the importance of this system in terms of our protection against it is highlighted by the number of molecular system that we have that are actually protecting against this. And we know that as we age, that leakage increases. Exactly. Something about the integrity of the mitochondria and the respiratory electron trensport chain degrades as we age. And therefore we see more and more of this leakage. Yeah. Yes. Absolutely. And so out of this game, the whole idea, well, let's just suppress oxidative stress. And, you know, there are chemicals, even some as simple as vitamin E, vitamin C that you could imagine that by chemical knowledge would be predictive to be able to quench these radical oxygen species. And so the number of the idea, sorry, to just keep interrupting you, but we'll play off to each other to do this. Yes. So you eat, for example, an antioxidant. And as you said, it neutralizes that reactive oxygen species with its unstable electrons kind of like you would throw a blanket on a fire that's simmering. Exactly. And that was the hope. So one of the theory was proposed. A whole industry actually grew up out of this, the whole antioxidant. And the antioxidant diet and the, you know, the vitamin ends and so on. You can still, by the way, that that whole industry is still existing to get us. Now, what happened is that when clinical trials were conducted in this area, they failed. And so, you know, people who think relatively simply decided, well, the antioxidant failed, therefore, the theory has no validity. And I would say not so fast because it turns out that these radical oxygen species also have important roles. They actually are inducing an inflammatory response, which can be protective. And a good example is during exercise. There is some evidence of activation of oxidative stress during exercise. And if you, you know, neutered this, for example, with anti-inflammatory, you probably remember the data showing that anti-inflammatory drug tend to sort of suppress some of the beneficial effects of exercise. It's the same, same whole idea. And so this is one case in which these radical oxygen species can have a protective role. And actually a signaling role. So when you suppress it completely with these sort of global, non-specific antioxidant, essentially you're not only killing the bad guys, but you also suppressing an important signaling mechanism. There's another hypothesis that I would offer, which is, is it possible that there's still a net negative to the free radicals. So there might be some benefits but more negatives. But it could be that the trials were using agents that were simply ineffective because the problem is we don't have a great biomarker for the state of free radicals. So it's sort of like saying, I have a hypothesis that this biological process is bad. I can't measure it really, but I think it's bad. I have a drug that I think will tamp it down. Let's give the drug the trial failed. Well, do you actually know if it tamped the thing down? Like, so we don't even know if we tested the hypothesis correctly. And so those would be kind of too distinct plausibilities. I completely agree. And it's quite often the case. IMean, the whole story of vitamin D is a good example. Absolutely. Where people will tell you, you know, vitamin D doesn't work because they conduct clinical trials, but they didn't, you know, fix it in just the dose, they didn't measure the levels. So it's a bit the same story. They are markers that you can actually do use in research environment like five hydroxinoneinol or protein carbonulation, which are indirect markers of lipids or protein oxidation. And how efficacious or beneficial, or, I guess the word is maybe, how complete are they in the scope of understanding and have we demonstrated that mega doses of vitamin E or vitamin C will indeed suppress those markers in humans? They're not great. They're not great. I had a colleague at the Buckingham Institute, Martin Brand, who is one of the leaders of a whole mitochondrial bio, a philical bio energetics, which is the study of how the respiratory chain and energy metabolism happens in mitochondria. And he came up with the idea that he identified many of the sites where these unique radical oxygen species are generated. And he was able to generate specific inhibitors for each of the sites. And was able to show that actually, inhibition at some sites was beneficial while inhibition at other sites was not beneficial. And so this project was actually supported by a farmer company, which eventually decided to drop the program. And he's retired, which I think is a great loss because of it, it is a whole program that needs that still needs to be pursued. So if I'm understanding what you said correctly, Eric, sounds like there's a much more nuanced view. It's not that free radicals are bad, and it's not that free radicals are good. It's like everything in biology. It's the Goldilocks rule. You might need more of it during this circumstance in this part of the body. You might need less of it in this circumstance at this totally different part of the body. And as a result, any strategy that would try to globally suppress it could even if successful in doing it, which we haven't been able to measure, might actually not yield to a favorable outcome. Totally correct. Totally correct. I had frustrated by these types of the way that people sort of love to oversimplify or sort of erase whole fields. I suspect we will get to talk about certitudes, because the same thing has happened in the certitudes. There's a lot of amazing work done, and then a few negative results or things not working out. Any de-metabolism, same thing. And I always tell people, once you get into any field of study and you go deep and you start testing in humans, put on your seed belt, because it's not easy. And there are no magic bullets, but I think stopping the study and saying to whole field is as pretty for me, not the way to go. We got to keep dig deeper. And eventually, we'll get to that. So tell me what else within Metabolism you think is kind of a hallmark of aging. So we obviously talked about the central part of Metabolism, which is respiration and ATP generation and the leakage that occurs there. And basically, unfortunately, that just appears to be inevitable. Yes. But we will never stop the oxygen in our environment. So yeah. I do like to tell my patients that this is why I kind of harp on them to do a lot of zone to cardiovascular trening. So zone two very specifically by definition, is the canonical exercise you would do to maximize fat oxidation, which of course implies the most efficient use of the mitochondria. And the hypothesis, because I don't think we know, we don't have proof of this, but the hypothesis is trening at that level for specific periods of time throughout the week is a way to improve the health and function of your mitochondria, which would hopefully imply that you're reducing that degradation of function. Do you think there's validity to that, at least, you know, first order logic? Yeah. IMean, the proof is an a pudding in a way that we know exercising and a combination of exercise is the best anti-aging intervention we have. Do you think part of it is through that exact mechanism? Yeah. IMean, that's been my hypothesis, but again, we can't fully glean that in any human clinical trial. No, hard to study. And I think, you know, your point allows me to sort of address your question. What is it about metabolism that really is so important? I think I'm convinced that it is fuel utilization. And you mentioned, you know, fatty oxidation versus glycolysis and I'll add ketosis to this. I think if you think about your metabolism is able to oxidize a number of different substrates. amino acids, fatty acids, glucose and ketones. And lactate. And lactate. Yeah. And every one of those actually burns with different efficiency. Both being car efficient at, I think your audience probably knows also that, you know, there's different to burn diesel to burn 100 octane gas. And, you know, if you look at that hierarchy, I think ketones are probably the clenest fuel to burn in terms of, again, byproducts oxidative stress. They seem to be really unique. Yeah. How would you rank order from clenest to dirtiest inclusive of lactate? Lactate, I would not be able to put it. I think it's part of clen. Yeah. I think my intuition is it is of all. Yeah. But it would be the top would be beta hydroxybutary. beta hydroxybutary acetylacetate is present such low abundance. It's probably not relevant as a few fuel source. Then fatty acid next is versus actually glucose. And when you think about metabolism and managing for me, it goes to a lot of data that has emerged from the ITP, for example, intervention testing program. This rich Miller has been on cell phone. Yes. I watch your recent podcasts with a rich and others. One of the remarkable thing when you look at the drugs that have a seven or whatever ten drugs that have emerged out of 80, they are really targeting glucose metabolism. And very via completely different mechanism. Think about a carbo's, which is blocking absorption of glucose. Think about the can I take a closer. And which is targeting a protein as nothing to do links to protein glucose reabsorption in the kidney. Think about metformin, which is a metformin failed. Yeah. It failed, but it seems to be having very powerful effect in terms of, it failed unless it was paired with rap a mice. Yes. And in monkeys, there's a study coming out that showed that actually had an effect on lifespan. So, do you think rap a mice and has any impact on glucose metabolism favorably? Generally, actually, this is, the rope on mice in the Zyops, the exception to this because it seems to have some, it's not indifferent. It has been claimed to be having an effect on insulin sensitivity. Although I'm not clear if that's true at the doses, but anyway, yeah, we can go back to that. I've taken rap a mice in. I have not seen any effect on my blood sugar. Now, so think about, you know, a carbo's kind of glyphosin metformin and now the GLP one-eyed genist, which I predict will emerge as geroprotectors in the future. So, I think that's really speaks to an important aspect which is fuel utilization and how, you know, whether you're burning a clen fuel, whether you're burning a dirty fuel. No, we've put, for example, mice on a pure fat diet. These mice never saw a carbohydrate during their life and they lived longer, which I thought was actually quite interesting. It is interesting, Eric, because a lot of the mouse literature, I think people don't read the fine print very closely and they don't notice that the typical thing you'll see is these mice were fat a high fat diet to induce obesity so that we could test, you know, drug ABC against obesity. But in those studies, it's not just a high fat diet, it's a high fat, high sugar diet, right? So, they're making some insanely hyper palatable, you know, the closest I can come up with is they're making a donut. It's a fried dough, sugar food and you know, so they're making basically donuts for these monkeys and that's different than saying it's a high fat thing. So, yeah, I think it's important to point out because you know, a high fat minus the sugar might not be the same issue, right? I agree. At least in that model. Yeah. So, what do you think it is about glucose metabolism that leads to this? Because for all intents and purposes, let's just go through the metabolic pathways, right? So, glucose six carbons, it gets broken down into pyruvate, you get your two pyruvates for one glucose, right? And then pyruvate can, it let's just assume we're doing this under aerobic conditions, so we're not in a rush. We're going to take those pyruvates, do they turn into a seedle coase? I can't even remember to then enter the... It's actually one pyruvate and that leads to enters the mitochondria and becomes acetal coase. So, what is it about that process that is not as efficient as when you are cleaving off carbons from a free fatty acid and those carbons are turning directly into, I think, just a straight acetyl co-a and then entering the crebs cycle. What is, it's a very subtle difference. Why is one so much more inefficient? You mean, why is there more calories per fatty acid? No, no, no, no, no, that can be explained by the every geometry. Why is onEQuote unquote dirtier? Oh, okay, yes, yes, yes. I think, obviously, this is a really complicated question. So, I don't know that I would be able to really tell you purely as fuels whether there is a difference. I think the biggest difference is in terms of the whole mechanism they list it. And when we think about glucose, I don't think necessarily of it if you were to study it in a tissue culture dish that one would be toxic than the other. I don't think there's any evidence for this, but glucose and particularly the form of glucose that we have not evolved to actually be exposed to, which is all the weed products, you know, this fast form of glucose um, elicits insulin secretion. And I think insulin and IGF1, but particularly insulin is the culprit and this will process. So you're not saying that one mole of glucose, one mole of free fatty acid, we know there's a difference in ATP generation, but you're not saying that there's a different assuming they're both going through the mitochondria. You're not saying there's a difference in free radical formation mole per mole. Or are you saying that's this way? There's another way to explain it, which is per mole of ATP, you need to run so much more glucose through that of course you're going to get more leakage. Well, the key difference is that the glucose is generating ATP, not only viacetylcoe and pyrophate, but is also generating ATP in the intracellular, an intracellular plasma components. The fatty acid do not generate that's only, so I suspect that there might be a difference in terms of the amount of free radical that are generated. There's evidence, but I would not be able to set you the paper that's one clens, one burns clen, more clenly than the other. And I suspect it's part of the cytoplasmic component of glucose. It's also less efficient in terms of the amount, of energy that's being generated, program of fatty acid, or pemole of fatty acid, but moal of glucose. And then going back to the insulin IGF component here, what role do you think they're playing? Critical. Because epidemiologically and through studies, we know that the insulin response to your glucose, so if you do a lot of sports, I tell, I'm not a proponent of the low carbohydrate or no carbohydrate diet because there's very little evidence that those diets are actually beneficial. You know, I give you the example of a ketogenic diet, which we did experimentally, but these are not practical diet for anyone. Just because of the challenge in avoiding carbohydrates in the standard world we live in? Yes. I would say, but socially, palatable, IMean, there's so many reasons. I went on a ketogenic diet. From what I remember, I think you went to... I did for three years. That was on a ketogenic diet, so we should compare notes. Because I wanted, I want to hear your experience and then I want to ask you a couplEQuestions about it. It was very hard. How long did you do it? For a couple of years, and I did not feel super healthy, which is really kind of interesting. I found it sort of socially isolating. We've worked actually to remedy this on we can talk about this later on on a novel ketocut. I think ketone ester, right? Exactly. A bit of hydroxybuterate. So going back to the overall of insulin, there is a lot happening in terms of, you know, that's been documented that the intensity. First, your average glucose plays a role. This is measured by himoglobin A1C in a whole series of complication cardiovascular as you know. Perhaps more important is the intensity of your peaks. And I think, you know, the intensity of the peaks of insulin is a reflection of your glucose intake. The fast, fast absorbing glucose. And that has been from... That's the reason why we advocate advocate people to, you know, go on a CGM, continue to glucose monitor, and to really learn to understand what spikes them. The whole idea is to mitigate these peaks of insulin secretion. I'm just going to play this for all of our patients because we have this discussion with everyone of our patients. So it'll be nice to just play this video and let you do the talking. The whole idea there is to again, to mitigate these peaks. And either dietary, or, you know, for example, the GFP1 Igonists are playing a role in this part. Let's talk about this because there is at least for me a great deal of confusion around this point. Now, we understand today the role that the gut plays in metabolism. And we understand that a lot of it is trensduced through GLP1. So endogenous production of GLP1 according to Ralph DeFranzo, the world's authority on this is what's driving 80% of beta-selectivity with respect to insulin. And therefore, when we have GLP, when we have insulin resistance, we can't, the GLP1 we're making is insufficient to generate the insulin that's required to manage the glucose. Make sense if that's the case that giving exogenous GLP1, you take a shot of trisepotide or semi-glutide, you're going to put more GLP1 in the system, you're going to overcome the resistance at the beta-select. You make more insulin, you now have better glucose control, everybody wins. Now, it's not clear that that has anything to do with the weight side of it and that that's a separate issue and I want to actually talk about that because there are two very interesting theories as to why these things cause weight loss. But point here is, wouldn't you expect to see higher levels of insulin in someone taking a GLP1 Agonist to achieve that better glycemic control? Yes, and that's not what you see. And I don't have an answer for this, but I've seen the same thing. I've seen the same thing, including personally, I've been experimenting with Tussetepotide. My insulin is five now, which is, you know, lowest that you can possibly get it. And I was expecting, there was a part of me that was worried that I was going to go against my whole theory about, you know, have you checked post-prandially? Have you done an oral glucose tolerance test where you look at, because that might be something to do to see what is happening to post-prandial insulin, along with post-prandial glucose, which of course will be better. No, I haven't. That would be an interesting test to do. Yeah. And I've wanted to see GM, my A1C has gone from five poinT4, five point five to five point O, and my insulin is down to five point O as well. So, and did you lose any weight? I lost a little bit of weight, not a huge amount, six to seven pounds, which was never the goal to start with. The whole idea was, and no loss of muscle mass, which actually is the big, the big boogaboo that, you know, people will have you fear, no loss of muscle mass if you are exercising if you are. So, for me, it's an experiment. I haven't decided this is something I'm going to continue, but I just wanted to really experiment it for myself to try to see, okay, what is this job really doing? And it's been nothing short of remarkable, I think, in some way, one of the most surprising has been for me the feeling of satiety. You know, you hear about satiety. I was never in my whole life, the type of person that felt full. I could always eat more. And all of a sudden, after about two weeks on this, I just looked at my plate, I said, I'm full. And I heard myself saying this, and it just felt like, well, this is really completely different. And for me, not the reason why I'm excited about these drugs is, and by the way, this is not an endorsement, this is something to disobey. Yeah, yeah, this is self-experimentation for the ass. It's experimentation, which is a long part of the traditianavar field, which I love. And the whole idea is really to, for me, the thinking was, one of the biggest advance in longevity medicine is this idea that a range is meaningless. And as a practice and physician, you know this, I went to medical school and we were told that, your blood pressure has to be 130 over 90. There was a no, a single normal range. So you could be 128 over 88, then you were still considered normal. The same thing I went to see my personal physician and told in, you know, my blood sugar is creeping up every year that I'm doing it. And now it's 96, fastening blood sugar, and I'm worried, because soon I'm going to be pleased. And you said it's below 100. It's okay. It's only your normal delivery. And I told him, I said, what is normal? And I think this is, this really is where I think longevity medicine is going to make an important impact. So, I can't tell you how many times I've had this argument with people about glucose. And here's the funny thing. We have the literature. In other words, we have literature in non-diabetics. You want to see that says the lower the A1C, the lower the all-caused mortality. It's a monotonic reduction that knows no lower limit. So we say that up to 5.6 is normal. And if you're at 5.6, and 5.5 is better than 5.6 and 5.4 is better than 5.5 and 5 is better than 5.4. And 4.8 is better than 5.5. Yeah, but my point is I also find it. I don't know what the word is. Maybe sad. I find it sad that we've simplified this problem in an effort to communicate, but have lost the essence of where is lower better. Because it's not always true in biology. It's not, when you look at TSH for example, when you look at thyroid hormone, much more narrow band in which we would say there's optimal. And lower is not, if it's too low or too high, it's problematic. But it turns out that when it comes to average blood glucose in a non-type one diabetic, or someone who's taking insulin, under natural physiologic circumstances, it's just better to be lower. And as you age, it just keeps creeping up. Same thing for blood pressure. Yes. You know, they're revisiting the number every five years in terms of making it lower. I think if your blood pressure is a 105 over 65, you're better off than if you're 115 over 75. That's right. Provided you're not symptomatic, lower is always better. And so I think it's, you know, I'm frustrated, but I'm also excited by the fact that this is now becoming a norm in a whole new field of physicians who are more aware of what actually what is health. And the same for your weight. You know, we know that it's a J, IMean, that's the thing that is really interesting in the whole age aging field is this idea that everything is a J curve. So there's there's a sweet spot where you want to be. And quite often it's broad enough that you can maneuver this in a way to optimize people's health. What do you think is the relationship between IMean, body weight is so crude, but maybe we can even talk about it through adiposity, body fat, and and longevity, once correcting for metabolic health. So it's obvious that so much of the relationship we see between body fat and poor health is really just a proxy for something that's harder to measure, which is metabolic health. It's very easy to measure body fat. And we estimate body fat from BMI. And so that's why we have all these population data from BMI. But as if you have the luxury of working with actual patients, I couldn't tell you the BMI of one person. I take care of but I know everybody's body fat, everybody's visceral fat, and everybody's oral glucose tolerance test. So we know what we know and we know what matters. Are you convinced that adiposity per se is problematic or do you believe that a person can have excess body fat, but be metabolic healthy and confer the same longevity benefit as a metabolic healthy lean person? IMean, we know there are people who are of considered overweight, who are metabolically healthy. Yes. IMean, easily 20% in my experience. Yes. And I'm not where I think that's these are facts. No one can dispute them. You can be overweight and metabolically healthy. What I worry about is that is the long-term effect. Do you mean from an orthopedic perspective with the other complications that come from excess weight? Or are you saying that they're basically increasing their probability of eventually going off the metabolic slide? Both. I honestly, I don't know what the data says, but my worry would be that you might be metabolically looking healthy when you're 40, but if you sustain this for 20 years, and are clearly visceral fat. Yeah, different categories. It's a highly predictive of everything. The other thing I'll say also, the BMI itself is a MIBMI is at the border of being overweight. I am overweight by BMI. I'm four pounds. If I losT4 pounds, I would get down to a BMI of 25. And I have 11% body fat. So I don't worry about it because I know all in all, I'm metabolically healthy. My numbers are good and all this. And some way. Yes, it's not a particularly helpful. IMean, it serves its purpose at the population level, but it can't be used to make a decision about an individual at all. Exactly. But it can also sometimes, you know, become a confounding variable, and when people do studies and they use these numbers, and they make predictions or they draw conclusions that are really not based on the fact that that I BMI fraction of the population is heterogeneous in terms of metabolically healthy. I think this is really where. So my colleagues at the back Nathan Price and Lee Hood, I've actually published a paper. I didn't realize they were at the buck. Yeah, both of them. They were up in Seattle before weren't they? Yes, we recruited both of them actually in the last two years. Congratulations. Yeah, thank you. I think this is trensformative for fantastic good. Fantastic. Exciting. Lee still partially in Seattle, so it's partially at the buck, but he's brought, you know, we've established a collaboration with Fino Melf, and Nathan was at Thorn, and there's still a CSO at Thorn, but faculty member at the buck. So I think it, and they're really helping us to do something really exciting along these lines. For example, they had a paper describing this BMI, but biochemical BMI based on biological markers that essentially assess, you know, a humetabolic status. So I think that's, you know, those tools are available, and it's a question of educating the physicians. Do you know what makes up that biological BMI? No, but I'll give you the paper. So okay, we spent a little more time on metabolism than we did immune health and the immune system overall. I'd actually like to go back and talk about it a little bit more. I think again, the listeners of this podcast are very familiar with the metabolic stuff. We haven't had as many discussions on the immune system. Talked about it, length with respect to cancer. Had Steve Rosenberg on a few years ago, that was a fantastic discussion, explaining the role of the immune system in cancer, which I think we're going to have to talk about here, because IMean, I certainly feel convinced that a big part of why cancer incidents goes up exponentially with age is the declining immune system, not just the accumulation of mutations, although I imagine they both play a role. But I will tell you something else, Eric, which is, you know, I wrote a book a couple of years ago about this space, and in the book, I talk about these things called the forehorsesman. And I describe them as the four things that are basically coming for us all. If you manage to outlive youth, right? So if you're, you know, this is not to diminish the role of trauma and other things that are deadly, but for many people living in OECD nations, it's going to come down to ASCVD cancer, demanding a neurodegenerative diseases and metabolic diseases. And people often say Peter, is there anything you wish you'd written in the book that you would, if you go back in time, you would do. And I say, yeah, there are probably many things that I thought about it, but the first thing that jumps out is I really should have added a fifth horsesman, and that is immune health. And the types of infections that ravage people in old age, that a young person wouldn't even laugh at. Thank you for laughing, right? So thank you for bringing this up, because we, you know, the immunology field somewhat, immunology and aging have been not really mixing very well. One problem is that immunology is an extremely complex and advanced field, probably one of the, along with neuroscience, one of the most complex. So when you go to an aging meeting, there is no one talking about immunology. You go to immunology meeting, there are very few people talking about aging. And we're trying to navigate even the nomenclature is being used differently. People are increasing. And immunology talk about immunosinessence, meaning aging of the immune system, they don't mean senessence the way we talk about aging. So that yields all kinds of crazy communication problems. Yeah, because if you're in the aging field, then you hear immunosinessence, you think of sasps and things that are being succeeded by T-cells. It just means aging of the immune system. Now, the reason why I think this is a tragic failing for both field is what happened during COVID. It was became obvious that, you know, being infected was not, you know, the risk of infection was not linked to your age. The virus infected everyone across, but the outcome could be completely different with 84 excess, 84 fold excess mortality if you were above 75, 84 fold. Now, you know, when this happens, and we can go in terms of trying to understand why why did this happen, what are the reasons for this? I went and started to look at the literature. Influenza, it's exactly the same thing. RSV, same thing. So all of these viruses that are, you know, that you can contract in later years will kill you. You know, with really significant rates, you know, influenza, I think 30,000 people die every year from influenza. The mortality in terms of COVID was really highly segregated into the older part of the population or in that part of the population that showed, like said, a riddaging obesity and so on. So I think there's a, there's a lot there. Do you think that that most of the mortality, any anytime we saw a gap in mortality, whether it was young versus old, whether it was obese versus non-obes, diabetic versus non-diabetic, because where any anytime you looked at that, you saw a difference in mortality. Do you believe that it was always a difference in immune function? IMean, with the young versus old, it's very obvious, but do you think that was also true in the other comorbidities? Yes, yeah, I would say so. And it comes from two reasons. One is, you know, there are two broad immune system, the, where we call the innate and the adaptive immune system. I don't know if you're one, the childhood. I would. I actually was going to say, I think it is worth going full boron this. I think it is time for people to roll up their sleeves and understand arguably the most interesting system in the human body. I am biased. I spent two years at the NCI doing immunology, but I think this is such an interesting field. Yeah, so our immune system is built to recognize foreign elements. That's really is why it evolved. It has two lines of defense against microbes. Bacteria, viruses, fungi, all of those. We are constantly bombarded by those. It is actually amazing because IMean, the evidence of this is a few immune system doesn't function. The bubble is incompatible with life. It's a lot of good life. So we are, you know, we're colonized with bacteria in and out and our skins everywhere. So we are constantly respond to them in an appropriate manner. And we survive everything, including disruptions to the barriers. Absolutely. Absolutely. And so we have two lines of defense in the immune system. First, so called in-80 immune system, which is your microfages, your dendritic cells, but also pretty much every cell has a whole series of mechanism that are not pathogen specific. That is, they will recognize an intruder, be it virus, be it fungi, be bacteria, and it will activate the first line of defense. Those lines of defenses are non-specific and therefore they're less effective. And they give time to the so-called adaptive immune system, which is the second part, which is made up of T cells and B cells. And both of those cells have highly selective defense mechanism. The B cells make antibodies, which will go recognize a bacteria or a fungus or a virus. And the T cells, which are able to actually kill the infected cells itself. So a real recognize when the cell is colonized by a foreign pathogen and will kill it. So the, you know, the time course of these is that, you know, once you get your encounter pathogen, you will be activated your in-80 immune response. Typically, you know, it can be fever, it can be all kinds of symptoms, but activation of this defense. And this gives the whole organism a couple of weeks to actually build the defense for the specific, that there will specifically recognize this organism. That's a good one. Let's talk a little bit about memory within that system. The beauty of the adaptive, so the DNA immune system does not really have a memory, true memory. It will always react in the same way, no matter how many times you encountered the same. You get the same, so if you get the same virus, so if your, if your kids are ping-ponging the same respiratory virus at you from school, yes, your innate immune system has the same playbook. Yes, fever. You're going to get red. You're going to like, wh-whatever, yeah, and you're going to get sore. All of those things are going to happen regardless. Exactly. Yeah. And that's in contrast to the adaptive immune system, because once the initial response has been generated, either via an infection or evaxination, this is what evaxination is. It presents you with a given fraction or the whole virus or a part of it. Your body will mount a response. And this will yield, this will lead to the amplification of a subset of cells that are selective. So I think about you either your t-cells or your b-cells, none of them are the same. We have a process by which we generate so-called diversity, which is billions of different forms of antibodies or t-cell receptors that are recognizing in principle every chemical structure, every protein from a microorganism. Now, what happens during the initial encounter in the vaccine or an infection is those b-cells or those t-cells that have a receptor that is able to recognize the pathogen will become amplified. And they will turn out larger amount of the antibody or the t-cell clones. Once the job has been done, they will contract, but it will not contract back down to the same level. They will become what we call memory t-cells or memory b-cells. So that if you encounter the same entidion in the future, the reactivation process is shortened. The maturation happens faster. So eventually, that's the whole idea of the vaccination. It's to sort of get yourself ready with a subset of memory t-cell clones or b-cell clones that once the true virus will come, you will be able to mount the response within a few days or up to a week. And so that's how vaccination works. Now what's interesting during ageing is people are not aware of this. If you're above 70, most vaccinations do not work. And so people then will ask, they actually do immune system as aged and your vaccination rates really decreases very strongly. For what I remember, this might be different in different populations, but the vaccination rates success is close to 30%. If you're above 70. Now what would you're in COVID? What was the risk reduction for a person over 75 who was vaccinated versus not vaccinated? It was almost complete reversal of the effect in terms of the protection. Meaning it was highly protective. Yeah, it was protective. So how are we reconciled those two facts? Yes true. And I don't know, to be honest, I don't know how this has been studied. I don't know. I would be happy to read about this. Okay. How? Because the COVID vaccine seems to have had a remarkable risk reduction in very old people. Didn't seem to have an impressive risk reduction in younger people? Because the absolute risk was so low. It didn't seem to matter that much, but boy, did it matter in older people? But did it matter by at the population level or the individual level? This is what I'm not sure about? I certainly don't want to go on record saying something that I don't know. Yeah, it's the same thing that IMean. But my question. Yeah, IMean, we, you know, I think we can find the answer and put it in the show notes. My recollection could be wrong is that the older a person got the greater the benefit they got from COVID vaccines with respect to mortality. So I guess thEQuestion is, let's maybe talk about other vaccines. Is that not the case with influenza? Is that not the case with pneumococcus or any of the other vaccines that are used primarily in older adults? In general, at least, and I'm not a vaccine specialist, but the thinking is that there's a dramatic decrease in the efficiency of vaccination against influenza, against RSV, against all of those as UH. The thinking then is how how does it work at the population level? And this is where the whole concept of herd immunity works is that if you limit the spread of the infection in a family, for example, you're left much less likely to effect grandpa who is, you know, who will. I see. So that's been my understanding of how most of these viruses, this is, I'm asking a different question. That's an important question. I guess I was asking the, obviously they didn't probably do a randomized control trial. So you've got all these confounders in it, but I wonder if they just looked at all comeers to the hospital vaccinated versus non. Let's try to control for all the confounders. If the hazard ratio is 1.2, it means nothing or 0.8. But if the hazard ratio was, you know, 0.2 or 8. Well, you'd say even with the confounders, there must be some high degree of protection that came from that. So anyway, I'm sure someone listening to this knows the answer to that. We'll try to find the answer and put in the show notes. But so let's go back to the why. Why is it that as a person ages, they're less likely to respond to a vaccination. Is it because A, the immune system, the adaptive immune system is less able to recognize the foreign pathogen and build up a high enough reserve of T cells and B cells that will respond or is it B that they can do that, but the ability for those cells to stay in a memory state and B reactivated is somehow impaired. I think it's both. Isn't everything engaging? Aging is, but there's one aspect which is really unique at least in terms of T cell, which are really instrumental in terms of most of vaccine response, is the fact that these T cells are the diversity of the T cells is generated by the thymus. And the thymus small organ behind the sternum. How big is your thymus and my thymus right now? I'm 68. So it's probably very, very embryonic and it's probably not much left after age 50. And most people you find it very small. Now the, where as it, when you're young, it's actually you can see it on an imaging sketch that I would imagine if you and I had a CT scan of the chest, you'd barely be able to pick it up. Exactly. And it's replaced by fat actually in most people as you age. Although there is somewhat controversial evidence that there might still be some clones that can be reactivated even in all the people. And a human growth hormone, as you know, as one of the, the, the intervention that has been shown to actually re-induced thymogenesis. So let's, let's talk about that a little bit. Are you referring to that Fei paper from about seven or eight years ago that looked at growth hormone with metformin and DHA or something like that? That's one. But that Fei paper was actually inspired by work of a colleague of mine when I was at the Glutton Institute who did this actually mic, micute and colleagues did this in patients with HIV. And we're chronically infected with HIV where they lose a lot of their CD4 T-cells. And there was an interest in trying to see if you could actually, and so there's a big lesion initially in infection and there was an attempt to actually try to see if you could regenerate these populations to bring them back to a normal. Because even though we had great drugs against HIV, they could not bring those patients back to normal. There was a remaining sort of original insult. So they did a trial with a human growth hormone that were able to show some degree of thymogenesis and increase in naeft cells in these patients. And I believe the Fei trial actually tried to reproduce this. I think there's a second Fei trial that is ongoing or, but I haven't seen the results. Yeah, IMean the first one was, I don't remember the results, but the cocktail was a little suspect. So the GH made sense if that's your hypothesis. I believe, I've never spoken with Greg, but I believe reading the trial, the metformin, which was really given at a homeopathic useless dose. I think it was only given at 500, so apologies if it wasn't. I think it was only given at 500 was meant to offset the glucose metabolism disturbances of GH. Do you remember why the DHA was given? No. There was some reason for it that made sense on paper, but didn't make sense sort of physiologically. Now the more important question is, if my take on that trial was it was a single active agent, which was growth hormone. Like I don't think DHA does anything. I don't think 500 metformin does anything. So thEQuestion is, and it was a very small trial and I think it was open label. And I have a significant problem with the readout of that trial. So that's what I'm asking about. Remind me of the readout. The readout was one of the clocks. That's right. This was Steve Horvath was the other author of that. Exactly. And actually this whole story sort of pushed us into a whole project that we published down what we call ancient clock. Because they was indeed in the experiment, they are in the patience. They indeed observed some increase in the fraction of naive T cells, which tells you and me that something worked. The fraction of naive T cells increased with respect to the memory T cells. So naive T cells are the ones that are generated in the time. They are naive because they have never met their cognate antigen and they sit there waiting for something to happen. So the whole idea of treating with human growth hormone was to induce time and genesis and to restore the pool of these naive T cells. So I think it's some degree it works at low level. Then they used the clock on the whole blood. And my worry when I saw the paper, which is a worry that actually existed predated this, and was also a worry when people were using T-Lomerate, T-Lomerate, or Length. As the idea, when you sample the blood, as an immunologist, I know this is a highly dynamic organ. I think about the blood as an organ. We enumerated this point today with the best technology more than 500 different populations of cells in the blood. Suppose that these cells vary in response to any intervention and that these cells individually have a different epigenetic age, you would have the impression that you are rejuvenating, which is what's the claim of that phahypip or that they had rejuvenated people. But in effect, what you would do is simply change. Yeah, it's like you're on a sine wave that goes like this and you take two sample points. They could be here, they could be here, they could be here, you don't. And by the way, as you probably know, Matt Caberlin has famously purchased, I think, four or five of the commercially available aging clocks. He bought them in Duplicate and did all of them all simultaneously. Two of this, two of this, two of this, two of this, simultaneously, take 10 samples. Not only do all the clocks disagree with each other, but even within the same clock, there was disagreement, significant disagreement. So, yeah, IMean, I want to actually come back and talk about clocks in some detail, but given that that study was done years ago with an older clock, I think the clock part of it is not even remotely interesting. I think the more interesting question is, was there was there genuine thymic regeneration? If so, how do we reconcile a very pressing and vexing question within neuroscience, which is the role of growth hormone? Right? So, I've never taken growth hormone. I shouldn't say I've never prescribed it, I've prescribed it in very rare circumstances for injury healing, but I've never prescribed it for quote unquote longevity benefits. But a lot of people are out there doing so. And as such, I've had lots of patients who come to my practice who have been taking or are on growth hormone. And I will say this, to a person every single one of them has said, I feel so much better when I take growth hormone than when I do not. IMean, across the board, 100%. And I can't actually point to evidence that tells them it's bad to take. I can just sort of say it doesn't make sense to take. If our goal is to reduce the risk of cancer and if our goal is to slow the aging process. So, what is your take on that? Just your intuition, or is there any data you're aware of that would lead one to think that, well, maybe we could pulse a little bit of growth hormone here and there, if we get some thymic regeneration, we don't have to be on it all the time. IMean, how would you think about that? I do worry about it for, I'm not a specialist on growth hormone itself. In induces diabetes, it induces glucose intolerance. So, from that angle, I'm do worry about what it would do chronically, especially in someone young. For me, I really, it's a bit like increasing your protein intake. If you are, you know, there's that clear evidence that increasing your protein intake, especially as you age, becomes beneficial and the people who have higher protein intake actually do better in terms of muscle mass and so on. So, in someone who is 65 to 70, who is starting to feel, you know, the effect of or manifest some form of sarcopina, there might be a benefit for that person to actually increase muscular mass and all the benefits with this, especially if it's not done continuously. But IMean, I would argue, there's no doubt that there's benefits, but you're going to get far more efficacy from testosterone or antibiotics steroids when it comes to mitigating sarcopina. Growth hormone actually is not remarkable at inducing muscle mass. It's nowhere near as effective as testosterone. It's more effective at eliciting fat loss. But I wonder if there's something that goes beyond that, because I think when people tell me they feel better on it, I think they're talking about less aches and pains. Like just joints just feel better. I don't think anybody saying they feel better because their thymus is more plump. But I wonder if that to me would be a reason to potentially consider a schedule, you know, an intermittent schedule of something. If it's, again, going back to my macro thesis here, which is I've been harping on these four horsemen, four horsemen. Well, if we introduce a fifth horsemen, what is the strategy? Because I can give you chapter and verse the strategy for how you will mitigate heart disease cancer, all of these other conditions. What is our strategy for mitigating immune decline? I would say the same as a strategy that would mitigate decline in every other organ. You know, it is clear evidence that people access the effect of exercise on immunology is the same as in every single. So I'm not familiar with it, so tell me a little bit about that. I don't know specifically how exercise impacts the immune system. I don't know that, you know, I cannot speak just specific papers, but IMean, clearly, there's evidence that people who exercise actually respond to infection better, you know, respond to vaccination better, so that that's all been documented. I cannot speak just specific studies, but there is a sense of mechanistically why that's the case. It is so complex. I would say I would not be able to tell you. But that being said, I think the whole line of investigation to induce a thymic regiver nation, I think is an important one area, especially if we're thinking about increasing lifespan, further for what we are doing now. That's in the future, it will become one of these red limiting steps. It's a bit the same situation as the ovary, where you know, these are the ovary and the end of thymic are we call them the canary in the coal mine. IMean, they're really are a specific organs that show, etc. at ageing way earlier than other, than other tissues. Now, thEQuestion is, you know, why is the thymic involuting so early? I think it's probably because the evolutionary would never meant to live this old. And so that's really one of the thinking that that goes on. That's going to be in the long term, one of the problems that we have to face. And this is something we actively studying. And the lab is trying to just completely study where we are looking for novel biomarkers that are predictive of whether you will respond to a vaccination or not. And this is something done in collaboration with Mark Davis at Stanford, using the 1000 liminoam project, which is one of the largest studies studying aging in the immune system, only in humans. And so we've been able to studying people to identify some metabolites that are associated with poor response vaccine. And so those are not only markers, but they could also become tools that we include as adjuven, or as a pre-chidmaterial. I'm sure you're familiar with the work of Joan Manick. Of course, I was going to ask you about Manick and McSine in a moment. But before we do, I want to go back to this point here, which is, you know, biomarkers are so important. And when I think about cardiovascular disease, and even though it's the leading cause of death, why I tell my patients, it's the one you need to be least afraid of if you're willing to be proactive in management. And it comes down to the fact that we just have such a clear understanding of how the disease works. And we have exceptional biomarkers. So we can measure the things that are causing the disease. We can measure inflammation. We can measure ApoB. We can measure VLDL cholesterol, LP LLA. We also, we can measure blood pressure. We can measure metabolic health. And we know how to address those things. And we know that when we address those things, we can measure whether what we're doing is working. Okay. So problem solved, basically. When it comes to the immune system, let's, we're going to talk about Manick and McSine in a moment. But as we saw from their paper 10 years ago, they gave a rap a mice and analog to people, people who were in their 60s, vaccinated them and demonstrated that, oh boy, you got a much better immune response. Okay. They were able to demonstrate that using laboratory techniques. I'm sure they used flow cytometry or something like that to measure it. How close are we to being able to do that sort of thing commercially? By commercially, IMean, over the counter, like, not close. I think in that study, they actually measured antibody titers. So even more complicated the flow cytometry. Yes. Okay. And so um, in that case, they definitely showed an enhancing effect with a known, you know, geroprotector. This was a suspected geroprotector at least in humans. Exactly. Rapa log and they showed not only increased titers, but also protection, increased protection. Eventually the clinical child failed for a whole series of other reasons, which were in parts, due to the way that the FDA imposed the child to be generated. I think it's just complicated the whole picture. Yeah. By the way, for folks listening to us who were confused by that, Matt Cable and I had a specific discussion because it wasn't the 2014 trial. It was a later trial where they, it wasn't the RAD001 trial. It was the, it was the other trial that failed. And I actually don't remember the reason, but Matt explained it. It was very clear that it was a tragedy of bureaucracy. It is. And it shouldn't be viewed as a black eye on that molecule. Yeah. And I think, you know, Matt is more of a specialist in the whole Rapa mice and so it will differ to what he said, but well, the link in the show notes to where Matt and I had that discussion. Yeah. My, my, what I've heard from anyone that I've talked to, including Joan is that this was in some way, bungled, which is sad because sometimes things like this can put a field back for, you know, a number of years and then discourage investors. We have a startup that originated at the Bakoleo of Yen, which has raised $50 million, again, coming up with Rapa logs, novel Rapa logs that are going to be, I think, revisiting that whole, that whole picture. So quite excited. The field is far from being dead. What we ever be able to measure this in people the way we measure, hemoglobin A1C or things like that, or is it going to be one of those things where it's a bit of a leap of faith? And you're going to have to look at the clinical trial where the outcome was there. And then you're just going to have to say, well, even though there was probably massive hat heterogeneity amongst the participants in the trial, we're going to dose this thing individually. IMean, it's a little bit like, you know, you brought up Vitamin D earlier. IMean, one of the problems with the Vitamin D trials is that they're all garbage, right? Because they all just give people a given dose. They don't measure their response. They don't measure compliance. Vitamin D trial should be done based on target level, not target dose. And so we run the risk here of the same thing in a much more complicated system. agree. That being said, measuring pathogen specific tiders is done routinely in the clinic. I don't know if you did this, but I just had my measles tider measured. Because I'm born 1957, which is right the age at which before 1957, everyone was exposed to measles, so you're typically safe. And but you should measure your tider to determine whether you need to be revaccinated. And I find out that, yeah, you can do this very easily. You get a tider. With the tiders by themselves tell you, so what would you predict? So if IMeasured every tider right now, if IMeasured polio, shingles that a pan tider on you, and then started you on rap a micein for eight weeks and then stopped it and then re-measured your tiders without vaccinating you. What would you expect to see? I would not expect them to change. Yeah, exactly. So how do we know we're improving your immune system? If indeed we have. As you know, I see what you're saying. So in terms of if we were to start you on rap a micein, what would happen? So how could we measure the improvement in immune function? By the way, the the manic trial showed that when you vaccinate first they did a one month treatment with the rap a law before vaccination. So this was demonstrated not an effect on existing. Yes, yes, yes, but it totally demonstrated on denover vaccine. That's right. And I think, you know, what would be the effect on existing tiders against all of the other pathogen? I don't know. IMean, I don't think this has ever been done. Yeah, interesting. Let you want to just say a little bit more about that trial. So that was at least for me. I was that was a very pivotal moment in my journey in this space and an understanding this world. So that was December of 2014 that that paper came out and if I recall roughly 300 plus participants divided into four groups. So placebo group, a group that got one milligram every day, a group that got five milligrams once a week and a group that got 20 milligrams once a week. So two people were pulsed one much higher than the other and then one given daily in the placebo. I believe they were all over 65. I think the study was done in Australia. And as you said, they were put on their whatever treatment was for four weeks immunized. I think it was another four weeks and then a six week washout and then the tiders were checked. And the best response, I think was in the five milligrams pulse and the 20 milligrams pulse. The one milligram daily still had a better response than the placebo but not as strong as the two pulse doses. But the five and the 20 weekly were nearly identical, but the 20 had much more side effects. So I think that, and again, I don't remember perfectly so correctly. So correctly, I'm sure you will. The take away was basically five milligrams pulse was the sweet spot. You get all the benefit without the side effects. Reason why, no, I think that's how I remember that trial as well. Although I'm always impressed by how you remember all of these technical trials. What was remarkable about that data was the fact that this is from a drug that is supposed to be an immune suppression. And it's been a long road for the longevity field to try to get our colleagues who are actually using a proper medicine as a immunosuppressant to have them believe that this actually has an effect on immunity. And not only not immunosuppressive, but actually a promoting immunity. So how do you reconcile that? Not meaning, not not not their disbelief, which is warranted. But how do you reconcile that one molecule can be, if given, so if you think about the doses, we used to give Rapa my son. It's not actually used that much by the way today in the trensplant clinic. So FK506, Sirolumus has largely pardon me. No, no, I'm blanking on what FK506 is real name is, but anyway, whatever, it's largely displaced, Sirolumus, which is Rapa. But that said, when we used to give it out, we were giving two to four milligrams a day. Now, let's just assume that it was indeed contributing to prevention of organ rejection. Do you think it was doing so because that's a high enough dose of constitutively giving a drug that it's oppressive to the immune system? Or do you think it was only suppressing the immune system because it was given being, it was being given in combination with two other drugs, and it was only as part of that sea of other drugs that it has the immunosuppressive effects? No, I think there's clear evidence. It is immunosuppressive by itself. And I can tell you that for the period when I was on Rapa my son, I would take either four, six milligrams a week, every morning, so once a week. So the biggest difference between the two, the immunosuppressive and the sort of geropotective effect is really the amount, the frequency and the amount. The reason why people adopted this sort of once weekly doses to first not have any immunosuppression and second to mitigate the secondary effect, which are thought to be caused by inhibition of and talk to, which is the second of the effects. Yeah, it goes goes effect. And that seems to be working largely. What was in my case remarkable is that every time I took my dose, not two, I only did two for a couple of weeks, but either four, six. The next morning I would have a pimple on my nose. So I was immunosuppressed clearly every single time for a day, for a day or two. And I sort of made peace with it. In the fact that if I had a really heavy workout, I wouldn't have exactly the same thing. Exercise is immunosuppressive. If you go all out, you can get a cold, you can temporarily fragileize after a really heavy exercise. So I think the difference between these two, these two world immunosuppression, which clearly has been documented by clinical trials, it is immunosuppressive by itself versus the beneficial effect on the immune system to me as a question of dosage and frequency. And yet, I cannot reconcile the unambiguous success of the interventions testing program, where those mice were eating rapomison in every single bite of food they took. In fact, they were consuming it more continuously than even the most immune compromised patient. And without exception, every single ITP study of rapomison, whether they started an old mice or young mice, rap a alone, rap a with another drug. It just doesn't matter. It always worked. How do we reconcile that? We do have, well, I don't have the answer, but I can sort of talk about it in a way. I just, there's something that worries me about our reliance on the mouse as a model system for aging, for studying aging and how relevant it is to us as species. Even mice that are of thEQuality, IMean, because we would all admit that the ITP mice are the best, they're the Ferrari of mice. Exactly. The ITP is the best because is the best way to address this question because they're using mice that are, you know, cross. So it's not. Not in bread. When you're using black six, you're essentially doing the experiment on end of one. And the whole world, IMean, 80% of the work that's being done in mice is done on black six. This is we're all studying the same person. And so obviously, when you go and try to trensfer this to a human population, what all of its variations. So the ITP did the right thing. That being said, and this is not an attack on ITP. I think ITP is a great program, and should be funded, and should continue to study this. I just worry about the over reliance on ITP alone, and I think we should have another system that studies primate interventions with drugs. There are a number of primates, non-human primates that are actually much closer to us. The reason I worry about mouse is something that actually Steve Hustard, that you've had on this podcast as well. Steve is a good friend, and he came up with something called the longevity quotient, which I think is something that people do not pay attention enough. So longevity quotient is this idea that if you look across the animal kingdom, the larger you are, the longer you live. Okay, so you can take thousands species, and you can weigh on the x-axis, you have their size, on a y-axis, their life-expectives. Yes, largely rises to the right. And you can see a monotonous curve. Now there are exceptions to this. One of them is making more drugs. Yeah, make it more drugs. Yeah, for example, naked mull rats, you know, are living way above. So they live above. They punch above their weight, dogs tend to punch below their weight. Exactly. Although in dogs, it again varies by size. This is between species. That when you look, interest species, it gets even more complicated, which is the larger dog, live shorter than the smaller dogs. The great dangerous is that she wa wa, and that is done, actually that's driven mostly by growth hormone, which is, again, another, another reason why we should look at, you know, taking growth hormone is an anti-aging drug with some degree of circumspection, because in dogs, the more growth hormone you have, the larger you are, and the shorter you live. We know also in humans, the larger you are, the taller you are, the shorter you live. So are these effective growth hormone? Yes, are they only important while during the growth phase? That's a possibility, but it's something that really gives me pause to go back to our discussion about growth hormone. Now, wa wa zai, I sort of lost my chance. We're still trying to make the argument for why ITP mice live in rap and mice and with everybody to food somehow live longer. So again, going back to respiratory, the longevity quotient mice are also an exception. They punch below their weight. So they live shorter than they should based on their size. And humans is the biggest exception. We live about six, five, to six times longer than we should face on a size, which tells me that we are in an naked mole rat of primates. We do incredibly well, which means that we already have optimized a lot of these pathways that are promoting aging. I suspect the mice is exactly the opposite. I don't know that someone has really compared sort of intrinsic to our activity in mice. Are they, for example, living in mice are especially laboratory mice are engineered to reproduce and grow as quickly as possible. They have large, later sized, they do everything very quickly. Now, we know all of these activities are requiring a lot of anabolic strength, which is driven by tour. So thEQuestion is, are the mice sort of examples of animals that are maximizing tour activity to do everything they do very quickly? And we are maybe at the other end of the spectrum, where we have low sort of basal tour activity. So that's where I worry when people just trensfer everything we know from tour for mice and to humans is saying it's going to show and work in humans. I don't know if you are such an interesting point. Yeah. So I think this is, and this is frankly why I stopped taking Rapa mice and I thought, you know, I did not really see anything in terms of anything. Metabolically, physically, muscle strength. I couldn't, you know, in contrast to GLP1, I go in this, where I saw all of my numbers get better and functionally strength. All of this, I saw everything getting better on GLP1. I go in this, with Rapa mice and I never could tell whether I was taking it or not. Yeah. Although, look, well, it's not just that. I would say, where Rapa mice and Axe, I don't know that we would see anything getting significantly better, right? Because if we think that the main places that Rapa mice and is going to act would be on a top of G. Well, there's no way you're going to measure a top of G. You're not going to feel a top of G. You're not going to see it or measure it. Does it tamp down on certain subsets of senescent cells? That's certainly plausible. Again, I don't know how we're going to see or measure or necessarily even feel that. Does it reduce some of the tonic, low grade, unhelpful inflammation? Probably, but again, if a person doesn't have much to begin with, it's going to be tough to measure. Conversely, G. L. P. One Agnes act directly on a thing that is so easy to measure, which is glucose metabolism and body weight for those who are losing weight as well. So it might not be a fair comparison. I guess the other thing I would add to this interesting observation is that, of course, the mice and the ITP are still in a relatively sterile environment. And it might be that even if they incur some immunosuppression, it's not going to be as maladaptive as it would be if they were wild animals as we are. Living sterile environment, they live, grouped in a cage with no ability to move to exercise. They are, they eat a diet, which makes the American diets look like the most healthy thing ever. IMean, if you've seen the pellets that these mice are eating, do the ITP mice eat the crappy pellets as well? I suspect the eating. Okay, I don't actually know what their diet is. Yeah, I don't know what their diet is, but IMean, there are not that many, I can guarantee you they're not eating salad and fruits and vegetables. In some way, there are an incredibly artificially bad environment. These mice actually doing everything that is conducive to a poor health. And so the fact that we see something that works in that system might have some value for the fraction of the population that has a very poor lifestyle. But I do worry about trensferring this to someone like UNI who are exercising or trying to eat well, trying to sleep and all of this. So I take these observations with some degree of caution and frankly, I want people to ask me, should I go and wrap my mice in? I do worry. Now, this is a very different story. If someone, a patient, comes and sees you at 40 years old and tells you, I think, I want to go and wrap my mice and I would strongly argue that this should not do this. Because even in the studies, I have been conducting this, they still signed effect in mice at where the equivalent of 65 to 70 years old. Now, if you're 75 years old and you have the feeling you're chronically in flame and you have the feeling that things are not doing well, there are a number of anecdotal cases where people have described really feeling a lot better and a lot stronger, very quickly. One wrap of mice. I would predict it would be the same thing with a growth hormone or some of these interventions. So I've already put those in different categories. And my argument to people is today we have one intervention that is very profoundly anti-aging and it is a physical activity exercise in all of its forms. And once you have optimized this, I think let's talk about doing something else on top of that. So earlier you brought up the Sirtouan story and NAD. I'd love to spend a little bit of time there. I was at a talk recently and as always I get asked questions about stuff like that and I got asked thEQuestion about NAD. And I said, look, this is one of those things where if I tell you the following facts, I'm going to tell you three facts. NAD is completely ubiquitous throughout the body and it is absolutely essential for the most important chemical reactions that happen in the body. You cannot undergo readox reactions, metabolic reactions without NAD. That is point one. Point two is class of proteins called Sirtouans rely heavily on NAD as the substrate in the process of repairing DNA. That is fact two. FacT3 is as you age, NAD levels decline precipitously. Those are three facts and I don't believe is there any dispute to any of those facts? No controversy. Armed with those three facts, how could it be that supplementing NAD does not lead to a longer, better life or some health benefit? That is a logical conclusion. Not completely because you are assuming it depends also what is the reason why NAD levels decrease and it depends also what supplements, how you remedy this decision. And this is something I would love to talk about CD38 and NAD. It could be that NAD levels go down because their consumption goes up. There is as we age, there is more DNA damage, there is more consumption, there are two needs more of it and it goes up. Then of course thEQuestion would become, is the current level of NAD that we have rate limiting to that reaction? If not, then all the extra NAD in the world should have no benefit because you are just adding more substrate to a reaction where it is not needed. Conversely, if NAD levels are going down because there is a production issue and if you provided more of it, you could actually do more good. Well then it could be the exact opposite story. So let me pause there for a moment and have you fill in the edges of everything I just said so that we can go deeper into this discussion. So maybe explain a little bit what NAD is. Explain what it means in redox and obviously let's talk about sertuins in the role that NAD plays there. Let's do unpacking. I could be a two-hour podcast. But one area that we've worked on for the last 25 years. So we were responsible for cloning the human sertuins. After Lenny Garante published his paper on Sir II in Yis, but the graduate student was the first to publish this, was it? Matt Kadenlin. Yeah, sir. Matt and Brian, IMean, David, IMean, that whole gang was the original gang along with Lenny Garante, where paved the way for a lot of what we know. I eventually, you know, like one thing that I would just start by saying is that it pains me in some way in a field that is so rich and has generated so much data that there's a whole cloud sort of lying on top of Sir II in ZNAD. That, you know, there's nothing there. I just tell people, it is an incredibly study system. We are still juggling the complexity. And I would argue that any field where the same degree of investigation will be conducted will have the same controversy. This is the nature of science. The beauty of science is that it's incredibly messy on the way up, but eventually things are getting clarified. And I think in terms of the Sir II, we're still writing middle of it. So there's some complete garbage and completely agree. And by the way, I'm not completely dismissive. What I will say has made has made this field complicated is that the leading proponents of it have all opted for a commercial pathway. And therefore, they have opted not to study this in a rigorous way, but to study it in a commercial way. And unfortunately, IMean, I understand why you would do that. Like that's the nature of it. And this is not a molecule that you can put. You're not going to generate intellectual property in the same way that you would around an awful drug. And so it poses a limitation to how these things can be studied. But unfortunately, that coupled with the risk-veritrol fiasco, and I really, unless you think otherwise, Eric, we don't need to talk about risk-veritrol, but I remain completely convinced that risk-veritrol had zero benefit whatsoever. I think it is an absolutely useless molecule. So I think that risk-veritrol debacle, the over-hype, complete debacle of that, coupled with the fact that all of the participants in the NAD landscape are doing it through their own commercial enterprise with their own proprietary blend has resulted in this inability to drive forward in this field. I agree. I agree. I think it's, IMean, identified the problems to hype and the commercialization. IMean, commercialization can be helpful if the companies are actually willing to invest in clinical trials. And so on, you know, always use the example of timeline, you're a little in A. IMean, that we've worked with them. They do clinical trials, rigorous. They, you know, we publish them in the best journals in the end. You know what you're measuring. And so that being said for the so-to-ins, so let's try to be sort of step back and given the controversy, I would say I would encourage you, you're listening not to just discarded all, we're still in the middle of it. And I think there's something interesting, really merge out of it. So NAD is a critical intermediary metabolites. It has two big roles. First is it plays a key role in redox reactions. Again, we've talked about these reaction, reduction, reduction, reduction in the internal electrons met move around. Exactly. So it's it exists in two form, NAD and NADH. And it's critical to intermediary metabolism. There are more than 600 of these enzymes that use NAD in the whole metabolism. So it's sense to reason that if you losing NAD levels, it's going to be, you go below a certain critical level. These enzymes are going to suffer. Your whole metabolism is going to go down. And we know, by the way, that decreasing metabolically efficiency at all level is one of the whole marks of aging. So in addition to these enzymes that utilize the NAD and NADH couple, there's a whole series of other enzymes that actually are digesting, cleaving, NAD. And these would be the parts, polyadepirriborate polyamorous, so these are enzymes mostly involved in DNA repair. So it plays a critical role. So two ends, seven sort two ends, all doing different things within the cell. And we can go back and dig into this a little bit in terms of what are the sort of two ends doing. There's also another two ends, called CD38 and CD157. And so these are also NAD hydrolysis and we are studying them a lot. Now, so that's, I guess, the background of what these enzymes are doing. One thing that you're listening to should know about about NAD levels and why the decrease in NAD levels are relevant to aging is with respect to the sort of two ends. The sort of two ends have a relatively narrow range of KD for NAD. So if the NAD levels change, as we know they do during aging, it will lead to a change in the activity of the of the sort of ends. And I think this is something that was proposed by Lenny Garante back in the days, showed, for example, even during fasting, UNAD levels will increase and it will activate sort of two ends. So I think there's, there's something that's really unique to the sort of two in this there. And we know this in a really acute way because there are sort of two ends that are present in the cytoplasm versus in mitochondria versus in the nucleus. And the NAD levels in each of these organs are very different, for example, much higher in mitochondria. It turns out that 33 is a KD for NAD, which is much higher than 31. And so variation, that really is the indication that they are sensors of NAD levels, which goes back to the initial model that you mentioned, NAD levels change, reengaging, therefore we can expect the activity of the sort of two ends to change. Now, what else have I not adjust in your initial batch of questions? I think we're now ready to then move on to if we believe with some conviction that restoring NAD levels in an aging individual is beneficial. We now have to deal with the same problem you deal with any small molecule or large molecule for that matter. How do you get it in the body? So, how what are the ways in which you could get NAD into the body directly or indirectly? So that brings me to maybe another element of the biochemistry. So one thing that is emerged is this idea that thEQuestion is to why do NAD level decrease? And there's been lots of theories, activation of the parps. That seems to be happening in C elegans, but in mammals, this is the work of Edward or Chini, who was the first one to show that CD38 appears to be the major driver of the decrease of NAD during aging. And the way he's demonstrated this and we've actually repeated some of his results and published on this as well. If you study a mouse that's knocked out for CD38, you find that any of the levels actually do not decrease during aging. And that's pretty much across all organs. And I think that what this does is really brings the wholEQuestion is in terms of what should we be targeting. Now think about, did we talk about what CD38 is doing specifically? Yeah, so CD38 is a, as a membrane anchored protein. Some of it is facing outward on the outside of the cell. Some of it is facing Edward. For example, in T cells, it's mostly facing inward. Now outward, in microfagids, mostly facing inward. And it isn't an idealized. Now, what is it doing in the immune system? Why do we have it not entirely clear? One idea is that because it is present in T cells. Is it on non-immune cells? In the state of cells. Okay. As well. One idea, at least for the immune system, is that it might come up and eat up all the NAD that's local in the extracellular fluid, although there's not much of it. And limit the abilities as part of the innate immune response and limit the ability of bacteria and other organism to actually access these micronutrients for their own growth. That's one thinking. And I think it's a lot more complicated. And this and we're very in the middle of it. I have a good part of my lab actually studying the rule of CD38 in the immune system and the theoretical cells and in the brain as well. Now, you mentioned a moment ago that the CD38 knockouts do not see a decline in NAD with aging. Zero. And they live longer. I was just about to say, what is the phenotype of a CD38 knockout? What deficiency do they have? Nothing that we can tell. And they live longer. How much longer? 15%. That's comparable to Rapa-Mison. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty significant. This has been published by Eduardo Chini. Why do you think that is? In other words, do you think that that is true, true and unrelated to the increased pool of NAD? No. CD38. So that's a key question. And that's one that's not been answered. And I would say, if I had to go on the limb, I would say it's not linked to the NAD decrease. Because it turns out that- Sorry, just to make sure everybody understands what you're saying. You're saying your belief is that the CD38 mouse does not live longer because he has more NAD. That's just another bit issue we're seeing and that there's something else about that mouse. Yes. Or it might be partially, partially NAD and partially the other mechanism. I'm about to discuss. One thing that's remarkable is that as we age us and mice, we see an increase in CD38 level across the organism, especially in immune system. We've published a paper showing that the Sasp from senescent cells is a very powerful inducer of CD38 expression and microfages. So that's one mechanism by which we're linking senescent and the Sasp to increase CD38 leading to a depletion of NAD and other effect. And yet we have no idea what it's doing other than hydrolyzing NAD. It has a cognate receptor on other cells. It's part of, you know, it's- they don't seem to be immune deficient. They know it's really one of these players that people are there are hundreds of papers. IMean, do you think it plays a role in inflammation? A negative role in inflammation? One idea about it is that it plays a suppressive role in the immune response. So because we see it being induced kind of ladish, it's even response and the idea it comes up to tamp and down. So it's actually the exact opposite. It's it's it's so pro-antian flammatory that it can be harmful in that way as opposed to contributing to sterile inflammation, which is the more typical problem we see in aging. Yeah, we did not discuss this, but you know, the other side of the immune system is that it has to be incredibly balanced between reacting appropriately towards exogenous pathogen but not reacting against the cells. And as you know as a physician, there are so many conditions that are a manifestation of an excess of immune response against the individual, all of the autoimmune response, autoimmune disease is switched by the way increased during aging. So the thinking is that, um, except for type one diabetes. Yes, that's the one young. Why do you- I know that you used to study that. Why do you think that is? It's really an interesting question, although, you know, there's something called ladda that I'm sure you've heard about that is emerging that we might have been diagnosing some type two that were actually laid type one. The thing that is really unique about type one is the fact that- I remember a number of papers that highlight the fact that there might be something happening during development that exposes the immune system to the developing beta cells and that might trigger more to immunity at that time. It could also be linked to the fact that there's been for many years of discussion of the rule of viruses infection and maybe more like you know, mimicry between some of these viruses and beta cells. So it could be that a subset of infections that happen during childhood actually put you at risk of activating your immune system inappropriately. So that that's the whole idea, but there's clearly an increase of the immunity through our life. By the way, CD-157, do we see the same effects? Do we have a CD-157 knockout? No, a much less study. There's some interesting effect also, but, you know, CD-38 is guaranteed. CD-30 is the most of the attention. So, you know, if you think about our go back about CD-38 and in terms of what it's doing, it's taking an AD and cleaving it into ADP ribos, which is, you know, sugar and nucleotide and nicotinomide. nicotinomide is a precursor to an AD. And so this nicotinomide, which is generated by CD-38, but by the sirtuens, by the parps, normally gets recycled in a two-step reaction all the way back to an AD. Now, what's really interesting is if you block this, it's called the salvage pathway for nicotinomide. If you block it within a few hours, your anad levels go down to zero. So the system, wow, heavily dependent on recycling. Incredible, actually, and it is a specific inhibitor of the enzyme, colene mpt, you can add it to cells with done the experiment within 46 hours, any of the levels down to zero the cell dies. So there's an incredible turning through that whole pathway. Now, which is a reflection of the activity of sirtuens, CD-38, CD-157, the parps and so on. So you have a situation during aging where CD-38 increases, you increase the degradation and so you decrease the pool of anad. But you're increasing in theory, the metabolites. You're increasing the metabolites, nicotinomide. Now, one important thing is nicotinomide, metabolism is either salvage, back to anad, or methylation by an enzyme. And this is important for supplementation, because it turns out CD-38, not only cleaves anad, but it also cleaves anomen, which is one of the two. One of the two cultures and anananar. So when you actually are having crazy CD-38 activity and you take anomen, you're sure and through this pathway and you increase your nicotinomide and you increase its methylation. So anomen is also cleaved by CD-38 into what? Into nicotinomide plus something that's not ADP-riose. And so when you do this, you're increasing your level of nicotinomide to the point that it's shunting to methylene nicotinomide starts depleting your one carbon cycle. So what you see in the number of people, actually anomen is their homocysteine level going up, including me. I stopped taking it when I saw this. I thought this is not I was taking about a gram of anomen for a while. And then I saw my homocysteine level going up. I think it's a reflection of this pathway and basically stopped it. Now why is it Eric that the increase pool of nicotinomide preferentially goes down a methylation pathway as opposed to the salvage pathway to give you more NADD? Yeah. I don't think it goes preferentially. It just depends how much you're. It's just the more you put in. Even if it splits stoichiometrically or stochastically even, it's you're just going to sell, you're going to take away one carbon. Yeah and I do not know what the relative proportion is, but clearly the more you drive the system with anomen the more you're going to yield these and we can measure not only how much did you're homocysteine go up by the way? Up to 15 from from typical seven. Wow, that's yeah big job. And then how long did it take to resolve once you stopped the anomen? Well, I only measured typically every three months. Okay. After after three to six months, it had come back to normal seven to eight. What about NR? Nicotinomide riboside? How is that treated by CD38? It's not it's not metabolized by itself and our eventually in the cell has to make it back to anomen, which is one is on the salvage pathway that we talked about. So NR is less bulky, less big than anomen, so it is able to get into the cell, but eventually it makes it into nicotinomide anomen and then goes back into the same pathway. So eventually I'll come back to the same. So do you think that there's no difference between the same amount of NR and anomen? No, they clearly are some differences. Especially in all the really complex biochemistry that happens in terms of getting them into cells. You know, the problem with NR and anomen is that you are, if you think about what the approach is, you essentially you have a pool of anade, which is a sink, think about a sink full of water, and you keep, you know, it's leaking. That's your CD38. That's that's the leak at the bottom of the sink. And you keep pouring more anomen, more anomen, inside of it. You're just going to just going to accelerate, you know, the leak. Are you going to make it not going to solve the problem? Basically, maybe you'll reestablish the level at a normal, some are normal, but the turning through is problematic. Now, why is the turning through problematic? Because some of the bi-products of CD38, for example, are cyclic ADP rivals. So there's two forms of ADP rivals, not cyclized and cyclized. Cyclized activates calcium signaling. And so there's a whole aspect of the biology of CD38 that's linked to calcium signaling. So I think I do worry about the supplementation with the NR and anomen. I do worry about it. I'm not discounting them. I think clinical trials are ongoing. There's dozens of clinical trials. So we will soon identify something that in which it has a benefit. And again, if you think about the metabolism of these metabolites, it's incredibly complicated. There are effects on a microbiome. There are effects on, you know, different absorption by different cells. Just literature, hundreds and hundreds of papers, I think, way beyond what your audience probably wants to hear. But, and I would say, you know, at this point, most of what you can buy a supplement, have doses that are so low. This is where there's an important discord and so also. When we do experiment, we've seen amazing things in laboratory animals in terms of supplementing whether or not an anomen. This is where the excitement comes from. But typically, these animals are getting 10 times more than what you're buying as a supplement. And the reason is, I think, you know, grass sort of status is given to these companies to give us more amounts. Yeah, grass meaning generally we're going to just say the FDA's criteria for giving something that is naturally occurring. Yes. Yeah, but doesn't require it to go down the IND pharmacologic pathway. Eric, if you were taking one gram a day of NMM and your homocysteine went from 7 to 15, I guess two questions would be, has that been reported elsewhere? Is there, do we, is that a known phenomenon in the trials that are testing NMM or are they measuring homocysteine to see if that's, IMust have read it somewhere because I was, I was looking for it. And then the second question is, how would you then tolerate 10 grams of NMM? IMean, if one gram is doing that, what, IMean, now you're, you would deplete all one carbon, what does that mean you wouldn't even be able to alter your epigenome in ways that might be favorable? You run all kinds of risk and a number of people that I've seen the same thing and start taking trimethylglyceine or, you know, so to try to supplement is I do worry about this. I think for me, and again, I want to reiterate the fact that I think the data and NMM models of what some of the things that we've seen with some of these precursors is really interesting and, and really, you know, this is why there's so much interest. Did you ever try using TMG to see if it would offset the, no, I didn't. Okay, there would be an interesting self-expertion. Okay, what about intravenous NAD? So that, that is sort of one of my pet peeves. And again, you know, I try and everything to be, to remain open-minded to things that I don't know and don't understand. My prediction is that first NAD is not a, an extremely, really molecule. NAD does not exist, well, almost does not exist at all in the plasma. It is an intra-sadutor. And as IMentioned, you know, high concentration in mitochondria, somewhat much lower in the cytoplasm and in nucleus. So the whole idea of injecting intravenous NADs, first it's too big to be absorbed by cells. So what is the body doing with it? There is a famous paper by Josh Strabeneritz. Robin of it, that showed that if you inject it actually intravenously, you actually get it, mostly, cannibalized by the liver and to nicotine amide. Nicotine amide is one of the fraction of nicotine. You can buy this at the pharmacy for very cheap. You can go into an IV clinic and get a $700 injection of NAD. Very few studies, one or two. I've read both of them. They're interesting. So my opinion is that NAD intravenously is not something that should be done. The same thing for subtotaneously. I've seen another company that sells it subtotaneously. Really no evidence for doing this. Now that being said, I've heard, and this is where I tried to remain open-minded because they obviously we don't know everything. I have heard anecdotal evidence of dramatic effect in some patients with Parkinson's. People really describing sort of not a miraculous, but a near miraculous effect right after the infusion having increased in motor performance and you can really assess, in someone who's a severe Parkinson's. So again, NAD studies systematically. There's a lot of... Is there mechanistically is there a reason you could explain that through dopamine or something else? There's a whole literature on the effect of NAD precursors and so on on Parkinson's, most of the animal models. And I think there are lots of clinical trials going on in Parkinson's as well. But more using to stand at NAR and NAMN. The thing that I've described is more a couple of friends who've told me, I've seen this. Not enough to make a product, but enough maybe to question, maybe this is there's something more to it than what we truly know. But the proliferation of these intravenous clinics, frankly, how complicated is it to produce a bag of intravenous NAD? I don't think it's very complicated. I've never made it. I know making an MN at purity is really not, you know, took some effort to scale it up and some of the companies that have been doing this right now is like one major supplier out of China, pretty much everybody uses. But in terms of NAD, I don't think this is an industrial process and I can tell you it's not $700. Yeah, I'm sure it's not. So do you think... If a person was going to supplement with one orally, do you think there's a case for NAR being superior to NAMN? I would say no. I would say take them both. If you're going to do something and you want to a bit of an insurance, let's say, and I did this for a while. I'm not doing it right now. Take 250 milligrams of each and you'll have a half a gram. You are in a relatively safe dose, follow your homocysteine. If you are 60 or above, you could make the case. This could be part of a stack. Although this is the same thing that we see with so many of these supplements right now, you know, which one do you take, which ones are beneficial. There's one a little bit of a dark cloud, a link to NAD supplementation is the demonstration that the SASP is actually dependent on NAD levels. And so when you actually increase NAD levels, you might be increasing these program flammatory markers. So because let me make sure I understand why, because the SASPS, which for folks listening, these are the soluble products made by the Sinescent cells that effectively are doing all the bad things that we don't want to see Sinescent cells doing. So now, they are dependent on CD38 to some extent. So as CD38 goes up, they go up and are you saying as you give more NAR and more NMM? You might be turning up the SASPS. Yeah. The other thing also is there's been some, by the way, all of this, let me finish, you finish your point and then I want to make a broader point. No, there's also some worry about the fact that supplementing with some of these precursors might also accelerate tumor growth. So this would not have an effect in UNI, we don't have a cancer, but if it's someone out there who has an early form of cancer, this could lead to an acceleration. This is something that's been shown in NAD MOMOTALs that it giving some some powers to some people in terms of recommending this to be taken over by everyone. Now, the folks who make this have strenuously denied that there is any validity to those animal models that have suggested that or the, and some of this has been done in VETRO as well, correct? So how, I'm not very familiar with that literature. I saw, I remember seeing one study, it was very small. You know, my take on it was, I guess if you had cancer, this might be a bad idea to take, but but I didn't find it that convincing. So I agree with you. And it's, it is a general consideration for a whole field of longevity research is, you know, better as the enemy of good is something that was sort of drilled into me as I went through medical school. You know, we have a term in French, which is sort of like therapeutic overdoing it, you know, just doing too much. There is such a thing as overdoing it for your patients. And in this case, the whole longevity field, you know, is embracing a whole series of these intervention. IMean, it is not a week that doesn't go by that I don't see a new supplement being touted online. And so on, and I read about all of them, thEQuestion is, which ones should you be taking? Which ones are actually risky, which ones are not? And to me, this is part of the whole balance of the equilibrium. I'm trying to reach. If there's something that really has a beneficial effect, you want to be on it as soon as possible. If not, you know, why take the chance? Yeah, I think that's, IMean, you said it, that's the point I was going to make at the outset, but you've said it so much better. Let's pivot a little bit to a couple of the things I want to chat about quickly. Let's talk about inner loop in 11. So big trial last fall that looked at blocking inner loop in 11, which is a molecule that's made by immune cells, plays an important role in inflammation. And this was done in mice and those mice lived longer. What do you make of the study? Read the paper like you. I don't have sort of an inside knowledge about, and of course, when the paper came out, it was like a turlook in 11. IMean, I don't even know what it is. You talk about one in turlook in one, two, four, seven, six, seven, you know, but 11 never heard about it. So I went to, and there's actually, you know, it goes up to like 30. So I went and read the paper. It's, it's an inflammatory marker. So again, it could be a, on par with one in six? No, I would say probably not. So it came out a little bit in the left, out of the left field. But it sort of makes sense in the context of what we know about the inflammatory response linked to aging. So and maybe this is where I can, I can add one point is when we think about the chronic inflammation of aging, sort of inflammation, it is both cause and effect. We talked about how the immune response helps you to protect yourself against the in any immune response against pathogen as a first line of defense. The in any immune response also has another important role is that it recognizes damage, any kind of damage. If you cut yourself, if you have a wound, you know, inside of your, or your artery, a coronary artery, the coronary artery, the, this will act, any kind of damage unfolded proteins. There's all kinds of things. So the in any immune response will be triggered and will activate itself. So as we age and as damage slowly accumulates, because aging is a slow, irreversible accumulation of damage. Eventually, your immune system responds to this by becoming chronically activated. And so the problem is that you might think, well, this is great because you actually repairing all of this damage. The problem is the activation of the immune response by itself becomes problematic because these cells of microfages, for example, a powerful tissue remodler. And so the immune system in this case is sort of Dr. Jackie Lennon, Mr. Khaide, it's helping, but it's facing an unsurmarnable amount of damage. And eventually, it's activation leads to an AD depression. That's one of the things that it does, but many other things stem cell dysfunction and mitochondrial dysfunction. So the whole idea here is that 11, my simply B, IMean, is one of the key markers of this chronically activated immune system. So this is not something I imagine you're going to give to a 20 year old. But in someone who's getting really in the part where chronic immune, immune activation is present, could really play an important role in the future. And what the paper showed was again in mice, but for what I understand is already an existing molecule. Yes. And there actually, recently was contacted by a company that has another novel inhibitors of I.L. 11. You can imagine this to become part of the whole armamentarium that we have against aging. And then how do you see playing that off something in the other sense back in? Because because we're really trying to deal with two sides of this system, we want to tamp down the part that's over active and we want to ramp up the part that's underactive. So we've got basically the only example we have over here is Rapa Mison. This one does this. And then we now have I.L. 11 inhibition or IMean, I use knockout mice, but block this that did good thing. So is this one of those things where you need to do both to get, by the way, maybe you have growth hormone over here as well. Right. One there also. Yes. I.L. 11. That's right. So as well, we've just got shot. Block I.L. 11. Block I.L. 11. Give growth hormone, give Rapa Mison. IMean, but here's the problem. You get into this reductionist state, which is like the whole NAD, world of NR and NMM, and it sounds great. But what if there's unintended consequences we can't see? Like even as much as I love thinking about this and want to do all of these things, I start to think, man, what is the probability we're going to get this right? I agree. And the immune system is an incredibly tenuous system, which is in really delicate balance. So the balance is too much immunity. You might say, well, this is good. Protection against cancer, protection against microbes, you know, but then you get autoimmunity. But then you get autoimmunity. Not enough immunity, while you run the risk of being, you know, killed by an pneumonia or some kind of infection. But at least you don't have too much inflammation. Yes. Yeah. So it is a very fine balance. Well, this gets to this is why I wish we had a dashboard. What are the biomarkers we can use for these things? Because we don't have this problem with blood pressure. We don't have this problem with thyroid hormone. We don't have this problem with so many things that we treat because we can measure what we care about. That's a good point. And thEQuestion is, you know, what is first, IMean, the immune system is so complex. There's not going to be one single marker. You know, my colleague David Throwman is this this thing called I age, which is a immune aging set of tests that you can actually conduct. That was the first attempt trying to measure immune aging. You know, they have a whole bunch of things. What do they actually measure? Is it all serum biomarkers? Yes, serum biomarkers and mostly cytokines, CxC. Validated how? Benvalidated in clinical studies. So they they they they I am you know aging. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I age. Oh, I age. Yes. I don't know I don't know if it's so this was developed and pioneered by David Throwman and Mark Davis. So David Throwman is with us at the back Mark Davis's still at Stanford. I guess this brings us to to clocks. Yes. I don't even know if I have the energy to talk about this. Okay, where do you want to begin? There's so many of these things out there. Yes. Some of them are commercially available. Some of them are just tools of research at the moment. Some of them aim to tell you an actual age, an actual number that represents your biological age as opposed to your chronological age. Some of them don't aim to tell you that at all they just want to tell you a rate of aging. Some of them look only at the epigenetic signature and others they look directly at the methylation sequence. Others look at a host of markers, including some very simple serum biomarkers like glucose levels and vitamin D levels and things like that. So how do you make sense of all of those tools? Right now we don't. I think so first statement is there are not ready for prime time in terms of patient management. There are research tools. And I think I Which is interesting because they're far outside of research labs at this point. Yes, they are available commercially. I've done the same thing. I don't remember who you told me. Someone actually it was it mad. Matt Kaden. IMeasured his clocks. I do the same thing. Actually IMeasured them every three months and I used it. It's just a scatter plot. It's a scatter plot in a way, I'm between 25 and 68 which is of course I like the clock that show me to be young. So that being said, so we know that we're learning. So we know that for example you alluded to the fact that they can vary the same clock. There's circ... So Kaden variation for example, five years. So your age can vary by five years using some of the clocks depending on when you measure when you you say. What time of day? Yeah, what time of day? Which is that biology that just tells you, the epigenome is something that's highly dynamic. And so that's something as we learn. Obviously the companies will encourage you to measure it to draw the blood always at the same time. Now the whole field by now is pretty much focused. Pretty almost completely focused on DNA methylation. And see if Horvath don't beautiful work. IMean it's really piranity or work identifying all this and Morgan Living and others have gone on. Dan Belsky, I think with Denodine pace, which is another epigenetic clock that measures the pace of aging. By the way, I think this probably my favorite because it really seems to be responding to interventions. You know, if you change your diet or if you do something, you will see your pace of aging are changing. So I think that one to me seems more promising. But it's a whole small, you know, we don't know how to use these tools clinically. That's the problem. They're nice gadgets to buy. You know, the company is selling new supplements and then they're selling you the tests with it. I don't know what to make of it. Personally, I think this is not ready for prime time. It's something that should be done in the future. It might become in the future. Would you agree with my stern words on this because I've made a lot of enemies by saying that if as a consumer you encounter a company that is selling you a test, especially a test that is not validated in any clinic, clinically meaningful way. And then in the same breath, selling you a supplement to fix the result of that test, you need to run. I agree. IMean, I just, I don't have the patience for that kind of behavior. So I'm going to tell me actually, recently, that one of these tests, actually, that you can measure almost everyone who gets their result is low. And of course, low being good or bad in this test. No, whatever. No, it's bad. Bad. Yeah. It's insufficient. And the next step is the recommendation you have to buy this supplement to solve the problem. So, yes, I think, you know, again, it's the same thing with the sort of twins and the NAD. Let's not throw out the baby with the bath water. There's a whole series of these players. I'm not disputing their honesty or their good intention from what I've seen. I think it's too early. And what do you think is the biggest problem? Is the biggest problem? The biologic noise in the system, which means even if you had the absolute perfect tool to measure and you knew exactly what to measure. The movement of that thing is so great that the probability that you're capturing a meaningful value is irrelevant. In other words, imagine that there's a variable that moves like this. But on the small level, it's moving like this. And I'll give you an example. Imagine you were measuring heart rate, but you could only sample it milliseconds at a time. And what you were actually measuring was heart rate variability instead of heart rate. It would be useless. It's too noisy. Great. I agree. So, I agree. Do you think that's the problem? No, I don't think that's a problem. And I'll speak personal experience. I work with true diagnostic. When you get, they use the epic array and you get not one clock. You get dozens. So, I get all of them. And they tend to be reproducible every three months unless IMake some interventions. But in general, there's some consistency consistency. And I'm not the only one to see in this. So, my advice if you really are determined to use them, use all of them. They all are sort of a different mirrors of your reality. You know, the problem of the methylation clocks is that there's a very tenuous link between the change of methylation that any given site and the biology. So, when, you know, typically the clock will measure about 500, will relax each clock would rely on about 500 different methylation sites. But they're not attached to a specific gene. So, you don't really know what it means. But how are they even doing that? They're not measuring with point arrays. How are they? They do this with arrays. They're doing this with array. They've had about 20 million methylation sites that they're assessed. But each clock uses a subset for 500. Now, the biggest problem with the clocks, for my perspective. So, it just to be clear, you're saying they're actually measuring point of methylation. Yes. Yes. Yes. ThEQuantifying the level of methylation at each of these sites, the problem with the clocks is also where do you obtain them from? Typically blood. As IMentioned, it's a heterogeneous compartment. As you age, for example, you know that your fraction of naïve decels decreases down to cross to zero. If you 80 years old, your memory decels increase. So, we did a very simple experiment. We sorted all of these different t-cell subsets, memory naïve, central memory, temporarily differentiated and measured their epigenetic age, using several of the clocks, 20 to 25 years difference between naïve and the central memory. In the right direction. The direction you would put naïve a much longer. So, which is, you know, that's someone interesting? There was really interesting for me because it means also any conditions where you see a shift in the relative proportion of decels. For example, you get an acute COVID infection. What happens? You have a massive expansion of your memory decels. So, it looks like you're going to, and then you sample and given the decels look much older than the other ones, you're going to look like you're aging. And so, so, and there's a whole literature that talks about Accelerated Aging and Rometharic Thritis in COVID and HIV. All of these conditions that are all associated with chronic immune activation. So, that's another confounding variable. So, what we did to do this with a student and a lab, we made a new clock in which we eliminated all of these methylation sites that are linked to differentiation. So, now this clock that we've done does not vary actually as a function of the types of cells that are in the blood. So, as a T cell goes from being a naïve T cell, to being a memory T cell, to being a temra, the methylation patterns changed as part of the epigenetic regulation. So, we eliminated all of those sites and made a new clock called Intrgent Clock, which actually is impervious to your level of immune activation. And what's interesting is that that clock doesn't change anymore during COVID. It doesn't change very little during HIV. It doesn't change during a whole series of conditions where people have talked about aging, et cetera, etc. Including the story that we talked about earlier on growth hormone. What does change it then? What does change it? Cancer? Cinecens, which is really interesting. What about short-term interventions that might be beneficial? So, if you took an individual who is insulin resistant and you put them on a GOP1 agonist and three months later, they're 20 pounds lighter and their insulin resistance has resolved. How does that change on the clock? I would not be able to tell you specifically for individual clocks, but then Bellski's Dennidin pace clock is the one that repeatedly people have shown seems to be responding to interventions, which is the two qualities that you want in a clock is one to be predictive and the other one to be predictive of ultimatum comes life expectancy or occurrence of disease, but also you want it to be modulatable, responsive, and many of them actually about the end reproducible. I'm reproducible. Yeah. reproducible I think is more a question of the laboratory that's doing it, so there are not- But also potentially the biologic noise still. Exactly. So, biologic noise and laboratory conditions speak to reproducibility. I agree with what you said. IMean, I've often made this case when people ask me about clocks is my gripe with with the age clock. So again, the pace clock is different because it's just trying to give you a rate of ageing and I agree with you. I think there might be more there, but these clocks that spit out, hey, Eric, congratulations, you're 25. I say to someone who says, isn't that wonderful? I say, maybe, but do you actually believe that a 60 year, 68, your 68 and your clock said you're 25? Should I expect you to live another 55 year? Yes. In other words, is it predictive? Is it a better predictor of future life than chronologic age? And the answer is to my knowledge, no, there is no clock that has a better ability to predict lifespan than chronologic age does. And until that's the case, I worry that the biologic clocks are creating a bit of a distraction, at least this subset of clocks and that we may be ought to focus better on clocks where the readout state is more about is this intervention good or bad? Yeah. Or is this a net positive intervention or a net negative intervention? I agree. And as we mentioned earlier, the field initially focused on the epigenetic clocks because this is Steve's Horvats and Pyronerian works, got everybody to start thinking we can generate these tools, but the field is not moving into proteomics clock. Is that what makes up Dan's clock? Dan is a methylation. It's also methylation. Why do you think it's doing a better job than maybe Horvats clock at the moment? I think typically it really depends on how what the co-horror is, what thEQuestion was. I don't know. I think Dan's is the only one that's doing it in this way. Why is it working better? They're just looking at it in a completely different way. How much is AI facilitating this at this point? But she's learning as a key instrument. Essentially what these clocks are is a regression analysis on to you know you start with a variable which is your age and you regress each methylation site onto the age. You do this on enough people of different ages. You find an average. And eventually what the clocks... I wonder if that's the wrong way to do it. Wouldn't it be better to buy a bank these to get buy a banked data and instead of mapping it onto age? Appet on to a number of years remaining in life because if you'll know that in a buy a bank. Chronological. And Steve used to go around saying my correlation coefficient is 99. And I was like well that's because that's what you built it on. Yeah, he's like yeah. I can look at a calendar. I don't need a nippy-genetic clock to tell me how well I am but the next generation clocks actually had a bigger spread when you look at off course you have an average. Right because they started to build it on a different variable. Exactly. So what really excites me right now is the whole idea that the field is moving on to the next stage which is non-appetionated clocks. Because I'm still frustrated. It is a biologist trying to understand what are these clocks. It should be everything. IMean why would we do... IMean it doesn't make any sense to me whether we wouldn't look at the metabolome, the proteome and the epigenome. IMean we should look at every... IMean there's no excuse today with the compute power not to do that right? We have clocks based on fundus. We have clocks based on skin. We have clocks based on facial recognition. So the clocks are going to be measured using dozens of different biological variables. Any biome, a small company in the barrier is using it the tongue. A tongue picture, the old doctor looking at your tongue so you can actually use machine learning to recognize patterns of discoloration and another exciting story was I don't know if you're familiar with a Tony Whiskore's paper using proteomics. He has shown for example the proteome in plasma changes throughout life. Pretty dramatic manner which is really completely mind-boggling for me just to see that you can be so different as you age in terms of your whole blood proteome. Why? IMean if the epigenome is changing then gene expression is changing if gene expression is changing. No, no, bro. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's okay. But we have, you know, so they've used this to that it would change to such a degree. Yeah, Tony has a beautiful slide which shows you know all of the proteome in the blood and how the colors changed across the... And the using that most of those changes are post-trenslational? No, most of them are a protexpression level. It's expression. Yeah, it's expression. People are building trenscriptomics clock and so Tony now has a study that is I believe in press or coming out soon where they've gone back using this proteomics clock and they've done this on a UK bio bank more than 40,000 different people and this is the study I we started this discussion on identifying which organs are so what Tony did was actually remarkable. He looked at each of these proteins that are in the blood and selected some that were predictive to be coming from unique organs. Imagine what you know about how you measure a tropomycin for for heart attack. So they did this they went and looked in every single organ and say okay what proteins are specific of this organ and which ones actually can be measured into the plasma and using this they were able to generate what they call an organ specific clock. So what they simply from a blood draw they're able to to really determine do you have a frailty point and when I look at you is there like suffering happening in this is Tony's work through the proteomics. Tony was correct it's a new start-up called Viro which is I'm in full disclosure I've joined the board of this company but I only joined the board because I was really excited about what they're trying to do and I think it really brings a whole new dimension to these predictive biomarker which is more aligned to what you and I have seen as physicians you know it's a simple mind it's a protein is released into the blood it shouldn't be there it might be indicating some suffering and I have discussed with some colleagues who have used this clock and have identified some abnormal aging in a unique organ only to go back and find that there was indeed one problem without going into you know what the issues were but you can yeah IMean the challenge the thing that the reason I tend to be a slow adopter of these things is even if that's the case thEQuestion is how much noise is in the system so I go and do that test on a patient and it comes back and says oh my god there's something wrong with your liver your kidneys a bit too old you're this you're that you're this you're that so I have two fundamental questions the first is could I have figured that out another way so if it's telling me your liver is angry or something's wrong with your liver how do your trensamination is look right if it's telling me something's wrong with your kidney could I've picked that up on a urinary analysis looking at you know 20 you know creatinine clearance or you know system c or something else in other it's is it giving me information that I can get elsewhere in a more reproducible more validated fashion the second thing is let's say it tells me seven things are not perfect and I ultimate and by the way everything looks perfect so I have my standard essays everything looks awesome this test says oh my god these six or seven things are problematic and I go poking around poking around poking around and I find out one of them is indeed not working but the other six were perfectly fine so now we have this huge false positive situation it's it's the same problem we have a cancer screening which is you know buyer needs to be wear of the Pandora's box you open and at least with MRI you're dealing with imaging but this sounds like exciting and yet it's a bit of a black box agree where it's gonna spit out oh my god there's something wrong with your left testicle oh my what do I need to do you know and that that being said I think you know the essays are generated in a way that there are multiple it's not like one single protein like a triple of triple mice and we know that that's a clear indicator there's something sell death in in terms of your heart in this case the clocks are generated in a way that there are multiple centenels for each organ you know many now the story I was talking about so early days okay we totally agree with this it's a startup I think they will you know they will deploy it and obviously it's gonna take again a group of physicians who are able to look at these tests and this is this is what research is this is what startup you know can't blame them for trying because I think it has a potential for example to highlight a frilty point which is in in aging research to me is really critical you could have the best mind and the best hearts in the world if something else is going to fail that you are completely unaware of you want to know as soon as as you can and so my prediction is I'll share the paper with you if you're interested in looking it's quite exciting in terms of where this is leading but I agree with you early days yeah I will probably maintain a shockingly high degree of skepticism and and probably enjoy some experimentation with it but again my my experience in the real world is that that's just not how it works right there aren't people walking around that are insanely remarkably healthy where everything looks amazing but they have some time bomb they don't know about with the exception of a few things that I'm not sure it would pick up for example cancer is always that thing and of course there's an entire field of me noticing this going around with liquid biopsies that's exactly trying to solve that problem it could be reconereward the liquid biopsie industry through the lens you said which is it's looking for that weakest link which in this case is the earlier signs of cancer and it could be that a cancer will manifest itself also in local organ suffering and and again leaching it might actually points along with the liquid biopsies tell you you have some cancer cell it might tell you my point you to one place where actually this is actually happening yeah again it's it's interesting you know the the case that I've made about MRI is the same because I have a whole bunch of physician friends who tell me I get a yearly MRI and they tell me why do you do this I say well because I would rather know and as a well you're gonna find all kinds of things I said we did find something I had a tumor and in behind my jaw and it turns out I'm a mass it was not a tumor but it took me six months of worrying about what it was and decided not to biopsie and anything my sense of all of this is that these are novel ways to practice medicine then yeah yeah and and I'm I'm criticized heavily for being too much on the forefront of doing that but probably not nearly as far as some right I still at the end of the day I think about every time you do a test one you never do a test unless you're willing to act on an outcome or you have a sense of how an outcome will change your your behavior like it we don't order tests for the sake of information we order tests to make decisions and therefore you must at a minimum understand the full suite of outcomes that can come from the test and how many of them will pose huge trouble for you I think honestly a 20% of my patients opt not to do whole body MRI and I fully endorse that decision and I tried to talk patients out of it I really tried to highlight how many times we find thyroid nodules that we have to put needles into that ultimately end up being nothing and all we do is subject them to that risk and the anxiety that comes along with it so anyway that's I'm eager to look at this because I do think that the proteum offers a lot but I'm always worried about going a little too far on the clinical implication of a test I agree I'm with you in terms of being careful I viewed this as another attempt and for example you know we talked about the data showing that the two organs that appear to be limiting in terms of aging the immune system and the brain that came out of that that story this were that's actually the title of the paper essentially that identifies the brain and the immune system so they they have a whole series of immune immune markers that are predictive of some degree of immune activation and so on well Eric there's a lot of other things I wanted to chat about but I think what we'll do is we'll have you come back out to Austin for another day of driving at Kota and then we'll we'll we'll we'll justify it by doing another podcast where we dive deeper into some of these topics we we really take advantage of the fact that we have the best race course in the country here in our backyard so absolutely I think you're gonna have fun tomorrow and good you'll be like let's come right back and do it again every month I'm looking for it to this thank you Eric thank you

=== FILE: 360 ‒ How to change your habits： why they form and how to build or break them [yhLHfPZEKgU].txt ===

Sure, what I'm saying is, it's a staggering difference. We can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles, it gets stronger, the more we practice using it. But it also gets fatigued in the short term. How do we form better habits? Or reformat maladaptive habits around that? Every habit in our life has three components. There is a cue, then there's a routine, and then there's a reward. What do those of us who are going to be doing? What do those of us who are doing with young kids? Need to do teaching children a sense of agency. When you bring home an air in your pork cart, and say, oh, you're so smart. Which is something you don't have control over. To say, oh, you must have worked really hard. Because that's something you do have control over. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small. And the win is basically defined by showing up, not any performance. The science of small habits is not a good idea. But the way you do have control over is the way you do have control over. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small. Any performance. The science of small wins. Regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit, every day you do it, it will get a little bit easier. Making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Charles, thank you so much for making the trip out to Austin. Thank you for having me. This is such a treat. You know, in many ways, you're kind of the OG guy when it comes to talking about habit formation. It's hard to believe we were just talking a moment ago that it's been 13 years since your amazing book on the subject matter. I probably read it eight years ago. But it's a topic that is relevant regardless of what you do. That said, for what I do and how I, you know, what my job is and how I try to sort of help people. It really comes down to knowing what to do and then putting it into practice. So give folks a bit of a sense of your background and maybe even how that factored into you taking an interest in this topic. Yeah, absolutely. So before I wrote the power of habit, I had been a reporter for quite a while. And a business reporter in a science reporter in particular. And I decided to become a journalist after I went to Harvard Business School and I got my MBA and about halfway through business school. I realized it's a lot more fun to write about business than to do it. So I decided to become a journalist and one of the things that I noticed as I was writing was I was working at the New York Times at that point. One of the things I noticed because I had spent time overseas in Iraq during the war. I had reported on a bunch of different things and two, I had two experiences that really got me interested in habits. The first is that when I was in Iraq, I got embedded with a unit that was right outside of Baghdad. And I was talking to a captain there actually was a major. And I was asking him how do you, how do you tren soldiers to become soldiers? Because one of the things that you see in a war zone in particular, anyone who's spent time around the military, is that the behaviors are so deeply ingrained. Right? The goal is to ingrain a set of behaviors that if a bomb goes off which happened underneath my car, everyone around you, the 15, 18 year olds around you who probably don't know how to do anything with their lives. They know exactly what to do in that moment and they react automatically. And so I was talking to this major and he's this like little short guy and he kind of like, you know, really muscular, he chaws all the time. And I said, how do you do this? And he said, well, give the thing you have to understand, son, because he called me son, the thing you have to understand is the military is a giant habit change machine. This is what we do. We teach young recruits who maybe don't have any self-discipline, maybe you know, are prone to emotional operas. We teach them the right habits and we've made a science of it. And when I came back to the US, I kind of had this experience where I was thinking about that and I was thinking to myself, if I'm so smart and so talented, right, if I have this great job and when these words, why can't I get myself to lose weight? Like, why can't I get myself to go running in the morning every day? Why is this such a struggle for me when I'm so good at other things? And I realized it was because I had not learned and studied how habits function in my own habits. And that once I learned that, I had the tools to change how I behave automatically, which is of course the most important component of our behavior because it's what we do every day. So you get back to the US, what year from Iraq? Yeah. Let's see, I was there, 0304. So I get back at the end of 04, beginning of 05. And I started the New York Times, I was at the LA Times then, I started the New York Times in 06. And then, what did you start writing about? When did you pick that thread up again? Yeah, so I did this piece that was really fascinating to me. It was for, I was writing for the business section of the Times and I wrote a piece about the science of handwashing. There's been really, really interesting research, particularly out of the United Kingdom, about how do we incentivize people in developing nations to wash their hands? Because something that would happen, and a lot of this was sponsored by Unilever, the soap company. They found that people in poor communities, particularly in Indian Pakistan and in other parts of Asia, would buy soap. And then they would save the soap for special occasions. It was like something you gave to a guest when they came over. It was something that you used before, you went to mosque or for prayer. And so as a result, they weren't washing their hands every day. And of course, we know that using soap actually correlates with preventing a lot of diseases. And so a number of researchers in the UK took this on to try and figure out how do we create a soap habit. Handwashing habit using soap. And what they discovered was, you need to be focused on the reward. Unilever and all the advertisements would talk about the benefits you got from using soap. That if you used soap disease would go down. That was not influential, right? It's just like talking because it was too abstract. A couple of reasons. First of all, it was too abstract. Second of all, you're trying to educate people who don't think that they're at an education deficit. Right? We see the same thing in the United States around vaccine resistance and other things. Telling people, oh, you don't know enough. I'm going to tell you the truth. That almost never works. What you have to do is you have to create incentives where you had to get an immediate reward for that behavior. And so what they did is they actually changed the scent of the soap. They actually made the scent of the soap's less powerful because it seemed to less like a perfume, less like a fancy thing. And then what they would do is they ran these ads where they equated washing your hands with taking care of your children. Not necessarily your own health, not your own clenliness. But when I wash my hands with soap, I can feed my children. And so I'm creating that sense that identity reward that says, by doing this your good parent. And that changed everything. How long did it take them to figure out that that was the unlock? Was this iterative, what types of research did they have to do? I'm always intrigued by this type of problem. Yeah, absolutely. And there's really interesting papers if anyone wants to read them. It took them years. And it took a really sustained exposure. And what's interesting is, at part of this research and where it came out of, was trying to understand the neural roots of disgust. Disgust is a really, really powerful instinct that all humans have. And they really wanted to understand how do we capitalize on disgust as a negative reward? So they spent years on this. But like everything that ends up having widespread change, it really paid off enormous dividend. By the way, when you say they who are the types of people are these behavioral economists or they psychologist sociologist sociologist. I'm I'm very intrigued by who the natural owners of this type of. So there's a woman named Val Curtis who in particular led a lot of this research. And I hope I'm getting Val's. It's been a little while since I read the research. So I hope I'm getting Val's name right. But so Val led a lot of this research. And I believe her background is in sociology. But they brought in this was during the heyday of behavioral economics when the any condom in and others. Amistroversky's work was really getting noticed for the first time and was making its way into other fields. And so they brought in a lot of of the behavioral economists. They brought in a lot of psychologists because obviously that's what they're looking at. And I think it points to something kind of interesting, which is some of the most exciting research that's happening right now is this interdisciplinary research. And and you know because you spent time in the academy. They're they're tend to become these silos within universities. But when you look at what's really interesting that's happening tends to be the people who are stepping outside of those silos. Now the way you described it a moment ago it was more avoidance of negative that got the job done. Can we talk a little bit about and I'm thinking we're going to come back to this over and over again, but the more examples we have the better. You can almost think of like a two by two positive and negative. Giving and taking. Yeah right. So give a carrot. Give a stick. Take away a carrot. Take away a stick. This is like in my very simple framework. Take away a stick. Disgust is bad. We're going to remove disgust. How do you think about or what does the science tell us about that force square? I'll tell you what the research says and and just to give a little bit of context. The reason why this is important is because every habit that we have in our life. And about 40 to 45% of what we do every day is habits. And this comes from research by Wendy Wood at USC. Every habit in our life has three components. There is a queue which is like a trigger for that behavior to start. Then there's a reward or then there's a routine which is the behavior itself what we think of as the habit. And then there's a reward. Every habit in your life delivers a reward whether you're aware of it or not. And so you're right. There are negative rewards and there are positive rewards. But negative rewards and positive rewards act very differently. And to be most powerful often we have to put them in combination with each other. So let's start by talking about negative rewards. You would think that the threat of something unpleasant happening would be the most powerful negative reward. Peter, if you don't run today, I'm going to hit you with a cane. Right? That's actually not what the science tells us. What the science tells us is that the best way to use negative rewards is to establish the pain and punishment. Prior to the behavior and then remove the tension of it afterwards. So I'm going to give you an example. When I was in Iraq, one of the things I learned about was the extraordinary interrogation techniques that were used by the military. And stories came out that they would take people and terrorists and if they weren't, they weren't giving them information. They would put them in little box and sort of lock them up in this physically uncomfortable position. That's not actually what happened. What happened is you capture the person, you put them in the box. And then you tell them, I will let you out of the box if you give me the information I want. Right? The presence of a negative reward or a punishment is much more powerful when we feel it than when we anticipate it. When we put it that way in make sense. The problem is, negative reinforcement is about one 20th as effective as positive reinforcement. So I have to hit you with a cane 20 times to equal the motivation that you'll feel if I let you have a really nice smoothie after you go for that run. Sorry, say that again. Charles, did you say negative reinforcement is 120th as as effective as positive reinforcement? And we define effective as likely to produce the desired outcome. Yes. Yes, the final is 20. 20. I would have guessed one half. Well, and I'm not saying that. Yeah, you're wrong. I'm just saying that's a staggering difference. It's a staggering difference. And it's sometimes complicated by scale, right? Because you might really hate getting hit by a cane a lot more than you enjoy drinking a smoothie. But we know that if those two things are comparable in your head, I'm going to have to hit you 20 times to equal the joy to equal the motivation you'll find from drinking that smoothie. And that's a normal distribution, right? There's different behaviors and different tolerances among individuals. But the reason why this is important is because when there are negative rewards or punishments available to us in the environment, then we should take advantage of those, right? If I know that you feel a sense of disgust, and I can take advantage of that to help you build a habit of washing your hands, I should go ahead and do so. But that's not enough on its own. I have to pair it with a positive reward, where I'm creating a scent in that soap that makes you feel like you're clen, that makes you feel like you're doing something merges. I have to reemphasize to you. You're doing this for your kids. Every time you wash your hands with soap, you are a good parent. So that's the ice cream, and taking the scent away, taking the flowery scent away is not hitting. Well, it's actually, we're replacing it with a different scent. The problem with the flowery scent is that it's too associated with luxury. So I need a scent that smells a little bit more medicinal to believe that it's doing its job. Interesting. Yeah. Let's shift gears just briefly before we come back to this and think about it through the lens of parenting, right? Because it's the first thing that probably comes to many of our listeners, minds as we think about the words, re-enforcement, positive and negative reinforcement. So your child is misbehaving. Bedtime routine is a disaster. They don't want to brush their teeth or whatever it is. There's a punishment that you could allocate for that behavior. You can say, look, Johnny, if you don't go to bed now, you do not get to play Xbox tomorrow. Right? That's a punishment. There's a reward, which is if you do this thing, I'm going to give you an extra 15 minutes of playing Xbox tomorrow. Yeah. Based on what you just said, is it safe to say that offering 15 minutes of extra Xbox is significantly more likely to produce a desired outcome? Absolutely. And I think as parents, we know this, any parent listening knows this, right? Your children, they're, we're talking here about permanent behavior change, right? We don't want them just to brush their teeth tonight. We want them to brush their teeth every night. A positive reward, the positive reinforcement is going to be much more powerful and ingraining that habit in their life. Negative reward, it might work tonight. Do you have a sense of why this is from an evolutionary perspective, because this seems awfully hard-wired? Yeah. So I think it has something to do. The answer is, I don't know exactly the answer to that, and I'm not sure anyone does. I'll tell you what the hypotheses that I've heard are. One of the things we know, as you know, is that our brain tends to overnotice negative outcomes, right? Yep. And that's good, because that means that if something can kill us, we're going to avoid it. But as a result, we actually are very good at discounting that reward very quickly. We have a very accurate mental representation of how painful a reward is going to be, and whether we should avoid it or not. Our sense of a negative reward, negative reinforcement, is very finely tuned. Our sense of positive reinforcement is not. And as a result, there's an opportunity there to take advantage to kind of arbitrage that difference within our brain, where when I give you a positive reward, you actually enjoy it more than you ought to. Right? Here's a great example. We know this from slot machines. That the way that a slot machine gets you hooked is they give you a consistent stream of rewards every 10, 15 minutes, every 10, 15 pulls, and then they mix into that intermittent unexpected rewards, because that unexpected reward gives me that dopamineic reaction, that rewards sensation much, much bigger than the actual prize that I'm getting. And so what we can do, slot machines take advantage of it in a negative way, but we can take advantage of it in a positive way and say, if I give you a reward, you're going to, you're going to love it even more than you'll hate that punishment. And that gives me an opportunity. So now going back to the military example, how did you, how did you come to understand the ways in which a myriad set of behaviors, because as you said, right, like a soldier is able to do so many things that basically become autonomic, that might be very counterintuitive. In fact, might be counter to the value of your own life. Absolutely. Right. Moving this direction is opposed to that direction under threat. Absolutely. Or are trening people to kill? Yes. The many people have a natural reaction to not kill. So how does the military do it? How do they employ this reward punishment? Yeah. Leverage. So one of the things that they do is they pay very, very close attention to teaching cadets to respond to cues. So one would think about saying, okay, if a bomb goes off, what are you supposed to do? Right. Let's talk about the behavior that you do when a bomb goes off. The thing about a bomb going off is that a bomb going off is a little bundle of cues. And we need to talk about which cues you should pay attention to, in which ones you shouldn't, which ones should trigger non-anotic behavior. So in Iraq, the issue with bombs going off, IEDs was dust. When there was an explosion of dust, that is when you should react. And we're going to practice that. So we're going to take you out into the field. And we're going to use ordinance that does not actually produce sounds. That does not produce fire. What we're going to do is we're going to put stuff in the ground. It creates a huge cloud of dust. And we're going to tren you to react to that. Because we have found that dust is a more predictable and reliable indicator of when you should behave than the noise of an explosion or being able to see the fire. And to be clear, the noise could be coming from anywhere you don't know where it's coming from. It's often, it's also a alarm. It could be something that's a town away from the ground. That's exactly right. And oftentimes overwhelming, the thing about like a visual stimuli in this context is that it's very, very recognizable, whereas an audio stimuli. It's hard to tell. It's hard to localize, but it's also, and it also sort of so overwhelms you that it can kick in that fighter flight instinct that we're trying to avoid. Okay. So that's the first thing that they do is they pay a lot of attention to cues. And they think really, really hard about that trening. In one of my other books, Smarter Faster Better, there's a chapter about boot camp for Marines. And it's probably the most scientifically well-fined tuned trening you will find on earth. Because it takes in hundreds of thousands of people every year, and we have to tren them to be Marines. The other thing that they pay a lot of attention to is how do we reward that behavior in a way that will make it automatic? Right. We mentioned that a habit is a cue, a routine, and a reward that's known as the habit loop. But what happens in our brain to form that habit loop is that the part of the basal ganglia, which every animal on earth has a basal ganglia, the basal ganglia is job is essentially to make habits. Because without those habits, we essentially can't evolve, right? We just spend too much time in cognition. And what the basal ganglia helps encourage, and this is oversimplifying dramatically, but is it takes that cue that routine in that reward? And it puts them in a kind of circuit where the neural synapses connecting the behavior centers of those three items becomes thicker and thicker, which means that as a result, the electrical impulse can travel down that synaps faster. So if I'm the general, my goal is to take these soldiers and to change their brain so that when they see smoke, they react immediately, which is they pull out their gun, they look for the thread, they go through the mental checklist of look for these five things. And then I want to have a reward for them that's predictable and consistent. Now, in that situation, there's not a natural reward. I have to create that reward. So one of the things that I do is I have them trened as a unit, and as soon as they all take position, they all say to each other, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, they're all positively reinforcing each other. That becomes a reward that can build this behavior, which is why looking at the unit or the platoon is so important in how we tren soldiers is because oftentimes the rewards that are reinforcing our habits are social rewards that we're getting from other individuals. And during trening, let's say it's the first day they're going through this drill and two of the guys follow out a formation, they fail to get in position. The absence of being able to say good job is that sufficient, or is there also a punishment of, hey, you two guys, you were in the wrong spot, let's go do it again. Well, it's the Marines, right? So there's certainly the drill sergeants. They have a certain reputation to uphold about about yelling at people. But no, it's actually not doing that much. It's not really doing that much. It's helping people correct it's creating sort of that instead of a wicked feedback system, a positive feedback system where I'm learning very quickly. But it's actually me seeking out that reward. One of the things you'll find if you look at surveys of why people fight, inevitably they will say, I joined because of patriotism and I stayed in the military because of my moderate. Because it comes out because of the guys next to me, I couldn't go home. I couldn't I had to take care of them. That'd be and that's really encouraged by the military and that becomes the dominant overwhelming positive reinforcement is that you act for your fellow soldiers. And when one of them turns to you and says, good job, good job. What he's really saying is, you helped protect me and I'm going to help protect you and that feels amazing. When you think about the number of people that make it through the various forms of trening and whether it be Marines, special forces, elsewhere, etc. Are they screening for the capacity to be able to form these habits or is there a point of view that we can basically instill this in anyone provided some basic set of criteria of aptitude or psychological well-being as president. And that's a lot of the way that we're going to do that. And I'm kind of curious in your work how that plays out. That's exactly why I'm asking about it. Because what they believe in and the science tells us is true, humans are habit machines. We literally have evolved to brain that is fantastic at making habits. And so we can take almost anyone, assuming a baseline physical readiness and mental capacity, we can take anyone and we can teach them to be a good soldier. And so we can take them to the elite soldiers, right? So we're going to become special forces. They might have an aptitude where they're more comfortable with willpower, they're more comfortable with grit, they're more comfortable experiencing discomfort. And so they might be able to create habits faster. They might understand it's sort of just intuitively or through learning how to affect their habits. But we can do this with anyone. Which actually I'm curious when someone comes to you. And they are, they are showing a habitual behavior that you think is negatively. They want to race and you want to race. Are there some people who you believe like, it's just not going to happen. Like I can't help this person. Well, the truth of the matter is I just don't think this is an area where I personally have enough expertise. And therefore I'd be hesitant to judge the success or lack there of for a patient. Yeah. Because I don't think I'm a good enough coach. I'll tell you, I have a very, very basic framework on habit, which is one of the reasons I'm excited about this discussion is I'm looking to bring many more insights into what we do. But the way I talked to patients about it is it look, there's broadly speaking additive and subtractive habits. Right. So there are, if you're smoking, if you're drinking too much, I want to take away something. Right. I want the habit to be habit of removal. Conversely, let's say you don't exercise at all or you barely exercise and we want to increase the amount of exercise you do. We want to add that thing in. Yeah. And so I sort of have two different strategies for how to do that. For the, for the former, it really comes down to default environment manipulation. So if a person wants to eat less junk food, my view is you have to actually take some pretty significant steps to reduce the amount of junk food that is a lot of money. You see a lot of junk food that is around you. Absolutely. It sounds obvious. And sometimes it's very difficult to do because if you don't control your environment, it's hard. If you do control your environment, it's easier. And if you're in an intermediate state, you know, you have kids and the kids eat a lot of junk food and you're, you know, but you don't want to be eating like the, the mini weeds all the time. Then it gets a little tougher. But you can exert sort of willpower for brief or stints. For example, when you're at the grocery store and you have to make the decision of what to buy. But taking an easy example, if you live alone, if you're a single person, you control the food environment in your house. And that might mean one hour a week, you have to control your willpower when you're in the grocery store. Yeah, but if you do that, it gives you the luxury of being surrounded by healthy choices for the other 167 hours of absolutely. So that willpower muscle. You can either use it for other things or you can leave a lot. You just have to flex it briefly. Yeah. On the other end of the spectrum. And again, this has always been my way of doing things and I don't think it's unique because I've read other people talk about the exact same idea. So clearly others have thought of this as well. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small and the win is basically defined by showing up not by any performance. The science of small wins. Yeah. So so when a person hasn't, if a person says, you know, Peter, I hate, I've had this discussion two weeks ago, right, or last week actually. I hate doing cardio, Peter. I love strength trening. I love being in the gym, but this whole zone two thing you want me to do it's so. By the way, this speaks to my heart. Yeah. And a patient said, but, but Peter, you've convinced me, like, I know I need to do this. I just don't want to. And I said, no problem. I'll, I want you to do this week is three 15 minute sessions on a stationary bike. I don't actually care how many watts you're pushing. I don't want you to wear a heart rate monitor. I don't want to, I don't want to track anything other than time. Can you get on for 15 minutes? I want you to pick your favorite podcast and I've got some great recommendations for you. And I want you to just get on a stationary bike for 15 minutes. Listen to this great podcast. And even if at the end of 15 minutes, you want to ride more don't just get off. I want you to do thaT3 times. And then let's discuss that in a month. And, and this tends to be a quite productive way to do it. Yeah. Because then you can start to increase the duration and then you can start to add other parameters around performance. Okay. Now we're going to actually start paying attention to the level of exertion and are getting you in the right spot. But if I just try to say, all right, we're going to go from nothing to four hours of zone to a week and somebody who doesn't like it. Yeah, the likelihood of success is pretty low. So there's a researcher, Katie Milkman at the at Wharton University of Pennsylvania, who studied exactly what you're talking about quite extensively. How do we reward? How do we link a reward to the behavior so that you're experiencing the reward during the behavior? And she actually uses audio books, like you use podcasts. And when she was doing this research, it was right when Harry Potter had come out. She loves Harry Potter. And so she made a rule. She can only listen to the Harry Potter audio book when she's on the stationary bike. And she found that it just completely trensformed her attitude towards doing this this behavior that she previously really did not like. Yeah, IMean, even for me, that is kind of the case. And again, I'm far enough along in my journey in my life that I, those things have become so ingrained in me that I will do them. But there are days when I really don't feel like getting on a stationary bike because I do most of my zone to indoors. Because it's easier, frankly than trying to hold a constant level about put outdoors. And frankly, some days it's just really boring, but there are two or three podcasts that I am addicted to. And that's when I listen to them. So it's, yeah, I'm actually I'm looking forward to listening to the podcast. And what my guess is, and tell me if I'm getting, if you think I'm wrong in this, my guess is that in addition to giving yourself a reward during that behavior, you're also rewarding yourself afterwards. Well, for me, the reward after is the feeling. Yeah, so, so, and again, I'd love to talk about this as it pertains to exercise. You know, Anna Lemka, who I'm sure you're familiar with her work. You know, she talks about how for many people the discomfort of exercises creates that imbalance in dopamine, homeostasis. Yeah, such that post exercise, many of us experience that subtle shift where we actually have, if not a euphoria, certainly a better feeling. Yeah. And so for me, I always know that no matter how lousy I feel or how uninterested I am, and it's usually that I'm just too busy. Usually it's, I just want to do work for another hour. I don't really want to get on my bike. But I know that I'm getting this reward after of how I feel. Yeah. And what's interesting is what the research tells us, so that's very real, right? The runners high and real thing. What's interesting is, and anyone who who once didn't exercise and now does exercise is listening kind of knows this intuitively. The first couple of times that we tell someone to exercise, they do not anticipate the runners high and so as a result, it can't be a motor, it's a difficult motivating factor, right? Right, my mom hates exercise. And I always say, you're going to feel so good afterwards and she says, you know, and I just don't feel good afterwards. Now, she actually does feel good afterwards, but she tends to forget it. Right. She engages in hyperbolic discounting very actively around this positive reward. But one of the things that happens when we start exercising is that we convince ourselves that we're going to feel better afterwards. And so in extrinsic reward, like giving myself a nice smoothie, you know, congratulating me, calling Peter and he tells me you did such a good job for getting on the bike three times this week, that external reward moves to an internal reward, where it's the, it's the feeling of accomplishment and it's the runners high, the euphoria that I'm getting, the push that motorways might be heavier. But I have to learn the value of that intrinsic reward because you usually can't convince me of it without me having experienced it. And so if you were to consider a group of 10 individuals who are similar and most observable ways externally, right? And you, you want all of them to create a new habit in a domain that is entirely foreign to them. Are there attributes of these people that would allow you to predict who is more likely to be successful? For example, does willpower, which might form the basis of the initial, you know, for lack of a better word activation energy getting over that hump the first few times. Does that factor into it? IMean, truth certainly I think I understand the science of willpower, so maybe we can, yeah, spend some time on that if it's helpful. The answer is absolutely, but I'm going to caveat the answer by saying, there are certainly behavioral characteristics that make it easier for some people to understand how to change their habits and adopt new habits. There does not seem to be a great deal of evidence that there's genetic reasons to predict that. Now, some researchers will say there is slight genetic variations. We think that some people are more prone to willpower than others are, but it's so small and insignificant in comparison with the behavioral trening that you have, right? The environment that you've grown up in, if you have parents who teach you willpower habits. If you're someone who is an athlete and so you have a team that's taught you how to push yourself a little bit harder when pushing yourself as hard, you already have an intuitive sense of how to adjust your own habits. And so as a result, if you're in a room with someone who has none of that background, they've never played on a team sport, their parents let them do whatever they wanted. It's going to take me longer to change that second person's habits because I'm going to have to tren them more and the trening just takes time. That makes sense. Okay. So it's not that one real irritability. Yes. But high environmental and behavioral exposure is absolutely absolutely. Absolutely. And the research is pretty consistent on that. So not to digress, but again, I think a lot of people in our audience are parents. And so IMean, this sounds like just good parenting 101, but let's double click on it a little bit. What do those of us with young kids need to do to enable our kids to become the type of adults who can make behavior changes and create better habits. So the single most powerful thing we can do is we can teach them how willpower works and to build willpower habits because a willpower habit actually doesn't tax the the metaphor of the muscle of the willpower muscle that it's going to be able to do so we'll power muscle that exists inside our head. And so Angelad Duckworth who probably many of you are familiar with because of grit, she's done a lot of research on this. One of the things that's really powerful is to explain and demonstrate to kids how to diagnose the cue routine and reward so that they can begin editing their own habits. And one of the things that I do is I'm very ostentatious in how I reward myself for hard behavior. Right, and this is actually kind of counterintuitive because we're dads, we're supposed to be stoic, right? We go out and we run a half marathon and like it's no big deal. We don't we don't rule. So what I do is exactly the opposite. I go out and I run not even half marathon and just go and I run four or five miles I come home and it's a man that was a hard run, but I push through it. Now you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to have this really yummy smoothie I've been looking forward to for the next 15 or 20 minutes. I'm just going to lay on the couch and enjoy myself because I feel so good right now. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to model for them giving yourself a reward focusing on that reward is a powerful way to reinforce or change your own behavior. And I'll do the same thing with cues. Oftentimes some of the cues that I use for exercise or for other things aren't visible to my children because I'm, you know, putting my running shoes next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up in the morning and they don't understand the significance of that or I'm, I'm doing engaged in a sort of ritual before I start writing that they don't see. So what I'll do is I'll be very explicit with them and say, you know what, I need to start writing 15 minutes. Here's what I'm going to do for the next 15 minutes to get ready for that. I'm teaching them, think about the cues in your life, think about the rewards in your life. If you focus on those two things, you can create almost any routine, any behavior that you want or change any behavior that you want. So the cues in that sense are just as important for the positive behaviors as the negatives. I think many of us probably associate cues with the negative, meaning be aware of the cue, right? I'm going to quit smoking, what's my cue to smoke? How do I need to spot it in advance? But you're paying just as much attention to, it's funny. I don't know that I really think of cues on my positive behaviors. But I'm sure I know they're there. I guess if I was a lawyer, I can't your life. I bet you, okay, so let me ask you before you work out. What do you do before you work out? Make my electrolyte drink. Okay. So that's a preceding behavior. It's a preceding ritualized behavior that's become a cue for you. And it's not a negative cue, right? Do you look forward to making that look? Does it feel like a little sense of anticipation as you're making it? Like, I'm going to go work out. I'm going to... No, because interestingly, and people will be so surprised to know this about me, but at least, in the past year or two, I feel I'm so busy that I don't have the desire to work out until I'm in the gym. That's interesting. So in other words, it used to be that I couldn't wait to work out. But something has happened in the last two years where I really have to kick myself into the gym. Now, when I'm 15 minutes in, I feel great and delighted to be there, and there's nowhere I'd rather be. But the 15 minutes before I go into the gym, which includes making that drink, extracting myself away from my computer, and doing my warm-up, I'm like, that is actually... That's the most part... That's the most part... That's the most part... But also, I benefit from an off-muscle memory of just... I've done this my whole life. Yeah. But I'm trying to... I guess I have to think about that. Let me pause at a hypothesis, and you can tell me if you think this is right. My guess is that that preceding behavior of making the electrolyte, Drank and doing the stretches. That was a very ineffective cue at one point in your life. And the effectiveness of that cue has diminished over time. But you found other cues, which is that essence of antis... One of it might just be a sense of anticipation that you're going to feel good after 15 minutes. I think that's a lot of it. Yeah. It might also be that you know that you're going to put on your podcast. And so like the cue of hitting start on the podcast is what gets your head in that place, where you can start exercising and then experiencing... What's interesting is that it's only due to the podcast for Zone 2. Okay. It's the only thing. It's in the gym for some reason I can't lift weights and concentrate on something else. That's fascinating. So I listen to music in the gym, which doesn't get me excited. And that would actually suggest that you are using more willpower in the gym. Yeah. Because that muscle will... This is an exact metaphor, but we can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles it gets stronger, the more we practice using it. But it also gets fatigued in the short term. Mm-hmm. So this is why if you look at... If you look at data on when accidents happen in surgery, they most often happen when a surgeon has been either in his second or third surgery or her second or third surgery or when it's a very long surgery. Right? They've been using their willpower for so long. They get fatigued. If you look at the number of affairs that happen among lawyers and doctors, they most often happen when someone has been at the office after 9 or 9 or 9 or 30. And for years people thought, oh, you get to the evening and it's like kind of romantic. No. It's that after 9 or 10 hours of exerting your willpower in your office, your guard is down, your muscles weaker. And so when someone comes up and they kiss you and set a push in them away, you kiss them back. Thinking about our willpower muscle, both strengthening it, but also protecting it when we need it, is critical to being able to be the people that we want to be. And so part of that then is recognizing when you're vulnerable. Yes. So you're, and IMean, you used an extreme example of having an affair, but also vulnerable to fall. So let's use a less extreme example of, I really want to eat less dessert. Yeah. I really just want to eat less dessert. So it was just smoking. Okay. So smoking is a great one. It could be because James Prochaska at the University of Rhode Island has spent his whole career. And like the data that we have on smoking cessation is enormous. That's the outpaces almost everything else. Okay. So let's talk about what happens. Nicotine, as you know, is an addictive substance, but we're only addicted to nicotine for about 100 hours after our last cigarette. By that point, nicotine is out of our bloodstream. Like, we don't have a physical dependency on nicotine. And yet we all know people who create, who smoked for years quit, and they crave a cigarette a decade later after they have breakfast in the morning. Let's, so I didn't, I didn't actually know that Charles. So four days after you smoked your last cigarette or had your last exposure to nicotine. You've come to know that you have a physiologic need for nicotine. Yeah. It's out of your, you have, you have completed withdrawal. That is, that is, IMean, I had no idea of that. But what you still have. You still have the cue. You still have, you still have the, you remember the reward. Right. Exactly. The habit, the habit, you still exist in your brain. If you have a, if you have a cigarette with every morning cup of coffee, as soon as you pick up by that coffee, your brain is craving that nicotine. And that feels just like an addiction, a physical addiction. In fact, it's, in some ways, more powerful than a physical addiction. And so, so what, so what Prochosca did is he looked at how peoplEQuit smoking, and this gets to the point you were raising before about learning. He found that on average, a smoker needs to quit seven times in order to actually quit. So, so committed smoker. Somebody who's been smoking for years, they will give up cigarettes seven times before it actually works. Which raises this kind of interesting question. What is happening in those seven times? Like why seven instead of four? What's happening? What the research tells us is that the first time I give up cigarettes, I focus on willpower. Right. I say like, I'm going to resist, I'm going to resist these cigarettes. I'm throwing them out. I'm going to change my environment a little bit. But all those cues are still there, the craving for the reward is still there. And when my willpower gets taxed, my mother-in-law comes to town, I've had a really tough day at work. My willpower is really, my muscle, that muscle has been exercised all day. That's the moment that I give in, and I pick up a cigarette, and I say to hell with it, I'm going to start smoking. And just to be clear is, what happens when you have that first cigarette? Why can you not, on that first cigarette, go, hey, it was just a lapse, I'm exhausted tomorrow's a new day. Well, it's because you don't have a plan. Right. So you're caught off guard by this relapse. And as a result, it tends to shake our faith in ourselves, even if it's almost subconscious. It tends to shake our faith in ourselves that we can't quit. Now that's the first time. That's super, so I just want to interject here. This is something that we try to talk a lot to our patients about, which is, except because again, we're not dealing with something that's as binary as smoking. Just say it's exercise, and you're, like, we've set a plan that you're going to do something for 30 minutes every day. And then you're going to have that day when you don't. What we tend to spend a lot of time coaching on is absolutely positively under no circumstance to you judge yourself for that day. And the next day, just get back on the horse, and don't let one bad day be too. And then it's fine because I think what we see is a lot of times a personal goes six days of an exercise of the routine. They miss a day, they beat themselves up, and then they're done. They're like, well, forget it. I screwed up. Or, you know, it can happen in the reverse. Yeah. Well, and it makes sense, right? Because we're talking about rewards and positive rewards and negative rewards. IMiss a day, and I start beating up on myself. I'm flooding my brain with negative rewards, with recommendations, with feelings of shame. My brain pays attention to what gives me positive rewards and negative rewards. And it's saying, this exercise thing, it's a soccer game because if you do if I feel good for a couple of days, you're going to miss it. You're going to be a terrible laugh of what IMiss it. So you're exactly right. We cannot engage in that self-laim. Well, this poor smoker, this poor smoker, his mother-in-law who nags him comes into town. He's his willpower is exhausted. He's been dealing with her all day long. He grabs his. He lights up. Sneaks outside and shame. Yes. So here's what happens. You do that once. You do that twice. You do iT3 times. Here's what's hard to happen around the third or fourth time. And this is what gets to your exercise as well. Suddenly, people stop looking at it as a moral lapse, and they start looking at it as a scientific experiment. Okay. Here's the data that I've observed. I do a pretty good job of avoiding cigarettes until something really stressful happens. So I need to ahead of time, figure out when that stressful thing occurs. I'm going to do instead of smoking because if I don't have a plan in place, what's known as an implementation intention. If I don't have a plan in place, I'm going to pick up the cigarettes. So here's my plan. Instead of beating up on myself, I'm going to write down that the next time my mother-in-law comes to town, I'm going to have some sweet candy in the house. Because I know that I'm going to have an urge to put something in my mouth. I'm going to want some type of quick boost reward and sugar can provide that to me, the novelty of taste. I'm going to have that candy in my house. And when she's driving me crazy, I'm going to walk over pick up a piece of candy and go outside and eat it. So what happens is that over time, the reason why I take seven times to quit smoking, or the reason why you're clients and your patients, to have these moments of willpower failure, is because instead of looking at that as a failure, we have to look at ourselves as scientists who are conducting experiments and paying attention to the data. And my wife is a scientist and you're a scientist. So you know, if every experiment that a scientist does succeeds, they're a terrible scientist. Right? The goal is to figure out where it succeeds and where it fails and learn from the failures, we have to look at our own lives that same way and say, IMeant to go run today and I didn't. Let me try and figure out why. And then I'll come up with a plan for the next time. Next time this obstacle emerges, I know what to do. Without having to worry about. And is it the case you think that that people are able to kind of do that on their own? Or is this the enormous opportunity to coach a person through that and say, you know, to create an accountability partner for example and say, look, I want to hear about it when you fail just as much as I want to hear about it when you succeed. And when you fail, I'm going to direct all of the inquiry towards learning. What did you learn? What can you, you know? That's, it's incredibly powerful because it's going to speed up that feed back loop, right? Now, there are some people. There are people who quit smoking on their own without ever talking to another person about quitting smoking, right? But those, so these guys are the outliers. They're, they're absolutely the outliers and it's taking them longer to actually quit than someone who takes advantage of the social, the social aspect of habit formation, where I know that I can get rewards and I can get learnings from other people in my life more effectively than I can, than I can find it in myself. The, the truth of the matter is, let's take alcohol as an example because AA is such a well-studied and interesting model. There are lots of people who engage in what's known as spontaneous recovery, where they will try and quit drinking and they'll relapse and thEQuandra drinking and eventually they stop drinking. But people who engage in AA because it's basically habit replacement, those people end up quitting drinking much faster. So we all have the capacity to do this on our own. But when we do it in an environment where we know that we're taking advantage of the cues and rewards that make behavior change easier, it goes faster and it feels better. What is the overall success of AA for alcohol abstinence or, IMean, I guess AA does not support harm reduction. It's really about abstinence, right? That's absolutely right. So, so we don't know that AA is very extensively studied, but because it's anonymous, we don't have double blind studies, we don't have a lot of longitudinal data. That being said, the estimate seemed to be that for about 40% of people who come into AA, they can achieve lifelong abstinence if they, if that's their goal. And 40% isn't great, right? That's still me and 60% of people, but it's pretty good for behavior change. And so, what's interesting about AA is AA much like the military is built around, asking people to identify the cues and rewards in their life, and then changing the behavior that corresponds that old cue and finding a new behavior that delivers something similar to that old for award. The 10 principles of AA, the reason why there's 10 of them is because there's 10 commandments in the Bible. The bill, the bill, the bill, the guy who came up with AA, he had no trening. It's like college, your science whatsoever. The thing that makes AA successful is that when you walk in, you stand up and you say, my name is Charles, and I'm an alcoholic, and then at some point you tell your story. And when you're telling your story, you're reminding yourself of all the cues, the prompt you to drink. One of the steps is IMake a men's, I go to all the people that I've wronged. That teaches me what those cues are. I'm learning. I'm looking at my life as a scientist. And then oftentimes the reward for drinking is a relaxed, socialized experience. So when you go to an AA meeting, you have a relaxed, socialized experience. Absent alcohol, but you're talking to other people, you're commuting with other people, the same thing you get at a bar. AA is a habit, change machine. It doesn't have to express itself that way. And I don't know much about AA, but the little bit I know suggest that people will go for life. They might not go as frequently, but they're going to, I know people that have been sober for 20 years. They're still going to a meeting twice a week. You're exactly right. You're exactly right. So oftentimes people will develop a habitualized behavior around AA, and they keep up with that habit for life. Just as frequent and actually more frequent is that people will commit to AA. They say like 90 meetings in 90 days. So the commit to AA at the beginning. And then it will taper down over time. They'll start going to one meeting a week and then one meeting a month and then they move to a new place. And they don't know where the menu meeting is, but what they have learned is when I'm in that moment, where I think I'm going to relapse, where my willpower muscle seems tired, where the cues around me are prompting me to drink, I'm going to go to a meeting instead of go to a bar. And so the AA, even if I'm not going consistently, if it's ingrained in my psychology, it's a way to avoid drinking, it's very, very powerful. And I can activate that anytime in life. So let's go back to childhood. Sure. Because I think this is such an interesting place, right? Where IMean, maybe I'm in correct, but I'm assuming that again, a lot of these seeds are sewn in how we're raised. And in the case of your kids, they're getting actually kind of like a masterclass because they've got, you know, a parent who's one of the world's experts in it. But they would also, they would not say it was a masterclass. I was saying I'm a little heavy handed, but thank you for that. But you're being deliberate in how you're coaching. So again, for those of us who want to kind of take a bit of that, because I, you know, I really think like people always ask me like, what do you want for your kids? And that's an interesting question, right? Like I certainly don't, I don't have any aspiration for what I want them to be professionally. Like it's not like, oh, I want this kid to be that and this kid to be that. IMean, you want your kids to be well adjusted and happy. Yeah. But it's hard to imagine them doing that if they don't have some command and control over themselves. So that you could argue that this is one of the most important things that we want our kids to have. Yeah. And yet I don't feel like we have any adequacy in the trening for it. I think you're right. I think that this is something, if this was more of a curriculum in schools, if it was something we taught parents, and that's one of the reason that I wrote the power of habit, is I wanted to empower parents to teach their own kids, the stuff recognized things in their own life. I think that a number of us understand intuitively some aspect of this, right? So a lot has been written about the growth mindset, Carol Dewex work, I have Stanford. You know, one of the things that she emphasizes is teaching children a sense of agency, that instead of saying, when you bring home an A and your report card instead of saying, oh, you're so smart, which is something you don't have control over, to say, oh, you must have worked really, really hard because that's something you do have control over. I'm reinforcing your sense of agency. When we do that intuitively or deliberately, one of the things that we're doing is we're teaching our children that they have control over their habits, right? You went and you worked really hard to get that A. You developed a habit of studying, you used your willpower. I'm going to positively reinforce that by recognizing it. Whereas if I say, you must be really smart, you got that A. I'm not positively reinforcing your belief that you can change your behavior. So in addition to explaining to kids and being ostentatious, showing off the cues and rewards in our own life and how we change our own habits, the way that we give rewards to our children, also reinforces for them, whether they believe that they are in control of their willpower or not. And I suppose the other side of that is, how do we handle our own failures in front of them? Absolutely. Do we even admit our own failures? Right? There's a model of fatherhood from the 1950s that you don't burden your family with your ups and downs. Dad's a steady rock. But all the research tells us one of the best things you can do is if you screwed up and I tried to do this all the time. I come home and I'm like, oh man, I called this guy today and I just completely screwed up this interview. Because I want them to know and then I say, but the thing I realized from it is that next time I call I need to have something to eat before I call because that's going to help me. I'm modeling for them. A failure is not a failure. A failure is a data point and I'm a scientist about my own life. What do we know about the length of time or the amount of friction it takes to create a habit and the difficulty in breaking it? Yeah. Maybe that doesn't make sense. I'll try to come up with an example. If it takes a long time to really create a habit around exercise or meditation, let's pick something new. Okay. Not an easy thing to do. Right. But let's say over years and years and years you take a lot of time to build that memory that muscle memory up. I assume that's creating some sort of physiologic headroom that makes it much harder for you to erode that down. Yes. Absolutely. So what's happening when you're meditating is that as we mentioned there's these neural synapses, neural pathways that connect the synapses associated with the cue and the routine in the reward. They're becoming thicker and thicker and thicker over time. What's interesting is they almost never become significantly thinner. So if you develop a meditation habit and then you stop meditating, your life changes the cues. When you come back to meditation, you will fall back into it much morEQuickly than the average person. So we know that creating habits about good and bad creates this neural pathway that we need to be conscious of. But your question of how long does it take? The answer is we actually don't know. There's this like old, there's this myth, this old wives tale that you know takes 21 days to build a habit and it takes 30 days to break a habit. What the research tells us is that there is no number because different people have different thresholds and different kinds of habits have different timelines associated with them. You want to create a habit of eating chocolate, you can probably do it in a couple of days. It's an immediate, it's an immediate positive response. If you like chocolate, it's something you enjoy, the cues are plenty of a range. You just put chocolate bars in your house. But if you want to build an exercise habit, it's going to take a little bit longer. But here's the important thing. Is that regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit. Every day you do it, it will get a little bit easier. And you might not feel that increase in ease the first couple of days. But what's going to happen is I'm going to push myself to exercise day one, day two, day three. I'm going to relapse on day four. I'm not doing it. I'm going to beat up myself. I'm going to look for the science to what what wouldn't wrong here. What's my plan for next time. And then I get to day 12 or I get to do it day 20 or I get to day 365. And it occurs to me actually exercising is really easy for me now. I hardly even think about it. It just happens almost all kind of automatically. Now what about the negatives? Right. So if you take two individuals, one who has been smoking for a year, a pack a day for a year, and one who has been smoking a pack a day for 20 years, is it necessarily the case that the latter is going to have a much more difficult timEQuitting? Probably because it's a much more ingrained behavior. But this is where individual differences come into play significantly. Because if that first person, if they're an athlete, if they've worked on other habits in their life, if they've strengthened that muscle around habit change, they might be able to rely on that to give up smoking. Whereas the 20 20 year smokeer doesn't. But yes, in general, the longer and more consistent behavior becomes, the more reinforced it becomes in our brain. And does that mean that let's just assume both of these individuals are able to quit smoking? Yeah, it's five years later. Both of them are at a bar and they both light up a cigarette. Are they both equally susceptible to relapse or is the 20 year person more susceptible? Because his neural connections are more hardwired. Well, there's a lot of compounding factors there, right? So when the 20 year of smokeer lights up his cigarette, we're focusing on the habit loop associated with nicotine use. But there's probably other habit loops that he has developed over time, which is he might feel much more intense sense of shame over smoking than the one year smokeer. He might have empathy, my developing health problems. And those are creating mental habits for him that are countervailing the positive reinforcement of the nicotine. So the answer to your question is, it's really hard to say universally. What we do know is that the more consistent or reward, whether it's a reward that rewards a positive behavior or a negative behavior. The more consistent that reward and the more consistent that cue, the faster the habit will take hold in the stronger the grip it'll have on us. But when we're trying to change it or create a new habit, there's so many other variables that we don't, we can't predict how long it's going to take. But we do know that any habit can be changed. Is there a rule of thumb that says on average it is more or less difficult to break habits than to create habits? So the science doesn't sort of address that question. What we do know is that it takes a different technique to build a new habit than to change an old habit. Right? So if I want to build a new habit, if I want to start running, what I need to do is I need to sit down, just come up with a cue. Come up with a reward. Okay, my cue is, and by the way, I'll cue you fall into one of five categories. It's a time of day, a particular place or environment. It's a certain emotion you feel. It's the presence of certain other people, or it's a preceding behavior that's become ritualized. So tomorrow I want to start running. I've never run before. I'm going to take advantage of as many of those as I can, right? So my plan is set my alarm for seven o'clock. I want to be at the door by seven thirty running. And I'm going to put my running shoes, I'm going to run and close on my floor next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up. It's super easy to put them on. I know what I'm going to wear. I'm going to ask my friend Jim to meet me on the corner. We're going to run together. I'm creating as many queues as I can. If you can tap into all five of your your in the morning, some of them are going to stick. Yep. And then when I get home, I've already decided what reward I'm going to give myself. I'm going to have a nice long shower. I'm going to drink a smoothie. I'm going to take 15 minutes to check social media or whatever else sort of delights me. So that's how we build a new habit. Is we choose a queue and we choose a reward and we link it to a behavior we want to encourage. But for a bad habit, habit that we want to extinguish, our nomenclature is incorrect. We often talk about breaking a bad habit. But because that neural pathway exists in our brain, I've smoked for 20 years, I can't just extinguish that those neural connections. What I need to do is instead of thinking about breaking bad habit or extinguishing it, I have to think about changing bad habit. And in that case, what I do is I identify thEQueue that prompts this behavior I want to change. I identify the reward that that behavior is giving me. And I'm going to simply insert a new behavior that corresponds to that old queue, that deliver something similar to that old reward. And I'm going to let my brain eventually shift. Keep the habit loop inside my head, but change the behavior the routine. Yeah, this is, IMean, I just like, I love this framework so much, right? So let's, let's go back to the first one. Okay, because it has so much applicability, right? So new habit. You have to do something new. You've identified what the behavior is. That's the thing. Yep. The playbook is pretty straightforward. I got to come up with as many cues as possible. So if I'm going to do singlEQueue, not that likely, I'll succeed out of the gate, but boy, get five of them four out of five of them. It's great. And obviously, some of them are more than others. So I know for our patients, the cues that tend to be very powerful are other people. Yeah. People never want to let people down. Right. So we always think that one of the most powerful cues is an accountability partner. Sometimes we have people that literally hire treners for these sole purpose, that they, they don't want to be embarrassed that they've not shown up. That the own, you're kind of just writing me right now. Yeah. But you're right. Yeah. The more cues that we can come up with, the better, and some of them will have more salience than others. Yeah. But we sort of, we'll play with that and figure out which, which one's worked for us. And then how do you help a person think about how to gauge the magnitude of the reward? Yeah. You know, here's an area where you could get a little extreme. Yes. Um, yeah. I'm not going to embarrass myself with examples of things I've done in this department. But my wife could tell you some really embarrassing stories of how Peter can reward himself. Yes. Exactly. So the first thing to do is to say, I have to give myself a reward, which is actually harder than it sounds. So if you think about how most people start exercising, instead of having this like, I'm going to take a nice shower. I'm going to get it, drink smoothie. They go for a run and they get home and they're late right now. Now I'm rushing. I'm taking as quick a shower as I can because I got a throat breakfast on the table for the kids. And I'm going to, I'm running late to take them to school. I'm actually punishing myself for exercising and my brain pays attention to that punishment. It says, I don't want to exercise anymore. This is, this is a suckers game. So the first and most important step is to actually recognize, I have to reward myself. And I have to create the time or the space or the resources to let myself have that reward and enjoy that reward. Now the next question that you asked, how big should it be? Yeah. One of the things that we know is that one of the most powerful impacts on this is how immediate that reward is. That in general, if I give myself a reward right away, if I eat sugar and it tastes good, it gives me that boost as soon as it hits my tongue, that's going to be a more powerful reinforcement than if it's something where I'm working out every day and three weeks from now, my muscles are going to be stronger. So the more immediate we can make the reward at first, the better. And we can oftentimes have a smaller reward if it happens quickly, then having to have a bigger reward that comes later in time. Now IMentioned though that this is at first and this is really important because, as IMentioned before, what happens with rewards is they almost always, if a behavior becomes a habit, they almost always move from extrinsic to intrinsic. Right. So at first, the reward I'm giving myself is I'm letting myself have a smoothie. And that smoothie might not be the way. By the way, you have got me very curious about your smoothie. You bring it up a lot. I do. There's something going on in the center of the rub. I'll say to create Santa Cruz. Santa Cruz. So I'll tell you, I love smoothies. I put peanut butter in my smoothie, which you're not supposed to write. Let's like, I'm taking all this healthiness and I'm erasing it by putting the peanut, because I've already got protein powder in there. I don't need any more protein. But for to your point, I'm increasing the magnitude of the reward that I get from this particular road. But over time, as you mentioned, what's going to happen is you're craving for that smoothie is going to go down as your brain begins to realize, oh, actually when I run, I feel great afterwards. I feel in door fins, I feel dopamine, I feel these end of cannabois, right? There's this kind of like, there's this, this, this, this soup of good feeling in my head. Your brain starts saying, I don't actually need the smoothie. I don't crave for the smoothiEQuite as much. I don't need that smoothie, because I just, I feel good afterwards. That's the reward. So the reward is moved from extrinsic to intrinsic. And that's a really important trensition, because that means the behavior becomes self-reunit forcing without external rewards. So let's think of a behavior where there is absolutely positively no obvious link to a short-term reward. Okay, we're going to have to fabricate one. Yep. Does it need to make sense? Here's, so, so the smoothie kind of makes sense after the run, because you are glycogen depleted. Absolutely. That's the perfect time to have a smoothie. You're most insulin sensitive. You actually can dispose of glucose the most. Do you see, if you're going to have a smoothie any time a day, that's the time to have it. Okay. Now, I come to you and I say Charles, three years out of college, I technically make enough money that I could start putting money into my 401k. Okay. I just don't want to, man. Yeah. Because, honestly, like, I know my employer matches, and I know that it's leverage dollars, and I know all the intellectual reasons why. But the truth of the matter is, if I start putting money into this 401k, I have less money to buy things now. Absolutely. So, and it's going to pay off in 40 years. Yes. Right. It's hard for me to get excited about 40 years from now. Yeah. So, how would you coach me into making that decision, especially around the cues and the rewards? Yeah. I love this question. Because there's actually been a bunch of research on this. Particularly out of researchers at Universal Penciling, New Warden. So, what they did is they went into a series of communities in South America. And they asked this exact question, how do we get people, particularly people in the reason why they were in South America is because they wanted people who were in a cash-based account. Where there was not a lot of credit cards. How do we get people to save more increased their savings rates? When we know that the reward for savings is oftentimes far off in the distance, particularly if you're low income. So, they had two groups. The control group, they set up a box for them that they could put savings into. And they said, we'd like you once a week to come in and save some money. And by the way, we're going to tell you all the good reasons to save. You should save because eventually you want to send your kids to college. Or you want to buy that new truck. And we're going to help you. We're going to have a saving device for you. That's the control group. With the experimental group, they do the exact same thing except there is a secretary who works in that bank. Who every single time someone comes in and they put money into that box, they say, man, this is the fourth week in a row you've come in. I'm so impressed to see you. You know, your kids are going to go to college. They're going to be amazing kids. Like, I just think about like, someday in the future, like they're going to buy you a new home. This is going to be, you are a great parent. The second group, the experimental group, savings rent, rate went up over 40%. They were saving 40% more money than the first group. Not a bigger payoff, simply someone positively reinforcing. So what happened there? It's a long-term behavior. But we need short-term rewards. And so the researchers were manufacturing a short-term reward in the form of social reinforcement. As the following experiment been done as an extension of that, where you have a third arm that gets the same reinforcement for a period of time, and then the secretary goes away after X number of months to see if the shift from extrinsic to intrinsic maintains the same savings rate. So I haven't seen that experiment in this particular setting, but in other settings, absolutely. And what is the period of time that you need to remove the extrinsic reward? And make it intrinsic? Yeah. I think it would probably depend on the type of habit we're talking about in the type of individual. Right. That's what it's not one answer. Yeah, I don't think there's one answer, but we do know that at some point it will move from extrinsic to intrinsic. And one of the things we do know is that social rewards actually become intrinsic much faster. That if I start working out and I know that Peter's going to tell me I'm doing a great job, and I look forward to that. Eventually, that sense of pride that I feel, I'm just going to get it without you having to tell me I'm doing a great job. Right. Social reinforcement, social rewards, sense of pride, particularly mental habits become intrinsic much much faster. And so that's something we can leverage. We can use those social rewards to go move for extrinsic to intrinsic. What other ways are there besides social reinforcement to reward very long-term behaviors like savings? So I'll tell you what I do. So I have a spreadsheet. I've had it for seven or eight years now. And I use simplify. I used to use mince. I use vanguard. I have different, all the websites that sort of consolidate all of my financial information. Once a week, it takes me about 15 minutes. I update my spreadsheet. I create a brand new set for this week. I input all the numbers. Here's my bank balance. Here's my vanguard balance. Here's my private equity balance. And then I look at whether it's gone up or down. And you know what? I love it. But I look forward to it. But many times it's going down. You're based on the stock market. Absolutely. And when it's going down is when I tend to not do it. Because part of my brain knows like the markets down. I just don't want to even be reminded of it. I'm going to wait another one. What is the frequency at which you save money? Do you have an automatic every one week or every month? I am automatically mindlessly without thinking about it, putting extolors into you. The answer is yes. It's because my income is more stochatic because I write and do things that deliver outside reward sometimes and sort of long periods without reward. But yes, absolutely. But it's based on a percentage of what comes in and again. Anything that comes in, any new money that comes in, goes immediately into my vanguard account. And I've never taken money out of my vanguard account. So what is it specifically Charles that you are getting rewarded by if the number isn't monotonically going up? So what is giving you the joy? What's giving me the joy is I feel a real sense of responsibility and I feel a relief from tension. We mentioned before that one of the most powerful rewards is relieving tension. I put you in the box and I tell you, if you give me information, you can come out of the box. I'll remove the tension. And for me, particularly someone who, you know, when I went to HPS and I became a journalist, I was the lowest paid member of my class for the next seven years. IMean, there's been, I started the company before I became journalists. I used to sell blood in order to make payroll. Right? Like money insecurity for me is a real thing. And to look at that spreadsheet and say, like, oh, you went down by, you know, 2% this month, but it's okay because that number, that number in the bottom is still big enough that I don't have to worry. That that relief of tension is enough of a positive reinforcement to make saving a really positive experience for me. And here's the other thing that I do in that spreadsheet. I say, here's how much money I've made in the last year. Here's how much money I've made in the last two years. Here's how much money I've made in the lasT3 years. And I have those right next to what my total net worth is because even if my net worth goes down this week, because the market took a tumble, those numbers, 1, 2, 3 years, those are still positive. And I just like that was, and I think IMade that much in three years. Now, do you play other scenarios forward like, and this is how much money I'm saving for being able to help my kids go to college or, you know, what are these other activities? Or, do you start to reverse engineer? And at this rate, I will be able to work for free. Yes. You know, I'll be able to do whatever I want, work wise and not be dependent on a paycheck by age X. That's exactly right. I'm creating anticipation for future rewards, which is very intrinsic at this point. It's very intrinsic and it's actually surprisingly powerful. So what was your, do you remember the first X-Trenzyk thing you had to do? Was the spreadsheet exercise sufficient initially as the sole X-Trenzyk motivator? It's a really good question. I have to think back because it's been so long now. I think this was for me. It was for me. Yeah, I think this was the biggest thing. I'm a spreadsheet, junkie, and I remember in medical school just as I'm getting ready to finish and start residency. It's my first real paycheck. Yeah. And again, I think we made $32,000 a year. It's not like you were rolling in money. But I remember doing the math and being like, okay, you know, Hopkins is going to match my, It was called a 403B. I think because we were in, I think a university is the same as the 401k. Right. And I just remember thinking like, you know, I'd read all these books and it's like, you were, It's free money. Like you got to take it. But it became a game to me. So I gamified how little I could spend. Right. So it was, well, IMean, I would sort of embarrassing that I would be like, look, I technically don't need to spend money on food because I could just eat all the crap in the hospital for free. There's always a free meal in the hospital. I don't actually have to buy clothes. Like it'd be in scrubs 247. And so I had this huge budget that I would line item. And I really had, you know, I had repayment of student loan. My truck loan, my rent. Like it was relatively finite. And so discretionary money, most of it could go into savings. Yeah. And, but yes, IMade that spreadsheet and I obsessed over it. So it's interesting to say that you were the same. Oh, absolutely. I thought I was very unique in doing that. Well, what I love about what you just said is you said I gamified it. Right. So the way games work is that it delivers rewards to us. Right. That's why we play a game. It has a reward schedule. And the way that you gamified it is you came up with a spreadsheet. Because you can't play a game without a game board. Right. You need some way of keeping track of whether you're winning a losing. You created for yourself a game board where you could gamify. This is interesting. I never really thought of it that way. I assume people have already figured out a way to do this for young people. I'm sure there must be someone out there who has cracked the code on gamifying savings. If so, I have not found them. There's a company's problem. Are you and I independently have done the same thing? But I think that there's a powerful aspect to that, which is I think the reason why it was so powerful for us is because we felt a sense of agency and choice over it. We came up with this model. We thought about what works for us. And even though we were both using spreadsheets, I'll bet you our spreadsheets were pretty different. Sure. Yeah. Like I think that we were measuring different things. We were investing in different things. We were looking. We were getting rewards from the way they were. Because your spreadsheet is more sophisticated. We were focusing on your returns. I was return agnostic. I was focusing on contribution. So my spreadsheet focused on the spend. Yeah. And how big could IMake the contribution number? Right. But what went to Vanguard was like out of my hands. I was like they're going to do their thing. They're going to do their thing. I'm going to do their thing. Yeah. And there's probably something about your psychology and my psychology. Where that contribution, that sense of of willpower and of sacrifice, feels very, very rewarding to you. That it might feel less rewarding to me. But a sense of over time returning. I could have been a drill-ated. I'm sure it's probably going to be a little less. Because you're probably as returns sensitive as I am now. Right. Yeah. Let's go back to the creation of other habits that are not immediately rewarding. Because unfortunately, that again is in many ways the main stay of health habits. Yeah. Now, some things that we want people to do for health provide both short-term and long-term value and it's easier for people to anchor to the long-term value. So easy example of that would be, you know, hey, Sally, look, you're 30 pounds overweight. And I have to be honest with you. I don't particularly care that your 30 pounds overweight from the standpoint of your weight. But you're also very insulin resistant as a result of it. And I know that if you can lose 30 pounds, it's actually going to improve your health. You're going to become more insulin sensitive. Your risk of diabetes cancer heart disease is going to go down. This is what I care about. And Sally might say, yeah, IMean, in the abstract I agree with all of that Peter, but look, I'm only 30 years old. Like why? You know, what I really care about is being 30 pounds lighter. So I look great in a bathing suit. Right. And so here you have a situation where both I can and the patient can care about the same outcome. But for different reasons. Yeah. And there's a great overlap, which is great. The way we're going to address this is we're going to make these changes in your diet, these changes in your exercise. And there's a win for both of us. Absolutely. Because in six months, you're going to have the body that you want to have. And I'm going to have the numbers I want to have to feel confident that your risk of chronic disease is down. Right. Okay. But for some things, there's it's very difficult to find the short term win. And you have to grind away at doing something for a long period of time. Yeah. Now I'll take a very simple example, which is taking medication. Mm-hmm. It's not a huge ask, but you'd be amazed if you're not familiar with this. You might already be familiar with the literature on compliance with medication use. It's shockingly low, shockingly. So let's take something that you don't even feel. So the medicine truly has no bearing on how you feel, which is blood pressure medication. So even though the mainstay of therapy for blood pressure is weight loss and exercise, the elimination of sleep apnea and things like that, there's still a sizeable portion of the population that has what's called essential hypertension. And no matter how much they fix their weight and the exercise, they just have hypertension. And if you don't fix it, you're really setting them up for the risk of heart attack stroke and even Alzheimer's disease. So I say Charles, I really need you to take this medication. Yeah. And I need you to take it twice a day. And by the way, I'd also like it if you could check your blood pressure three times a week at home so that I know it's working. And do I need to adjust it up or down? Now for whatever reason, IMight be able to get 50% of people to do that. So I can't, well, how can I create a reward around that? Yeah. What type of reward would you envision? So, okay, so let's talk about what's been done because I think this is the key question and it's a really interesting one. And I, after I was, I want to ask you what you have done that you found is worked. So one of the interesting things has happened in the last five years is that vitamin use has gone up significantly. More people are taking vitamins now than before. And researchers have looked at why and what they discovered was the big thing that changed vitamin use is making them gummies. Because you can put a little bit of sugar on the exterior of a gummies. Right. So what they're doing is they're creating an immediate reward for eating that vitamin. They're incentivating them, but you have your, let's take teeth brushing. Where there's all chapter and power of habit about the history of tooth brushing because if you went back a hundred years, a little bit over a hundred years, turn to the, the, the last century. What you saw is that there were tons of toothpaste companies and almost nobody had a tooth brushing habits. And then this one guy comes up with a formula for how to get people to brush your teeth. What he does is he adds a little bit of mint to the toothpaste. So it makes your gum's tingle when you use it. Now that's actually a pain response, right. That's not this is fairly, but what he's saying is when you brush your teeth, you're actually doing something good. You can feel it working. You can feel it on your gums doing its job. You're protecting your teeth. He's creating a positive reward even out of a pain response. So the number one thing we can do is we can try and manufacture a short term positive reinforcement, some type of positive reward that's going to incentivize that behavior. That's not possible with everything, right. So the next thing that we could do is we can work on people building a mental habit associated with that behavior that does deliver a reward. So savings is a great example. Taking my heart medication. So if I, if I'm taking heart medication and it's kind of a pain, the pills dry, it's like taking with fish oils. It's like this, it's exactly a great example. I'm going to get that like weird fish burp all day long. There's all these negative reinforcements, right. So what do I do in order to incentivize that behavior? Every time I take that pill, I think to myself, you know what? I'm going to be around for my grandkids. I'm creating a link inside my head by exploring the why that gives me a positive reinforcement. I feel a sense of responsibility. I'm a responsible person. Now that strikes me as an exceptional intrinsic reward. It is in the long run. Would you lead with that? Absolutely strong enough as an extrinsic out of the gate first 90 day version? It's going to take willpower. And like the thing about rewards is that we usually have to experiment with them because we're often very bad at anticipating how rewarding a reward is going to be. Right. There's some people to say, I'm going to go for run and then I'm going to have a kale smoothie. And that's not a realized how disgusting. It's disgusting. It's disgusting. Nobody wants to. That's why I put the peanut butter in. So we have to experiment with rewards to try and figure out which reward is salient for me. And for me, thinking about my kids, thinking like, I'm responsible to add, I'm taking this pill. I'm doing it for my sons. I'm going to be there for them. That is a very salient reward for someone else that might not be. I see. And they have to find that thing. And the way that we find it is we experiment with different rewards. And we just see which one sticks. We're in this era of AI and AI chat bots and AI agents. You've already talked a lot about how social reinforcement is huge. I go back to the experiment you described in South America. 40% increasing savings by simply having that woman there to just tell you what a good job you were doing when you were savings. Yeah. Is there a belief has it been demonstrated that an AI agent can be as rewarding as a human being? So the research is so nascent on this. So my latest book is actually about the science of communication. And so this question of AI has come up a lot because then I also cover AI for the New Yorker now. This question of whether an AI system can be as good a conversationalist as another human. We don't really know, right? We're only two years into the generative AI experiment. What we do know is that I can create a reward for myself that's built around this ritualized behavior within AI. Right? So if I create that spreadsheet and I feel a sense of accomplishment from filling it out. I can get the same sense of accomplishment by getting into a ritualized behavior with AI. Hey, AI, you told me that I should run two miles today and I ran two miles. We know that it's going to respond by saying, good job. You're doing a great job, right? You're thinking about your health for the long term. Now is the power there the AI system? Well, the AI system can automate it, right? But the real question is, do I invest in the pride I feel from being told that by an AI? And for some people, the answer is yes, for other people, the answer is going to be no. So the answer to your question is, yeah, AI is great because AI can help automate certain rewards, it can automate certain behaviors. But whether that reward is salient to me, whether that behavior is salient to me, really depends on me. And I have the power to choose. Yeah, I'm just trying to think that's really interesting because I know that, IMean, I've already figured out ways to use AI as a reward for me and for my kids. My voice and I love to just do Q and A sessions with chat GPT, like just go down the rabbit hole, right? Okay. What is the most valuable baseball card ever sold? Okay, it's this one. Why? What was the PSA on it? What? Okay. And then why was Mickey Mantles worth less than Bay Ruth? So when I ask you a question about that, so all of thosEQuestions, you could have just asked Google, right? Like before, before our chat GPT, you could have just done a Google search. What is it about doing with chat GPT that feels more pleasurable to you? Great question. Now, of course, today you're absolutely correct in that Google today is mostly powered off Gemini. If you're using the right version of Google, you're actually getting Gemini to do the work and it's using a great version of Gemini. So I'll give you the favorite thing I like to do with chat GPT or with Grock or whichever one. They're all the agents are really good. Is I like to talk about, I like to ask history questions because, you know, I was an engineer in college. And I was one of those guys who, even though I think in engineering school you had the option to take electives, I didn't take any. I just took more math. Interesting. Right. So I kind of feel like I didn't learn anything. IMean, I learned my craft, but I didn't learn about history. Yeah. And furthermore, because I grew up in Canada, I really know nothing about US history. Oh, that's interesting. I don't even have the equivalent of high school history. So my US history knowledge is not what I wish it was. And so when I'm talking to an AI, it's like having a private tutor. Now, that's assuming that the hallucinations aren't so bad, right? But it's still, it's really exciting to say, like, can we talk about this part of the Civil War? Like, what was it about Gettysburg that was the turning point? And then ask really complex questions, like, what would have happened if this had happened instead of that? And how pivotal was this battle? And so yes, that for me is like a drug. Yeah. Like sitting down, spending an hour talking with a chatbot about that type of a topic. And also, I think part of it is the talking. Yeah. It's the, it's I can talk and I can listen. Yeah. That's absolutely right. And so here's what I hear you saying and tell me if you think this is right. There's sort of two rewards of this providing to you. The first is you have a very personalized search engine. Right. It's answering thEQuestion you're asking. Instead of you having to like put a vague term in and try and figure out what, what were the answers are. But number two, it's mimicking perhaps even authentically having a form of communication that we have been habituated to that we enjoy a lot. Right. When when you and I are in conversation right now, and I'm sure you know this, our bodies and our brains are changing to match each other. Our heart rates are matching each other. Our breath patterns are matching each other. The neural activity in our brain and there's a guy named Yuri Hassan, a prince and who's done amazing research on this. Our brains are looking more and more similar. And because our brains have evolved to be good at communication, to be a pro social species, we both feel a dopamineic response to that. We feel better. We feel good after a good conversation. Now, if you're having a conversation with AI, do you have that same matching, maybe maybe not. But we do know that I'm in the habit of feeling good when I have a good conversation. And that even if I'm having a good conversation with a chatbot, I'm going to get some of those glimmers of the same great feeling I get from talking to Peter. And that's going to make that conversation easier for me and more natural and feel more fun. Yeah, I think there has to be something there. And I wonder if it is in how much it triggers the proximity to what is real. And now, give you a silly example of why I think there's something to that. With chat, you get to pick the voice you're talking to. That's interesting. Right. And I've tried them all out, but I don't remember the name of the one I'm using, but it's a British guy. I don't know what it is about discussing history with a British guy, especially when you get into World War II history. Like, if you want to talk about World War II history with an older British man, it's awesome. Yeah. Like, it's fantastic. And I don't think it would be nearly as enjoyable if I was talking about it with someone that didn't, didn't, didn't conjure up whatever image of wisdom that I'm gleaning out of it. Some 16 year old San Diego's reference or surface check. Yeah, totally different experience could be the exact same information. But there's an auditory component to it that is lighting me up in a way that it would. Playing on old habits. So you have right? There's communication habits. IMean, I feel I'm sure I've just feel exactly the same way that like you listen to someone with a British accent and you just think they're smart. Right. And by the way, I know lots of British journalists who like are not that smart. Right. Right. Right. If you all try the right. Like as Americans, we think like it's metaphysically impossible to have a British accent and not be brilliant. Yes. Yes. And it works every time. And they use it to their advantage every time you come over to the United States. But I think what's happening there is it's taking advantage of these mental habits. Yeah. And we've talked a lot about behavioral habits today. But most of the habits that exist in our lives are mental habits. Hmm. There are habits that we don't even recognize as habits because they're happening inside our brain. And they are incredibly powerful. They make you believe that a chatbot is more intelligent if it has a British accent than if it has a San Diego accent. Right. Yeah. These mental habits make me believe that when someone cuts me off in traffic, a perfectly appropriate response is to get angry. Which does not benefit me. Does not change the situation. I know that I should be zen about it. But it compels me to behave a certain way. So let's say more about that. Let's say more about the mental habits. And I read something the other day, which didn't surprise me one bit because anybody who has meditated will know this. We have an average of I believe 47 thoughts per minute. Wow. Yeah. That's it. All of us one per second. Right. And again, if you don't meditate or you haven't spent some time doing mindfulness meditation, you would think that's impossible. But if you've ever done the exercise of sitting there focusing on your breath, watching every single time you are distracted by a thought, you'll be like, yeah, I can believe it's 47 times a minute. So that actually sounds small to me. Yeah. So we've got this crazy thing that is just a thought generating machine that we can't control. Yeah. But thoughts are not thinking. So what trenslates us from thoughts to thinking, how do we form better habits or reformat maladaptive habits around that? You give a great example, by the way, of the reaction to getting caught off like an anger reaction. That's absolutely right. So the way that we can influence our mental habits is that we have to deliberately choose to figure out what the cue is. And then we have to give ourselves a reward afterwards. They operate by the same principle as behavioral habits or physical habits. But it's a little bit more tricky, right? So oftentimes, let's take um, let's take innovation. Innovation is one of the mental habits that studied. Why do some people manage to innovate on demand much better than others, right? We got to be innovative, but some people they need the most strike, it takes some years. And so in other people you walk in and you say, hey, look, I need 30 great ideas by tonight and they can sit down and they knock them out. So what's happening there? When researchers have looked at the lives of serial innovators, what they found is that the most important part of that is that oftentimes the people who are really good at it have build up what's known as a contemplative routine to spur that innovation. Now these contemplative routines can be something like every week I sit down and I reflect on all the good ideas I had last week, just for 30 minutes. And I try and think of good ideas for next week or the contemplative routine can be whenever anyone asks me to come up with 30 ideas. The first thing I do is I go take a walk. When I just think about it in my head, I'm not writing anything down, I'm not committing myself to anything, I'm just letting it percolate a little bit. I have a routine that I know works for me to spark a contemplation. Because when you think about it, when it comes to mental routines and when it comes mental habits and when it comes to success, the most successful people throughout history are that people who can get themselves to think most deeply. Right, making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. So thEQuestion is particularly in a fast-paced world like today, how do we get ourselves to think more deeply? This is the killer app for our brain. And the way that we get ourselves to think more deeply is to build these contemplative routines that we automatically fall into. Because those contemplative routines push us to think more deeply. I can give you an example of this, if you'd like, which is, and again, we describe this and I describe this in smarter faster better. There was a plane, quantist flight 32 was a plane, an airbus A380 that took off from Singapore to Sydney in the early 2000s. And it perfect take off, the captain was a great captain, about 10 minutes into the flight. One of the fan blades and one of the jet engines, detaches, and it punches this enormous hole in the wing. It also hits another fan blade and that fan blade explodes and it was like the shrapnel from a bomb going off inside the plane wing. So within about 12 seconds, there's 14 major systems that are needed to keep a plane off. Within about 12 seconds, 12 of those systems had gone offline. No hydraulics, no fuel, no measurements on anything. So the captain, the guy named Richard de Crebney, he has to figure out how to land this plane safely. This is the worst mid-air mechanical disaster in modern aviation. So what does he do at that moment? What he does at that moment is, there's all these alarms going off and said the cockpit, there's all these red flashing things on his board. The computer is telling him, you have to do these 10 things and as soon as you do those 10 things, you have to do five more things. You have to do 13 more things. What he does is he takes his hands off the controls for a second. He closes his eyes. And he says to himself, I'm telling myself a story about the plane that I'm flying. And the story in my head is the Airbus A380 and it's really complicated because I have to think about fuel lines, I have to think about hydraulic, I have to think about brakes. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to change the story inside my head. I'm going to change the mental model that I'm using on where to focus. And I'm going to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. Now a Sessna is the plane that he learned to fly on. It's the plane he feels most comfortable in. And he actually sort of announces this to air traffic control into his other pilots and they freak out. Because it always is this guy talking about flying a Sessna, he's in an Airbus A380. But that moment of contemplation allowed him to access that muscle memory. Those habits of flying. And he lands the plane safely. They touch down all 469 passengers get off about half an hour later. There's not one injury on board. Now they've tried to recreate this landing again and again in simulators. Almost every single time it crashes. So what did Richard decrepney do differently? Why was he able to land that plane? I've asked him and what he'll tell you is he'll tell you he actually doesn't know or remember exactly what he did in the moment. But by changing that mental model in his head, by engaging in this contemplative routine, which felt supernatural to him to say, I need to be in charge here and you stop reacting. I'm going to choose to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. That unlocked all of these learned habits of safe flying that allowed him to land that plane. Tell me more about him outside of the airplane. What kind of a man was he? What were his past times? What like this story is so impossible to imagine that I can't believe he's a normal guy. So he's not a normal guy. So he was trened to fly by the Australian military. They are Australian Air Force. And anyone who's learned to fly in the military, they know that a huge part of it is learning technical skills, but a huge part of it is also learning these mental habits, these mental skills. And in particular, learning how to tren your focus based on building mental models. And the way that a mental model works is, as we go through life, everything we do, there's a little story inside our head that we're telling ourselves, and our brain is comparing that story to what's actually happening to help us figure out what to pay attention to. There's so much that I could pay attention to right here, right? There's bright lights, there's your expressions, there's a camera, there's wood paneling. I need to figure out where to actually focus. And so what my brain does is it creates a mental model where it says the story of right now is that I'm having a conversation with Peter. So I'm going to focus on Peter. I'm going to be very, very attuned if something changes unexpectedly in your demeanor, and very unattuned if something changes outside the light, because it doesn't matter to me right now. So when you're learning to fly in the military, they tell you, be really deliberate about how not only you build mental models, but how you challenge your mental models. And so the morning before that flight, beforEQuentin's flight, 32 took off. Richard or Crabney did this thing that he did before every single flight. He's in the shuttle from the hotel to the airport, and he turns to his co-pilots and he says, could he use the captain? He says, What's the first words out of your mind? What's the first words out of your mouth if we lose engine, too? Where your eyes are going to go first? Where are they going to go second? What are you going to do with your hands? If we lose engine three, how are your words going to change? In other words, what he's doing is he's saying, Tell me a story about how we will react if there is an emergency. And if you listen to the cockpit recordings from when that hole appeared in the wing, what you hear is you hear all these pilots talking to each other in calm, collected voices. There's not an ounce of panic in their voice. It's as if they had practiced this a thousand times, because of course they had. They had practiced it in those rides from airports to or in the simulator. But that's not the only thing the decrem you did. The thing that made decremney special is that when he would ask his co-pilots to tell him those stories, he would argue with them. Oh, that's what you're going to say first after engine, why are you going to say that? Like why shouldn't we say this? What you're going to move your hands left and then right? You're going to move your hands left and then right? Let's talk about why not right and why not left. He was in the habit of challenging his own mental models and other people's mental models. And that challenge is what allowed him in the panic of that moment. Imagine you're flying a plane and all of a sudden all your alarms light up. It's so easy to become reactive. It's so easy to fall into just, I'm going to do what the computer is telling me. I'm not going to think about this. I'm not going to challenge the story inside my head. But he's in the habit because he practices it with other people of challenging not only their stories, but his story. What fraction of pilots are behaving that way? From the particularly military tren, a huge fraction. Now, there's a really interesting study, particularly out of South Korea, that in some cultures, there's too much difference given to the captain. The result they're engaging in less challenging of each other's mental models. And there's been a lot of interventions to try and change that. The tragedy on Canary Island, if I recall, there was a KLM flight. And it was the KLM flight that was at fault. Everybody I think died on that flight. And it was a similar issue. Wasn't there where the captain who was there, if I'm not mistaken, he was the most impressive captain in their entire fleet. But I think a similar situation was not heating the input from less senior. That's exactly right. And sometimes there's an air france flight. I don't know if you remember it was from Brazil. Yeah. So we have the cockpit recording of what happened there. And if you listen to it, there was nothing wrong with the plane the entire time. It was that the pilots became what's known as tunnel focus. All I do is I pay attention to the most obvious inputs. And I stop challenging that story in my head of what's going on. So they actually caused the plane to stall and fell into the ocean. It happens all the time. So have you interviewed Sully, Sully Burger? Yeah, you know what's interesting is I spent a lot of time talking to Richard D'Crabney. And me and Sully share out speaking agent. They're both very similar. These guys are engineers engineers. Like you talked to Gekrebney and it's not like he's not a guy you'd go have a beer with. He is like a guy who like he is really difficult to talk to. Like first of all he believes there's a process for everything and there's a right answer and there's a wrong answer. And when you're I bring something up he'll be like, nope, you got that exactly wrong. Let me tell you where you got it wrong. Right this instinct to to challenge mental models is so ingrained in him that it comes out all the time. And they actually have this expression in the Australian air community and there might be in the US too. That when someone's a really good pilot, they're known as an asshole pilot. Because they're so uptight, they're such an asshole. Like they challenge everything you say. They're always picking a fight with you about whether you're doing the right thing. That guy's an asshole, but he's a great pilot as a result. Then it means you don't want to have a beer with him, but you definitely want him flying your plane. Super interesting. What are some less dramatic examples of how this manifests in the lives of those of us who don't carry in our hands the lives of 400 passengers? Let me ask you a question. So what on what do you do to get ready for each week? Like do you have a process you go through or yeah? So tell me about that. What is what is it that you do? Every Friday afternoon IMake a list of everything I'm going to accomplish on Saturday and Sunday and every Sunday IMake a list of everything I'm going to accomplish Monday through Friday. So I have two lists, a five day week list and a two day weekend list. And they include the most important things that have to be done. Now not things that are automatic. So I don't write my work out since because those are kind of uncrews control. But it can be anything as mundane as got to go to Dick Sporting Goods and get a set of baseballs. You know we're the old baseballs are getting beat up. Need to finish working on this newsletter, need to prepare for this podcast. Need to take my daughter here. You know it's just basically it's how I kind of organize the blocks of the week. And why does that feel good to you? Because you would end up taking your daughter anyways. You would probably see the baseballs and be like, oh that's right. I got to go to Dick's. There's something about that list. That's a contemplative routine for you. What reward is it providing? Well I am someone who it's weird but I and this has always been the case even in school. Like you know high school. I really enjoy checklists and I enjoy checking things off a list. And I. So there is actually a there there is a dopamine hit that I am getting absolutely. Because I have a box and I write what I'm going to do. And then if it's in progress it gets a single line through the box. And then when it's fully done it gets the X through the box. I love that. So for example if one of the things was speak you know connect with Charles this weekend. That's you know okay. So let's say I call you tomorrow and we talk for five minutes but then you have to run. I would put us half slash through it which is all right we partially connected but we haven't fully connected. So I know that I still have to come back to it. Yeah and connect with you and if I don't then it goes on the next list of the week or something like that. So here's what I love about that. So there's a need for cognitive closure that all of us feel right if you the research on people who make to do lists. Find that 60% of people when they're writing it to do list will write down something they have already completed because it feels so good to check it off. So I used to do that. I stopped doing it about 20 years ago. But I did I used to take great pride in sneaking in a couple of wins. Yeah because you have this so what you've done is you've take that need for cognitive closure. It can push us to like do the laundry when we don't need do laundry right because we just want to feel some sense of accomplishment. You have actually redirected it through a cognitive routine to be a very positive influence in your life. I'm going to create the goals that I actually want to accomplish. I'm going to create a system where I can satisfy that need for cognitive closure and I'm going to have a tracking device in order to do it. Yeah, okay. You're going to say the reason why that's useful is because you have a routine around it. You're going to have this cognitive routine that you're on Friday afternoon. You're doing them weekend list on Sunday. You're doing the week ahead list. For me, my cognitive routine is everyday when I come home from work. I tell my wife about my day and excruciating detail and she is bored to death. She does not care how this interview went or what this what came out of this meeting. But I'm not doing it for her. I'm doing it for me because as I'm describing my day, I'm paying attention to this went well. Why did it go well? This didn't go as well. Like what do I need to do differently next time? I have a cognitive routine of describing my day to my wife that provides me with the divot. Does she understand that? Oh, absolutely. She doesn't. She tunes me out. She doesn't pay any attention. She actually knows that I'm describing the day for my benefit. And she does the same thing to me. And I kind of tune out sometimes what she's saying about her day. Interesting. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I sometimes worry that I'm too rigid in having these lists and that especially the weekend list. Yeah. Maybe would my life be better off without it. And even though I would have to give up some productivity. Would it, would I, you know, would I be less wedged? Because sometimes I get a little dogmatic. Yeah. We get up on Sunday and I'm like, dude, you're not, you're not. You didn't get much done yesterday. You've loaded the deck for today. Yeah. I think that's a really good instinct. And I think it's worth experimenting with. You know, one of the things that we know, so the way that I write articles for the New Yorker is historically. And I do this with books too, is I, I will write an outline that's almost as long as the article itself. Just to make sure I understand. In bullet point? No. Actually in it, near those. Yeah. I write a letter to my editor. I do all the reporting and then I put it aside. I just write my editor a letter saying this is what I think I'm going to say. And it's easier because like the stakes are very low and I don't return to the reporting. If I get something wrong, it's okay. And that's worked really well for me, particularly in writing, you know, books and writing long form pieces. But I do think it's impacted negatively my creativity. Like there's something about having more options and having that sense of risk that sometimes pushes you to figure out how to say something in a new way. Or it pushes you to figure out how to say something in a kind of fun way that didn't occur to you before. And so I play a lot with rigidity and freedom in trying to find that right balance. And my guess is that you do too and many of the things you do. I know that intellectually you do. Like I listen to the show and there's somEQuestions that you ask that you ask everyone. And there's some lines of inquiry you go down that are clear clearly like the right line of inquiry. But then sometimes you ask a question that comes out of nowhere, right? Or you ask something that's kind of unexpected that causes the guests to say something they didn't anticipate they were going to say. I think intellectually you're engaging in that same exploration versus exploitation process that's at the core of all information gathering. I want to go back to this contemplative routine idea because the first thing that came to my mind when you described it. Is going back to something that that Ryan holiday wrote about the stillness is the key. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of Ryan. Yeah, great. And obviously Ryan is written more books than I can count. But I do that is my favorite right that stillness is the key. Yeah, is is my favorite it's the one I've gifted the most. It's it's a book I go back, you know, I'm actually due to reread it right. I've only you know, it's probably been two two years since I last read it, so I'm due to reread it. And it's something that my brother does so well, you know, my brother, it's his superpower is making stillness time. Interesting. He's very disciplined about this. He is very disciplined about time to think. How he does that, like tell me a little bit more like what if I was watching him, what would it look like? Well, you would actually think at the surface it's quite selfish. Right, he'll he'll say for the next two hours, I don't, you know, he'll tell his wife and his kids like I need to be left completely alone. Yeah, and I need to go for a walk with no phone with no anything. And I'm going to, I'm going to walk in the fields, you know, he lives on a farm and he's like, and I'm going to just be with my thoughts and with nothing else. And then I can come back and do my best work. Yeah, but he forces that in. And I think I, I am convinced that all of us could do better work if we did that. And yet I struggle to do it. There's a bit of a trap that I fall into, which is, yeah, but think about how much more I could get done in those two hours. Yeah, I don't have the two hours to be still. Right. So, um, Cal Newport has done a lot of work on this. Yep. And one of the things, one of the mistakes that we make, and this is just a cognitive heuristically we fall into, is that we look at some types of activities as being unproductive, because they don't have yield immediate dividends, right? This actually is part of the whole habit system. Absolutely. It absolutely is. It's about building those habits to recognize deep productivity, deep work, right? Yep. And so one of the things that I'm sure it happens to me, I'm sure it happens to you is that I say, If I could take a walk in the woods for two hours, like, what do I have to show for it, right? There's like, where as if I sit down and I pound through these emails for two hours, suddenly I like my inbox is half the size it used to be. That's what it feels like. It feels like accomplishment. Now, of course, all that does is create more emails for me, and it turns out half of those I could have ignored. But so what I need to do is I need to tren my brain, and my brain oftentimes doesn't believe me. Right? I know intellectually taking that walk in the woods, look, is going to yield dividends that I'm going to be able to do better work. But my brain, there's a part of my brain that looks at my stated preferences, what I believe, and want to be true. And another part of my brain that looks at revealed preferences. How do I actually behave? And that revealed part of my brain is saying, you never take walks. Like you always sit down and do your email. You must think that doing email is more valuable than taking a walk. So I have to convince myself, convince that revealed preferences part of my brain. Now the walk is really good. Like if I take this walk, I'm going to get more work done. I'm going to be able to get through those emails faster, because I'm going to hit delete on more of them. This actually is a productivity enhancer. We don't, we have to hack our own brains sometimes. We have to remind ourselves of a reward. Oftentimes the salience of a reward increases simply because we tell ourselves it is a reward. And we have to take advantage of that to try and sometimes play with our own brain, because we'll act in our, sometimes in our best interest. And so what do you think is the relationship then between productivity and habit? How implicit and how explicit is it? So I think it's huge. I think it's huge, but let me be very clear how IMean that because oftentimes the things that we do out of habit are not the productive things. But our habits can set us up to be productive. As IMentioned before, the the most important element of productivity is deep thought, right? Because making the right choice, making the right decision, spending my time on the right task right now, yields many more dividends than simply getting something done. It's a difference between productivity and business. So thEQuestion is, how do I set myself up to make better choices? Well, the way that I do that is I build habits that give me not only the time and space to make a choice, but the prompt to make a choice. Because there's a lot of times that I'm going to avoid making a choice if I can. My brain doesn't like making choices. It's energy, it costs energy, it feels like it's depleting me. So my brain is going to say, oh, you walked in the cafeteria, like, don't get the salad, just get the sandwich you get every single time. You know it's going to, you're going to like it, right? So how do I build a habit that allows me the space to make that choice and the prompt to make that choice? That's why habits are so important is not because they make us productive. It's because they allow us to be productive. Say more about the decision fatigue, because I think that's something that many people listening to us right now can relate to. I have become much more aware of it in myself recently, and I don't think it's age-related per se. I think it's just complexity related. So the more things you're juggling, the more I find myself unable to make simple decisions. And it's like, I can't tell you how internally frustrated I get sometimes when I'm asked to make decisions. So there's two things happening there, and you're exactly right that decision fatigue is real, right? We've seen it in done actually at this point, hundreds of studies that the more decisions you have to make in a day, the more fatigue you get. But there's some elements that play into this. The first is structuring decision design. So President Obama, in one interview he said the most important habit that he developed when he was president, is he bought 12 of the same suits and shirts. So every morning when he woke up, he knew exactly what he was going to put on. There's no other options in his closet. He just has to grab one of them. Yeah. And he said the reason why is because the day was so exhausting with decisions and each of the decisions he made was so important, that he had to preserve his ability to make decisions. So it annoyed that fatigue. So the first thing is, how do we design our decisions so that we're only having to make the important ones, and we're making the less important ones automatic, things where we don't have to make a choice, right? The second thing that happens there is that decisions are harder to make in a hot state than they are in a cold state. So if you're hungry and you go into the cafeteria, it's going to be a lot harder for you to choose that really healthy salad over that really tasty sandwich. Because you're in a hot state. Now in a cold state, that morning when you just had breakfast, if you say my implementation intention is I'm going to eat a salad today, when I walk in, I know which salad I'm going to get. It's a lot easier to make that decision. So here's what I think is happening. Number one, you don't have a mental heuristic in place to say, I'm going to, I'm going to curate the decisions I have to make. Because if you had that, and you probably do now, but like the first time it comes up, you don't have the heuristic. And the heuristic is when my wife asked me where to go to dinner, I'm just going to choose one of them. I'm not even going to like think about which one is the best one. I'm just going to choose one, right? So I'm going to create a design structure for myself that allows me to focus on the most important decisions and ignore the smaller ones. Secondly, I'm going to ask her not to ask me to make that decision at the end of the day when I'm exhausted and I've been making choices all day long. I'm going to say look, I'm going to hotstate right now. I can't think about where to go to dinner. I'm thinking about other stuff. But if you ask me two hours from now after I've had a beer and I've started watching TV, I think I'll be ready to answer that question. You're so right that that's the obvious answer. And yet you feel or at least I feel like, how can I not be more gracious? Oh, right. Like I feel embarrassed that I would have to say that and obnoxious. Absolutely. But it's true of everybody in my life. Like sometimes my assistant will email me and say, can you pick lunch? Like we're having an off-site and can you pick your lunch? And I'm like, I can't. Like I literally, and it sounds silly but like if it comes through on text, it's even more debilitating. Yeah. Because then I have to click the menu and see the menu and it's like a restaurant. And I'm like, I wish you could read my mind and you knew what I wanted. It is you don't want to have to do this. It's like an alien of you that you feel a sense of guilt around a road try to tell you someone you can't make the choice right now. So I think part of our brain, particularly for successful people, right? Everyone listening to this podcast, you and I, when we are successful, Our self-definition becomes rooted in success instead of failure. We are the type of people who have been successful because we make good decisions. And so we beat up on ourselves when we, when we can't make a decision. We beat up on ourselves when we have a human frail to hear a human weakness. But you know this from from trening athletes. The key is not to not have frailnesses. The key is to recognize your frailnesses, plan for them and strengthen your behavior around the frailness. Every single one of us makes bad decisions. And if our self-definition is, I'm someone who like every time I am in the ass, and I can give them the right answer, then we're setting ourselves up for failure. It's been 12 years since you wrote what is, you know, I think arguably the, the most authoritative text on on habit creation, how much have you stayed up to date on the science of habit? And if so, how much has changed in the last 12 years? If you were to rewrite that book today, what are two or three things that you think might be different? Or that we're just outright missing? So I've tried to keep very current on the literature around it. And the fundamentals haven't changed. Right? The fundamentals have been true for thousands of years. Isn't that a queue or routine in a reward? How our brain works in forms habits? What has changed is our understanding of how much influence we can have over those cues and rewards by influencing our environment. So I'll mention another author David Epstein, who is wonderful. He's a wonderful, he's a wonderful, he's a wonderful, he's a six, seven years ago now. Yeah, he's great, he's great. And he talks a lot about current research, looking at environments where we have a lack of resources, and environments where we have a lot of resources. And environments that we have a lack of resources oftentimes produce better outcomes. But not all resources are created equal, right? If I tell you you have a time limit on coming up with a new idea and your time limit is five minutes, that's not going to be helpful. But if I tell you Peter, you can't spend more than two days on this. That is helpful. So what we're learning a lot about is how to use constrents, how to create what are known as wicked environments where the feedback is ambiguous, is it takes a long time to arrive, and it's not being delivered in a social context, versus helpful context, or good context, where the feedback is immediate, it's very, very clear, and it's being delivered to me oftentimes in a social context, which reinforces it. We're learning a lot about how these different environments influence our ability to act in different ways. And, you know, this is at the core of behavioral economics. We've known for a long time that the decision architecture matters, that environment matters. But what we're learning is we can get much more precise. So if I was writing the power of habit today, one of the things that I would include is a chapter on thinking much more deliberately about your environment. Not just I'm going to put apples on my desk so that when I have craving to eat something, I eat one of those apples instead of a donut in the break room. But also, I'm going to structure my day so that IMake my most important decisions in the morning, because I know that that's when my decision making is strongest. I'm going to structure my day so that I go and I take a walk in the afternoon, because I know that if I do that, I'm going to do better work that evening. I think that one of the things that we are learning is our environments matter much more than we thought they did, and it's worth paying attention to that. Do we have a greater sense of appreciation for the social component today than we did then? Obviously it was strong and well understood then, but it almost seems to me that, and I don't know if it's just coincident with social media, but we just understand the power of social influence. And that's actually one of the reasons I wrote super communicators. Is because what I came to realize is that when we focus on habits, we tend to focus on ourselves, but most of our most important work both for ourselves and professionally is work that we do in conjunction with others. The value of my life and your life is largely based on the conversation we have with our spouses and our kids, that's why we feel good or bad. And so what I realize is by focusing on habits exclusively, I'm missing this incredibly important part of what makes people successful and happy, which is how do we interact with other people? And we are living in a golden age of understanding communication like never before, because of advances in neural imaging and data collection. We can see inside people's brains as they're having a conversation, we know what's happening there, and we're learning a tremendous amount about what kinds of social reinforcement are positive and which kinds aren't. And which kinds are powerful, more powerful than other kinds. So I'm not going to ask you if you're working on another book, because I know you might not want to talk about it, but you're always in a state of learning. Is there something that is brewing as the next evolution and you're thinking? Yeah, and in fact I'll tell you what the next book I want to write in and invite listeners to reach out to me, if you think there's something I should know about. So I think AI is really, really interesting and really, really important. Now I'm not one of those guys, and I interview a lot of these guys who says, AI is going to change every single part of life, it's going to revolutionize everything. I think there's a lot of humanness that's really important to us, but I do think that AI has the same potential that the first industrial revolution, the second industrial revolution had, that the wide adoption of the internet had. And what's interesting to me is if you look at the history of nonfiction literature, what you see is that there were these moments of real discovery and someone wrote a book that explained to us how to think about it. One of my very examples is the right stuff. Many people have seen the movie, right? The book is fantastic. It's written by Tom Wolfe, it's an amazing book. And what he's really writing about is he's not writing about the science of the Apollo missions. He's writing about the psychology of the people who are designing those rockets and are getting on those rockets. His basic question is, what kind of a person is willing to strap themselves to a rocket? Before we knew that this was safe and easy, and send those selves into space before we knew we could survive there. Why? Why is someone willing to do that? Why are people competing for that? I'm pretty sure that. And he found a lot of interesting answers. That's what I'm wondering right now about AI. And we might be a little bit too early in the process to really have any conventional wisdom or takeaways. Why do some people see the world differently in a way that allows them to develop these generative AI systems and other AI systems? That are so potentially trensformative and, most importantly, how will it change how the rest of us think? How will it change our definition of self? How will it change how we work? Those are really interesting questions. So that's what I'm hoping to write about in the next book. And I think there's probably going to be a lot of lessons in it about how we ought to behave. What do you think about the importance of purpose to our species? I think it's incredibly important. IMean, and here we get like a little mystical, right? Because we don't know why purpose seems to light up so many parts of our brain, but we know that it does. We need a why. Right? That's story that's inside our head. That mental model that tells us what to pay attention to and what to do next. We are a storytelling species. We look for correlative links in life. I, you know, I told this one funny joke and so the girl fell in love with me. I started running every single day and then, you know, I got in better shape and I was able to give up smoking. That might be correlation in our causation, right? We look for those causal links. We look, we want them to exist. We make sense of the world by telling ourselves the story about the world. And at the core of most stories is the why. Why is the night getting on as horse and going to fight the dragon? There's got to be some reason for it. There's got to be some motivation. You want to win the hand of the princess, right? Why do you remain faithful to your spouse? There's temptations all around, right? Our biology tells us that we should probably not be faithful but there's a why there that's at the core of our story. And the reason why that story is so important is because it's our self identity. It is how we make sense of our self as an individual in this world. And if we had to reinvent our self identity every morning, it would be exhausting. That's actually what schizophrenia is. One of the contemporary ways of looking at schizophrenia is that it's someone who has biochemically a more difficult time telling themselves a consistent story from day to day. And it's awful. And so the purpose that why is so important because it grounds us in our story and that tells us who we are. So many of the stories then about AI's power and potential is that many of us will not be necessary from a at least a work perspective. And so let's just assert that there's some truth to this, right? That people, you know, and again, I would put myself in my career near the top of the list of things that could be outdone. So what, what do we make of a of a of a world in which many people no longer have a professional why? Is it something that could be substituted with a personal why? In other words, is there a world in which I'm no longer necessary in any way shape or form for any of things I do. I don't need, you know, AI will do a better job at podcasting, AI will do a better job at doctoring, AI will do a better job at everything I do. My kids will be too old to need me as a parent, but I'll become so obsessed with chess that that will become my why is that it does that work. So what I would, I would suggest this to you things we've always had this concern right there's always been this concern that each technological leap forward will mean that work disappears and it's never come true right it just means it work changes right. Something I would argue is you're already there. IMean, look at this point, you don't need to work for the paycheck. That's my point. Yeah, you've got to have money but I still choose to. You choose, right, and you're not working necessarily you call it work, but it's also stuff that you would probably do in your spare time even if it was uncompensated. I'm just not a bit of a fine. You don't take ads for this podcast right you have made a decision this is a this is a hobby for you very impactful very successful hobby. But it's not work, but you define it as work you feel a sense of obligation to it because it fulfills a purpose for you I am not worried about AI spreading and us losing our ability to create purpose. I think that what we find purpose is that a contrarian view or do you think most people would share that view and I ask that not knowing that. Yeah, I think if you were in Silicon Valley. It would be a contrarian view, but I will say a lot of the people who work on AI they are not very close to normal life. They are not they're not they're not living the lives that you and I live and so I think they're they're possibly rightfully worried about issues that you and I don't worry about quite as much. I would say among the broader population particularly among scholars. I view is more in the mainstream that there's a recognition that these this hand-ringing over losing the need for work has always existed with us. You know elevator operators like basically elevators have been taken over by AI right really dummy I but like it's an AI it used to be that every elevator you got on there had to be someone there who stopped it at the right floor. There are not people walking around right now who say like oh man if I could only be an elevator operator my life would be so much better because they found something else to do they found something that was equally meaningful to them. Our human ability to find purpose and manufacture purpose and create purpose is infinite. And as we move into a new world with different technological challenges and different technological opportunities we will find that purpose because the truth of matter is. Maybe someday AI can raise your kids made your kids get old enough and they don't call you anymore and say hey dad I need your advice on this. But you're they still need you as a dad they're still gonna mourn you when you pass away. There is something elemental in human about being human and that can't be taken from us. Do you think AI needs to internalize the value of human life for us to be able to coexist with it or is there an actual risk an existential risk to our species if AI doesn't understand. Our uniqueness I have no idea IMean there's certainly some people who are smarter than me who could I and who feel like they can answer that question more authoritatively and say yes or no it's a huge risk to us it's going to kill all of humanity. There's other people who say actually AI is such an alien when it eventually does reach this point to the agent or super intelligence or the you know the moment where sky net becomes real. That it's such an alien form of thinking and form of cognition and form of sentience that it won't really care about us the same way we don't really care about ants right. So there's people on both sides of this the answer is I have no idea I actually don't even know. I don't know what AI actually is right defining a g i artificial general intelligence is really really hard. Second of all I don't know how AI is going to be exploited IMean right now we use it to have fun conversations about history with our kids right. But if you think back to the internet when the internet first started nobody thought that the really important. And financially productive and impactful way to use it would be to sell everything through one store and to allow people to basically shout at each other on social media right it wasn't the technology. The gave rise to those either advances or or weaknesses it was people like Jeff Bezos seeing the world in a new way that the technology empowered. We're not at the stage yet where people are seeing the world in a new way because of the AI but they're going to and they're going to use it in ways that surprise us that we can anticipate. And until they start doing that I don't know that I can answer your your question. Yeah, which I think brings me back to. One of the most exciting things that I would love to see AI have a huge impact on is one of the things that. We as humans have the biggest challenge with which is behavior change and help encouraging and helping people to change behaviors which kind of brings it all full circle right. And yeah, which is if if there is an AI agent that can be the most powerful tool for behavior change as powerful as having you stand next to a person 24 seven as their behavior coach. Then you really change lives and do you think that's what we're going to see that like is that is that is that are is that an achievable outcome. Honestly, I think Charles you're in a better position to answer that because I think you have a far better and a deeper knowledge of the science because the real question is. Do we know how to do we have the data for how to do this under perfect perfect circumstances that can serve as trening data through this vehicle because. You know, if you take a step back and ask is the LLM platform the right platform I think the answer is yes for this application you can debate whether the LLM is the right platform for all applications of AI it may or may not be. But given the trensformer in 2017 that was the IMean that took us down this path. But I have to believe it's the right platform for this problem. I think so now thEQuestion becomes do we have enough trening data do we do we know do we know what the solution space looks like do we have the data to tren it and if so. Then it comes down to how important is an actual humanin this element versus the words yeah so I'm going to add one more element to the formula that you just described. The solution space assumes that delivering the knowledge is the bottleneck right I need something to deliver me the right knowledge at the right moment very very. Not necessarily it could be that well, to me it's how you define knowledge right it could I I I was thinking about this more broadly which is. If you were stand let's say I'm I need help changing my habits you standing next to me you will provide me with knowledge you'll provide me with accountability you'll provide me with reassurance so here here's the thing that I'm going to suggest is that there's a step before that which is are you actually motivated to change. IMean because the true the matter is if you say like sure I'd love to lose ten pounds but it doesn't really matter that much to me. It doesn't matter how much I stand next to you how much positive reinforcement I give you if you're not if you don't have fundamental motivation to make that change. It's probably not going to happen or at least not in a profound and lasting way and so now thEQuestion becomes. A. I can certainly deliver the information to me it can certainly deliver the positive reinforcement it can certainly deliver all the the subsequent parts of the formula. Can A. I generate motivation in me to change. What fraction of people who. Fail to make change fail because that is missing or because all of the coaching, cueing behavior modification that follows is missing. Let me ask you how many copies of your book have you sold at this point out live. AlmosT3 million three million that's a lot because it's three million people who have gotten fantastic information. Well, maybe some didn't read it. As long as they bought the book, how many of those three million do you think. Made the change that they wanted to make after even the book. You know, I'd like to believe that many people have made a change. Yeah. But probably very few have made every change. Well, and in what I would suggest is that the people who are picking up that book they're motivated to begin with. Right. That's a selection bias out of the gate. Yeah. So here's what I would say. I would say I think this motivation question is the most important one. I think that you can use the inception question. It's the inception question. It's because if you don't, it's a necessary prerequisite. It's not sufficient on its own, but it's a necessary prerequisite. And there's a lot of people who pick up your book and I'm going to include myself in this who say, I really want to do everything Peter tells me like, I want to be super healthy. I want to work out every day. I want to live forever. And I read the book and I say, I'm going to do this. But you know, I have motivation for 15% of it or 20% of it or 50% of it. But then on the other 50% I don't have the motivation yet. And thEQuestion is, how do I generate that motivation? It's not your job to generate the motivation for me. You can give me the arguments. You can tell me why this is important. And your persuasive and maybe that will motivate me. But ultimately you're delivering me the information I need once I'm motivated. And so that motivation part is a real question. Now let's look at someone like Tony Robbins. What is Tony Robbins deliver? He delivers the motivation. Right. If you listen to what Tony Robbins says about financial stuff and I think the world of Tony Robbins, I think he's had a huge impact on people's lives. I don't think his advice is the most sophisticated advice on the face of the planet. I think his ability to motivate people is incredibly sophisticated. And as a result he's changed a lot of lives. What do you think does that make sense? Yeah. So what do you think is the element of that? And does it work uniformly or is there a susceptibility as there is subset of people for whom that style of motivation works? I think so we know that there is there are people for whom that style of motivation works and other people for whom it doesn't. Right. And it might just be taste. It might just be habituation. Like there's a really funny meme of him at a, I don't know, at one of his, you know, whatever they do. He's getting this guy to roar like a lion. Like it's the funniest thing I've ever seen. It's just like, it's, again, there's a subset of people for whom that, It's going to change his life and then there's a subset of people that look at that and think, Yeah, that's not for a million dollars. That doesn't change anything. That doesn't. That's not going to change anything. Right. It's actually going to make it, I'm going to be demotivated because that seems so silly. Yeah. That being said, anyone is listening, you should go to a Tony Robbins thing. Even if you don't believe it or enjoy it, it's just the spectacle of it is amazing. What he does on a stage is really astounding. So I think what you're asking is like, what do we know about the science of the dream? There are, there are some people for whom the way he delivers a message is the, Is the turn key to make this happen? And again, I, if I sit there and listen to him give a talk, it's, it makes a ton of sense. It's very inspiring. It seems like that, that I'll make sense. But it's, to me, I always think of that as the easier problem to solve. I think the harder problem is the one that you're trying to solve. Right. Right. Right. Like, Tony might get you to realize you need to quit smoking, but quitting smoking is hard. How do I, how do I come up with a plan for that? How do I, how do I actually, so you can work on it. They're both necessary and neither is sufficient. I think that's right. And ant, one of the things that we do know about motivation is much like rewards. It tends to be very different from person to person. And so the only way to really figure out what motivates you is to experiment. Right. IMean, my guess is if I was to ask you, what, or let me ask you. So what motivates you to work out every day? It's many things. There's the, there's the, there's the cognitive piece of it, which is I really, really believe what I preach daily, which is exercises at tool is the single, most important tool in both magnitude and direction at lengthening life and improving quality of life. So in as much as I want to live longer and live better exercise is as important, if not more important than anything I do. No, IMean, I ask you, those motivations that are getting you to work out every day are those the same motivations that would have worked on you when you were 20 years old. No, not at all. Right. Wasn't even on my mind when I was 20. Right. And as a result, what we need is motivation changing over time, it changes from situation in the situation. The, the environment, the choices we make. So it's, it's not like we can say like this one form of motivation is the right form of motivation. What we can say is motivation is really important. We know that motivation has certain characteristics, but we also know that it is something that is incredibly adaptive in people's lives and that they find motivation from different sources throughout the course of their life. Yeah, that's a really good point is that what worked, you know, what got you here yesterday isn't going to get you there tomorrow necessarily. Yeah. And it might be when you're 70 years old, you're, I just turned 50, you're 52, so we're in the same place, right, where we can, for the first time that road is really realistic and because you've written so eloquently about it, I'm sure you've thought about it a lot. No, I'm long past that. IMean, IMight have 30 years left on this. It's real. It's real. That also has an impact. And what motivates you 20 years from now might be different from what motivates you today. But what's important is if you're paying attention and nurturing that motivation, if you're conducting experiments to see what does motivate you, what doesn't motivate you. It's when we stop thinking about it that we start making that we get in trouble. Charles, this has been super interesting and I know it's kind of funny that you're, you know, I've read super communicators last summer, last spring actually when it came out. And, but really what I wanted to talk about today was a book you wrote 12 years ago, which I think is, so I would recommend everybody read everything you've written, but this is, in some ways I think, This is the book that I think can have a greater impact on people's lives. It's an exceptional book. And I hope that we've spurred people to kind of go back and try to apply it because in many ways, what you've written about is the book end of what I'm trying to write about it. I'm trying to write about what you need to do, but at the end of the day, if you can't create habits around these things, it is difficult. Well, thank you for having me on and thank you for those kind words. I'm such a huge fan of you and of the show. And it's just a incredible honor to be here. So thanks. Well, thank you for coming out. And I'll have to think of a good, smoothy place in Austin to send you. I want to reward you for sitting through this. As long as they've got peanut butter, then I'm going to thank the Charles. Thank you.

=== FILE: 362 ‒ Understanding anxiety： defining, assessing, and treating health anxiety, OCD, and more [c4j_bet1Z4A].txt ===

I want to get a sense of where you think the balance lies between the abundance of information we have today about health and the triggering of more health anxiety. The health anxiety has skyrocketed in the lasT4 years. Is that signal getting louder? Yes. And by the way, going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. For the anxiety suffer, worrying looks like to try to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. What about the individual who they create a story that says this is cancer or this is heart disease or this is whatever. Everything they get checked of or is fine. This is all prescribed by something that they have the magical cure to fix your distress, your pain. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real. The sensation is real. The symptom is real. But it may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. Now let's talk about what you're ongoing exposure therapy is to get him to be feeling like his old self. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Josh, thank you for making the trip out to Austin. I would imagine that temperature is not that different from where you're from in Atlanta. Not much. I left some humidity for pretty rigorous heat. So thank you for that. We trade humidity for heat here. I'll take heat over humidity. I will too. So we're going to talk about anxiety broadly and probably get into a specific subset of anxiety, which is around health anxiety. Something that people like me are probably contributing to in some form. We're going to talk about that. I wondered if you're going to bring that up. You started there. Great. So not something I want to be doing. But I think inevitably it becomes a two-edge sword as you probe deeper into health. You end up doing this. But before we get into that, I do think this term anxiety is so broad that I want to kind of maybe just start with a viewer background. What is it that you do in your practice? Who do you work with? Help folks understand a little bit why I'm sitting down with you. Sure. I'm a licensed psychologist. I'm board certified and behavioral oncology, which means in addition to everything I do, I spend a significant amount of time focusing on how people think, how people act, and how we can address those in their deficits and how we can improve them to make their lives better. Very basic. So I'm a therapist at the end of the day I'm a therapist. Though my career has had many stages, I've spent most of the last 15 years of my career doing almost nothing but focusing on anxiety kinds of conditions. For me, anxiety is many layers. As is from most people, it's a very physical experience, very physical, physiological. It's an emotional experience. There are cognitive elements to it, how we think. And ultimately the way we judge each other and how we see each other is the behavioral experience. So we see what people do and don't do. And so an anxiety specialist is someone who really addresses all those domains of functioning, how we physically, emotionally, cognitively and behaviorally act in our own world and in relation to others. Let's start talking about the definition of anxiety. I think everybody kind of loosely understands what it is and I'm sure most people have at some point experienced it. But is there a DSM-5 criteria that you refer to or do you think about something that goes deeper and or broader than what the DSM would have to say about anxiety? So the DSM-5 actually altered anxiety disorders. We're going to be seeing the DSM-6 probably in the years. I'll be interested to see what it does. But in the last iteration of the DSM, it actually pulled too pretty prominent anxiety disorders out of the anxiety disorders. It moved PTSD out of the anxiety disorders and it moved OCD out of the anxiety disorders. I don't believe for one second that there are not anxiety disorders. They're anxiety disorders. Because of some special elements about them, some people much wiser than me and you decided that they should be in their own special categories. And those two disorders specifically have some interesting elements to them that I see why you want to separate them out. For me, when I think about interventions and this is maybe a reverse order for how physicians are trened or how you're in some therapist are trened. For me, the intervention sometimes dictates the disorder. And that may not be the most popular thing to say. But most of the interventions we're going to probably talk about today are going to be some version of cognitive behavioral therapy and some version of exposure based therapy. Those are two of the leading interventions. Gold standard, some people use the phrase or first line treatments of choice for almost any anxiety disorder of the 8 to 9 electric or 4 to. So anxiety is a loose category. Anxiety for me simply means that someone is emotionally physically cognitively behaviorally internally preoccupied with something that's concerning them. And then undeniably they're doing something about it, often doing the wrong thing. And so as an anxiety specialist and someone who runs a large practice and we get thousands of referrals of your Peter, I'm always tickled that our practice thrives because amongst all the anxiety disorders they share one common symptom. They're all different symptoms. They all different criteria. We can talk about some of them. But they'll share one symptom of avoidance. So for me, avoidance is the kind of the thread between all of them that identifies when we have someone who has worries, physiological anxiety, cognitive anxiety, behavioral anxiety. When I start seeing avoidance, we're not going from someone that has a worry state to something that's probably more problematic. And so there's many versions of avoidance. But avoidance is a behavioral coping tool that's highly effective in the moment for the anxiety but in effect of long term for functioning that has shared amongst almost all the anxiety disorders. So anxiety is a loose category and it's how people are thinking mostly about the future, how they're feeling about the future, how they're anticipating the future. So we start talking about anticipatory anxiety. We start talking about these risk calculations. We start talking about worrying about something that's going to happen, catastrophizing, plotting and planning, and then acting in advance of that which you've built an amazing career around in medicine to plan 30, 40 years in advance. But the anxious person's using it in a way, they're weaponizing that sort of fortune telling in a very unhealthy way and it's ruining their lives. So if avoidance, which you're describing is an action, is the the Senecaonon of all forms of anxiety, is the corollary of that that worry or distressed thought about the future, it's a very absent, a behavioral avoidance doesn't cross the threshold of anxiety and therefore is not necessarily, I don't want to use the word, but pathologic. Sure. So the DSM at its core is about dysfunction and every category of disorder in the DSM from kidney disorders to schizophrenia to medically induced disorders, you know, medicine, cancer induced depression to post-chemax stress and OCD. There's no dysfunction in life and that's usually relationships, occupational functioning, social functioning, educational functioning. If we don't see problematic behaviors in someone's life, then they have worries, then they have sadness. So someone who is sad, who's not feeling great, but they're not acting the ways aligned with depression, is hard to diagnose them with some of the depressive disorder. So the short answer is yes, I think if someone is not engaging in behaviors in advance of trying to eliminate the distress, the uncertainty, the concerns about what's up ahead, then I have a hard time diagnosing someone with a disorder. I treat a lot of OCD. I'm a national OCD specialist, I'm a national OCD trader and trener for the International OCD Foundation. I'm a national health anxiety specialist. I'll call myself an expert. Some people don't like that phrase, but I'm a specialist in those two topics. If someone is not evidencing compulsions or rituals, which is one part of OCD, the other part of the obsessions, it's hard for me to diagnose someone who's doing nothing to mitigate or manage those distressing thoughts if what they're doing in turn is living the fullest life. The DSM4 to 5 change that. The DSM5 said, first of all, moved OCD out of the anxiety disorders and they have it and now to kind of recall the obsessive compulsive and related disorders, folks are mostly rituals and repetitive behaviors. The criteria change, where used to be you have to have obsessions and compulsions. That was DSM4. DSM5 and 5 TR now says, well, you have to have one or the other. I'm talking about sides of my mouth. Current diagnostic criteria says, if you have obsessions or of true subthots and you do nothing about it, we can still diagnose you. I don't know if I believe that. If you're doing nothing aligned with that anxiety, which for me, if it's aligned with it, it's shrinking your life and you're having these horrible thoughts and feelings and you don't really engage with them and no one really knows and you're out there living your fullest life, I don't define it as being someone who has impaired or dysfunctional. The problem is, I've never met someone who has them true subthots and obsessions and who does nothing. So now we're getting into the next layer of what anxiety is and you sort of mentioned the word behavioral avoidance. Anxiety has two kinds of coping and some of them we can see we call those over rituals or behaviors and some of them are more covert. So right now in this room, I'm using my hands and I'm talking with you and I'm doing stuff to sort of engage with you and I'm answering your question. But in my head, Peter, you may not know that I'm second guessing what I just said, wondering if you believe what I said, wondering if I sound good, questioning if I should even be here, wondering if this is going to be a good podcast and if someone's in that state of thinking about all those things, though we can't see that. I'm starting to talk about a concept called a mental ritual. And so in the last 10 to 15 years, we've seen in the anxiety space, anxiety specialists, not just focusing on what people do behaviorally, but also what they're doing in their head and their mind. And now we start doing the difference between thoughts which are passive experiences and thinking thoughts I don't control. I call those the burps, farts and hiccups of anxiety. They just happen to us. But when you start thinking about those thoughts and trying to neutralize those thoughts and acting in advance of those thoughts and analyzing them and looking them up online and questioning them, that's a mental action. So now we just opened up Pandora's Box, anxiety just got bigger. It went from a condition where you're having these unwanted thoughts and feelings and avoiding maybe using substances, maybe trying to avoid a situation, not showing up to a presentation, maybe staying in bed long or doing things to not deal with it and certain conditions are washing your hands extra, you're maybe doing certain things to your body. Those are behavioral actions or rituals. But now we have a whole nother space of actions or reactions and those mental rituals are if not as problematic sometimes worse because the person with lived experience with anxiety often does no other mental rituals. They just think they're obsessing all day long. I hear that a lot. I obsess all day long. And I go, are you obsessing all day long? Or do you have obsessions? Or are you seeing they're stewing on it? Oh, you're stewing on it? That's a rumination. Yeah, that's an obsession. No, no, no. You're ruminating. You're fixated on it. You're trying to quantify. You're trying to solve it. That's a mental action. Why? Because you're trying to diffuse the bomb. You're trying to deal with uncertainty. You can't tolerate uncertainty. You can't tolerate the distress. You're trying to solve this Rubik's cube that's missing a puzzle piece. And so most therapists can't see that. And the person who lived experience just thinks they're just worrying all day long. And so we start separating the difference between worries and worrying. Thoughts and thinking. The first one is on the house. The first one is your body doing exactly what's supposed to do. The second one is you trying to solve a puzzle that you probably won't be able to solve. And you're going to keep doing it and keep doing it and dig deeper and deeper into a hole until you can't get out of it. So most of us are familiar with behavioral manifestations of coping, but mental rituals are equally as destructive and worse hard to identify and see if you don't know you're asking. Anybody who's spent any time meditating will be very familiar with what you just said about the difference between thoughts and thinking. And I was actually just talking about this with somebody this morning. As it pertained to mindfulness, right? So the idea for folks maybe not as familiar with the idea that if you practice a form of mindfulness meditation, you vary quickly. You're almost blown away at the torrent of thoughts that exist in your brain and how you can't turn them off. So if you sit there and try to practice, a ritual of paying attention to your breath and figuring out how many milliseconds you can go focusing on your breath and nothing else, you realize that the answer is a very short period of time. Maybe unless you've reached some state of enlightenment that I'll never reach. But what's basically happening is you're sitting there focusing on your breath. And immediately you're going to be thinking about what you want for breakfast. And then you lovingly bring yourself back to thinking about the breath and about a millisecond later you realize you got to do that thing after you know, it's just a non stop. It's a ping pong match. It's not going to force. It's incredible. So say a little bit more about that again, for the for the individual who has not practiced this highly uncomfortable exercise of mindfulness meditation, help people understand what you mean about the distinction between thoughts and thinking. It is important. I think it's uniquely important when we talk about anxiety. I like to talk about the W's of that level too thinking. I'm going to break into three categories. We haven't gotten to the third one yet, which is any real scary in just a second here. But I like to talk about the W's, the who what where when why how ends in a W and what if when I hear someone asking a question that starts with a W and whatever the statement is ends with a question mark in my work. If it's about their anxiety core issue, so if someone is social anxiety, the fear of public speaking, if someone has a fear of snakes, the fear of being bitten by a snake. When they're asking questions about is that snake going to be there? Does that garden have snakes? Is that public speaking event tomorrow and what am I going to do about it? What if they laugh at me when I hear thosEQuestions? Most of it's just something that someone's worried. But that looks productive. It looks like you're trying to figure something out. And for most of us, we just move on with our day. For the anxiety sufferer, it is an attempt to resolve uncertainty. It is an attempt to figure out something that you don't have the chance to figure out because that time has not happened yet. It's a fortune telling mindset of mental action. And so worrying the verb is an activity. And most of us do it and move on with our lives. It's like Teflon, it slides off of us. But for the anxiety sufferer, worrying looks like they're trying to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. And that's the epidemic of anxiety. That whether you do a ritual that looks more behavioral, like scrubbing your hands, praying excessively, asking the police officer if they got a report if anyone got run over in the intersection which is called Hidden Run OCD, re-reading your email 17 times, or wondering about your email questioning, did I send that out? Was there a typo in there? Are they judging me? What if they say something back to me? Those don't look like rituals or compulsions. But it's our ability to resolve anxiety to solve uncertainty, to deal with this interfering that is killing us on the inside. And it is its own designation of symptoms. So maybe just to step back, the first thing I'm doing in therapy with almost anyone I work with is breaking down symptoms into three categories. And there's two acronyms I'll use. It doesn't matter for me amongst all the anxiety disorders. And I can get kind of Q2 with this, but it's category one, category two, and category three, very basic. When he's letters, it's T's, O's, and C's. If I'm dealing with OCD, which stands for triggers, obsessions, and compulsions. And for almost every other anxiety disorder, it's T, F, and SB, triggers, fears, and safety behaviors. And every DSM, every anxiety specialist, annual retreats anxiety, and any who battles anxiety should know those three levels of symptoms. Triggers are the things that bother you, the events, the people, the places, the things that are out of your control. It's God messing with us. And sometimes just you're sitting around and I thought pops in your head, can be a trigger, unfortunately. Sometimes a physical symptom can be a trigger. The middle column, which I use the letter O, or fear, O for obsession, F for fear, is the internal experiences you're having. And I use the word having, not doing, that are out of your control. Breathing, heart rate, yucky thoughts, upset tummy, a twitch, a feeling, and aura. For most of us, we call those worries, or fears, or obsessions. Sometimes it's an urge. And those are not up to us. That means your body is working. Sometimes it's working in overdrive. Sometimes it means you're a prefrontal cortex in your limbic region. We'll talk about brain stuff in a few minutes. I'm sure are not communicating properly. But that means that something went off in your body as a signal of, oh, there might be danger. So it's happening to you. The next thing that happens in the most basic behavioral paradigm, Peter, is stimulus and response. And what happens between stimulus response is we're all the magic happens. And one's ability to make decisions effectively between stimulus response is where therapy really takes action. That response and all the anxiety disorders is avoidance. It will be behavioral or mental. So it's a therapist job to figure out those symptoms, the T's, O's, and C's, to educate the patient on what they are because most patients and honestly probably most therapists confuse worries from worrying, thoughts from thinking. Most therapists are going to put anything between your ears and category two. In the last 10 to 15 years online, there's been language and descriptions of something called pure OCD. P-U-R-E-P-R-O-O-C-D. And what that was was people thinking that I just have obsessions. I'm a purely obsessional subcategory of OCD. And I have pure O-O-C-D on my website. I write about it. I blog about it because I want people who think they have that to find our website and to find us because I want to reverse engineer what they think is going on. They think they're just having obsessions because it's all happening up here. Which are really going on as they're having obsessions and then spending all day long up here trying to solve an existential crisis, which I would call them into ritual. Let's help people understand that. And we can either use, in fact, I'd like to do both. I'd like to use thoughts versus thinking and I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. So start with whichever one you want and let's pick a real-world example that you might experience in the practice. Well, I want to talk about health and medical stuff. So someone's having a bunch of physical symptoms in there of afraid that they might have cancer. They're afraid that they might have cancer. That's a worry. They're afraid that these might be symptoms of a heart attack of an M.I. event. That's a worry. What if I'm having a heart attack all of a sudden you're trying to figure it out, which by the way, asking that doesn't figure it out and googling it doesn't figure it out and calling your cardiologist who hasn't seen you doesn't figure it out. But when you go, what if this is a heart attack symptom? You're beyond worrying about it. The worry is IMight be sick in this case having a medical event and you're trying to figure out like, what if this is the thing? And when you're trying to figure it out, that's an elephant then googling it. That's an elephant then looking it up online, calling your nurse or doctor friend or inlaw and saying, do you think this is what it is? So when I go to someone and go, hey, do you think that's what this is? Most people would call that reassurance seeking, which is a classic ritual. It's a behavioral thing. Me asking you, hey, you haven't evaluated me. You're my brother-in-law. Do you think this is a medical event? But when you ask yourself that, how is it any different? We haven't evaluated you. There's no lab work. We're not really going to get the answer. And you're really just looking for one answer. You're fine. So the dilemma is is when you go from that worry state to, oh my gosh, I'm terrified IMight be sick to what if I'm sick, what if this is the event? People can spend not in that little moment, but all day wondering, is that another thing? Is that a heart issue? Is that a symptom of stroke? When I twitching, is that IMean I'm having a seizure? When they're asking themselves, oh, let me havEQuestions. That's not the worry. The worry is just, I'm scared something's wrong. I'm scared something bad's going to happen when you sit there and start questioning it all. To me, it's no different than just sitting there and Googling all day long. What are these symptoms? And remember, let anyone look at that and go, of course, that person's ritualizing. But when you do it inside, it's the same mechanism. It's you trying to get to the end of the story. You're using your crystal baller time machine to get to the end of that story. Sooner than you actually need to. In that case, if you're having a rometical event, I'd go to the doctor. I'd actually go see a physician. But seeing there arEQuestioning it doesn't solve anything. So you went from a state of having worries. I'm afraid I'm sick. I'm afraid something's wrong too. Seeing there, I won't use word per severed. I usually mean something else, but roominating on it. And that looks functional, but it's actually quite dysfunctional. Is it dysfunctional because of the duration? Is it dysfunctional because it comes at the expense of doing something else? Or is it dysfunctional because if an objective person were to evaluate it on its face, it doesn't make any sense. Now, I know I've said a lot there. But to me, this is the crux of it. I'm going to be able to answer that with one word. Yes. It's dysfunctional because it's taking away from your life. It's dysfunctional because the duration or intensity of it doesn't match the thing, that if you're spending all your time doing that and not going to the doctor, this is not going to solve anything. So in a single moment, anyone freaking out, I don't think that's dysfunctional. Peter, that's who any one of us would do. You sent an email and go, oh shoot, did I just do that? We all do that. Oh man, this feels tight in my chest. What is that? We all do that. So even the criteria for something like health anxiety, the DSM criteria requires six months of being concerned about whether to about symptoms or diseases. We'll talk about different kinds of health anxiety in a few minutes, six months. So in a single single moment, it's nothing more than you being inquisitive and curious. But the point is, is that's not going to solve whether it's a medical event or not, going to your doctor is getting an EKG. It's asking your nurse, sister, if you're having like a stroke, what does she know? So it doesn't solve the problem and it's trying to get to the end of a story or resolve some uncertainty or some ambiguity in a way that's not actually going to solve it. So it's just not a functional way to process. In a singular moment, in a single moment, the first time I don't care, you don't care it's what someone does. But when you're doing that multiple times a day, multiple times a week or from months on end, that's the disease. Now what about the individual who goes out to seek medical attention for something, but the pattern is so illogical. So they just keep having sort of unexplained symptoms and they create a story that says this is cancer or this is heart disease or this is whatever. And they follow through with the medical checkup and they should. And the medical checkup keeps coming back crystal clear. You're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine. And the goal post keeps moving. So it's, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, everything they get checked up for is fine. Is that health anxiety? That's possible health anxiety. And first of all, health anxiety is not a disorder. It's a class of disorders. It's a buzzword online, it's something you can Google, but the disorders within them, they are breakdown in really two, sometimes three disorders. One's called illness anxiety disorder, which used to be called hypocondriosis. The one's called somatic symptom disorder, which used to be called somatic form disorder. And then there's a third one that's a bit curious, which is conversion disorders or functional neurological disorders. But what you're saying is is in this case, someone has some symptoms and whether the symptoms stay or change. They're going to doctor after doctor. They've had all the appropriate medical workups. And every doctor said negative result, negative result, negative result. I have to be careful how I talk about this. I've done other podcasts where I've said a story like this, and I'm about to share. And I've triggered some people. And I'm not trying to upset people or trigger people, but in your situation, I feel very comfortable, probably saying it sounds a lot like a health anxiety kind of disorder. You're having physical ailments. You're going to doctors if you're at what's going on. We would most commonly diagnose that as somatic symptom disorder. If your medical charts are clear, if the doctors have consistently said, ma'am sir, I'm sorry, but there's nothing there. The problem is, as you and I both have anecdotal stories of someone getting a breast exam, going for their annual, going for a pap smith. If I had all the medical clearance, and all the sudden a month later, they find a pea-side shape under their armpit, oh my goodness, they have breast cancer. So I have a personal story. I won't spend too much time on it, where my wife, I was almost a widow about a decade ago, which is not funny to me. She was having some radiating discomfort and pain going up her right abdomen and backside. And she's standing in healthy and we have no history of medical issues. And one to a primary care doctor, we trusted dearly and he's checked her out and said, you might have a tiny umbilical hernia. You're young, you're healthy, you're thin. Don't worry about it. We said, okay, we'll see what happens. And a week later, she's still complaining. We then go to her OB and OB did a full exam and found absolutely nothing. We then went to a surgeon who'd be recommended, just to make sure. And I don't remember, honestly, what the surgeon did. I know we had an ultrasound in a CT I believe. And certain said, I would not do an umbilical surgical right now. You're fine, you're young, let's wait on it. Nothing's going on. Those are three doctors who basically gave her a clen bill of health with some superficial observation and then some very basic, non-invasive procedures. And then, but a week later, she said, Josh, it's not going away and the something's not right and it's raining at my back and they checked for gallstones, they checked for kidney stones and all this sort of standard stuff, blood work, you're now assess all of it. And someone said, why don't you go to a GI specialist and see what's going on and she went there. And she had a mass on her liver that was compromised over 50%. And that required immediate surgery. If that had rupture to blood out, she would have possibly died. The liver is one of the the only organ that regenerates itself. So we got very lucky. Had a significant resection liver, liver surgery. And she's doing well today. But if we waited on that and took three knows as, okay, I guess she's, take some of your profines, stretch, maybe it's gas, you know, figured out. I don't want to know the answer to that and that story. So the problem is, is sometimes we have to trust our own bodies. And sometimes we can't trust the doctor. In your situation, I think if you're chasing symptoms, you've been to multiple doctors with multiple, multiple workups and everyone's saying it's nothing that we can diagnose. For most of us, we're describing that you have some physical anomalies going on that maybe don't require medical intervention. And so now in the health anxiety spectrum, we're now starting to describe symptoms and three categories, symptoms that are medical, symptoms that are physical and symptoms that are psychological. So in all the health things, all these spectrums, we break those symptoms into three categories. If they're medical and require medical intervention and you worry about them, no kidding. So you and I would as well. And whether we call that an adjustment reaction Peter or something else, if you have a medical condition that requires medical intervention, you worry about it, most of us do. And I don't require a therapist or medication for that unless that's something that you want. After having physical symptoms that are not deemed medical, either because the lab report you're not back yet or because the doctor hasn't talked to you yet or because the lab results are negative. At some point we have to admit, maybe there's nothing medical here unless we're like waiting for lab results. But the worry associated with that, we would typically describe as somatic symptom disorder. You don't know what you have yet. You may have nothing and you're worrying about it and not leaving the house and doctor shopping and going online and checking your labs and wearing a postdoc somber and all the things you're doing to constantly monitor physical symptoms, body scanning, checking, pretty common ones at some point your quality of life is going down. Could something medical come from that? Absolutely. But currently we have no data to support the you have a medical condition and you're still worried about it. We have an issue. And then the other categories when it's all psychological, long time ago it was about AIDS. We don't see that that much anymore, but sometimes if they're going to get AIDS, they're free, they're going to have a stroke, a brain tumor. No symptoms to support it. They're just worried about getting an illness or disease. Back in the day people would call that person a hypocondriacle, the disorder was called a hypocondriacle system. Today we call that illness anxiety disorder. And people can have all three. They can have medical issues. A, they can have physical issues. They're not medical and worry about them. And they can also worry about getting other diseases, which we would call illness anxiety disorder. The most common presentation that I see in my practice and that people reach out to me for is when someone has a kind of a combination of physical things and they're convinced it's something. And usually by the time they're reaching out to me, they've been to multiple doctors. I don't, when someone reaches out to an anxiety specialist with physical things, the first thing I would say and you would say is go get a work up. So I'm never going to get in the way of medicALCARe or not. First, second and third opinions. I think it's a smart thing to do. But at some point, when is enough enough if every doctor who is of quality and competence has ruled out what everything is going on? And even then, people go to great lengths. I've had patients get spinal taps off the record for cash to determine if they have to, I'll be against CSF because I think they're having a stroke or having a lot of mental health. That's one of the things I guess I would say that makes that playbook challenging is, in this day and age, you have more and more sort of, I don't know, for lack of a better work, just quacks out there that are going to come up with every reason under the sun for your symptoms. So you will find somebody who will come up with an explanation for your symptom. It'll be the mold in your house. It'll be the slight elevation of cadmium in your blood or in your blood or in your blood on your blood or go down the list. So now we've opened a Pandora's box, which is this individual who's feeling a little fatigued. Can't figure out why. Some things wrong with them. They're fatigued. Maybe it's, you know, fill in the blank. I don't know what it is. First doctor they see does traditional work up and says, you know, you're all your hormones look great. I don't, you know, everything that I can see looks like. But you're going to find that person within the firsT3, depending on which door you open, who's going to come up with an explanation. And they're typically going to have a solution for you that's pretty off the beaten path. If you go to a car mechanic and say your car is squeaking in the engine, they're going to have a wonderful solution for your engine even if it's not required. If you go to a psychiatrist and say, I think I need meds, guess what they're going to give you medication. And if you don't have doctors, they're going to find some problem and recommend some intervention, whether it's homeopathic, whether it's diagnosed, you know, whether it's prescription, something, they'll give you something because they want you to feel better. Yeah, I think part of it is that when you're a hammer, everything is an ale syndrome, but I think that, and that would be the most charitable explanation for what I think is going on, which is truly, there are just a lot of real charlatans out there that are, you know, just not, not practicing any former reasonable medicine, not even evidence informed. Right. Like evidence-based, I get this limitation. Yes. I will fully acknowledge the limitations of evidence-based medicine. I agree. But, but there is at least a left threshold of evidence-informed medicine. But when you start saying that the answer to your slightly elevated, cesium level, which, by the way, no lab has ever documented what the upper limit of that should be anyway, but let's just assume that my arbitrary level is too high and you're slightly above it. So that's clearly the explanation of everything that's going wrong with you. But I'm going to hand you some supplement that, by the way, I happen to also sell, happen to sell. That's how big it happened to sell. How weak are you? Look, it's your lucky day. It's right here. You've found the office. You found the guy that knows how to cure elevated cesium levels. That's the challenge I suppose I have, right? Which is, it's the challenge I have. You were wearing the same boat. You're asking me to, as a non-medical person, to make sure that someone is getting, you know, advocated for, spoken for, and referred to by providers. They're going to go to find anyone. And I'm, it's above my pay grade to know whether that doctor knows what they're doing, whether recommending medications or off label things that are, and how am I going to argue against that? So, most things I specialize, like myself, who work in the space of a lot of health and medical and I have a career where we haven't talked about where I've done lots of medical trening, medical work in my career. I'm informed. I'm knowledgeable. I also medical people my family. I can ask the right things, but I'm trusting the medical people around me. So I'm on faculty at a university in Atlanta. I'm a joint faculty there. I got colleagues there. I got medical people around me. I surround myself with people that I think are sharp, psychiatrist, physicians, oncologists, just in case. And still, my patients are going to go to other doctors because they're just looking for the answer to me. That sort of within that health and I spectrum. If every doctor you've gone to, that I trust has given you the best medicine possible, or the best assessment possible. And you're getting the way answered. You go to the next person. You don't need the DSM to go. Maybe this is more than just a medical issue. I'm still going to advocate for the medical needs. I'm still going to support them and join them. And I'm still going to help them see that your physical symptoms are real. Physical symptoms are real. That doesn't mean they're indicative of or prognosticate a medical condition. Half the battle I'm doing is education around that topic. Yeah, I think that's worth stating that again. So if a person says, I'm experiencing this pain. That's real. 100%. I'm saying don't assume necessarily that that means that there is an underlying medical reason for that, or even something that you would find on the total best case scenario diagnostic. More often than not, there's not a great medical diagnosis or category that fits into the things that someone like, I, IMean, I see. IMean, I don't specialize that much in F&D or sort of that functional neurological space of pseudo seizures or or tingling arms or body part second going on. That's a, that's a whole another space of conversion disorders. But I'm talking about people that have chronic headaches, yeah, tummy issues, leg cramps, bones that feel sore. And they've had every work up you could imagine that would be considered for some of us bones that are sore. And there's abouT3 or four conditions the most first are going to jump to and you say your bones are sore. And that's all been ruled out. And they're trying to convince you, but my, my thigh, like I can feel the bone, I can feel the marrow feels like it's, it's tearing itself up and we were talking about pain conditions. We're talking about, you know, neuropathic kind of conditions at some point, the intervention, which is them doctor shopping becomes worse than the pain itself. At some point, someone will prescribe you something and hopefully we're not doing with opiate to that point. But so, we'll prescribe you something, thing that they have the magical cure to fix, your distress, your pain. And that scares me. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real, the sensation is real, the symptom is real, but it not may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. And by the way, going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said, if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. And so, there's really this wonderful space of social media, wearable devices, which I'm a big believer of. And the access that we all have to our medical records scares the hell out of me. Because we are now patients being our own advocates and showing up to doctors saying, this is what I found out online. And I think I have this or this is what this person said. And I think I have this or my, my, my, my, my, my heart rate's been up all week. Doesn't that mean something? Yeah, it means your heart rates up. Period. That doesn't mean anything else except your heart rate is up. And so most people would assume that means you're, you know, a risk for a heart attack or stroke or means if you stare, you're watching long enough. You don't have hair on your head like I do. What if we talk about lies? Guess what's going to happen a few seconds? We're both going to do in this. Because that's what happens. And if IMention your left pinky toe, Peter, have you thought about your left pinky toe? This entire time we've been together because you are now. How is the toe next to it doing? And by the way, now how's the right pinky toe going? Now we get to think about that. So if you think about that long enough, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. It's going to be tactile and sticky and maybe sensory. It was there the whole time. You're brain didn't have to think about it. How's your breathing right now? We don't think about breathing. And I treat people who get fixated on swallowing. Breathing. There's got to be something in here. I have thyroid cancer. I have a softageal cancer. Because I feel something in there. You probably do feel something in there. And by the way, if you do this all day long and you create some bruising, you're going to feel a whole bunch of more stuff in there. Do you know that better than I do? But to come in someone that there may not be something in there because they've been scoped, tested, and blood checked. There's no signs of anything that's anatomical or physical in a throat, but they can feel it. It's not my job to say it's fake. It's my job to say you're struggling with something. And what are we going to do about that? And that is the message there. Do you go one step further and say, like, you're creating this? Or are you saying, no, I don't need to go that far. I just need to get them to understand. There's another explanation for this. There's no need to do that. But if I take that stance, I'm now the next person who's the naysayer on the next one who's invalidating them. And almost no therapist that I know would ever basically weaponize that or blame them for that kind of thing. What I can say is you may not have created it. And it'd be probably didn't create it. Like leg pains not being created. But if you sit there and focus on your left pinky tail or if you talk about life long enough, it's going to create head sensations of it. That's how it works. When you focus on something long enough, you pay attention to it. And if you pay attention to it, you're more aware of it. And if you're more aware of it and your brain actually works, it'll feel it. Phantom limb syndrome research has demonstrated that. People putting a dummy arm in a fake arm in a mirror and wacking an arm, we can feel that in our nerve endings because our brain's processing information. So do we have a dead arm that's not connected to it? That's actually causing pain? No. Do we have a pain reception or an information process and then going on? Probably. That's fascinating research. The point is, is I don't have to tell them that it's your fault or that you're creating it. But I can tell them that the thing you're doing is keeping it active. It's keeping it prominent in your focus. And as long as you focus on that, you're not focusing on anything else. And if you're not focusing anything else, we have a whole another disease. Disease one, there's something wrong with your thigh. Maybe not medical. Disease two, you're fixated on it. You won't leave the house. You're demanding opiates. You're complaining to people. Your husband doesn't want to hear anymore. Your doctors have cut you off. And I've worked with patients. I'm an Atlanta that have been blacklisted from two or the three major hospital medical systems because it's done so much doctor shopping and so much fighting with their doctors that it's a stress on the system. But they have the wearables and the social media and the online and access to their patient portal that proves that something's wrong. And just as an example, what types of things would they actually be doctor shopping for? What is this? What's a symptom that's a real world example? The ones I usually see the most are memory loss or memory slip ups, which some people actually put into the functional neurological disorder spectrum. A lot of chest pain that has had every EKG in medical workup you can imagine or sensations like ants crawling or physical pain or a pathoc pain for which it has no explanation. Those are the most common ones which is. And let's just take each of those in as much as you know details. IMean, what would be triggering events? Right. And we're going to I'll tell you where I want to kind of go with this, which is I want to understand the genetic factors that would pre-dispose a person to this versus the environmental factors that would predispose an individual to this. You know, I've had a number of folks on this podcast where we've talked at length about the heritability of various psychiatric illnesses. So you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're in cancourt and discord and twin studies. We can get a pretty good sense of how these things work. And we know that with health anxiety, the heritability is about 30 to 40 percent. It's on the lower side. So it's low. It's on the lower side. Yeah. Where we see with schizophrenia. It's a frantic geoptism over there on the 70s to 80s sometimes. Okay. So this is, but it's there. It's not a genetic loading. That's there. Yep. But when you say 30 percent heritability, I hear environmentalized. So do I. I hear in the diathesis stress model, you have the diathesis there. It's low. But it just takes that right context to make it come alive. And for some populations for some people we work with a trauma trauma can induce this trauma can cause all sorts of physical manifestations of discomfort and distress and pain. Whether that's a physical or sexual trauma or an emotional trauma or loss, there's enough research and large scale studies to demonstrate even with pseudo um seizures. Panic panes, um, psychogenic non-aplectic seizures that, um, emotional and physical traumas, can demonstrate then bodily reactions that are not explained which we used to call conversion disorder. So trauma is a notable thing. Family history of it were parents are complaining and describing similar symptoms. So I see that quite a bit. I see that both with OCD. OCD has a heritability rate of about 50 percent and 40 to 50 percent. Health anxiety is a little bit lower. Um, and both populations. And what about general anxiety? Um, so I don't general anxiety. Like I go by disorder unfortunately. Okay. Um, if I go by disorder, I can tell you, but in general anxiety, I assume it's probably still on that 30 to 40 percent range. Just in general, I don't know if any other disorder outside of OCD that has a higher heritability rate of there's nine anxiety disorders. I usually refer to that one. Usually it's the highest gender level of 40 to 50. That's 40 to 40 percent. So I assume across the board if we merge them all together, it's going to be 40 percent. We're going to be in that 30 to 40 percent range at best. It's very atypical for me to meet a child or teen with OCD and to not have a first degree relative who has it. Excuse me, the first degree relative has taught treatment or agrees with it. But I was never child's like, oh, yeah, my mom does the exact same thing. And do you think that it is a learned behavior in that sense? I, well, we have to not deny that there's a genetic component to it, but when you are in a household where someone is doing things in a very hyper vigilant way constantly or always washing down the counters or always doing things on repeat like tapping the door or asking to say something over and over again at some point social learning kicks in. And they won't necessarily be the same. So another positive mom washes her hands 100 times a day. Johnny could easily manifest what clothing folding or re-minating on some other, you're describing a lot of the sub content areas of OCD. I don't know if there's any research study out there that has demonstrated that parent's sub classification of OCD mimics child, but at a macro OCD falls down to the next generation. It's pretty well documented. If if I've seen 100 people in the last year with OCD, I haven't seen them in last year, I'd be shocked if more than 15 didn't have a first degree relative of the OCD. It would be very a typical. They are seeing, say again, that they see that they live with, that they live with or have lived with. Yeah. So it would just be very uncommon. Which makes it difficult to parse out. It's very difficult to know genetic numbers and neurodiodidical. Health anxiety for me is almost identical. So I view health anxiety as a sub category of OCD. I think probably 20 years ago probably people view the HIV focus, much more as an OCD condition. Today we would call it illness anxiety disorder. But most of the colleagues I work with, people I've done research with, people that I talk about stuff with, view health anxiety as a sub category academically to own special category in the DSM. What I see the exact same things that you're asking about, which is that it is very rare for me to see someone as health anxiety for which a first degree relative doesn't also have health anxiety. And health anxiety, OCD for most populations usually starts around age 789, Pre-Pubescent. Health anxiety usually starts around the teenage years. A few kids I've seen can have health anxiety, epidemiological research with support that health anxiety typically starts in teenage years and young adulthood. I see kids with a metophobia fear of throw up kids at a completely of tummy aches because are afraid to go to school. I think they're focused on situational symptoms in response to situations. Then what you and I would think about more existential dread about health anxiety. So it'd be a little bit unconventional for a kid to be thinking about morbidity and mortality and things like that because kids are not developed to worry about that in general. Though it can be the case. But it'd be very unconventional for me to see someone who has health anxiety where they wouldn't say, yeah my mom also worried about that. A metophobia is no different, fear of throw up, very common in family and family dynamics. So first thing when I see someone who has a fear of throw up her metophobia is which one of your family members also has that fear. It's like the first question you ask. Oh, that one. Great. Now that I know. Biologic behavioral. Both. So you referenced HIV and AIDS twice. Is that really the first big landmark introduction of widespread health anxiety? Or is it just the most recent one prior to our current? It's probably the loudest. IMean you can go back, if you wanted to research on it, go back and grease and ancient time. People focus on the stuff and it brain mapping. I joking before we start talking, I use the word treffination, all sorts of crazy, psychobrain surgeries to help people alleviate stuff. But the HIV epidemic probably became the most prominent thing in the last 30 to 40 years that got people's awareness of what if I get that terrible disease because we don't know enough about it. The treatments weren't available at the time. The life expectancy was short and that scared everyone. But you could look at trens in the last 10 years and when I get together with all of my colleagues and we nerd out about this stuff, you can see trens during black lives matter, movement of years ago and the hashtag me, two movement when you see people coming in fearful of like, what if I say a racial slur, what if I get accused of sexually assaulting someone in the past and you see those those socio kind of driven moments where you see spikes of people coming concerned about that, COVID lit that on fire literally. And they're still lingering effects of that that we can discuss. But I don't know if I've seen an HIV concern in the last five to 10 years. IMean, just don't hear it. But I used to work. I've done a lot of work in HIV and STD prevention. I've worked in HIV clinics. I did an NIH research fellowship on HIV HIV and STD. So I've been in the I'm a weird psychology. I've done lots of medically based research and clinic work. So I've been in HIV space actually for about 20 years. As an OCD anxiety specialist, I'm sure I've colleagues that could say it speak to this. I haven't heard of someone complain about HIV concern about getting it in my career probably in the last 10, 15 years. Well, you name your brother condition stroke, heart attack, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, every kind of cancer. IMean, cancer is the most notorious. It's allowed us to sit the scariest since we're going to talk about. Is that signal getting louder? Yes. Okay. So let's now go over the three things you alluded to earlier. Social media, wearables and access to medical records. Is there anything else that you think is contributing to that? Let's assume genetic drift is not increasing the genetic predisposition to that so that the increase that you see in the incidence is environmental or triggered. Anything else driving it besides those three you think? Those are those are research based, we're meeting those things. I'm going to speak more on a personal anecdotal level. I have a general sense at the last five years since the pandemic and since we've seen a shift in culture around medical access and insurance and people getting proper care and political things and turmoil. I think most mental health providers and at the research would show this peer that we've seen a significant increase in mental health awareness, a significant increase in people coming to therapy for the first time, a significant increase in people staying in therapy longer and longer. And we've seen a significant spike in general anxiety since 2020, almost at twofold spike in most research studies. So all of that combined with a general sense of not being able to afford health care or frustration with your health care providers. I just feel like we're hitting this unfortunate, perfect, terrible storm of people being more vigilant about their medical and mental health needs in good ways, trying to be advocates and trying to seek services. But also I think we are at least in the United States. There's just a general sense of increased anxiety and stress on all of us and as you know, stress and anxiety turned somatic, turns biologic. But I think those three big areas of social media, wearables and access to health care are big players, but COVID got all of us to think about this stuff. And I was joking with some of your team before I came in here, but I even on the flight over here, someone was coughing in the robot hymn and I thought crap, what am I going to come home with? 2019, never would have thought that honestly 2018. I'm not, I'm not kidding. I've got a kid going to college and a fortune old. When they're kids, they had snots and boogers and gross and diarrhea and you pump them of meds and sent them to preschool. You just didn't care. Today, when you're a kid sick, you're thinking, how many days of work am I going to miss? So somewhere in the last few years, and I don't, I don't help anxiety. I don't get too caught up on that. I think about it more than I want to. Because of the work I do, but somewhere in the last few years, we've all become more in tune to our upper respiratory stuff. People are wearing masks before they never did in other countries in China and Japan. We saw people wearing masks before the pandemic. We see us all over the United States now. I'm out there restaurant just a few months before I came over here and three people wearing masks. Do they have it? Are they trying to prevent me from getting it? Are they afraid of them getting it? I don't know, but five years ago, I didn't say anyone, any restaurant person wearing a mask. By the way, would there be any pathology there? Explain. Well, if you see a person wearing a mask and let's just say you make the assumption that they're not sick. So they're not, I'm not making that. I'm not making that assumption. I'm making that assumption. If you see people walking through airports with masks, yes. And again, I'm not trying to ask this question through any lens other than pure inquiry. And I realize these are very loaded questions. But what I'm really trying to understand is if a person's walking through an airport wearing a mask and you knew that they were not sick. So they were doing it for fear of getting sick. Sure. Is there any reason to say that person's not psychologically functioning on all cylinders at the moment? It's on their situations. So my mom is doing very well today. Sorry, let me further assume that she was going to cancel. No, yeah, let me. I'm going to throw all that out. So you're not immune compromised. You're 40 year old, perfectly healthy person who's not undergoing chemo. You don't live with someone who's undergoing a multi-monetical or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'm just trying to get at like. It's a fair question. But you're a person who pre-COVID would have never thought of wearing a mask. But you haven't escaped the COVID mindset. Now, you could argue, oh, what's it? It's not causing anybody harm. It's their face. They're covering up. IMean, aside from the fact that the briefs that Starbucks can't take the order, like no one's actually paying a price, is there any maladaptive behavior there? Sounds like a real therapist here. I'm real psychologist, possibly. I think if that mask is being used as a cover to avoid social interactions, as a way to get out of other events, to make sure you're not working in a certain part of drostanolone, possibly when you really don't need to do so. But if you're just wearing the mask because you're just a little bit extra cautious, don't want to get sick. Again, if we don't care about it, and you stay employed, let's say it's an employee or you're walking through the airport, I don't think it's anything pathological about that. IMean, I think that's an different than someone you're taking, or those like those bite-a-minsy packets before they get into playing. People do that all the time. Costco and other companies still box isn't boxes that stuff. Do I think this stuff works? Not really. But people are pounding that bite-a-minsy powder stuff to make sure when they go on their flight or their travel, they don't get sick. Is that any different? I don't know if it's any different. I think we all take our own approaches for homeopathics and I put the mask in that category of people who are taking over the counter kind of things or supplements to boost their immunity or to prevent themselves from catching something that would compromise their immunity. I think good for them and I don't think anything about it. What about driving with the mask on? That the only person in my mind. Okay, so if you're not a new driver or a driver, or not, I'd be the other day. Is that someone driving me on a freeway? They're the only person in their car. I assume it was their car. Whether there was nobody else in it and they were driving with the mask. So, again, if it wasn't a rentALCAR and if there was a rentALCAR, you might go, gosh, like I could see what if they thought, again, I think that's pathological to me. And I think we can probably say both, but if you're a rentALCAR and you and I both know how the trensmission of respiratory issues go and you're in a rentALCAR that's whether they've been clened or not, someone smoked in it, someone coughed in it, but time you get in it, we're beyond that potential range of infection from COVID or other respiratory ailments. The first thing a mask isn't going to do a darn thing medically. I'm not a medical provider. I'm going to be careful. I say that on this and here, but I know enough about the science of that's not how you're going to get some kind of disease. That baffles me. Is that pathological? It looks funny. It doesn't make sense to me. Maybe it's they're going to be going to the next place and they forgot to take it off. Maybe they are immunocompromised. I don't know what their situation is, but if to your point, if someone doesn't have an illness and they're not trying to spread it. And we don't believe they have any state of immunocompromised status. And they're wearing a mask. It seems off. And so should the majority of people who are not wearing masks look at that person with empathy as opposed to disdain, which is probably how I was looking at that. I think anyone who's in a situation like that would show look at some with empathy, with compassion and think that's not my situation. And I hope that whatever they're going through is okay. But again, we start talking about what you can see and what you can't see going back several discussions ago about mental versus behavioral. I've never been in a podcast and so I'm saying, hey, what do you think about people taking an emergency or vitamin C or whatever? Whatever those powders are, no one's ever asked me that. Is that different than wearing a mask? Not to me, but we can see the mask. It is a little different. And I think that's the point, right? I think it's if you take the vitamin C pack, you're putting it in your water, you're drinking it, for all intents and purposes, you're taking a bunch of electoral lights. The person who takes that next step to put a mask on, presumably in an environment where nobody else is wearing it. Oh, I'm sorry, now I'll tell you in the airport, no situations or restaurants. In a car situation, that feels pathological to me. No, even in the airport, my point is they're doing it in an environment where nobody else is wearing a mask. There must be some, that that to me is a higher threshold. They're more concerned. Absolutely, they're focused on it more than the rest of us. And my one of my argue with them, maybe the rest of us should be focused on it as well. And I just don't feel like that. I have to do that. But I think, but how would you talk about that person? So let's assume that I'm making this up just as completely untrue. Let's say my wife can't stop wearing a mask everywhere we go. This is not true. Just for all her friends listening, I'm not riding out my wife who never wears a mask. But let's just assume my poor wife can't stop wearing the mask. And I'm getting kind of annoyed. I'm like, honey, this is getting a little ridiculous. Every time we go out for dinner, you're wearing a mask. Like, frankly, I'm embarrassed. And she's like, Peter, I just don't want to get sick. I just, I don't want the downtime. You know, she comes up with whatever seemingly rational argument she has. And I said, I get it, honey, but when I'm sitting across me, it didn't like to see your face. Sure. She's like, I appreciate that you like my face, but I just can't afford to get sick. I like my health. Yeah. And so let's say we present to you for therapy. Okay. Tell me how you're going to engage. First of all, I see this all the time. It's just metaphorically, it's not the mask. It's the romantic partner that I seEQuite a bit in my work. Because I run national romantic partner support groups, free support groups for people around the world. IMean, a colleague in California. And yesterday, from my hotel, I ran one of those. We see it all the time. It's just I feel free to come up with a better example. No, this is just a dumb one. I came up with. No, the example is is I have a romantic partner and his or her partner come in and saying, my partner is never going to events. Or my partner is constantly scrubbing down the counter. Okay. Or my partner makes sure that we have to have our shoes off for a walk in. Or my partner makes me say, I love you 17 different ways before we go to bed. Because the version I said wasn't good enough. That's the same point, which is what the person with, I'm used to phrase lived experience, which is a pretty colloquial common phrase for a mental person to say that someone has some, some things. I guess I'm already making the case that they might have a condition. But I seEQuite often when the person lived experiences doing excessive behaviors as causing impairment and disruption to the people around them. So we'll use your masks. Okay. You said, Josh, she can't. That word means a lot to me. Can't take it off. She won't. I can't even see her face at dinner. And that first meaning I'm trying to figure out not Peter, what's wrong with that? When I can't she get over because I know why you can't get over it. I'm trying to understand from what's perspective, what is it doing for her life? What is she solving? And I'm trying to hear her story to figure out, do I have any enrodes in here to figure out how rational this is really getting, how functional it really is. And so in the interventions for how things out of your hostility are starting to talk about cognitive behavior on revensions, I'm using motivational interviewing techniques and how to create a question with a lot of compassion and kindness to try to hear her story, hear her concerns because you're just the husband. You're sick and tired of it. Right. I'm coming in with a few. You're a few at this point. Yeah. But ultimately, I have a sense of my job to help her figure out is there any wiggle room in wearing this. And I probably may not do that in the first meeting, but I'm going to start assessing other areas of a life that she's not doing. They're probably more protective. And every person who does my work knows the research is undeniable, not getting on a plane is the funniest thing in the world because if you drive a car, you're not paying it all to statistics, because driving in a car within five miles of the radius of your house is the most likely place you're going to get into. Maybe not a fatALCAR accident, but a car accident. Airplanes, by all this stuff in the last six months or two years, is still by far statistically the safest form of trensportation by the millions and millions of people that fly. But it feels terrifying when we start seeing planes colliding and things happening and changes with the FAA and stuff. So, but no one looks at that and goes, I'm going to change my situation. I'm just not going to get an airplane, but they drive. So, I'm trying to find those moments with your wife. I'm trying to figure out what is the value for her? Does she see that it's impacting her husband and her friendships? Does she see that it's limiting opportunities in her life? I'm trying to find what the cost and is there any way for that cost to outweigh the benefit of what she is not being immunocompromised for? I'm also trying to find out what other curious behaviors she's doing that look like the mask as well. Is she washing her hands a little bit extra? Does she keep hand sanitizer on her? Does she refuse to shake hands? Does she make sure she brings her own straw? And so, how often do you see that where a person shows up and there's sort of one chief complaint, but then upon further probing, there's a series of concentric circles that are building out from it. It's the whole point of the success of therapy because the answer is all the time. It is very isolated. Very rare, where I see a single anomalous symptom behavior action being the only thing that is worthy of attention or treatment. You can go as far as to play this out in substance abuse and eating disorders. There might be the primary substance or eating behavior someone is engaging in, trust me. There are other characterological and other tendencies that someone is engaging in that may not look as dysfunctional or impairing, but they're there, they're under the surface and a lot of them are probably happening. So I'm assuming that she's spending time at drostanolone also scanning who's coughing. Also seeing when the weight or brought the credit card machine, if that still exists, the fold out of there are butt back pocket. How disgusting is that peer that the weighters and weighters stick that in their butt back pocket are in their pants and they pull it out and ask us to pay for it. Like that's foul. Does that make you stop from paying? No. Most of us don't care about that, but that's pretty messed up. Do you really think that a person didn't go to the bathroom and do you think they washed her hands every single time? Of course not, but if you don't see it, you don't think it. So I'm starting to assess and her sort of this out of sight out of mind concept. What are the things is your wife paying attention to that she's aware of? What are the things and this gets a little fun? Should she be paying attention to that she probably doesn't want to? And that's thinking great. Thanks there. Mr. and make me worry about the other stuff out there. And my point is to say, maybe just maybe the mask is a bit of an overreach. Maybe it can be sometimes modified. And so if someone is completely vigilant about doing said behavior in this case the mask, and she can't take it off with you with her bow at a restaurant in the corner, I think we have something to work on there. If she's like, well, can you at least went on with Peter? Okay, we've broken some ground. We have some wiggle room there. But often someone has no wiggle room and they're not willing to give up whatever that thing is. And that's where we start talking about doing very some interventions. And interventions for this are a combination of addressing cognitive flaws. Understanding the behaviors mental and behavioral that he or she is doing that are way more pervasive than just the mask. Starting to ask them to make minor modifications to those behaviors, which we typically call ritual prevention. And then if I get lucky enough, we actually get into a place called exposure therapy. And we haven't talked about all that all about that. But a real anxiety therapist going back to the very first thing I said to you, you're not going to come to my clinic and be seen by an anxiety specialist, no matter what their degree credential years of service are and not get some version of exposure therapy. And all exposure therapy is an intervention that helps someone approximate their fear facing it head on in a safe, ethical, compassionate way without putting them in any ethical, legal or medical risk. Some people might think it puts them at risk. And some people might think they can't handle it. And exposure therapy, which goes back to the 60s, is the leading intervention for things like PTSD, phobias, social anxiety, OCD, and helping anxiety. But to get someone to get there means you have to get them across this process of readiness for change. This model of pre-contemplation to contemplation to ready to take action. And for a wife is like, I am never going to take off this mask. She is so pre-contemplation. I've got to figure out then what concessions or changes can she make? Maybe her impeter go to a cafe restaurant outside that's completely aerated, not inside. And she tries to take off the mask even for five minutes. And if she can do that, Peter, we're breaking ground. We're now putting some wiggle room between a dogmatic, anxiolitic, no way wiggle room action. And now as long as it's outside air. And when the waiter comes over, she puts it back on her face. Okay, I'm okay with that. But now you get to see your beautiful face. You guys can be outside. And now you're going to start picking cafes or outside more than inside restaurants. The slowly start building some resistance or strength, bravery for her to try it in different locations. And if she does it and gets sick the next day, you're going to fire me and hate me. But if she doesn't, then maybe we're starting to break ground and find other things that she can modify or change slowly. That meets her pace and that makes you happy. That's all good anxiety therapy. So is the idea that you use cognitive behavioral therapy to bridge the gap until they're ready for exposure therapy? Sometimes. Sometimes if someone's so pre-contemplation or so wedded in their rituals. And we see people who are literally scrubbing walls with light saw and bleach where the walls are down to the studs. That's more for things that contamination based OCD. People are doing behaviors that require almost hospital level care. Some of them are not ready for exposure based therapy. And in that case, I'd probably recommend someone if they're not on medication, probably you can be very seriously consider medication. But exposure therapy is the first line treatment for almost everything to do with OCD and health anxiety. Once you get them ready for the exposure. You have to. You can say that once you get them ready, but I'm never walking into a client with those to your health anxiety, not thinking I'm not going to do exposure therapy. They're going to be getting it somewhere. So if I came to you and said, but I'm an exposure therapist. Okay. So I don't know if this is a realistic enough example. So I'm going to sort of it's not just a Peter. That's not how these people present. So let's say I said, Josh, I travel a lot for work. But I got to tell you with all this news around air traffic controllers going, you know, losing sight of airplanes. I don't know if I can fly anymore. This is now actually posed a real risk to my career. My career depends on me being able to get on a plane every week to go and meet my clients or whatever it is I do. This is a real world scenario. By the way, there are people that are having increases in aerophobia or fear of flying. Way more than we had in the last few years. Sure. Sure. Because of stuff that's going on. The environmental trigger is, yep, there has been a rash of airplane crashes coupled with objective data that say air traffic controllers are overworked and the system is failing. Yes. And something bad is going to happen. And unfortunately, my job necessitates that I'm on the road, you know, all the time. And I can't take buses. It's too far. I can't take trens. Basically, I'm going to lose my job if I'm not willing to get on a plane every Monday and come back every Thursday. And I can't seem, I just don't know how to do it. And I've got two, I got two weeks of PTO. I'm going to do a little bit of medical leave, but I'm running out of options. How the hell are you going to get me on a plane? So first of all, that person is trying to figure out values. They're trying to figure out what's more important. The belief that I'm going to die in a plane crash versus my job in my livelihood and there are the trenches in that. So I want to join them there before we do anything. I'm going to do an assessment. We're going to have that first meeting or two. But I'm trying to figure out what I'm going to do about the assessment. You mentioned this earlier. Yep. Since any therapist is going to do an initial intake of valuation, which is gathering a lot of information that they have filled out in advance, going through that and then interviewing them, pre-usably, between six feet and 90 minutes to really better understand their story, what they're coming to treatment for, what their history of treatment is. In situations like this, you know, have they had other moments of fear of flying, fear of driving, other significant avoidance behaviors. Ultimately, the goal of an intake of valuation or first meeting is trying to figure out diagnostically what's going on. So once you know what that diagnosis is, treatment commences from there. So by the end of first meeting, a first intake, they have filled out generic survey forms, some forms that we would describe as evidence-based assessments that have been demonstrated in research to be the best for specificity and sensitivity of getting to symptoms of a diagnosis. And in each sub-disorder depression, social anxiety, Osteer's, everyone sort of has their tried and true that are research grade that we all sort of know or standard in the field. And so when you're going to fill those out, fellas, some general packets about their life and medical history, and I'm going to meet with them to try and help understand their story, to try and build the rapport, to try and connect with them, because ultimately I want to have them, you know, run through that brick wall with me at some point in therapy for this person, it eventually getting back into flying. Is that five sessions or 50 sessions? I don't know right away, and it's based on a lot of factors. But in the first meeting or two, I'm gathering a lot of raw data to put together a story, which we would call a case formulation that explains their diagnosis or diagnoses, and tell them what the treatment doctrines are. And in a case like this, more likely, Peter, so I'm probably going to come and say, do you prescribe benzos? And that don't prescribe. And honestly, if they have to get in a flight right away, and they don't want to miss up travel and PTO, I'm not a fan of medication in general, though I know it helps people and it definitely saves lives. I'm definitely not a fan of medication. It has a high addiction potential, but sadly when it comes to things like panic attacks, or not be able to get in an airplane. And if you're not, obviously, here she's probably not going to drive 24 hours or 20, you know, 12 hours across the country. And then unfortunately, what people usually do is they drink heavily or take benzos to get at least through the flight. And what happens on the other side? They're now inebriated. So they got through the flight by white knuckling it and getting under the influence. But now they can barely get off the plane. That's not a great solution, but it does end up being what people often do with fear of flying, because that's the only way they can get through their flight to get through TSA and get in the plane. It's going to be some sort of pharmacological, whether it's alcohol pills or a combination. So, but that's not my goal. What about alternative medications? So what about SSRIs or SNRIs, which again, have this sort of bad rap is being anti-depressants, although there probably a much broader category than that. Dmitrications like that have a role in at least being part of the tip of the spear to create some increase in psychological resilience. In a story like this to be blunt, probably not. If the story is that this person has never really seen a therapist before, has never really struggled with things like anxiety or depression, have never taken a medication. And this is an end of one kind of situation where they're like, yeah, I'm terrified of flying and it's ruining my life. And SSRI is going to take or SNRI is going to take several weeks to take action. It's not ultimately going to be, most, I'm trying to be careful not to speak and I've turned as a PhD. I don't usually speak too much about medication, but I'm speaking the way almost anyone would who knows about it knows. SSRIs don't treat the tip of the peak of anxiety. So, so when you're having a panic attack, SSRIs have been on them for six months, doesn't help with the panic attack. It can help long-term reduce chronic anxiety, which itself can reduce panic attacks. But if you're in the throes of a panic episode, which is what often fear of flyers experience, and SSRI in that moment, acutely does not solve, does it help you as a therapist by increasing the emotional resilience that then makes them more open to therapy? If this is just about fear flying in this unique situation, probably not again. But if someone has a multitude of symptoms and problem areas, and this has been going on for a while. So, this gentleman's missed a few meetings because he doesn't love public speaking, he has to sit around a table and present stuff. And he doesn't have to go into parties because he just doesn't do well unless he drinks a party's and he's kind of, you know, becoming a little bit more of a recluse recently social in the last few years, maybe because of medical issues or health issues, or just, he's just in a funk of life. Oh, there's also a flying issue. I think in SSRI in this situation might be a good thing, delieged, help calm some of the things that we're talking about, you know, we're talking about basically an increase in serotonin availability in the brain. And SSRI could be helpful here. But it's really just a medication for us to actually get to the real tools on a teaching because if this is much more of a longstanding issue, an SSRIMight help him, but our teaching skills where he can basically have his own tools, his own skills, where long-term he's both off the SSRI and doesn't need a therapist anymore. But in this flying situation, honestly, if I was involving a medical person, I'd probably recommend nothing more than a benzo, which I'm not here supporting or in love with, but that's more likely to get someone in that immediate moment through TSA. Now you're saying we're going to give you a benzo because you have to get on a plane on Monday and it's Thursday. Yeah. And you're going to lose your job. So I need a bandaid and it's going to be a very, very, very tiny dose of X, such that it just gets you on the plane and not freaking out. But that's it. Now let's talk about what you're ongoing. CBT exposure therapy is to get him, let's say, six months from now to be feeling like his old self. Yeah. There's an inch to one because it is so in a unique way, a hard one to ultimately do the real exposures with because you don't have a flight simulator. Well, I used to. So I worked for six years in a virtual reality company that actually pioneered virtual reality interventions for fear flying through public speaking for years. Yeah. Yeah. In the 2000s after graduate school and I was on faculty at University in Atlanta for a few years. I'm still adjunct there. I left research and clinicALCAReer working in a hospital to then work for our startup and work in a private practice. So I actually had fear flying simulators that had virtual reality goggles, a platform that would vibrate. An old factory system. You could click buttons and make the smell of, you know, diesel fuel and like a stinky ham sandwich next to you and perfume. A full sensory experience to have that sort of suffocating horrible fear flying experience. But again, there's a few clanks around the country. There's not many that still use these kind of things. It's kind of a clunky system. So most of us who treat fear flying don't have access to simulators and those kind of things. And prior to 9-11, many people would actually take short flights with their clients and patients because you could afford it and do like a in Atlanta, I could fly to Savannah and back in and after noon and it wasn't very costly. Today, it's almost impossible. Shive me going to the airport. Maybe getting up to TSA, having the person buy a plane ticket that's refundable to go through a TSA to sit by the terminal to then leave the airport and then get their money back. The closest real world exposure, but what we're doing is we're addressing all the cognitive distortions or the faulty thinking, faulty logic associated with the fears of flying. I have a 30-tip hand that I often get people about understanding what flights are like, that air pockets and the flights are not real things, the people feel things. And that the wings can go in each direction or we see wings sort of wobbling. They can go almost seven feet in each direction. So 14 feet worth of movement. So when you see the wing doing this, it's not breaking off. And that there's always mechanisms in place when the pilots are flying to keep things safe. That flights going one direction or a certain altitude and flights going the other direction or different altitudes. They don't have head-on collisions in air. Basic facts to teach people stuff that sometimes helps people both for the most part. How much? I'm sorry to interrupt you. How much is their fear based on facts that your sheet is addressing? Sometimes. In other words, like, yeah, am I in this fictional situation? Am I afraid of a mid-air collision? Am I afraid of the landing because the air traffic controller loses us? Am I afraid of something as vague as turbulence? Because I don't understand what it's almost done. It's almost none of those. Honestly, the most common aspect of fear flying is having a full-on panic attack on the flight inside of a middle to that you can't get out. They can't get out of. Ironically, those people have a fear of dying and a fear of crashing and a fear of mid-air collisions. What they're really afraid of is having that feeling of losing their mind on the plane and that they're stuck on it. So yes, there are some real elements of teaching people the basics. But you can't, they're correct in that assessment, by the way. But then the treatment gets focused much more on panic disorder. When we're treating fear of flying, you're almost inevitably treating panic disorder, which again, by the way, highly responsive to exposure therapy. In fact, the leading intervention for panic disorder, unless you go back to my scenario, you have to give someone a benzo, which I don't prescribe. And there's a cute moments just to get through a single moment. And usually if a psychiatrist would prescribe that, they wouldn't have taken their first dose on the flight. You usually try that as you pointed out, Zanix, a low dose of Zanix, like a few days before, just to see how your body responds. That would be a pretty standard medicALCARe practice thing. But when we're treating these kind of conditions like panic disorder, something called interroceptive exposure, or treating someone to their interroceptives or bodily sensations, is of all the things out there, like the undeniable grand champion of interventions. It is super effective. It is highly compassionate. It is not hard to learn as a therapist. And it teaches someone that they are not having to respond to the bodily sensations that they think are going to lead to a full on panic attack. So it would be very rare for me to be treating a fear of flying, a fear of being in a car, a fear of being in sore situations, by also not treating some version of a fear of panic reaction, or you feel like you're going to lose your mind. You're going to hyperventilate. You're going to pass out. That pretty much goes along with it. Whether you diagnose both conditions, panic disorder and fear of flying, the DSM would say you wouldn't, but in this situation, I'm treating both situations. And so I'm sorry, misunderstood. How what is the exposure therapy for that specifically? So let's step back. Exposure therapy again is one of usually four techniques. One of them is called in vivo exposure. And that is Latin for in life. Meaning you're actually doing real things with real objects. If I'd have fear of podcasting on public speaking, coming in here would be a great in vivo exposure. There's something called a marginal exposure. A marginal exposure is actually writing a narrative down or a story, which sometimes we do with trauma. Sometimes we do with a marginal situations that have never happened. So there's two of them kinds of a marginal exposure. But you're essentially coming up with a story that you're going to write down and record and listen to. This is just the first part of exposure therapy, as I'm describing. There's a second part that's even more important to me. The third kind of exposure is in torroceptive exposure. And that's commonly used for people who have health anxiety, physical symptoms or panic disorder. And in this case, we're actually inducing real, low grade physical symptoms, like Ibloriness, rapid breathing, sweating, tummy aches, arm swornness. If I unice here and do a two minute plank, my arms are going to be wobbly. So I'm inducing things that people experience in the real world that IMerely make them freak out. I think they're having a panic attack. But I'm very happy to be struck. You're saying if somebody is worried about Ibloriness, you're going to put I drops in their eyes. I'm not going to put I drops in my eyes. We're probably going to look at an iPad that has these sort of cool visuals that's going to make their eyes. There's all these optical illusions I like to do. What about the tummy aches? How do you induce that? You have someone spin in a chair. You have someone. You have someone sort of do some cardiovascular exercise in the office, like sitting up and down, sitting up and down very quickly. You have someone spin on a baseball bat, creating nauseous, nauseous, nauseous, and queasonous and hard to induce. We're not having someone eat something or ingest something because that's going, I think, one step further than you need to. But you can create any sort of physical symptom from legsornus to a headache, kind of symptom, to a tummy ache, to tight shoulders, to cotton mouth. People have a fear of swallowing. Who are like drawing out fear of something getting clogged in their throat. You can recreate almost any physical, not medical, physical symptom safely. If you're now going to treadmill and work out, we're going to create 95% of the symptoms that people experience in them. A panic attack. If you go to a really high level of treadmill or an elliptical, I'm going to create all those symptoms. But I'm not going to bring extra size of coming into my office. So I am helping people bring real world physical symptoms to light and my safe laboratory in a safe place. And I'll get to the second part of the point of exposure and second, just so they can experience a thing that they're terrified to experience, but they already experienced it out there. Nothing we do in exposure therapy. Have they not already experienced? The fourth kind is just called media augmented or virtual rad exposure therapy. And as that people who are using either 3D goggles, virtual radicogals, videos, audio, audio clips to use sort of AV audio visual tools that are kind of mimicking the NVvo and imaginal and inter-receptive experience. And that can be something as elaborate as real world simulators, virtual radicogals, or even like watching a flight land on YouTube 20 times a row to see what happens when the flight comes down. All those things, we treat people who have audio intact out things like misophonia, which is a high sensitivity to sounds or people who are afraid of hearing something. So anything that brings that tool into the place using audio video. That's part one of exposure therapy. Which is you and a patient have come up with an elaborate hierarchy ladder, a list of easy, medium and hard scenarios in their mind that they think that they could some point do. Most people think they can never do the hard ones and they almost always do successfully. Inter-come up with this hierarchy based on what you asked about that first meeting, that first session, that second session. I'm collecting a lot of raw data to figure out what are the things in their life that are triggering them that I can recreate to help them face their fears head on and come up with new learning. And so Peter back in the 60s and 70s, we thought that habituation, or just getting used to it, was the creme de la creme of exposure therapy and we found out that that wasn't really solving it. And then we started shifting more towards cognitive models. Not just habituation and being in a distressed moment, but actually now coming up with new meaning about it, which is called inhibitory learning that was really started a seminal article in 1986 by Michael Cozac and Edna Foa and the foe was one of the pioneers of exposure therapy, both in PTSD and OCD and has done amazing work out of UPN. Her, Marty Franklin a bunch of people of the UPN sort of were the pioneers of exposure therapy. In 1986 they pioneered an article that taught us that habituation or just getting used to symptoms, it helps, but it's not really getting people moving further. And so when you start having these corrective experiences, when you start unlearning what you thought was going to happen, which anxiety is all about anticipating something and being colossally wrong, thank God, we need to get people to experience being wrong in a situation that mimics what they actually experience. So exposure therapy is shifted from just a behavioral physiological model to a cognitive model and that cognitive models helping people process that information after the exposure. So you just did some weird stuff for 20 to 45 minutes, whether you're huffing and puffing, practicing giving a speech to a screen, putting yucky things in your hands if you have OCD, a germ OCD, if you're afraid of bugs and spiders, maybe going to a local pet shop and looking at spiders behind the glass tank or putting spiders that are in like resin, fakes, spiders that are dead, like on your arms, all sorts of things that start, whatever it is that you can create that sense of fight flight or freeze, that sense of fear, that sense of dread. So your amygdala starts producing the chemicals that you experience in your own life. And my private safe place. Sometimes we go out in the community, we go to restaurants and shops, new odd weird things. And so we're doing that to have people experience that stuff, but also not engaging rituals and compulsions. So exposure therapy is a combination of doing things that bring on a sense of safe, predictable, but uncomfortable emotional physical feelings, while also not doing the mental and behavioral things that bring it back down. And if you can stay in that state for 30 to 45 minutes and do that multiple times a week, Peter, you start learning real distressed tolerance, real resiliency skills. You start disproving that the thing that I thought I had to do either to avoid it all together, or to undo this sense of dread or feeling, if I don't undo that and I sit with it, maybe just maybe when it happens in the rural world, I don't have to pop a pill. I don't have to run home. I don't have to wash my hands. I don't have to wear the mask. And so we're combining inducing a sense of arousal, psychophysiological arousal, cognitive interpretations that are usually faulty, not doing things to bring it down and stay with that, doing a few different interactive things through 30 to 45 minute experiences. And then afterwards, processing those lessons learned, making meaning out of these weird situations, finding out that you're stronger than you thought you were, finding out that no one died, finding out that in that moment, you didn't do that horrible thing you were one if you were going to do. Again, we're treating things like people afraid of being pedophiles, people afraid of getting horrible diseases, people afraid of killing themselves or killing other people, people afraid of contaminating things and ruining someone down the road. Some things are imminent and some things are, you won't know for fears from now. And so we're really tapping into this intolerance of uncertainty. This belief that I can't deal with the fact that something terrible is going to happen. So I've created this fabricated world around me wearing the mask to make sure it doesn't happen. Sorry, you gave an interesting example there. You said people have a fear of being a pedophile. Yes. Okay, let's say controversial. Yeah, I was about to say, is this a person? So let's just pause it that this is a person who's never acted out any, so absolutely. Okay. Do they fantasize about pitophilia? I fantasize, but they have thoughts and feelings about it, just like you and I have thoughts and feelings about driving off the bridge. Thoughts and feelings of robbing a bank. IMean, every time you see a number of trucks, IMean, our retruck I'm thinking, that'd be fun to take those four million dollars. But what do I do? Move on with my day. So everyone has intrusive thoughts. 99.9% of us have thoughts about sex, drugs, rock and roll, horrible things. And for most of us, those things are bad. Sorry, sorry. Sorry. It depends on the band. For most, for 90, 93 to 94% of the population, so there's about, you know, four to six percent of the population that battles OCD, they just teflon right off of us. I thought about like, you know, punching someone at a restaurant. I have a thought, stabbing them in the eye and moving on, road rage. I've thought of, you know, telling that person to do something back them and I just move on. But for the person who has OCD, that thought doesn't go away so easily. And then they start thinking about it. And then they start wondering about it. And again, if I start making you think about your left pinky toe, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. If you have these unwanted and true stuff thoughts about a kid or his or her body parts or doing horrible things, guess what's going to get lit up if we did a brain scan on you? The parts of the brain that regulate sex in a rousal and gets what happens when that part of the brain gets lit up, things down there start getting lit up because your brain's working. So, it'll be very clear because I have a few people out in social media colleagues and dear friends of mine who have been attacked on social media. These are not influencers though. They might be influencers. These are evidence-based science back amazing clinicians who use their advocacy and knowledge for good to help people to destigmatize some really wonderful people out there. And they've been attacked by some creepy people out there saying you're endorsing pedophilia. Absolutely not. When we talk about OCD and these kind of conditions, we talk about people who have egocentonic versus egodistonic experiences. Ego centonic is I want to be here on this podcast. I want to be a little bit nervous coming in here because it matters to me. It matters whether you like me. It matters if I sound good. That means this is a line with my values. I want to put information out there. I want to be a voice of reason and I want to educate your community about all these sort of anxiety conditions. That's a line with my values. That means it's egocentonic both to be nervous but also to want to do well here. I'm okay with that. Ego dystonic means you're having thoughts and feelings that are not aligned with your values. So in OCD it's epidemic that the things you're afraid of do not align with your values. Whether it's about hurting someone accidentally because you didn't wash your hands from you know the chicken or stabbing someone or killing someone or molesting someone or getting punished by God. There's all sorts of topics that people get really fixated on accidentally and they get terrified by that and they spend time thinking about it because they're trying to get rid of it or doing something about it like not going to the park. But does that mean that an ego-distonic person rarely, if ever, will act on the impulse because it is creating so much internal tension? Not only will it not act on the impulse. They don't even want to talk about it. They don't want to think about it. I don't want to be gross or offensive or I don't care about seeing the word pedophilia. It doesn't face me at all because I don't think about it. It doesn't bother me. To someone who has what's acronym this POCD, pedophilia OCD, they don't even want to hear the word. They don't even want to see it on a checklist. And then how does that differ from a pedophile? A pedophile is somebody who peace with the fact that they think about it. Whether they're a piece or not, whether they ever eventually actually heard a child, they think about it. They're turned on by it. They want to pursue it. We're still talking about the difference between ideation, which is just a clinical work for thought versus want intent and action. And so someone who is a pedophile or someone who wants to hurt someone else or who wants to rob a bank thinks about it, plots it. Whether they're lucky enough to do it or not, robbing a bank, maybe they do, maybe they don't, but they have full intent on it. And maybe they don't have the guts to rob a bank, but they want to. So that's not someone who is a line with that value. People who have OCD are not aligned with anything associated with hurting other people, wanting to bother other people. In fact, it's a common knowledge and sort of my work. Those are usually the gentlest and kindest of souls. They're tortured by the notion of having the most impure thoughts. So your thought is to help those people understand they're not bad people and that you want to reinforce. You are not going to be acting out on this impulse. Actually, I won't do that. You won't do that. No, because that's therapeutic reassurance giving. And so I'll probably from the very beginning, back to the first meeting, I'll probably say, I know who you are. I know what's going on here. Welcome home. We have groups. We have podcasts. We have meetings. You're in a safe place. And I know this is not aligned with your values. And I'll probably say to them, this might be the last time in our relationship, if I see you for 15 to 20 sessions. This might be the last time I've ever said to you, I know you're not a pedophile. Or I know you don't want to hurt a kid. And they look me like what? Because in therapy and in life, reassurance seeking is one of the most insidious, classic symptoms in OCD. We see it in health anxiety as well. But reassurance seeking is asking for clarity and permission and for confession and wanting to get that back. And if a therapist does that, this is for me one of the best litmus tests. When I say, go find that anxiety specialist. When I find an anxiety specialist, rabbit ears, anxiety specialist does reassurance and seeing says, you're going to be fine. I'm sure you don't have cancer. I've never said it's home. I'm sure you don't have cancer. I don't know if you have cancer. Because you don't have no idea. So I'm sure you're not going to have a stroke. You're never going to get Alzheimer's. I'm sure you're not a pedophile. When I hear that from a therapist, they weren't trened by me or someone like me. And you're barking up the wrong tree because now you are weaponizing that certainty principle, which is all the anxiety sufferer wants. I can promise you're not going to be a plane crash Peter. And I can't promise if your wife takes off her mask, she's not going to get sick of drostanolone. But I can promise is, is if she takes it off, her husband gets to enjoy her more. I can promise if she takes it off, she may be able to do other things that feel risky and scary, but actually add to her life. If she takes it off, maybe she'll have more opportunities. But I can guarantee if she keeps it on, she's losing her husband, her friendships. She's like, I don't care. I just want to get sick. Okay. Well, now you're choosing your own values here. Is that exactly where you need to get people? Absolutely. That is the risk calculation. There is no risk free. We don't have the equivalent of a risk free asset here. The only thing I can promise someone in this world is that they're not going to live at some point, which sounds morbid and terrible. I'm actually wearing a bracelet. One of my patients gave me this says you're not dead yet. It's the only thing I know in this world is that at some point we're both not going to be here. We're going to be between now and that data point. What do you want to do to have the biggest and best life? But if I sit here and promise them that they're going to be okay and that's going to be, I can guarantee you it's 14 sessions. I guarantee you that that prosax is going to work for you. I'm sung them a false sense of hope. I hope it works. I'm assuming you're not going to molest someone, but that's not my job here. My job is to help you understand what are your values, which I already know what their values are. What are you doing in line with them? Trying to not think about stuff and trying to be the best person possible. I already knew that. These things are you missing out on because you're so scared that your values could get compromised. Can't go to birthday parties or I can't see my aunt and uncle because of the niece and nephew or like, okay, so how do we start approaching the situations if you believe that you don't want to hurt anyone and you want to approach them? What things are going on on the inside and your body and your mind that are preventing you from going there? How do we start that process? And that's when we're doing exposure therapy or trying to figure out how do we start chipping away some of those rituals, some of those avoidant tendencies that you're doing? So walk me through that example. Again, this is such a fascinating one that never even crossed my mind as a condition, but it also strikes me as if you can fix something like that. You can almost fix anything. So you said something a second ago about within 14 or whatever 15 sessions, I'm never going to once but this first time reassure them. The implication of that to me is you think this person's going to be fine in six months, potentially. Most likely, a pre-pandemic. I was seeing people pretty consistently 10 to 15 sessions in most research studies for most of the conditions that I treat and that we've discussed today. Again, deviation from the manual a little bit. We like to talk about how to customize an intervention for the person but it's very evidence-based. 10 to 15 sessions, 13 to 16 sessions is pretty standard. Post-pandemic. People aren't going to talk about everything and it's my job to figure out how do we get to the core of what we're working on. I'm seeing people for way more than 15 sessions traditionally now. Don't love that. We never thought it was going to be doing that. We're most of my colleagues around the country who had agreed that we have now elongated the length of therapy, not because we want to because people have more stuff they want to unpack. More things they want to discuss. When that person leaves your care, whether it's 15 or 20 sessions later, do they have just as many thoughts about children as they did when they came in? So in general, I find that people have many less of those accidental internal unwanted symptoms in general. But I'm going to say something that might be upsetting to the people listening or the people that I've supported, I don't care. I don't care how many thoughts they do or don't have because you and I are not to find by our thoughts. Yep. We're not to find by our physiology. We're not to find by our hunger cravings or what we think until you say them or act on them. We are judged by our outward objective or when we avoid actions and inactions. And that's why when people were not taking anti-racist actions, I understand what people were judged for that because that's still inaction. If you chose not to vote, you voted for whoever won. So all of those principles apply to me and I tell this to my clients, I don't care what you think and feel. I care what you do next. And when you're coming to me because what you're doing next is shrinking your life. And I know who you are and I know what you want. But you're not pursuing that because you're so afraid that that bad thing might happen. And so in any situation fear of flying, fear of contamination, fear that you might hurt someone, fear that you might have a disease. I know you don't want to die. But all the things you're doing to prevent cancer are costing you financially. You can't see doctors, your family doesn't want to talk to you. You think you're trying to prevent dying. You're dying right now. I call health anxiety the cancer psychiatry, which is what it is to me. It's eating you from the inside. It's its own pathology. It's killing you and spreading everything around you. And you think you're trying to prevent this horrible disease down the road. You spend your career trying to help people elongate now and down the road. I'm trying to help people not eat away what's happening right in front of them. And so their value system is mission critical. So now in our discussion, we're shifting from cognitive behavioral therapy, which was really, I think the biggest change in the field of psychiatry to help people find evidence-based, randomized controlled trial interventions that are research grade that really help people to the next wave, which is still under cognitive behavioral therapy. And we talk about exposure. Now we're talking about act, acceptance and commitment therapy, which CBT historically did not talk about these kind of things like values. What do you really want in this world? Who are you on the inside? And so act as an extension of doing CBT and I, CBT's the umbrella exposure therapy is underneath that. And I put act underneath CBT act pioneered by Stephen Hayes and other wonderful researchers and therapists really developed this sort of six construct. They call it the Hexaflex. This six construct paradigm that identifies your ability to accept things that are happening inside of you, thoughts and feelings without it defining who you are. Your ability to be present in moments, even if you're having like two-thake. Like a medical pain right now going on, your ability to be present in the moment, to be able to use yourself as a self, it's called self-concept. That I'm not to find by my thoughts and feelings. I just have thoughts and feelings. And so we teach people when they have the thought like, God, what if I kill someone or like, what if I'm gay? There's something called sexual orientation OCD, which we haven't talked about. Or like, what if I get cancer? You can shift that to, I'm having the thought. What if I have cancer? I'm having the thought. What if I kill someone? You've now created some space between you and your thoughts. That's a powerful skill. And there's a bunch of techniques out there called cognitive diffusion that help people separate themselves from their content of their thought. And now we're looking at thought as a process rather than an object, Peter. Very powerful stuff. And within that act, Hexaflex is values. These are mission critical, because for the work that I do with anxiety, for the work that you do in your work, you and I actually kind of have the same goal. We have the goal of people today, living their healthiest and richest lives, and elongating that as much as possible someone will get to the end. The end doesn't happen as rapidly and as destructively as it sometimes does. We're doing the same thing here. So when psychiatry and anxiety come together, values fall apart, people's values become focused on intolerance of uncertainty. I use the word Yucky a lot with three-year-olds and 50-year-olds, making Yucky go away. Not feeling, not thinking. Your value shift to a negative reinforcement process of doing things or not doing things to remove some bad outcome. In your position, in mind as well, is doing things that increase good outcomes. So I'm trying to shift people and I have this sheet I use in my office all the time from the right side of the paper, doing or not doing to remove some bad things that's going to happen, which is called negative reinforcement, to doing or not doing whatever you want that has the not a guarantee, but the possibility of increasing your lifespan, increasing your marriage, increasing your sex life, increasing your health, increasing your cardiovascular functioning, increasing your ability to go to the doctor, and hear the results. And if you havEQuestions, ask them appropriately. And if you don't believe them, go to one more doctor. And after that, move on with your life if you can. Because at some point, all of the fact finding that you're doing, it's like the worst puzzle ever. I give you a thousand-piece black puzzle with no corners. And I took one piece of witness, not get my pocket. And I just haven't told you that yet. And you're trying to solve this puzzle and you're never going to solve it. And your value is solving the puzzle at all costs. I'm not leaving the house. I'm not going anywhere. I'm going to quit my job. I'm not even going to eat until I solve this puzzle. That's not solvable. So your value shifted from doing a puzzle to only solving the puzzle. And the problem is in my work, most of my patients can't solve the puzzle. They have to drop the rope and pick a different game. And that's the game of life. Values, people, love, health. Therapies about getting people to see that shift, that cognitive shift, that paradigm shift from removing uncomfort, removing ambiguity, removing uncertainty, to doing things that make your life bigger and better. There's no guarantee for that. But that's a much more exciting life to support someone and then just making symptoms go away. So I don't care if they stop having thoughts. That's ideal. We often see that with medication and talk therapy. I don't care if they feel less or more. I care that when those incidious and uncomfortable symptoms show up, they choose to healthy action that gives them life. They do that. I'm done seeing them. And I don't care what the topic is. I don't care what the disorder is. If they have the skill of stepping back from their internal symptom topology and choosing a healthy action that increases their world, their own therapist. Now again, we have talked about this directly and indirectly a couple of times, which is the, it's been referenced through being present directly through mindfulness. We've talked repeatedly about the space between stimulus and response. Is mindfulness meditation as a formal practice? A part of this therapy with anxiety? Absolutely. So I don't typically treat a teach breath work or meditation per se. But anyone who has the capacity to cognitively or physiologically be present with themselves and with the world around them and staying in control, it's a winning intervention. So meditation as a place in this, mindfulness has a place in this, relaxation trening has a place in this. If taking a cold plunge or going into a sauna is going to get you to a place of recognition of what your needs and values are on this world that has a place for it. I find exercise even though I'm a therapist who does cognitive hero therapy. I'm a pickleball fanatic, play a can get enough of it. I find exercise to be the best form of meditation mindfulness. You can't play or do the sports that, I'm not talking much like weightlifting or walking on a treadmill at high level sports, which I'm not an amateur. I'm a pickleball with people at a local community center, but I like to play pretty intensely. You can't do that and not be both mindful of what's happening around you. And in this state of almost euphoria, which I view meditation to be, and that's why the paddle sports are always viewed as some of the best sports for longevity of life for cognitive functioning, for hand-eye coordination, for staying present. And obviously for cardiovascular functioning if you don't break a hip or break a leg, which some people do. I think any of those interventions or activities that increase your sense of awareness, your sense of higher body operates, and that encourage you to do things that are healthy and increase healthy actions, all those have a place in it. As does extra-critic activities, prayer, knitting, clay, drawing, painting, all of those. None of those suck away your life. None of those keep you away from loved ones unless they become an obsession or an addiction in a bad way. What are some signs or things that you see in therapy that give you concern that a person is not going to recover? And maybe we start with that question, which is, what is the success rate, success defined as a person who, after some finite number of sessions, gets to the point where actions and behaviors are remediated, independent of thoughts? Yeah, I want to make a statement on that question and I promise you all answer it, because there's a lot of controversy in the field of psychotherapy research. And even in my kind of world of O-Ceaning, anxiety researchers about what research is and what real outcomes are, the medical field does not debate this. And so I wish the psychotherapy field of research didn't debate this either. It's not just about when you're doing better after therapy, which I don't think that hard to achieve. It's doing better after months of no therapy. I know my patients are doing better when I don't hear back from them when they truly become their own therapist. So the best research to me in psychotherapy and the best RCTs randomized controlled trials show when there are six months, 12 months, eight months of follow-up that is demonstrating continued symptom remittance or sub-diagnostic gain. So my answer to your question is when someone, this is funny because we're talking about health anxiety, when someone is therapist shopping, we don't usually call a doctor shopping and be therapist shopping. When they've been to five to seven therapists in a short amount of time, that scares me. Because what that tells me is that they're looking for a certain answer, a certain kind of therapist, and no therapist is matching their needs. And that's under for the funding romantic partner when someone has been through multiple partners in a short amount of time, they're the consistency in that that concerns me. When someone is a year-butth therapy, that really scares me. Because again, that means that they know all the answers and they're struggling with what we call cognitive flexibility. And an acceptance and commitment therapy and an CBT, cognitive flexibility is mission critical. Unfortunately, I'm going to be teaching you this goes back to the FOA and COZAC 1986 article about corrective information that may be your wrong. And when someone is characterologically unwilling to be wrong, you're not going to do well in therapy. It's just a fact when you figure that out, how soon? Within the first two three sessions, I think most therapists have a general sense. I would say in the first two three dates, someone knows whether there's an attraction here. I think the first two three sessions, most therapists know whether or not there's some wiggle room in here. And to be fair, I'm going to 25 team practice. We have therapists in three states, Georgia, mostly. And we see people in 40 states. So we're a mega practice. And the state of where my career is at, I'm very privileged to say this. I'm very appreciative that I can say this. I see the sickest of sickest. That's what turns me on intellectually. That's what gets me going. I can treat a dog phobia. We treat that. I can treat someone who's having weird eating issues. I can treat panic attacks. I did that years ago. So I'm seeing people who are very ill, who have been to hospitals, who have failed medication trials, who are who have tried TMS in ketamine. I'm seeing very ill people. And I'm not perfect. I'm not getting 100% results here. But I'm seeing people who think that they have no chance to get better. But they want to. And they're desperate for information. And they're desperate for someone who can see them. And they're saying what's going on. And so my success rates popping up better than the other people I saw that were easier to treat. I'm seeing people who shouldn't be getting better. And they still get better. But it's because they want it. They're willing. And they're trying everything they can even if they're stubborn, even if they're hopeless, even if they're not doing well. So for me, I don't know if I'd use a word character logical, but they're these sort of intrinsic cognitive states that people run where they just can't see anything. But what's in front of them? And if I can't push them beyond that, I'm going to be the next therapist that they fire. And I'm aware of that. And one to new ideas to weird interventions. If someone's never had exposure therapy, I see plenty of people who've been a multiple therapist who never even had exposure therapy. And to me, that's like you treating someone for how in the medical condition and not giving them a cholesterol medication, that's no brainer. I see people who have a condition that the only intervention they should get is some version of these cognitive behavioral therapy. And they haven't had that. They're seeing a supportive therapist or an analyst or they're doing soft therapy. And you're like, I blows my mind. So when I see someone who is not willing to hear my ideas, when I see someone who when I share with them videos or clips, they're not willing to watch them. I'm watching that resistance plant. I'm like, how do I connect with them? Another major factor, and this has been proven in psychotherapy research across psychotherapies, is the in-between session experience. So your sessions are weekly, typically or typically typically weekly. Most most, I see most people weekly. When I'm seeing someone that needs a high level of care, sometimes I'm seeing two or three times a week, we have an intensive outpatient program where I don't manage a runcie patients that have a staff that does that. But typically weekly. And there are in-session interventions, things I'm doing with the person, funny moments we have, light bulb moments and techniques we practice. And then I don't like to use the word homework. But then there's homework. The research is undeniable in a homework driven, structured kind of therapy, like cognitive behavioral therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, mindfulness and CVT, all the interventions that utilize skills between sessions. This is no different than working with a trener. If you go with a trener and don't work out for the rest of the week, guess what happens in week two. You've gained nothing. If you practice through golf instructor in week one and you did no practicing on the course between the next appointment, your stroke's not going to be any better. And psychotherapy research is no different. If you're not doing the assignments between sessions, you're not learning and messing up. I love when people mess up their assignments. I don't care if they do them right. I just care they try them because if they mess up, guess what I get to do? Correct information. So this is all about learning and messing up, learning and messing up and learning from that and building from that. So that's another kind of critical ingredient. When I see someone, when they're asking, like, what do you guys do between sessions? Nothing. What they ask, what they assign you. I don't really, I didn't do it. But I didn't like what they gave me. I'm like, oh, okay. Am I going to give them the right assignment or they just going to block me as well? So I follow that under again, more cognitive inflexibility or they think they know the right way. But interventions between sessions is where we gain mastery of skills. And then they come back and I refine them, we practice them and then they practice them and then I come back. And that in between stuff is actually pretty important. And when someone doesn't do work between sessions, if there's work to be done, I'm having groundhog day. I'm having the session of like, well, let's talk about what we talked about last time and what got in the way and did I not assign it right? Did you not understand it? And we're having a little bit of playback, which kind of can be defeating in therapy. When you're thinking, you know what's best for them. And sometimes we're wrong. And then you try something else. But if they're not trying it, I can't learn from their mistakes. Does anxiety, whether it be health anxiety or any of the subsets that we've talked about today, does it tend to traffic with other comorbidities, either health, comorbidities directly or more importantly psychiatric comorbidities? Yep. So again, I said earlier, one of the most common symptoms in anxiety, truly the most common avoidance. So it's not shocking that we see low grade. We're not substance abuse, specialty clinic. Boisey people dabbling in alcohol and marijuana use and in opiates and stimulants to feel better. So you'll see pretty common co-currence of substance related usage. They may not fall on abuse and causeality there. Josh, you think is I am finding I am using the substance to medicate the anxiety or is it the other way around? It's probably by directional, but there's definitely an element of I'm self medicating because I don't want to deal with my stuff. That's not shocking to most of us. And so especially if we're doing exposure therapy, having someone who is muting their anxiety response, who's muting their sympathetic person, pathetic activation, if I can't tap into that to have their amygdala and limbic region light up. If I was doing brain imaging to then have them feel that to then teach some some corrections. If I can't tap into that because they're numb now, I can't make those changes. So that's one sub area. I want to dig into that a bit more. Sure. How do you manage that then? So when you get under the hood of somebody who's coming to see you and you realize actually they're kind of high every day, not with you. Let's just assume that they come in and they're not. But they're basically using marijuana every single day or that you know, they're using alcohol or whatever it is. How do you manage that? Do you say, listen, I can't really help you until we get you off this because I need to experience you in your your native state or how do you sometimes sometimes it's a black and white. If you're at this level of usage, even if it's not, you know, impairing their lives completely, IMay not be the right therapist for you. But I come from a harm reduction model. I've worked in abstinence only models. I'm a believer that if we can reduce this and get into a moderate state of whatever it is you're using as a starting point, this is the concept of working at the hierarchy of exposure therapy. I can't ask them just to quit. Like that's not even a concept to me. So we're taking baby steps. If someone's willing to make a consensus. What if they say, but, but Dr. Listen, I, I have to use this is actually helping me. Let's just, no one's probably going to actually say that on alcohol because I think they're not. But the say it is, yes, they'll say it on benzons. They'll say it on marijuana. Yeah. They're saying you don't understand it. This is an axiolitic. This is actually reducing my anxiety. We shouldn't be cutting this back. I've seen patients who use weed chronically, but are functioning the most areas of their life in general, occupationally, their partner smokes with them or their partner doesn't care. But they're coming with anxiety issues. It can create a real dilemma. Mm-hmm. I need pockets of time where they're not just always feeling not going to say good. No. So I want them to feel distress in small doses. I want them to have these hiccups where they can feel on have differentiation. Ultimately, the short answer is, as if someone is wedded to using a substance and it's just going to get in the way of my work, I will probably refer them to someone who is more likely to work with them. I don't know who that person is sometimes because most therapists don't want to work with someone who is chronically using a substance that's causing impairment and they're not willing to give it up. And if they're not willing to go for treatment for that, then we have a different issue. I think more often when I'm finding is I'm like, okay, so the firsT3 sessions I'm going to discuss this. I'm going to bring it up. I'm going to ask if there's any way for us to change it and to see again if there's any wiggle room. There's any flexibility in there to make changes in anywhere of your life. Can we just give it up on Tuesdays? Can you just make sure you don't smell like we when you walk into my office and Georgia, it's not legal that people still smoke it, you know, like everyone else. So, but you know, if you're smoking and driving, that's DUI, that's DUI, that concerns me. So, in general, I'm in a harm reduction model. I'm like, how can we do things that bring less harm to life and open up your life more? If someone is wedded to anything in our life that I find to be destructive and I think it's going to get in the way of our therapy, I'm not the right therapist for them. Having said that, there's again a run interesting sub-area of research in the exposure literature for which exposure therapists who get really literal and very dogmatic won't do exposures for people who are under the influence. They won't do exposures on the day where someone's taking a benzo. Then, so in a lot of exposure research, again, if you think about PTSD populations, Peter, we're polypharmacy is honestly usually the baseline where people are taking sometimes in SSRI, one or two benzos, one long acting, one short acting, maybe a stimulant, maybe even a low dose, you know, anti-psychotic, you're doing a research study if someone is taking a benzo in the day of exposure, you can't tap into the things we're trying to tap into into that bulb of the amygdala, that bulb of emotional centeredness to have that lit up so we can have some attractive, corrective experiences. So, you'll see in research studies whether people noted people were not allowed to take benzos on the day of exposures. So, that becomes a challenge. What I'm doing anxiety work and someone's doing something, I don't view it as a legal or ethical issue, but it's muting, mind-loading to tap into real presence, talk what presence. IMean, I'd be the right therapist. And maybe it's a bad thing. That's really the message, right? It's not a judgment. It's simply an efficacy question. It's just that I can't actually help you. What you want from me and what I'm able to offer you is attenuated by the fact that we're not going to remember this conversation the same way. That's not good for us. ThEQuestion about comorbidity, ADHD, or I'll say attention issues is pervasive. And we see lots of cancer or clinic, but I can't even tell you that chicken and egg of do of ADHD or anxiety or both or neither have the time and even the best diagnostic diagnosticians can't tell you because if you have pervasive intrusive thoughts, Peter, how the heck are you not constantly interrupted in your prefrontal cortex? How? Rapping and killing or health, their disease or dying or morbid topics, how can you possibly be attending to all the things in the room? And so people who have anxiety have these intentional biases and disruptions, OCD and health anxiety related conditions do have the research. We don't know all the mechanisms. There's a breakdown between executive function operation and the emotional or limbic region. Like there's a burzer breakdown there. There's a disruption there. And so attention is pervasive in the OCD community. We're seeing higher rates of co-occurrentive autism and OCD is pretty common. And then when you get into the molecularity of OCD, we see a lot of people who have kind of these interesting areas like ticks. Body focus repetitive behaviors, something called tricatilomania, which is hair pulling of different parts of your body or dermatilomania, which is skin picking. And so we see co-occurrentes of ticks. Tricatilomania and dermatilomania are called body focus repetitive behaviors. So they're called BFRBs. So ticks, BFRBs, medical issues, a lot of co-currents of like chronic medical issues like IBS, restless like syndrome with people who have chronic anxiety, ADHD, autism. IMean, it's really a little bit of everything. So in an anxiety center, like I said, we all sort of at the center, future of it all, all treat the primary nine anxiety disorders. And then all this dabble in some dual autism, some new ADHD, some are doing more mood disorders, some are doing a lot of regular relationship and emotional dysregulation stuff. But you have to know the science and molecularity of anxiety to understand that. And if you're not the right person to treat that, we'll make a referral out or referral within our team. What do you think is the biggest myth about health anxiety? That this someone's making it up. That someone's looking for attention. That their secondary gain is disheartening and sad to see a medical professional or loved one tell the person that they're just drug-seeking or seeking attention. I know that's the case on an occasion, but nobody wants to have, I'll say, OCD as well. Nobody wants to have OCD or help anxiety. It is not functional. It is not fun. It is not enjoyable. It is not adaptive. And once someone says, oh, my OCD helps me like be better at work. That's not OCD. You're talking about something else there. Whether we're talking about perfectionism or OCPD, obsessive, compulsive person, not disorder or something else, there is not an ounce of functionality with OCD in anyone who I've worked with. Anyone who I care for, all my social media friends are out there that are an Instagram and TikTok who are amazing humans, destigmatizing these conditions. No one believes OCD has any adaptive health aspects to it. Health anxiety for me is terrible because you and I are in different professions, but we're trying to help people live their best quality of lives, live their fullest lives. It breaks my heart when I see someone who has health anxiety who is convinced. And I'm not talking like they're wondering. They're convinced that there's something wrong. Despite my loving, compassionate guidance, five to seven doctors who have told them they're crazy, which is what they're in appearing or go to the ER or go see a shrink. That's the message they get. They are 100% centonic convinced that there's something wrong with them. And it's absolutely heartbreaking to see that. And until you can get them to shift that needle and be a little more flexible, they're stuck. And they're losing their quality of life and the thing they're trying to preserve is the exact same thing they're killing. So I think that sort of sense of I'm making it up. I'm fabricating it. I'm looking for attention or I'm just looking for drugs is just not the case. I know again, anecdotally I'm sure it's out there, but we all know that. But these people don't want to be this way. They don't want to be seen doctors. They don't want needles. They don't want, you know, all the exams they go through. But they're willing to do it. I've written about this in my, I put out a book a year and a half ago, I did it in my book. My of health anxiety online platform that people come to for support groups and information and cool challenges and weird stuff that that's all out there. And we hear this unfortunate story all the time. I'd rather just have cancer. I'd rather have my army amputated because I think I have an osteo-star comon here. I'd rather just have that nerve-nerve clip. I'd actually rather be paralyzed so don't feel my leg pain anymore. And you're thinking, did you just say that? You'd rather have finality of impairment or disease that every physician is told you you don't have rather than a different approach that I'm trying to offer you. And whether that's some medication, talk therapy or something else, you'd rather be impaired or a quadriplegic or have the diagnosis of cancer that you don't have just so you stop worrying about it. Like, wow, that's another level of willingness to, you know, get answers. That's how insidious and how disgusting and how horrible these sticky tricky conditions are, which I'm most referring to OCD and helping anxiety. They have these thoughts and belief systems that are so entrenched and so believable and it's the biggest ruse in the world. And if I can get them to hear that, if I can get them to realize that maybe if we can drop the rope and come back and try to different way, maybe just maybe trying to figure out what you have cancer or not is not the most important thing you do today. You have a sense of what the prevalence is today of people that are as ill as you just described. At your research in the last 10 to 15 years is pretty consistent abouT4 to eight percent of population has some version of health anxiety in their life. Of people of chronic illnesses, a third. Over 30 percent of people who have chronic illnesses, Crohn's cancer, diabetes, sickle cell, etc. Over a third have some version of health anxiety. Most studies I've read have gone through and when I report this and share this, about 20 to 30 percent of us have consistently some subclinical health anxiety notable preoccupations. As we get older, obviously increases because we have more health and medical issues. And there is an interesting Swedish, I think we just came out a year or two ago and then a 24 big study post pandemic that health anxiety has skyrocketed in the lasT4 years just because of whatever the pandemic has done to the world and people's hyper focus on stuff. So the level of people that I see, I think in the OCD and health anxiety community, if we're saying that 60 percent of the population as OCD or health anxiety probably over third of them are at that severity level where you start wondering about insight, you start wondering about their ability to reality test and that's why medication in this case, Peter I think is usually pretty fundamentally critical. It is pretty rare for me to see someone with severe OCD or health anxiety who does not benefit from or who would not benefit from NSSRI or NSNRI or some kind. And often you'll see psychiatrist ad and low dose of an A-tip contact psychotic for a lot of mood instability. Thorazine, cypress, sarquil, Thorazine's little bit older, but I'm a vilify which is sort of in that mixed class just to help with the mood issues. So IMean at least I've third of the patients that come to our clinic and we see the wide range of everything and the patients that my colleagues see, I'd say at least I third of that such severe level and there's not enough providers out there and is the medication temporary to get them through the therapy. It's necessary to get them through the therapy. Sometimes how many of them can get off the medication? I don't have an answer to that. I'd probably, I'd rough estimate probably at least a third half. But for a lot of people they're afraid to come off the medications if they're to stay well-point and I'm a believer in a few year on the medication doing well and you want to stay on it great for you. Some people try and come off and it creates a spike in symptoms and we immediately get back on that's why most people will taper down and not just you know just go on medication. My bigger concern is when someone is unfortunately not because you're trying to be whether unfortunately treatment resistant which has a much more pejorative term than I want to be but means they're not, they're treatment non-responsive, I should say. They're not responding to the normal pharmacology and that's why we see people today. I have very little knowledge of the science and mechanics this. I can't much speak much about it but I see people not getting deep brain stimulation, ketamine and other kind of pretty new-age medication interventions or device interventions. I know in last few years there's been research looking at things like MDMA and other sort of hallucinogens sometimes with VA better in populations and trying to figure out like what other medications out there or what other poorly controlled medications out there can help people. That excites me, it scares me because people go, oh I can take, I can take low dose silascibe and like get better. You're not taking regularly low dose silascibe and you're experimenting with mushrooms. That's not the same thing. You're trying ecstasy, that's not controlled MDMA. So all these new-age technologies and medications are important because unfortunately there's going to be a population out there that doesn't respond to CBT. Still even even with the best studies, these kind of interventions are like 60 to 65% effective. There's other interventions out there like other medicognitive therapies and an intervention called inference-based CBT. So like other cognitive-based interventions that people have been developing and refining and improving but that's still in that CBT range, 60% is not enough. And so I'm excited to see next wave genetic research and testing and medication research to figure out what are the ways can we find a way to sort of fix the where the brain is falling apart and where genetics kick in. You mentioned TMS briefly, where do you see the promise there? I don't right now, IMean I think it's still an experimental phases. You know there's people that have short-term memory losses. My experience is that people have an initial improvement early on and then it fades. That's been my anecdotal experience of maybe knowing 15 to 20 patients in Atlanta. I know Atlanta has a few TMS centers and ketamine infusion centers. I'm seeing actually more psychiatrists right now. Actually psychiatrists in private practice, not even like the universities I belong to and I go to, are now offering ketamine infusions in private practice, which to me is like that's brand new kind of thinking. They're trying everything they can to offer patient stuff. So I don't know enough about the research in the science behind TMS in ketamine to speak to at a large scale and then where the people should try it but these are options at researchers and psychiatrists are looking into because we know that again CBT is 60% effective SSRIs on a good day are 40 to 60% effective for most studies the combination of an SSRI or SNRI and CBT is usually the best outcome but they're still not treating everyone and not everyone can access them and you know I love what I do. I'm pretty awesome therapist. I'm proud of what I do. I've trened a lot. I disseminated. I try and make it as available and accessible and affordable to the people that come to our clinic. And I'm going to Facebook group of about 5,000 specialists in a very closed private Facebook group who this is all we discussed. This kind of stuff 24,7. It's an amazing Facebook group. It's been around for about 8 or 9 years. You can only be able to do it for practitioners only. Only for practitioners. There's tons of Facebook groups and social media platforms out there and other kind of things out there and I'm on 20 other Facebook groups but I'm in this one special one out there that two-month colleagues launched I think 2017, 2018 that has right now almost 5,000 OCD, body folks who are about to be ready for BFRB especially especially specialists of junior trenees to as senior and seasoned as they get which I'm getting to that stage of my career. And we all have these discussions. We all debate like what are the medication options? What are the alternative interventions? What are you thinking about this thing that's on podcasted about? We're all trying to figure out how do we get another 5 to 10% efficacy with these populations who are just not getting better. Hospitals and last few years have changed and about 10 years ago I feel like there were more hospital centers willing to take on residential patients and right now there's only about 5 that I know of in the country that I would view as sort of the best OCD centers. There's tons that pop up every day and things that IOP and PHP centers that sort of show up and I'm always supportive of them but not they're not doing it up in space practices. And so there's not enough of what I do out there Peter to meet the needs and so hopefully other biologies and genetic testing and other interventions sort of increase this but at the end of the day the kind of work that I do and the my staff does for cognitive behavioral based exposure based work for health anxiety and OCD. Sometimes with and without medication seems to be the most effective the most available in the most that gives people their life back afterwards. That excites me. I love that. How much are you guys seeing long COVID that may or may not be long COVID? IMean it's again it's it's not something I know anything about so I want to be mindful of not actually demonstrating just how ignorant I am but you know I'm not sure what long COVID is. I'm sure that there is undoubtedly a subset of people who had COVID who are having an ongoing issue as a result of it. My intuition is there are also a lot of people who think they have that and in reality they either don't have anything medically wrong with them or maybe they have something else medically wrong with them. So you're probably far closer to that but what are you seeing? I'm enjoying you in the ignorance and humility if I don't know enough about to say anything major but I think prior to COVID people describe identical symptoms that they're describing now and now attributing it to long COVID. And so if you look at that I've been practicing for almost 25 years. You can look at it and go well if it wasn't long COVID then because that we're didn't exist. That phrase didn't exist. How could it be so high today? I don't know the answer to your question but I see people coming with a set of head fog, fuzziness, and a tent of stuff kind of low grade depression not feeling great having a hard time articulating and like I had COVID a few times I'm wondering if it's that and I'm joining them thinking I'm wondering if it's that too. But I have no idea that doesn't sort of mind needs how do I help you be adaptive? How do I help you function? So I don't have a good sense of that but I think it's an easy thing to latch on to and people have gotten on disability for this. People have sought out medication treatments for this. One of the past they just assumed that they had you know ADD or headaches or they had some head stuff going on. So it is there a benefit in that situation of saying everything you just said which is actually I don't know what it is but point of help you. I want to help you adapt to it. Can you take the next step and say let's assume for example that whatever you're feeling which is real we're going to acknowledge that it's real. Let's assume it's not attributable to a biologic symptom and then we go down the same pathway. Is that helpful framing? Remove the first part or the second part. Let's assume it is or is not a bioprocto of biologic. You don't have a solution for it if it is biologic. I have solutions for it whether it's a isn't what you want to do next. So I really do stay in that great space. I don't know if you have cancer and let me tell you, even in the book I have a case report that a kind person allowed me to share where I treated her for health anxiety. G. I track a soft gel issues Peter and then it was very successful and went great and she was starving herself and losing weight and losing her life to a new medical conditions and a year and change later, sure, it says by the way I have thyroid cancer. Now did we miss that and the answer is no because she was being followed by a thyroid specialist and was on the sin throat and other stuff but but it's tricky because I don't take away from the work. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I don't know what I don't know what I do know is your life as known as good as it could be. Can we try some stuff? I don't know what you're going to get cancer or not 33% of us. Hey, to say this to people who are going to watch us or you know 33% of us are going to get cancer. I have patients that don't know that we're born with cancer cells. What does that piss them off when I tell them that? By the way, I don't know if it's going to express itself or not but we all have cancer cells. Don't tell me that. So I don't know which people I'm going to see that are going to have that thing that they were terrified of. I don't know what other people I'm seeing right now that have something that's been unassessed and undiagnosed. What I know is there are things that I can teach someone of mind and body. You're not doing too much different. You're just doing much more than medicalized space that can give you better life today. That can elongate your life today. That can have you more present in your life today. And if you die tomorrow or six years from now, we regret the things that we did to improve your life. And I'm serious like the bracelet you're not dead yet. You're not dead yet. So what do you want to do about it now? Because the other stuff you're concerned about, go to a doctor or not, go to an immuall immuall, just or not. Go to your EMT or not. That's your space. Here's what I can offer you. And I'm a mind, I'm a believer of mind over matter and you are what you think and you are what you do. And there are so many things that we don't happen to in our physical and mental capabilities. I love that part of my work as a CBT specialist. That's why you I got board certified, you know, board certified in like 17 domains. I got board certified in this CBT space. It's called behavioral and cognitive because there's so much that we can teach people about diet nutrition, exercise, these are things that are bigger for you than you are for me about healthy lifestyle habits about not getting fixated on thoughts like greed and regret and guilt that really eat at people alive their poisons to us. And they manifest thematically. Those things come out of us. So when someone comes to me and says, I think I have this condition whether it's a seizure to disorder, cancer, or long COVID, I get to play. I don't know anything about that. What I do know is here at Cedus kills I can teach you. If you want to join me in that process, I can make your life a little bit better or a lot better. What do you want to do? Now you have agency. Now you get to choose. And you might have that thing. Go do that thing. Go fall with that doctor. But ultimately, then the day people are going to make decisions for themselves that you're going to be about removing discomfort, ambiguity and uncertainty, negative reinforcement and or it's not just or doing things that give them a chance to improve their quality of life relationships, romance, financial status, whatever it is. And so I like to help people do that build rather than just remove bad. But people come to someone like you and me and say, can you help me get rid of my symptoms? I'm like, I can. But we also like add tier life and that's what pausing reinforcement is. That's what living the fullest life is possible until you and I no longer have that time. As finally, I want to get a sense of where you think the balance lies between the abundance of information we have today about health and the whatever we want to call it, the triggering of more health anxiety. So at the outset of this podcast, we talked about, hey, look, I'm sure indirectly, well, directly, but inadvertently I'm contributing. People like me contribute to health anxiety. But of course, we contribute to a lot of good things as well, right? We contribute to a lot of good. Yeah, I think we're a far net positive. So what steps could someone like me take to without diminishing the good reduce the bad? I appreciate you asking me that because the work that you're doing is having people go to unbelievable lengths to with biomarkers and physical things for now and in the future. And my career and the things I focus on are about letting go of the future and focusing on the now. So there's a little bit of there's attention there. There's an attention there and I appreciate you acknowledging that. I think one of the nicest and kindest things they can do is make sure that people are not absolutely dogmatic looking for a singular answer or a singular diagnosis or a singular cure. And I know you don't. But I would get concerned if someone was going to Great Lakes because they believe that there's only one fuel, one vitamin, one diagnosis, one biomarker that answers everything and people who think that way, even I both know are set up for failure because nothing is 100%. That's point one. And the work that you do is to not purport the belief that if we just solve that one genetic anomaly or if you just build more muscle mass, you're set. Because people hear that and you're where it's God, they're going to do that and they're not going to build the fulfill that. I also think teaching flexibility, cognitive flexibility is critical. So you're asking people to take on a lot of new ideas. You're asking people to try new things, explore new things and that cognitive flexibility includes, hey, let's try something different than the thing you wanted to try. And so I almost this is kind of an exposure therapist or funny, funny cats. We do weird stuff. IMean, if you came to my office Peter, we got stumps, like dead stumps, fake dead stumps and fake blood and fake seamen and needles and and and and and and sco Animal Skoles and band aids and and weird outfits where we're all sorts of like we are disrupting a lot and disruptions a good idea, especially when someone's not expecting it and they get better for it. So I think in your space if you can continue to do what you're doing but add elements of surprising disruption where it's not linear and it's not it's silver bullet and you thought it was this and then you public say, well, we thought it was this where we're changing our course, that level of disruption of flexibility just just promotes that we're all trying to achieve this final linear option but we're never going to get to linearity. There's going to be so many pasts that we're all unique on and keeping people curious and flexible and not believing that you know, if I take this shake and do this thing and find this bar of biomarker, I'm going to live the best life possible because even you know, that's not true. But people want that. People want the one solution, you know, we have these wonderful medications right now that are helping people lose weight. That's fantastic but that's one of a thousand other options out there. It's thEQuickest and maybe the easiest for certain people with and without side effects but those are not the only options and so I think when we start looking at these sort of medical and biologics that are sort of so effective and so efficient and so quick, I think the medical industry sells that a little bit too much and that's why people don't want to kind of see someone like me because they don't want to do therapy, they don't want to do this for 15 to 20 sessions. They don't have to like learn stuff, just give me the pill or the laser and I'll be great. And so I always get worried about when physicians or medical people are selling wonderful, lovely ideas that make life better but they're so, this is like Jurassic Park when you're you're jumping science and when you're like the single thing and any jumped science and learning, in knowledge and having not learned from your past mistakes and so that curiosity and that flexibility I think should be built into anything that you're doing, anything that I'm doing and with my patients, I'm trying to be curious. I'm not right about everything. I'm probably wrong about how things I'm telling them, I'm going to keep trying and keep learning and we're going to have this relationship that is collaborative and it's going to be, we call it collaborative and purestism and we're going to learn together and hopefully we're, as you said, net positive, more right than we are wrong but inevitably a small percentage of the people that follow what you and other people put out there about living your best healthiest life which is fantastic, are going to take it one degree too far and believe that that is all they can do and unfortunately that's, you know, a percentage of any population out there that's going to be trapped into looking for this single solution or the single medicine or the single biomarker and they're going to go to great lengths to solve that and in my work that ruins people's lives so it doesn't discredit all the amazing things you do it's just staying flexible and curious and not believing that anyone thinks solves anything is all I would ask of you. You mentioned that your practice takes care of patients in 40 states so I assume that means telemedicine is a big part of what you guys do. Yeah, prior to the pandemic, a lot of states got together, psychology, last states first psychologists came together and developed a jurisdiction approval called side packed PSY, PACT and it allowed those of us this happened to start before the pandemic which was very innovative and then in the pandemic it's sort of just exploded. We're therapist if they got approved by this with going through a few checkboxes probably paid some few a few fees which I you know you paid and filled out your credentials and history and proved you have no bad stuff become a site packed eligible provider and that means I can see people in the 40 states that have agreed interstate jurisprudence or allowance and so that has expanded or I'd go to do telehealth. Prior to the pandemic, I already did telehealth in the state of Georgia. There's plenty of rural pockets or people that just want to land a traffic sucks people don't like driving the land to us so I was doing telehealth anyways but side packed has allowed providers who have doctorate level degrees to be approved to see people in those many states. What about 10 that don't? You can guess two of them that want to hold on to their money in regulations. Who do you think those two are? I would guess California, York. Yep, those two. I don't care about them. I don't care about but those two are probably never going to agree because of all the reasons that are just so wrong unfortunately and I only ask because I know that people listening to this are going to want to sort of have an opportunity to probably reach out and work with you so sadly people who live in California, New York, you are not able to work with. Anyone who is in Lester, Lysons in that state, you cannot do telemedicine with people in that state sadly and there's no good reason for that. The other rate states I can tell you what they are but it's probably just because they haven't addressed it or approved it yet. And currently there's an equivalent thing called compact for the master's level providers up there. They're trying to do the same level of inner state access and you just can't get a California license and plan. I can but I'm not going to. I see. The cost and the time to get a California license. By the way, I have a ton of California colleagues that are fantastic and do a great work, same thing in New York. So ironically, despite those two states that they haven't abandoned so people have got plenty people who are doing great stuff there. And so yeah, so at a master's level there's another thing called compact that might come around to the next year or two to get a similar increase to access and increase availability to these kind of vulnerable inner interventions. But yeah, so we've been doing telemedicine and I think in the last year or two of we've been monitoring it. We're probably doing more than 50% sessions on video, possibly close to 60%. I don't love it. I do it. I love what I'm doing with people who need it because they can't get to someone like me any other way. I don't love it with people who just don't drive across town or just want to find the easy way out. I get that. But it has increased the ability for someone like me and colleagues in my space who are doing what I hope is described as best practices and being very ethical, being very compassionate and helping people get their lives back as soon as possible. It's increased our availability and accessibility, which I think is absolutely fantastic and should be the way. Well Josh, appreciate you coming out here. This has been a really interesting discussion. Yeah, honestly, this is more complex than I had imagined, but I think that's often the case whenever I do an interview on a podcast. I always come out learning much more than I thought I would learn even. So thanks for sharing your expertise and thanks for what you're doing. I appreciate it. Thank you.

=== FILE: 363 ‒ A new frontier in neurosurgery： brain-computer interfaces, new hope for brain diseases, & more [y7LXTyUhSVM].txt ===

Whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors. Is there anything on the horizon to render them less lethal? We are making progress, and specifically, around understanding what causes. I think that neurosurgery remains a little bit of a black box. So we're starting to see things like stroke become more like heart attacks. These are really game-changing things when some of them go home the next day after such a huge thing. Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. I think in a nutshell, what it means is a system that is recording from the brain and connecting those signals to computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. Have people understand how you even do a wake surgery? The brain itself doesn't have any pain or symptoms. I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery, was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just walk off there? There's this popular idea that we're only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you first of all. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. Right. What do you think the world looks like in 2040? Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Betty, thank you so much for taking a time out of your very busy schedule to come to Austin. Really excited to talk with you today. Oh, I'm thrilled to be here. Thanks Peter. So there's so much I want to talk about with respect to what your career is about today. And what the field of neurosurgery is in today and you know, how the bounds are really being pushed. But as we were talking earlier, I think that neurosurgery remains a little bit of a black box. And it might help orient our listeners if we give a little bit of a history lesson. So can we orient ourselves back into the latter part of the 19th century? And what were the typical problems that would have presented to a neurosurgeon and what were the tools that they had at their disposal? And let's let's posit that we're speaking after the development of anesthesia at least. So we're not in completely gruesome lands of you know, holding people down. Yeah. Well, that is a really interesting question. And one of the reasons neurosurgery is a little bit of black box. It's in many ways people consider it sort of like extreme medicine, right? It's like a very small group of physicians that are taking care of patients fairly severe kind of indications. It's a really rare fight field that takes a very long trening in addition. But let's say we go back 100 years. We're talking about the era of Harvey Cushing who's considered really the father of modern or surgery. And I think that was a clear inflection point in the history of medicine. And the history of neuroscience and the history of neurosurgery really the beginning of a wood-culter modern neurosurgery. And why I think that Cushing was so powerful was his observation in addition to his ability to do extraordinary surgeries. So in addition to being really an absolute observer, in addition to being an incredibly technically skilled surgeon, I think it was also an incredible internist too, diagnosing some of the first pituitary tumors and the effects of those on, you know, an endocrine function. And then really the era of modern tools of craniumy, you know, opening the skull to get access to brain tumors. And everything followed since then, you know, the main categories of neurosurgery have to do with tumors, the vascular system, which are aneurysms and strokes and blood clot spine. And then probably the most recent one is the one we call functional, which actually has to do with understanding the functions of brain circuit, but also intervening to change how they work using deep brain stimulation or other relation methods. And those are the really exciting new developments. And I think Harvey Cushing would be credited for the development of the electric carter as well, wouldn't he? Absolutely. IMean, there's like a particular method that you could operate without one of those things. Yeah, and not just in the brain, but anywhere in the world. Yeah, it's like the key of controlling bleeding in any surgery, but particularly in the brain. Yeah. It's a tricky thing. And so Harvey Cushing was just the starting point of modern neurosurgery. Then there's Wilder Penfield, who wasn't American, but really did some incredible work in creating the Montreal neurology goings to. And that was really beginning of what we'd call it, instead of modern epilepsy surgery. So surgeries that are designed to stop people from having seizures. And he popularized this thing that we all learn in medical school, called the harmonculus. It's this picture, right, of the little man there. And essentially, the part of our brain that controls every muscle in our body. And how it's laid out in that particular part of the brain, it's something that we all learn. He's also a brilliant scientist who helped us understand some of the basic things that we know about language. And from a technical perspective, really popularized and developed the concept of awake brain surgery. And that's really something that's captivated me since medical school and what I now specialize in now. So let's kind of fast forward a little bit into an era sort of before you and I were in medical school. But, you know, sort of call it the 70s and the 80s. What was the state of the art? Call it 40 50 years ago with respect to the vascular management, the oncologic management of masses in the brain relative to today. So exclusive of the interventional side of things just in terms of being able to operate on the brain. When did it kind of like where were the platos in technology? Yeah, well, what's interesting about it is some of the things that we do now. Are almost identical to the way that Cushing did it over 100 years ago. And then some of it is radically different. So, you know, one of the workhorse surgeries that we do is called a craniumy. And that basically means where you remove a piece of bone temporarily, you know, place it at the end of the procedure to access something like a brain tumor that's in the frontal or temporal lobe. That's still being performed today and still really indicated. But where we are now, there's ways of using laser probes through very small incisions to get to deep targets in the brain to oblate them. There are ways of now even using focus ultrasound that can be targeted, you know, to specific nuclei in deep parts of the brain in order to control someone's tremor. For example, this is what we would consider relatively non-ambusive approach to do a neurosurgery. So, things have changed radically. I would say one other area where we have seen tremendous disruption actually is in the vascular neurosurgery field. So, back in the 80s and 90s, you'd have a large craniumy and incision probably about, you know, seven to nine inches long removal of piece of bone and then using an operative microscope to dissect down to the deepest parts where the blood vessels are coming. And to fix let's say an aneurysm which is essentially a ballooning of a blood vessel that when it ruptures can be fatal. And so, that is a lot of what I trened on. Nowadays, 90% of those procedures are now done, you know, through a catheter in the groin that's visualized. We put coils into the aneurysms to help secure them. We can now do stents. A huge change actually now has been able to, now being able to retrieve and dissolve clots that are, you know, causing acute severe strokes. So, those are probably the most dramatic things that we've seen someone come in, not able to talk, paralyzed on half side of the body. In the old days, we would just give some medications keeping our fingers crossed at that would work. It rarely worked. It was really the minority of cases that had helped. But nowadays, there's a much bigger fraction of patients where you can put the device in, retrieve this stroke. And these are really game-changing things when someone can go home the next day after such a huge thing. So, we're starting to see things like stroke become more like heart attacks. The cathelabs are not just treating heart attacks, but they're also treating a local brain attacks or strokes. So, some things are relatively similar to 100 years ago, and then some things have just been totally changed. Yeah, so, so, if 30 years ago, a neurosurgeon was doing a cradionby virtually every time they were addressing pathology today, it might be less than half the time. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. And again, that's not an dissimilar parallel to what we see in other parts of surgery. I was just talking to a vascular surgeon a couple of weeks ago, who was finished just trening around the time I did. And I said, you know, how many open surgical procedures are you doing? I was talking about triple A's and all sorts of, you know, fempops and things like that. And he said, yeah, we do very little open these days. It's virtually all done with stance. Which again, you know, even see like at carotid arteries, the whole thing, I was really blown away at how little they are operating now, meaning operating in an open sense. Obviously, they're still intervening. Yeah, absolutely. I think that, I think what's happened with surgery is that. And this is not a tren. This is the force of evolution that is guiding us towards things are more minimally invasive. Less collateral damage, you know, to get to the targets and getting people back to life, you know, sooner and it's a very exciting time actually to be in medicine with all this technology that's coming on board. It's, if you're okay with that change, it's absolutely thrilling time. Yeah. Now, I know this is not your field of interest. So feel free to say, yeah, I don't know enough about it. But whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors, which I guess for the listener, we can explain what that is. So, so maybe telphokes, what a GBM is, why a GBM is truly one of the cancers that gives cancer a bad name. And I guess my real question for you is, given that traditional surgery has historically never worked for this tumor, you simply can't resolve it. And you think about the trensition away from cranyotomy big open procedure. Is there anything on the horizon for GBMs to, to render them less lethal? Yeah, it's a great question. So GBM stands for Glyo Blastoma, multiformy, and it's a mouthful of a horn. But if you break it down, what it's referring to, the Glyo part of that word refers to the cell origin. The brain has different types of cells, and if you look in the big buckets, there's neurons, which are the ones that primarily are the ones that allow us to do thinking and function. And then there's a large population of support cells that we call Glyo, and that's that first part. Glyo Blastoma originates from those support cell population. Multiforme refers to, you know, these original descriptions, histologically, of the tumors that really showed multiple form, multiple histology, some of the key features of it are the necrosis, the tumor grows so quickly that it outstrips its blood supply. And in its wake, it leaves cell death what we call necrosis. So like you alluded to, it really is a terrible kind of disease and condition. We are making progress, and specifically around understanding what causes. So, you know, just 10 years ago, you would remove one of these tumors, and you send this to the lab, and you could get the diagnosis of that this is a Glyo Blastoma. Now, in most academic medical centers, you'll also get a genetic profile of the tumor. So nowadays, we actually know specifically what kind of mutations are involved in the tumor, and that's going to be really critical for this next chapter, which is using those genetic alterations actually to. And so, to tailor and personalize, you know, chemotherapy and more. So, this has big implications, because we're now moving from narrower, we use a visualization of the histology. Now, to this molecular profiling, which is more mechanistic, the new chemo agents are really going to be targeting mechanisms, as opposed to general things like cell cycle and metabolism and things like that. So, these are the things that are changing, you know, and we needed to change faster. They're also really exciting things that we're seeing around new ways to tren the immune cells, to target things. It turns out that Glyo Blastoma is actually suppressed parts of the immune system, so they're kind of like growing and stealth, and they activate molecules and cells in a cloak way that can't be recognized by immune cells anymore. And so, if we can basically allow the tumor to be recognized by the immune system, that could be something that really unlocks therapy in the future too. But the things that we do know that work pretty well right now, at least in terms of prolonging survival for patients, and really meaningful survival actually still is around the server. So, that's the more extensive the resection, the longer the survival is, and that's been really well-characterized now. But it's not curative, like you said, we can remove 99% or even 100 in beyond what we see on the MRI. Fortunately, there's usually microscopic cells that go beyond what we can see on the MRI that are still there, and over time, or we populate, you know, the tumor. And so, it is a really complicated and tough disease, but we're working really hard on it. Do we have any idea what predisposes an individual to this from a risk perspective? Short answer is now. It's a flicks young, it reflects old, open-eye-watched children die of this, teenagers, people in mid-life, people at the end of life. It seems to have no apparent pattern. Yeah, and part of that has to do with its mechanisms. It's not something that we consider as a heritable kind of risk. But what it does rely on is a set of mutations, and it's rarely the same set, which is a very polygenic condition. Exactly. And that's what makes it really tricky to treat. When we talk about glue plus tumor, we're actually not talking about one thing. We're talking about a system of genetic alterations that together have cascaded into the form that we see. And I suspect we'll come back to this, Eddie, but you've alluded to chemotherapy agents that can be used, whether it's the treat, glioblastomy, or anything else, including mettes of other epithelial cancers that spread to the brain. And the blood brain barrier poses a challenge for treatment. Do you think the future lies in treatment within the CMS, this CSF, so treating directly inside, I don't know, intratheically or directly into the central nervous system, or do you think it's designing drugs that cross the blood brain barrier? IMean, what do you think the future looks like? I think it's going to look like all of the buff, actually. And this is a situation where we do need to look at all possible options. This is not like the kind of thing we're thinking, like non-emvasive or minimally invasive, like really something that will work as the first priority. One of the technologies I'm really interested in following how this develops, and we're doing research on this at UCSF, is using focus ultrasound. So most people know about ultrasound to diagnose, but if you change the energy profile of it, you can actually use acoustic energy through an ultrasound to actually open up the blood brain barrier, and targeted parts of the brain. And so there is a lot of development on using that as a way to do delivery, as opposed to putting a catheter or something directly in the brain. And then with that a set of new agents that can be really molecularly specific to get to the brain, to get to targets once you open up that blood brain barrier. So what attracted you to neurosurgery? Was it something you knew you wanted to do when you went to medical school, or did you figure it out well there? I had a sense, it was probably late, and I always knew that I was really interested in neuroscience, so the general field. It wasn't until I was a medical school that I was actually exposed to it. And I remember really clearly in my first year, I had this neuroanatomy professor Diane Ross, and it was really incredibly kind person who was patient with me, as we were learning, you know, you probably remember in that school like learning hundreds of different parts of the brain anatomy. All of which I've forgotten. I know there's a brain stem somewhere in there. There's somewhere something like that. So that's part of our ritual, right, in medical school to learn all of those terms and locations. But as you know, certain teachers like just make such a huge difference. And so she took me to the operating room one day. And I saw one of my mentors at the time I was just a student, but he ultimately became my mentor, Dr. Burger doing a wake surgery on a patient with a glute blastoma. And the surgery itself I thought was pretty interesting. But the part that left me a stroke and the part that basically made it very hard for me to sleep for a couple days was really just seeing an exposed brain. What the cortex looks like, the cortex is the most part of the brain. It pulsates, it moves. But those are not from the mechanics of the brain itself. Those are all just from the breathing and the heart rate, et cetera. You know, it's a blood flow is coming through. So, you know, the thing that really struck off for me was seeing a patient talking and not fully comprehended, but really being off of the kind of computations that must be happening in this part of the brain. And it's not like you're looking at a computer. It's you're looking at essentially an organ composed of biological cells, 86 billion to be precise, you know, how many neurons they're on the human brain. So that scene to me was deeply inspiring and I was basically hooked. I was so like hooked that I didn't really understand what I was signing out for. Because the trening for it after that, you know, was pretty difficult. I have to say, seven years. And, but it was worth it. And I love every minute of it. And I'm still learning, of course, whereas at the very beginning of a new inflection point in our surgery, which is understanding, you know, how the human brain works. And the epiphany you had at some point in residency wasn't there? Well, I think there's an epiphany about, well, we have this access, really privileged access to use the information, what we call brain mapping, basically. And so we do the brain mapping because we want to be very precise about how we're preaching, for example, brain tumor or spotted brain that's causing seizures. And we do the brain mapping so that we can map out the areas that are really important for language or the ability to move your arm. That's what we call the brain mapping. And we want to identify those areas so we can protect them during the surgery. At the same time, do the max mode of reception. Like we spoke about earlier, the more that we can remove the tumor, the longer they're survival. The more that we can remove of the seizure sound, the more likely someone is going to be cured of their epilepsy. But in our surgery, there can always be a cost, right? And that cost would be paralysis or aphasia, which is a condition where you lose the ability to speak. And so we're always trying to balance, you know, sort of like, is it worth it to go that extra? A couple of millimeters versus versus not. And in many cases, these are really profoundly important decisions that have to be made right then and there in the operating room. And brain mapping is the way that we figure this out. In the old days, Walter Penfield, 150 years ago, 120 years ago, would use an electrical stimulator. And would apply it to the cortex. And that will temporarily activate or disrupt the function of a specific part of the brain while someone is trying to speak or move. And that's traditionally how we've done mapping. And that's one of the tools the techniques we still use today in order to make sure you know patients are safe during these procedures. One of the revelations I had during residency, of course, is that I think we can do a lot more than just applying stimulators to do the mapping. We've developed technologies to record from the brain that allows us to not only do the mapping, but also is really the first window that we have. That we have like understanding, like essentially how neurons work, how they come to the information about words, for example, like in the conversation we're having. There's a part of your brain in the temporal lobe, which is right above your ear on both sides. But the one on the left in particular, you're right handed, right? Yeah, so 99% of right handers are dominant for language on the left side. And there's this one spot in the temporal lobe, which is just about two centimeters above your left ear. That's processing all the words that I'm speaking to you right now. And so we've used this technology not only into map those critical functions, and that's sort of where the science was. I would say about 10 or 15 years ago, figure out where these functions are in the brain. Now we've moved the science to understand how those areas work by a progressive evolution of new technologies, get us to higher and higher resolution. And what IMean by that is we can measure the neural activity of cells and cell populations, and then link them to, for example, different consonants and vowels. And that's been really an extremely exciting development human neuroscience. I want to back up and just have people understand how you even do a wake surgery, because the traditional way that surgery is done requires general anesthesia. That's a general anesthesia typically requires three things. It requires one type of medication to blunt pain. Yeah. Another type of medication to block memory. And another type of medication to paralyze you. Now, of course, if things go wrong and things have gone wrong, sometimes patients are paralyzed, but they feel pain, but they can't communicate it. And these are these catastrophic, but fortunately very rare events that occur in anesthesia, but correct anesthesia is done where a patient has no sense of time or memory of anything. They can't feel anything, and they can't move, which means they're actually safe, right? That's to save them as well. So help us understand how it is that you can do surgery without all three of those conditions being present. Like I said in the beginning, this is extreme form of medicine, extreme form of surgery. And the way that in a nutshell it can be done is that the brain itself doesn't have any pain receptors. So the pain receptors are the ones that are in our nerves that are in the scalp that are throughout our body. These are actually the way that we perceive pain and touch. And I think it's paradoxical to many people at first, but the brain itself, which is processing that information in the body, actually doesn't have those receptors itself. So the way that we typically do this is to numb the scalp. We use things like when you go to the dentist office like Lydocaine. We can inject around the sight of the incision, the bone, by the way, doesn't have any pain receptors itself either. The membrane on top of the brain that we call the dura does have some pain receptors. So sometimes we have to be sensitive around that and do some local anesthesia around the dura. And interestingly, the brain tissue itself doesn't. There are some other areas like around the blood vessels that can't be sensitive. The membrane, the dura, is sensitive. So there are areas, but they can be numb. And so this is a really important fact that allows us to do these surgeries awake when it's necessary to do it. So the patient is rolled, and I've seen these, and I'm just blanking on exactly the procedure. So the patient is rolled into the OR. They're not intubated. Correct. And never intubated during this. So this is a patient who is laying their wide awake, no endotracheal tube. Right. Maybe a fully catheter for some comfort? Yes, fully catheter. Yeah, and usually, the follies are not that comfortable. Exactly. But primarily, so we can monitor the urine output during the surgery. And you begin by making your incision, IMean, drawing where you want to make your incision. And then literally just doing this as though it's a local, you know, like you're having a lipoma removed or something. You're literally just covering the lidocane and FNF for an across the scalp. You're boveying down to where you need to go. Once you get to the bone, you can start to literally put a hole in and start to saw across your bones. Yeah, you've been from, yeah. So just to add a little bit more detail to that, which is that. Usually the head is fixed, so it's not like someone sitting in a chair and we're just doing this while they're moving around. But we have a head holder that fixes the head. You can move your arm. And there's the patient is somewhat sedated and then you can lift this sedation. Yeah, exactly right. And so we do a light level of sedation like propapole or like propapole, but a much, much lower dose. So it's not a general anesthesia dosing. It's a very, very light dosing. The whole of the party dosing. And that way it allows the anesthesiologist to stop it when you say, hey, we're, you know, because we might need an hour to get in. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. Yeah. Even if the surgery's like six or eight hours long. And primarily for comfort, we'll do sedation at the very beginning. We'll have the sedation turned off so that patient can be fully awake for the right amount of. And then you can ramp up this sedation to finish the procedure in close. But again, it's all done at the level of a colonoscopy, not the level of, that's right. That's right. Yeah. Again, we were talking before the podcast how my second month of general surgery, I did neurosurgery, meaning we rotated through it. And one of the things that blew my mind was how, for, it sounds silly, but when you, when you look at textbooks and you study the humongulous and you look at all of the vascular. And then you actually look at the brain. It's just like any other organ. It's just kind of a blow. It's like looking at the pancreas for the first time. You're like, that's it. Yeah. How do I know where everything is? Right. And I guess what makes it different is there's probably no part of the body where the real estate matters so much. Right. When you're operating on other parts of the body, for example, if you're operating on the heart, you can really see what you're doing. Right. You know where the left end here, your descending artery is. You know where the occlusion is and even though it's very technically complicated surgery, there is complete anatomic clarity of what is happening. Yeah. And I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just walk off there? And obviously this speaks to what you're talking about from a functional standpoint. But but a lot of times you're not doing that, right? So if a patient has a meningoma or some other tumor, how do you bracket that trade off? So do you just sort of say look, there are places where you never want to have a tumor. For example, right above my left ear, that would be a really difficult place to have to respect because the real estate is so precious. And that's where we're going to probably recommend doing an open awake procedure to help guide us. Is that kind of how you're using that? That's exactly right. And so the real estate is critical. That's an understatement. But that being said, there are some really expensive real estate in there. And there's also some cheaper real estate. But that's I guess that's one point. It's like that's sort of like telling me about Manhattan. Yeah. There's no cheap real estate in Manhattan. There have been to be areas that are $10,000 a square foot. Right. But there's probably nothing less than 4,000 a square foot. So there's this like popular idea that we only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you've heard this. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. Right. So that might mean to stay alive. Okay. To to to to to to to to to inspire. You might only need to to to to to to to to to to inspire. You might only need to to to to to to to to to to to to to inspire. Right. So what what what what it really means is that there is. Maybe about 10 or 15% that. It's very critical for our basic functions. Our ability to move to talk, you know, to see, et cetera. It's actually a lot more than that. But it's also referring to this point that there are parts of our brain, actually, that are extremely redundant with other parts of the brain. So the frontal lobes, for example. We do surgeries there routinely and oftentimes people really have no effect. Even in terms of judgment, even in terms of. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Because we always think of the frontal lobes where we have sort of executive function and where we have the ability. We always joke like when my friends in med school, we said he had no front to low. Exactly. You just could stop saying the most inappropriate things. Don't get me wrong. The frontal lobe actually has a lot of critical function for executive decision making, you know, impulse control, et cetera. But my point is that it's redundant, meaning that. Different parts of the frontal lobe actually have similar purposes and similar role. And so for the most part, a lot of our patients can accommodate a fairly large surgery. Sometimes even removing the entire frontal lobe. Both sides? No, not both sides. Really, usually these pathologies are only one side. So if you took the entire frontal lobe from. The left or right side, would there, would it be a substantial difference? I've done that many times just so you know. And it really depends on the case in scenario. If someone's been having something that's slower growing there and there's been time for the brain to reorganize. What we call plasticity, a lot of those functions will essentially no longer be in that right frontal lobe. And they've moved to the left side. Wow. And people can tolerate what is the mechos versus that happens? Well, time and function, meaning like these things don't happen overnight. They take, you know, sometimes weeks and years. But basically what happens is some neurons get lost over time. And then others will compensate in terms of that function. But how does that actually happen? So let's posit that we have a slow growing lesion in the left frontal lobe. What is the left frontal lobe doing to communicate with the right frontal lobe? Yeah. To say, hey, these neurons are being compromised. Their function is deteriorating. You guys need to pick up the slack. How is that message being trensmitted? Well, part of it is that both parts of the frontal lobe for people, most people are both doing the function most of the time. So it's not like it's just trensferring the information. It's the both sides, where originally, you know, involved in those functions. And then once I get weaker and the other one has to pick up that slack. At a cellular level, this is what we call synaptic plasticity. The weights that essentially make up who we are. These are just the weights that neurons use to communicate with one another. All of our learning is towards shaping that weighting of synapses that occur. We're neurons touch each other. And that can happen. That can change, you know, throughout our life. Every time we learn a new word, those are new synapses that have formed that were never there, new connections. Precisely from the left to the right side, there is this structure that we call the corpus colosum. It's an information highway that connects the left part of our brain from the right side. There was a Nobel Prize, Roger Spirig, who done really incredible early experiments, describing patients who had surgeries, or used to split that in in certain instances. You have this phenomena where people essentially like have two functioning brains, but they're not communicating to each other. So it does require that there is this connection between the two areas where they're being reorganized. Outside of epilepsy, why else would the corpus be severed? That's really the main one that we use it for. Can you describe how patients that undergo that procedure behave? It's very fascinating. Yeah, so there's a phenomenon that we call a dissociation syndrome. So basically, okay, so the clinical indication, the medical indication for why someone would undergo this nowadays, is that patients, some patients with seizures have severe seizures where they fall down, where we call drop attacks. And usually what that means is that the seizure is spreading so quickly across the brain that people lose the tone in the body and then basically fall. And why that becomes a problem in addition to the injury of the seizures, is that people actually injure themselves. So it's not uncommon for people who have these kind of seizures actually if you're wearing helmets all the time, because there are such factors that are just medically recalcitrent seizures. They cannot be prevented with any degree of... That's right. That's absolutely right. I see. Like without any kind of medication or any other. And these are particularly ones that there's not one small spot that's causing the seizure. It's, you know, like the whole half or quadrant of the brain. But the problem is, and what a seizure is is basically when you have this very uncontrolled synchronic of a large mass of the brain cells. So normally, if you think about the brain and the neurons within the brain, it's like people in a stadium, they're having their individual conversations. That's the way the brain normally works. But let's say all of a sudden everyone's doing a wave in something hyper coordinated. All of those like normal conversations are now gone. The brain has now become hijacked by this other phenomenon where everything has become very coordinated. That's why people lose consciousness because all the normal function is basically shut down. And the way that it can become synchronized is through its connectivity, right? Every cell connecting to its adjacent cell and every cell connected to all the other cells in the brain through the things like the corpus close that connects the left to the right. And so when you get that hyper synchrony, people can essentially lose consciousness almost instantaneously. So one of the reasons historically why the corpus callisonmere was invented in the very first place was to sever the connection between the left and right hemisphere. Which doesn't stop the seizure. It just limits the spread. That's exactly right. It doesn't stop the seizure. But what it does is stops the propagation, the very fast propagation of the seizure from one side to the other. And in order for someone to lose consciousness, you basically have to have both sides of the hemisphere or a deeper structure like the thalamus. That's basically how consciousness. In order to have consciousness, you have to have both hemispheres out in order to lose consciousness or a deeper structure in the thalamus or something like that. And so these kind of drop attack seizures are once that people black out fall. And one way you can actually dramatically stop a lot of that is disconnecting the left from the right hemisphere. And so how does that patient? How is their life different aside from the fact that hopefully their propsisiers are gone? What's the change in the way that they're left and right behave now disconnected? Most of the time when we do this nowadays, we disconnect about the anterior two thirds of the corpus close. And the reason why we don't typically trenssect the whole corpus closeum is because of some of the side effects that people can have in which we would call it dissociation syndrome. Where you can basically have a dissociation between what the left brain is doing in the right brain. So for example, someone essentially feeling something on the right hand which is processed by the left part of the brain and the right part of the brain really having no awareness of what's going on. And people can get by with that, but you know, it does affect how they can get along. So nowadays we try to just do the front part of it and leave the back part that helps reduce some of those side effects. But does it solve the initial problem of the seizures? Yes. No. It doesn't cure the seizures, but it really just stops the propagation of the seizures so that people don't lose cognitive. But sorry, by leaving one third in the posterior still adjacent, it prevents the propagation across the hemispheres in many many cases. In some cases nowadays still we have to do a total. Total. Calisotomy and it's a it's a very delicate surgery because the corpus closeum that connects the left and the right. It's not sitting on the top of the brain. It's actually very deep. It's very deep. So to get there, you actually have to physically separate the left and right hemisphere. We do that from the top. We do a craniumy that's centered over the midline. But it can't be right over the midline because we have a large draining vein there called the supersonic sinus. So we have to either choose the left side or the right side. And then we have to very carefully separate the left from the right and through that narrow corridor, trenssect those connections. And what's directly underneath it that prevents you from just running that bovey a little too hot? Oh, well, there is a blood vessel that runs along the top of the corpus closeum. And that's actually the most critical part of the surgeries that we separate those two branches, those pericolosal arteries. Those arteries are really important because they supply the part of the brain, the medial frontal cortex. And the part of that that is part of the motor cortex actually is what supplies and controls our legs. So if you have a stroke, let's say, as a side effect or a complication of that procedure, then someone would be paralyzed and leg. So it's a fun, delicate surgery. It's amazing to see that exposure of the corpus closeum. Listening white, and that's how we can see it. And it's very distinct from the cortex because it's really clear white that white comes from the myelin. Yeah. It's a heavily heavily myelinated structure because it's conveying information from the left side of our brain to the right side on the order of milliseconds. You know, a super fast connection. And do you ever think philosophically about what the implications are for human consciousness by the fact that you can do a complete trensaction of the corpus and seemingly produce two people? That's right. Or potentially two consciousnesses. Yeah. What does that mean? Well, I think that goes back to a harder question of, like, how do you define what consciousness is in the first place? Or there's a lot of philosophical debate about that. Do you trouble yourself with such debates? IMean, it's not really. No. Okay. I can't because I can't wrap my head around. Yeah. It's above my pay greater. Yeah. I do think about it from sort of the practical clinical perspective, not so much the philosophical. The clinical one is like, is a patient in a coma or not and why? And how do we get them out of that? You know, traumatic brain injury, certain strokes, epilepsy, et cetera. We think about consciousness from that perspective literally all the time every day. But from the philosophical, I don't lose a lot of sleep over that one. Yeah. I lose a little bit of sleep over it. Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. You mentioned it already. I hope I'm not insulting people when I say this, but if we're going to be brutally honest, we should at least acknowledge that medicine today has been pretty unimpressive when it comes to treating neurodegenerative disease. So whether we're talking about Alzheimer's disease or even other non-degenerative forms of dementia, we're talking about Parkinson's disease, flu-garious disease. IMean, we just don't seem to be able to treat these diseases. So whatever medications we throw at these things, they, maybe in the case of Parkinson's disease, we can delay progression a little bit. But would you agree with that assessment that sort of the traditional approach to treating these diseases has been largely unsuccessful? I would largely agree with the caveat that I think a lot of progress is being made to understand what's going on and from that I think there's a lot of promising therapies. But I would generally agree that within neurology and neurosurgery traditionally, therapies really have been designed to stop things from getting worse or slowing progression. Replacing function has never really been possible until very recently. Yeah, and I guess what I want to understand from you because I think this is something that you know more about than anyone. Or certainly among the people who would know the most about it is, do we need to revisit our approach to these diseases more from an engineering perspective than from a peripherally administered medication perspective, so the traditional approach to treating disease would be medication. You take an injection, you take a pill, you take something, and you hope that enough of it gets across the blood brain barrier, and it starts to treat the condition at hand. But it's hard to look at a patient with Parkinson's disease, which is a motor defect disease, admittedly that stems from the CNS, and not at least think, you know, this is a functional condition, right? Why isn't there, or is there an engineering approach that could be taken to this? Yeah, it's a good question, and I don't think that, well, let me put it this way, medications are always going to be a really important goal, not only to sort of reduce symptoms, but hopefully find cures. But there's this whole other class of therapies that are coming online that have to do with this other property of brain cells, which is very different than, let's say, the pancreas or the liver. It's the electrical side of the equation, so there's the chemical and biological side, but then there's this electrical side, and the brain is an electrical organ. Our thoughts are really dependent on these electrochemical kind of processes that happen at individual neurons and the collection of them. So there's this large and growing field that we call neural engineering, that is really trying to use computers, sensors, chips, in order to interpret, you've stopped on how the neurons are signaling to each other, regardless of their, you know, pathology or the biology, but just what are they saying to one another, can we eavesdrop on that, can we interpret it, can we decode it? And then more importantly, can we use that information actually to guide, you know, sort of more normal signaling? Why this is potentially important is that if the end of the day, the function is from that electrical activity. It's the propagation of those action potential by neurons, which give rise to our thoughts, or really to communicate our ability to walk, move our arm, without that, it's not there. So I would say neuroengineering as a complement to the biological or pharmaceutical approaches. Any of you and I were mapped simultaneously together, and this question might not even make sense, so please feel free to adjust thEQuestion to make it logical, but I think you'll understand what I'm trying to ask. Somehow all of the electrical activity of my brain could be mapped to a computer, and the same could be done with yours. And we were thinking the same thing, so it was an experiment where we were both told to think the same thing. Peter, Eddie, we both want you to think about sitting on a beach with your feet in the sand, it's hot. Like what is descriptive is you want it to be? Would the outputs on the computer screen be similar? Would the computer be able to appreciate similar electrical output, or could two people that are doing the best job they can to have the same thoughts, not be able to produce that? In other words, is there a one to one map of thought to electrical activity? Short answer is actually both. Okay, so in that example that you gave, if both of us are looking at the same picture of a scene on the beach, yes, the same part of our brain is going to be processing those images, and the very back of the brain that we call the Cipital Lobe, the primary visual cortex is going to be parsing that space into what we call red and on top of the space, like essentially, you know, where those different pixels are located in the image. That part is going to be highly conserved, not identical, but highly conserved between your brain and mind. It's where these computations go further upstream, where they become much, much more differentiated, much more specific to our brain, much more dependent actually on our history, in our thought, you know, history of thoughts, our personality, you know, everything that's interacting with the rest of the brain. I'll give you a great example. The way that you may hear Spanish or French or German is going to be very different than someone who is a native speaker of those languages, right? Your brain is going to process some of those sounds, you'll hear them, but you're not going to be able to pick out the words for easily. Or the way I hear an engine versus the way my wife hears an engine. I love the sound, she's mildly annoyed by the sound. We're hearing the same thing. Absolutely. Yeah. So there are parts that are going to be very similar, like how we process some of the sensory attributes, and then the further you go deep into the system, the more it's become, like, very, very tailored. Some of this is hard-wired, right? Like the way that our visual system early on is a lot of it is hard-wiring. It's heavily influenced by what we see is, you know, if it's being a snake, should automatically produce a negative response that doesn't have to be learned in theory. I assume evolution of how they acquired us for that. There are some things that are instinctual. Certain odors would be hard-wired, not the things that are going to smell rotten or something like that. Oh, yeah, absolutely. There's a lot of those things that are very intuitive and... Now going back to the, we're showing you the picture of the beach. How much do you change over time? So if we did that experiment when you were 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, would that also change? It will change, but less. And I think over time these things become refined, and over time actually lose their refinement. So as we each have some of those representations, actually become less clear. If we talk about hearing, for example, there are a lot of people in the population over time, it's very hard for them to be in a crowd of restaurant where there's a lot of background noise, competing conversations going on. And yet these interviews can have perfect hearing. So signal processing is becoming the problem. That's exactly right. It's not an ear problem per se. It's a perceptual problem, and largely in the brain. And that it has to do with how that information, how, how, how, like the fidelity. Is that a carbon-dure of something bad? It's independently no, but we do know that when people have that problem, they tend to be more socially isolated. So there's a lot of secondary things that happen. We do know that when people have hearing loss and it's unrecognized, a lot of people have unrecognized hearing loss. And what people don't fully appreciate is that if you don't have access to communication, to conversation, and you're not, your brain is not getting those same signals. It's becoming deprived. And what we do know through many studies now is that the cognitive effects of that hearing loss actually can bEQuite profound. It accelerates age-related memory loss. Yeah, we, we actually internally in our practice, believe that that is causal to cognitive decline. Now there was a study that came out about two years ago that suggested it wasn't. Although the study had a partial retraction. The methodology was a little flawed, but to my knowledge, I don't know if it's been repeated. ThEQuestion being, of course, is if you correct hearing loss, let's say you randomized a group of people with early MCI, and you correct hearing loss, do you correct or prevent or reverse it? And, and again, if there's causality there, you would expect that you would. What about with visual, you know, as people get older and they develop cataracts or things of those nature, and their visual acuity goes down, does it have the same effect on depriving them of enough neural stimulation to maintain precision? Yeah, it's not as much because it's not a language issue. It's not as much. Yeah. And I'm less aware of the prevalence of something that's age-related just in the visual cortex, for example. So let's go back to brain computer interface. What would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high-tech, but what is it? Okay. Well, okay, so let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer interface for short. It's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things, but I think in a nutshell, what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive, like within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor, or in the research that we've done is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. And so it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then trensform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example, you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak? Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis and a phasia we typically refer to as someone who's got, let's say, a stroke. In the language centers of the brain, where we focus recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So their problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. Can't get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tongue, the jaw, the larynx, those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and lose ability to speak. And an important part of that is that they lose ability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract and written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say. That's right. Okay. Let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, there are at least two broad ways to extract that information. A non-invasive way where presumably you're putting electrodes all over a head that says, well, shorn is mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasive way. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain, the most severe. ECOG would be electrodes that are on the brain service that's short for electrocordicography. And that's where we've done the vast majority of our work in my lab. And that's just placed on the surface of the cortex, under the dura, on the cortex. That's absolutely correct. Yeah. So what's nice about that is that you don't have the injury to the brain itself from the insertion of the electrodes. It's a stable recording over time. We now use ECOG devices to essentially help people with seizures, for example, where you can basically have a pacemaker now that records from the brain service and then stimulates to help stop the seizures. And this is a fully implanted device. It's moving towards that. So the work that we've done in our clinical trial is using an array that's surgically placed, but connected through a port. We call it a percutaneous port because it's actually physically attached an anchored to the skull. It's an array on the brain. It comes out the dura and is anchored in the skull. Where's the port exit the body? Right on the top of the scalp. How do you prevent infection with such a close? Yeah. It's a really good question. And that's what the main problem with this early prototype BCI. And it's our group. There's other groups around the world that are using similar things primarily to show if you know, it's possible actually to decode brain activity for useful purposes. So what's happening right now in the field is a lot of these technologies are now going to become wireless over time. But you're absolutely right. One of the main reasons is that we want to move away from the percutaneous. We want to move away from the ports which are infection risk on top of other problems. And move to things that are fully implanted, fully wireless. How long do you feel your way from that? Basically about a year. Okay. Yeah. We've been working on it for quite some time. And so it's a really interesting time where we're seeing a convergence of like what's possible with electrical engineering. You know, high bandwidth wireless, press a way beyond what we can do with Bluetooth. Events, electronics that now allows to print some of these sensors on a substrate that is thinner than a piece of paper. Really, really small. And on a substrate that can conform to the convolutions, you know, the different peaks and valleys of the, you know, human cortical surface. So what is the tradeoff between ECOG and sensors inserted directly in the brain? Yeah. What's the resolution difference? Well, that's a very important question that we and many other people are trying to figure out right now. Most of the time when people are putting an electrode into the brain, there has to be some gain for that. And usually that's for recording a higher resolution, usually trying to record the activity of single neurons. A single cell. How can you isolate a single cell? Yeah, really small electrodes. Super small electrodes. And that's, we do a lot of work with this in our research. The challenge for the field is just been that it's very hard to stable it record from single cells more than a couple of hours or days. So that's one challenge. The problem challenge is that when you put the electrodes into the brain, you can create a reaction. Those glial cells, so we talked about the very beginning of those support cells, they actually have immune function as well. They detect that there is a foreign body and they'll activate and they'll react to it, create a scar around the electrodes. So the advantage of having electrodes in the brain to do this very microscopic kind of recording is that you can get a finer signal from single cells. The disadvantage is that it can create a reaction that reduces the fidelity of those signals over time. One of the reasons we've been most interested in using these sensors on the brain cortex is that we've learned over time that if you don't have the electrodes penetrating through the peel surface of the cortex, that's the outermost. Very thin membrane that's covering the cortex. If you don't have anything going through that, you can avoid a lot of those immune reactions, avoid a lot of that's going. That's going to preserve the function that's underlying, but this is something that we're actively trying to understand. So just to give me a sense of magnitude, if EEG on the surface is one, one unit of resolution, what would ECO GB and what would implant it electrode be, is it one, ten, hundred, what's the scale at what's your thinking of resolution? Well, I would say from the scalp, let's say we just arbitrarily call that one. You know, and then you think about what you could do with this ECO GB, I think we're really talking about let's say, you know, a thousand times better resolution. We've been able to answer very fundamental questions, actually about how the brain works using those kind of surface recordings in a way that's impossible with surface scalp electrodes. And then once you go take that further to single neurons and you've got another resolution probably six to five five five thousand. So there is a big jump is just going from an EEG to an ECO G directly. That's a three log change, right, whereas you're a five X change going deeper. And so one of the reasons for that is the skull and the scalp are major loss of signal. The signals are small to begin with. So once you're trying to interpret them through the skull of scalp, they're basically gone and very diffuse to. So trying to understand like where they came from in any precise ways, almost impossible. When you're recording directly on the surface, you're basically at the source itself. The cellular level, the single cell recordings are terrific for trying to understand that ultra fine resolution primarily. In the case of we use some force for research primarily to understand, you know, what's happening at those units, but still to this day, there's really no way that you can chronically and stablely record from the same cells, you know, over. Because of the reaction. Also because of how fine of a problem it is, like how precise it has to be. We're talking about a single cell, you know, a couple of microns in diameter. And you've got a electrode, any micromotion at all, anything changes that. And so typically what we see with a lot of those systems that record from those is there's a lot of turnover from day to day or hour to hour. Meaning you're drifting between which neuron you're recording in. That's exactly right. Yes, but does that imply then that IMean, just taking a step back, you said 82 billion neurons in our brain. So you put the probe into one and it moves over to the next one and the next one and the next one. One like me would naively assume they're all the same. You know, those are like three row homes that are basically all identical on the upper west side. Like that's we're not talking about try back a here. Because it really matter if the probe moves between those three sounds like the answer's yes, but I'm curious. The answer is yes. And because we now know that, you know, cells that are right next to each other can have some very different information. Now that being said, when you go through a column of the cortex, the column is this vertical organization. Typically what we were thinking about when we look at is the two dimension of the surface, but there's a third dimension of information processing, which is the different layers of the cortex we call the lamina. And typically in some of the sensory areas, for example, if you put a electrode, it's primarily going to be tuned to the same information across those different neurons. Across that depth. So you're right. In certain areas, you may have neurons that are tuned to the exact identical thing. And for decoding purposes, that may actually not be a big deal to have it not, you know, not very stationary over time. In other instances where you're trying to code from areas where it's a lot more intermix, it can have really profound implications where you have to recalibrate the algorithms that the machine is doing to interpret the signals. You know, every couple of hours or days. So when you do ECOG, how do you direct the sensor at the part of the brain you want to go to? Because I assume it has to be far more nuanced than just where you slap it on the cortex. Yeah. We're definitely getting into details. And I love that Peter. You're not afraid of getting into the details. And so this is one of the actually the elutes to one of the things we were talking about earlier. The part of my brain in the part of your brain that is responsible for speaking, especially in the motor control part, is largely the same. It's in the same ballpark. There's a lot of variation when we come down to the details. The micro geography. But it's in the same. It's like largely in the same city, if we're talking about geography. Where your house is, first my house, et cetera, that's going to be a little bit varied within that. One of the nice features about using ECOG or electrocordicography is that you can put an array over that entire area safely. And you can sample very, very densely across the other across the entire city, let's say. And so it doesn't really matter actually at the end of the day, if one person's there and the others. But it seems to actually be a feature, not a bug, right? Absolutely. The bug is you give up the resolution at what's happening in the kitchen of that house, but you now get to look at all the houses. Exactly. And you get to do it in a way that's very safe and scalable. And you're only, IMean, the biggest thing you give up is 20% you give up 80% of the resolution roughly. Right. But yeah. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. Okay. So what we did in our clinical trial at UCSF? Was this the 2023 paper? Yes. Okay. This is the nature paper. That's right. So we published a paper in 2023. We worked with an participant named Anne. She had a very severe brainstem stroke about 20 years ago. How old was Anne? She was in her 20s. It wasn't long after she got married. Actually, just a couple months after her second daughter was born. She was playing volleyball with her friends, collapsed, taken to the hospital. She survived the injury. She's hooked up with it for a team of artists. Yes. That's exactly right. Okay. Peter, you're very, this is just a memory. Your medical school is actually pretty good. This is impressive. But back to Anne. Yeah. Absolutely devastating. Okay. So just so people understand, for people to artery, everyone's heard of the crowded arteries. Okay. The crowded arteries come up through her neck and they primarily give the blood flow to the front part of the brain. The for people to artery is an equally, if not more important set of arteries, that supply the brain stem, which connects the brain to the spinal cord, in the back of the brain. So we have these two pairs of really important blood vessels that come to our brain, the crowded and then the vertebral arteries. Anne had an injury, while she was playing, and it was really just unfortunate, but she had this stroke and the vertebral artery that blocked the blood supply to the brain stem. So functionally what this means. Can I ask you a question? Does it have to be bilateral to cause the injury, or if it happens on one side, can the other side not perfuse around the circle of willas, why does that injury happen? Yeah. Just to be even more precise about this, unlike the crowded artery, the vertebral arteries, you have a left and right for a typical artery that come up through your neck. Then they go through the base of the skull through the framing magnum. It's essentially where the spinal cord is coming through the base of the skull. When they enter the skull, they become one artery. It's called the basilar artery. And the basilar artery and the small, perfrating arteries that come off that supply the brain stem are absolutely critical. So it depends where the dissection occurs. If it occurs before the bifurcation, you're probably fine. If it occurs above the bifurcation or the where they join is not the bifurcation, but yeah. Yeah. Actually, you're right. Like there are many cases. In fact, sometimes we for various reasons actually have to occlude a vertebral artery. And then the other one, just collateral, you know, gives the collateral flow. So the basilar, however, doesn't have that kind of information critical. It doesn't have that insurance policy. You know back up. Right. And so it's such a critical structure. And when there's a problem there, it's usually actually like terminal. And survived this stroke. She was left quadriplegic, meaning she couldn't move her arms and legs. But in addition to that, she couldn't speak. Because the nerves that come through the brain down through the brain stem and go to the cranial nerves, which supply the vocal tract, those were also directly affected. And yet, just again, you'll have to pardon my profound ignorance. Those would be lower cranial nerves. That's right. So the three, four, five, the ones for the diaphragm were intact. So she could still breathe on her own. But what is it? 789 would have been compromised, which is why she couldn't speak or something in that neighborhood. Yeah. It's not really the, um, it's the cranial nerves in particular around the lower ones. Okay. And those distributions that allow the control of the tongue. That's a hypoglass one nerve. That's number 12. Okay. It's number 10, the vagus, you know. But it's not precisely the nerves. It's actually the brain stem nuclei. Where the nerves originate. That's exactly right. And that's not something one predicts from any type of stroke. It's simply the nature of where what part of the brain stem was affected. That's exactly right. And was the paralysis or result of her cerebellum also having in-farks? No. No. It was all brain stem, really. Just brain stem. Good for God. Yeah. Precisely that are there. We call the ponds. Yeah. So, um, yeah. So, devastating. Devasting. So, this for 20 years. And is now in her 40s. In a wheelchair unable to speak. Right. So, um, I think some important things about this are that, um, It was actually about 18 years after her stroke that she decided to participate in our trial. And we had talked actually a year earlier. She said, I really want to wait to participate in this trial because I want to wait until my daughter graduates. And then I can do this with you guys. And I assume she said that because the risk of something catastrophic happening was high enough that she felt she needed to wait. Well, she's a mom. Yeah. You know, um, and she wanted to be there for a daughter. And, um, you know, she had a year for the graduation. And she reached out to us because, um, we had an earlier participant also with a brain stem stroke. That we treated that we did this trial that I'm about to describe. And she read about it and so she reached out to us. And how did she communicate at that point in time? Yeah. So the main way that she communicates is through devices that can track her eye movements. Um, those are trenslated to a pointer that can point on those screen to individual letters or words. And so it's a very painstaking way of communicating. One thing I've learned about Anne is she's just a tremendous person, uh, positive person. Um, she's just a force of nature, you know, she recently actually used that same system to write a book chapter. Um, just incredible. Okay. So we started this trial called the Bravo Trial. Um, something that we worked with the FDA very closely to get approved because it requires a brain surgery. It requires this percutaneous port that we talked about. Um, the reason we were able to get it approved in this form was that a lot of the components that we were using were actually existing medical materials. So the safety of it was largely already known in terms of its bio compatibility, its bio stability. Um, what was not known is that if someone is not spoken for a decade or two, whether or not those parts of the brain actually would still work. Yeah. It's really interesting because we know that if a person loses their sight for X number of years, I'm guessing that the occipital lobe doesn't work the same way. It's not processing the information. So it, I don't know that it actually physically atrophies, but I'm guessing that it's not, it's not the neurons aren't firing the same way, right? That's right. So what would be interesting is we just don't know if Anne's inner monologue is still happening. Right. The same way. Right. Or yeah, that's a very interesting question. Right. And I think that ultimately that was the biggest risk actually. There's a lot of emphasis like on the technology, but the basic biology of how the brain works and whether that information is still being processed. I think are really the more important ones actually. And so, what we did was we did a surgery where we implanted an array of 253 ECOG sensors. These are the sensors that are densely spaced. How many? Not 253. So we're talking about something about the surface area of a credit card. And it's filled with electrode sensors that are spaced about 3mm apart. Each sensor is about a millimeter, and diameter. And so basically you've got this credit card sized array that was placed on the part of a brain that processes words. In particular, the motor production of the words. The parts that control the lips, the jaw, the larynx, the tongue. Eries that were functionally disconnected from her vocal tract because of this stroke and the brain stem, which connects the brain to those muscles. And so, we did the surgery abouT3 weeks later. We started our research sessions with her. We connected the cable. It's basically an HDMI cable. That is attached to a head stage. The head stage trensforms the analog signals from her brain. These are a small voltage. Yeah, can you work with me? Maybe. I think I know I get into the weeds a bit much, but I think it's kind of interesting in signal processing. Can you explain why the brain is analog and why you have to convert that to digital? Yeah. Good question. Well, to some degree, there's a level that it is digital. Like when we talk about... Actually, the potential is digital. Single, nervous. Action potentials, like firing, yes or no. Yeah. That's like a digital form. But when we're recording a lot of these, especially the ECOG, it's an analog. It's looking at the average of these from a population of, let's say, a couple of thousand of those neurons activating. And the work that we've done actually over the last decade and a half, which led up to this, using methods like ECOG, we've learned from that there's a map what we've learned during the very beginning, like the homonculus, but a mini-homonculus, that is corresponding to those parts of the vocal track, the lyrics, the tone, the jaw. We figured out essentially how those signals correspond to every consonant and vowel in English, about a decade ago. And actually, that was the impetus for actually starting this clinical trial. Was that we essentially had identified what the neural code was like, what part of the brain, and how that neural activity corresponds to all the movements that create, you know, syllables, for example. How big a data set was required to create that knowledge? Probably about 36. That's incredible. That's incredible. To just get the basic idea of this. And is this something where if that were 36,000, it would be how much better? Almost, hopefully perfect, like near a perfect, what we're talking about, let's get to that. Yeah, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Right. Like how does this scale, how do we use the information from other individuals to help and of one, for example? But in Ants particular case, we started from the beginning. We actually didn't use that data. We knew that it was possible. We knew what the nature of that data and that code would look like. And then at the same time that we're doing all of this research, Peter, AI is developing in parallel. Yeah. Okay. So all of these tools that we now are using every day, trenscribing our voice right now into text. We use that technology. We can actually use those same technologies that generate voices, called speech synthesis. And so we've used a lot of the same tools, machine learning tools that are in modern day, AI's. And we're now applying them on the brain activity and trying to use them to not trenslate, for example, text and synthesize speech. But now the equation is different. It's trenslate from brain activity and to synthesize speech. The input is not text. The input is the ECOG activity across these 253 sensors. Which of course is the logical extension. But just if you ignore the cost of compute, is there an advantage to doing it that way? Because you take out an intermediary step. Yes. Yeah. It's because we know that the ballpark is there, but we know that everyone's brain. That detail level, like if you're going to reconstruct the words, you can't just be in the ballpark. You have to know basically what each leave of grass on that ballpark is doing. And that's highly variable across individuals. So what is AI? Just trying to think about what the machine has to do. What is its trening set? How does it know? Yeah. Walk me through. I'll walk you through. So the way that we tren the algorithm, the way that we started this was we would give in prompts on a screen and text. And basically we would ask her to try to say it. So the value of that is we know, can she move her lips? She can move a little bit. She can't speak. So she can move her jaw or her lips, but none of it is intelligible. She has what we call an R3. Basically she can vocalize a little bit, but none of it is intelligible. Any form? I see. But if her inner monologue, if you put up the word, the cow jumped over the fence and she says, and in her mind, the signal is the cow jumped over the fence, then I totally see how it works. Yeah. At that point, you have infinite trening data. You would basically just have her read, war and peace. Right. So let me just clarify. The theory that we are decoding from is not the part of the brain that it's processing either in her monologue or reading. It really is this part that is about this volitional intent. Oh, that's such a good point. To speak, right? So it's not about her. It's not reading. It's not reading. So when I'm reading, the cow jumped over the fence, but I'm not, if I just go, what part of my brain is internalizing the cow? You're visual cortex. Yep. And then as it goes further, it's going into some of the language areas. But it's not necessarily activating the lips, John, the larynx, you know, the areas that are paralyzed. Right. And so we're tapping into a part of the brain that is really, So this is a hard exercise. This takes a lot of effort on her part. A lot. So let me describe actually what that was. So for days, what we would do is have a sentence on a screen. And we'd give her the start time and the end time. And during that, she would just look at the sentence. She'd give in to go cue and then try to say it. Nothing intelligible comes out. She may or may not be moving the lips job, but just try to say it. And that turns out to be very important. Oh my God. Like you can't just think about it. You can just, oh, wow. You have to actually try to say it. And that's what she did. So we started with a very simple vocabulary of about 27 words. The words that we chose are the NATO code words. Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo. We did that because we could measure basically the accuracy of the decoder. That was analyzing those brain signals and trenslating them into those 26 different code words. And on the first day, we were able to tren the algorithm on a data set of like maybe about an hour and a half. To get to about 50% accuracy. And does 50% accuracy mean she could get half of them right? So any time you showed her one there was a 50% chance it would be correct. But well, you just said in our sense identical. Okay. Like so she's looking and then try to say. But there wasn't a bias towards the subset of them that she was always getting right and others that she was always getting wrong. Actually was a bias. Yeah. Actually if I get into details, yes. Some of them were more discriminable than others. And was it based on the number of syllables? Yes. Actually it was based on that in some of the phonetic properties. But one of the reasons why NATO code words for us was a really useful trening task for us is because NATO code words were developed in the first place by the military and proof communication accuracy. The reason why we actually use those code words is because sometimes if you just say a, be, you know, like D, Z, there's a lot of confusion. So that's why we actually use those code words. It increases the discriminability and intelligibility. We're a lot of those settings. You just can't make those errors. For example, you know, pilots. Yep. You know, in the call numbers, for example. So we use that because it has high discrepanability. And on that first day, you know, I think we got about 50%. And this is going straight to voice. No, this was going straight. This is going to text. This is straight to text. Yeah. And so we're just trying to figure out, could we, um, to code which work it was and it was displayed in text? Um, so that's pretty me. That's the first day 50%. That's the first day. Yeah. And then over the next, I would say about six days. The performance just got better and better. And then by about, you know, like a week into this, she was up into the 95% range. Um, so that was unexpected. Um, it was incredible to see the performance increase, you know, so quickly. But that did take a full week to do that. As a question now. And I'm sure that the NATO code is not designed for this purpose, but presumably one could concoct a series of words that contain within them the full range of, um, of tones of, um, phonetics of syllable juxtapositions that would allow you to use the smallest possible trening data to get the largest possible outcome. Does that make sense? Absolutely. And do you have a sense of what that would, like, how would one even develop such a thing? Because this is a novel problem. Right. Um, it's actually a really important and more profound actually, then you may realize, um, what you're referring to is the generative property of speech and language. And what IMean by generative is that you can take these individual elements like consonants and vowels, which by themselves have no meaning at all. Yep. And give rise to all possible meaning from just different combinations of them, just like DNA. Yeah. DNA. We've goT4 base pairs essentially as a code for all of life. Except DNA is so much easier because it's finite. Mm-hmm. And the rules are always the same. You can define all the rules. Yeah. Here you have. So it's, it's, there's only four base pairs and they can only combine in two ways. And everyone has a one to one mapping with what it's going to become. Here you have 26 letters. They can combine in a near infinite ways. And then there are all these dumb exceptions. Right. So that's where the AI actually comes in. So let me, let me just explain a little bit about how that algorithm works. Um, because what you ask about actually is very, very much at the heart of the way that we do this. So we don't go from the brain activity directly to speech and words and sentences. In the very beginning with the native, that's what we do. You can use an algorithm called a classifier. It's going to look at the pattern activity and then just say, okay, looks mostly like beta. Another one looks mostly like echo. Another one looks like Charlie. Okay. But to get too expressive, normal speech, you need something that actually can open up much more common at the world. Yeah. So much more common at the world. Yeah. Potential to generate sequences of syllables, words and sentences. So what we did was we built a decoder that trenslates the brain activity patterns in very small segments. Like 10 to 20 millisecond little chunks of brain data. Really small signals, right, like small windows of signals. And the machine learning is looking at those small windows and making an educated guess. How does the mapping of that brain activity relate to a given consonant or vowel? Now, I'm using consonant vowel just because it's easy to understand. The reality is we used a speech unit. That phone number or something like that. A phone number. Yeah. But actually something that was statistically derived from a speech recognition algorithm. It was statistically derived. It was not something that was linguistically or, you know, that you read about. It's like really a computational unit that we know. If you have a hunt, if you can decode a hundred of these units, you can generate fluent comprehensible speech. And so we used AI actually to derive what those units would be in the first place. We took a speech recognition system that meta had made open source, you know, about five years ago. It's one of the leading speech recognition algorithms. We took, essentially, the neurons and what they do in that neural network. And then we try to map those actually to the brain activity patterns. That's on the very front end. The first step of the decoding. It's trenslating the back that neural activity patterns to these individual speech units that are just 10 to 20 million. And then it's, of course, knows the sequence of these units over time because it's part of the algorithm calculation. And we use something called a language model, which is something that all of us are now familiar with when you're texting it out of corrects. You're speech, why? Because it just got a model of English in there. And that it knows what particular sequence of the things should be like. And so even if a lot of the data is kind of fuzzy. As more data accumulates, you get a sequence. And then it can basically use a best guess over time. What we call probabilistic inference of what was the most likely word or phoneme at any given time point. And ultimately, we could construct sentences. Did you get a sense from Anne as to how her level of fatigue with this progressed? In other words, what becomes the bottleneck? Is it, does it get easier and easier for her to go through this talking motion as she practices more? Is it just like any other muscle that we think of that has sort of atrophied? And now she's sort of getting her talking back in shape? It is a bit of that. And we're trying to make that easier over time. I think in the beginning days, we were trying everything to get it to work. And a lot of it, again, has to do with this volitional intent to speak. That turns out to be the most critical thing. Peter, one of the things that I thought was really interesting also was we were doing so much decoding through these tasks at over time, actually a couple months into this. And it reported to us actually the strength of her oral facial muscles, her jaw. Tony, there were actually getting stronger through this constant therapy, constant rehabilitation. And so I think right now everything is about just decoding the brain activity, you know, to an artificial, digital thing. But I do think that in the future BCIs are also going to be a way that we can do rehabilitation. Right? Like it's a way that we have this direct readout of what the brain is trying to do. You can essentially build a prosthetic that helps people speak, but in the process, someone who hasn't spoken for a while, regain some of that natural strength over time. So that's a new indication that we're thinking about in the future. How do you use this technology actually to augment the next-seller at rehabilitation? If Anne had that stroke today, how different if at all would this process look, if you were working with a person who hadn't spent 20 years or 18 years without speaking? There's no question that I think it would work faster. There's less to learn. For her, not speaking for 18 years, basically meant that she basically had to relearn how to speak. And we had to keep up with her relearning. Her brain was probably re-organizing, relearning, actually some of those fundamental things. And she could see the feedback of essentially whether or not she was trying to say it was right or wrong. And it was very intense work. So we're trying to make that easier over time. But I think certainly the more preserved, the more recent that activity is, those memories, the synapses we talked about earlier, the more stable, the more functional they are, the easier it is to actually decode them. So what will be this ceiling for the current technology? How many words per minute? And at what resolution or accuracy do you think the current technology with, because this was ECOG in her case, correct? Right. Where do you think it's going to go? Where do you think it will, where will this asymptote? We're seeing a lot of progress in this field. At the same time, or soon after, what we were doing, there were other groups that basically could see similar effects. Ars was primarily from the brain service, other groups, close colleagues might, were able to now do this with electrodes that were inside the brain, you know, seeing these inter-cortical arrays. So it seems that it's possible with different approaches. I think what is going to be a key question is, you know, what's going to be the right form moving in the future for many patients. With Anne, we were able to get about 80 words per minute on average, so sometimes much faster than that. Like comparison, how many words can you and I speak comfortably? Like you and I are probably doing about 150, 160 words per minute right now. Wow. So she could speak at half the rate, yeah. It's bigger. That's pretty amazing. Yeah. And it's not like the speech was coming out super slow. It's just that there's this built-in latency time that we used to trenslate the brain activity into those words and sentences. And what we published in 23. You had a very short latency on your more recent paper, didn't you? That's exactly right. So in the 23 paper, our decoding strategy was to take this sequence of decoded phonetic elements. And we could look at that sequence and then apply the decoding algorithm in the language model to reconstruct full sentences. And then we could even synthesize them. In fact, in personalized, I'm actually to her pre-entry voice. In a more recent study that we just published this here, we were able to do this in a streaming way with, you know, less in a second latency between each phonetic element. So it's not like we're waiting for the whole sentence to occur, but we're doing decoding on the fly and it's intelligible and fast. And that will get the words up to what you think. It's quickly as she can try to say them basically. So, and this is all with the same hardware. This is with the same hardware, totally different algorithm. So are there on the intercranial hardware? Obviously, there's a big material science push to come up with the most immunologically inert substance possible. That's your challenge there. But with the ECOG, is there another hardware step function you're waiting for? Not really. IMean, I think the thing that's most exciting about this is that we have the technology now. We got to optimize it in the right form factor. IMean, I guess it's just moving to a fully implantable device, so you don't have to deal with the infection risk. So we need to have the array that will have a lot more channels. Actually, so last time I talked about a credit card size with 253, we'd like to have something that has 4x that amount of sensors. This seems completely achievable when you think about what Nvidia is doing or TSMC. IMean, that strikes me as very solvable, right? It is, and we are doing it right now. And with any medical device, you got to put it all together and make it improve it. So we've taken these components that have very high bandwidth wireless connected to this array. And I think in many ways we've done the hard part already, like what Andy did, what Pancho did, use one of our earlier participants. What Walter doing, these are incredible people that really the first people in the world actually to be able to achieve this real pioneers. That was the hard part. The hard part is always like the first time. Yeah, for sure. Do the proof of concept. It's the proof of concept. Everything now is actually just a optimization to be honest with you. Do you think of this more as an engineering problem now? It is. Yes. So let's now expand it, right? So you have the proof of concept for the engineering problem that says brain works, motor system doesn't work. We can extract speech. What about these other problems that we talked about at the outset? What about ALS, right? Not for speech, but for respiratory function, right? So a patient with ALS is I assume, I don't actually believe it or not know much about it, but I assume that they ultimately succumb to respiratory complications and with the explorations or things like that. So so if we could, if we could overcome that problem and bypass the degenerative motor neurons, is there an engineering solution to ALS based on the type of technology we're seeing today? When we say solution, IMean, to preserve communication for someone, to preserve. Well, I would say let's go even beyond the ability to talk, but the ability to breathe normally, for example, like the ability to not lose motor function outside of the CNS. Yeah. So to do that, basically, is another couple of step functions in engineering, where basically, we're talking about bypassing pretty significant sections of the nervous system. So you're going to tap into the brain to get some of the control signals. Some of this, you don't even need to tap in the brain for breathing a lot of it is, like, as you know, is wired for not thinking about a certain way. Central pattern generators in the brain stem, for example, are really important for that breathing pattern. Like this is my son, I know you've had a bit like, why is it that we couldn't wire into all of the cranial nerves outside of the cranium? Yeah. And create a respiratory system that is fully automated. Like, like, almost think of an AICD for the diaphragm and chest wall. Yeah. So we've spent almost all of our time really talking about the brain side, but then you can imagine another whole new enterprise and endeavor of building the electronics that not necessarily even tap into the nerves that cranial nerves, let's say, or the cervical nerves that go to the diaphragm. But you bypass those two and you go directly to the muscles. Yeah. Exactly. And so there is a field we're not directly doing this research ourselves, but it's highly related to where the future is. It's called FES functional electrical stimulation. So coupling the brain computer interface, the device that's decoding the brain activity, trenslating into the control signals, and then actually acting on the muscles through stimulating. Electroids that are in the muscle themselves and doing that coordinated movement. But everything actually is a really interesting one because it's not as complex as let's say using our back restoring our hand. You know, it's interesting. Everybody assumes today, you know, if you really want to be in the forefront of technology, you need to be on the CS side. But the truth of the matter is you need just as much horsepower on the bioengineering side here. Electroengineering biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, IMean, these are material science. IMean, these are this type of problem is the intersection of everything that is high tech from AI to computer science to all disciplines of engineering. Coupled with medicine, right? IMean, you have a surgeon too. That's exactly right. I think that you hear the nail on head because in many ways that's the challenge actually more than the technology itself is from the brain. The technology itself is really how do you get the engineer in the room with a neurosurgeon with a neurologist, the neuroscientist like all thinking and a really conservative way about solving this problem. And then what you're going to see in the future actually is that this is going to evolve more and more as a biological problem. Thinking about biology is the next technology solution in junior itself that are interfacing with the brain as opposed to, you know, metal electrodes. New ways of doing computing that are through biology that are not through semiconductors. You know, that I think ultimately is where things are ultimately, you know, are going to go in the future. Well, say more about that. IMean, this is. There are some people that are already talking about this, but I'd like to like people to understand more what you mean by that because it's it's complicated. Well, it is it is complicated. What I'm talking about really is, you know, I think the next couple of steps. But what one of the reasons why this comes up is that when you have these, you know, okay, you actually said it really precisely before, okay, you've got this electrode system. Let's say you're recording from one cell. Best case scenario, you'd be the electronics system that can maybe do 10, maybe 40 in the future of 1000 channels. But the denominator is 86 billion. Yeah, like we're not in the scale. Yep. Right. Not in the same regime of scale. Biology has done that all along. Biology has solved a lot of these scaling problems. Cells that have the same genetic programming, you know, multiply because of their environment. Other factors have become specialized for a specific function. That's how our brain is. Right. Like each individual cell has the same genetic program. But because of its local meallu ends up having a different identity, different purpose. And so I think that is really, you know, thinking outside of the electronical engineering really moving into the realm of like bioengineering. And this field is moving pretty fast. You know, there's a whole field that we call organoids. And this is creating mini brains from cell cultures or stem cells building miniature brains primarily being used as models of disease right now. But also as ways to test new drugs. But we're going to see these now interfacing with the world of brain computer interfaces. And so I think that that's part of the future for shirts for exciting. It's not like like near term. But there certainly is something about the future of technology is actually in biology. What is your stretch goal for the field in 2030? So stretch goal, meaning I define that as things have to go well, but it's we're not talking science fiction. By 2030, I hope that we have these systems actually available to a much broader market. Like we have shown in a research setting, very controlled setting that this can be done. The proof of concept. What really needs to be done is a lot of hard engineering to make this practical, usable, useful for people like with a real world of engineering. For people like with a variety of different neurological conditions, not just L.S. but spinal cord injury, stroke, multiple sclerosis. And that's a challenge right like everyone may have a very specific need. We need to be able to solve that. It is an optimization. It can be solved. That's what I'd love to see by 2030 like just let's get a couple of these across the finish line so that they're actually out in the world helping people. Is there a current company or set of companies that are the natural owner to solving this problem based on their existing expertise or is what you're talking about. Basically new companies that have to be, you know, that have to become capitalized and do this denova. Like, yeah, who would be the natural owner of this? Well, I think it's both. So, the most famous probably is Nirl. Like Elon Musk company that has a very specific approach where you have a robot that is surgically inserting and sewing electrodes into the brain and trying to record from that, you know, very finest resolution. And I think there's a lot of progress with that, but also we've seen a lot of challenges. It's a really hard technical problem to solve with that scale. There's a fried brother, companies in that vein. One of the things that we're working on is a highly customized ECOG approach because basically we already know that it works from a lot of the work that we've done. And we can make it a lot higher resolution than we've done before. And make it much safer with a fully implantable system. And then we're going to see more and more over time that this is going to become less and less invasive. Just like we were talking the very beginning of our conversation, surgeries have become less invasive over time. Brain computer interfaces will become less and less invasive. We're at the very beginning of this story. So like getting the most amount of data right now is the most important with highly invasive approaches. But I think it's time goes on. We're going to back out from that invasiveness. That's always how things evolve to make it more generalizable easier and safer for people to do. And when you say less invasive, do you think there will ever be a day when you can do this off an EEG on the surface or do you think, No, it will be more like minimally invasive surgery to open surgery where instead of a cranny otomy, we're going to bore a single hole in there. We're going to put a small tiny chip in through the Dura implanted on there and we're done. I think that there's some. The latter. Okay. Okay. And there's the resolution at the outside of the skull is probably never going to be good enough. We're talking about a physics problem that I think a lot of people have tried to solve. Batteries will never store energy nearly as well as hydrocarbons full stop. That level of resolution that we have from the scalp like you know in theory. I think. But in practice, no one has been able to crack that a lot of smart people have worked on that problem. Yeah, interesting. I do know that devices can continue to be a miniaturized. I know that surgery can continue to be safer. So we will see this point in history where. You know, devices. At some point are not going to just be about medical applications. There'll be essentially, you know, enhancement level. There's huge ethical questions that we're going to have to deal with when that time comes. We're not there right now. But. I would bet on the technology. You know, because we're not talking about breaking any rules and laws of physics. In order to get there, we're just talking about scaling. Electronic or miniaturizing it in a way that is just a smaller form factor. But over time, everything becomes less invasive. So I'm sure you get asked this question all the time, but going back to the origin of Anne's story. So many people suffer brain injuries. And if you could wave a magic wand, you would just hope for some. Regeneration of the injury portion of her brain and my guess is in the case of. And the actual total volume of cells that are damaged is quite small. It could be this, you know, half the size of your thumb, right? IMean, it's a relatively small, but it just happened to be in the most precious part of real estate in her entire body. So do we know, or do you have any point of view on the potential future of stem cell like interventions for the purpose of. Regeneration specifically in the CNS? Yeah, IMean, this is an area that I think got a lot focused and attention maybe about 10 or 15 years ago. And I would say largely the results were pretty modest. Yeah, it best. Yeah, it best. It's coming back now because of a lot of cell based therapies, organoids. Building miniature models of brains on cell culture, basically. I think the first things that we're going to see and where I am seeing some promise is very focal delivery in replacing cells that have been lost in small targets of the brain. So back to Parkinson's disease where you've got the generation of dopamine, energy neurons and the substantial nigra. The goal is can you replace and basically trensplant some stem cells into that part of the brain? And remind me why the cells in the substantial nigra go, is it an autoimmune like what do we know what's killing them? I think there's a lot of, a lot of, it could be multiple fault. It's parlegionetic. There are certain genes that could just both sit generation there. There's certain environmental toxins that can cause the degeneration and then there's like a huge bucket like we still don't know. You know, what's causing that? But if end of the day, there is a degeneration of those very specialized cells. Most of the treatments are around dopamine replacement medications. And how close do you think we are towards trensplant? Well, it's already been done actually like 20, 30 years ago. Oh, really, I was using a fetal crafts and. They just didn't take. Some of them took in fact patients, some patients got benefit from it. And the side effects were also fairly severe. They were a variety of different reasons. What kind of side effects? Like if you have too much dopamine, you can actually get disconnections. So hyper movement. So Parkinson's, one of the carnivorous symptoms of Parkinson's. Hypon movement. Yeah, Brady cannesia specifically where you have slowed movements, slowed initiate movements as well. But if you have cells that are just pumping out dopamine, they can also be putting out too much and you get the opposite effect. So it's not as simple as just putting them in there. They actually have to be tuned in the right way to put out the right levels. And so there's a new generation of new therapies that were really interested in traveling UCSF that are much better cell models, much better control that dopamine that's involved. We have much better delivery systems to make sure that the different distribution and. Could you imagine that? Could you imagine engineering your way out of Parkinson's disease? We're working on it. What about synthetic cells? Where you completely get to control it, right? So again, you have the substrate problem. But if it's truly a synthetic cell, then presumably it can make dopamine as well. IMean, it's supposed to an implantable sort of slow leaked dopamine that you come up with some slick way to refill. But what do you think is more likely kind of the more pure engineering approach or the more biological. The more biological trensplant approach where you just try to tune it. The near term, of course, is taking some cell cultures. They are not like purely synthesized. That's still, I think, is a huge goal outside of just brain. Like, can you generate a cell denoval. Without some, without some origin. What is that? Is that require immune modulation? Oh, absolutely. So it's a full trensplant. Yeah. So a lot of these patients initially will be on immunosuppression for that. But that's also improved a lot. Right? That's just immune-ocupressive as if they had a kidney trensplant or a liver heart trensplant? Yes. Wow. Yeah. But I think that's primarily right now the level of precaution. You know, and there is progress being made and try to make these things as least immunogenic as possible. And that's where a lot of the engineering actually is focused on. It's just making, like the least immunogenic to avoid a rejection scenario. So I am excited about that. And that's some of the biological engineering that I was talking about. Like biotechnology or the future of technology. We really coming back to the biology, moving a little bit away from the electrical engineering. So in 15 years, in 2040, you know, you're still going to be operating. You'll probably be in the final decade or 15 years of your career. So, you know, by a surgeon, standards, plenty of plenty of work to do. What do you think the world looks like in 2040? Which made your problems that stand in front of you today. Do you expect to fall and what will be the implications? I think that if the course that things are changing and how many things are being unlocked right now. We're close. I think we're really getting close. Some of these things are not standard because of the side effect profiles or two severe. But they can have therapeutic efficacy. We need to do that tuning this optimization. There's a lot of proof of concept out there. But like I alluded to earlier before, 99% of the work is in the optimization in that engineering. I do think that now that we understand what are the molecular and genetic drivers of a disease is devastating as a glialplastoma. We will have way more powerful tools that will hopefully make a chronic condition as a piece to a life, you know, a death sentence. And 18 months on average. That being said, with surgeries, we can get out to years, many years. But a goal would be to make a chronic potentially cure. By essentially attacking the mechanisms, we now know the genes that are altered. We need to be able to turn on the immune system to recognize huge amount of effort and trying to figure this out. I do think, and I'm very optimistic around neurodegenerative disorders. There's just so many promising things. Including the cognitive ones like Alzheimer's. I think earlier diagnosis and earlier treatment is going to be the first thing where we're going to have, you know, the best effects. But that is a really difficult one. But around Parkinson's where there's a focal. Yes. Problem. You can regenerate those cells. So you're more optimistic on the movement disorders than you are the cognitive disorders. That's right. And partly is because the target in the cell loss is very focal. We can get cells through a surgery. We're talking about Alzheimer's. It's a bit trickier because it involves multiple systems in the brain simultaneously. There are studies even using electrical stimulation in parts of the brain that are really important for encoding memory. You know, these things are promising. But I think for these really step functions that whatever one wants is either stalled disease or roofed. It's going to take more time. But I do think the early detection is going to be a game changer. A little off topic. But it's come up through the story of, and do you have a point of view on things that place people at risk for the Stibular artery dissections? For example, you know, for whatever reason, whether it's just a wives tale or not. I've always been afraid of having anybody ever adjust my neck for fear of, you know, having a different stibular artery dissection. Is there any truth to that? As a risk, are there other things that people should be aware of given the low probability, but very, very high severity of such an injury? It's not a wife's tale. It's actually statistically proven that certain kind of chiropractic movements around the neck can cause an injury to the wall of the vertebrae. That term dissection means that the wall of the artery has dissected. There's usually multiple different layers to that vessel wall. And what happens with the dissection is that the vessel is injured, and then blood actually starts splitting the wall of the artery more up until the point where it becomes occluded. And so it's a very, very dangerous situation. And like you said, a critical part of the brainstem. So generally we recommend, you know, like not severe aggressive movements, you know, but sometimes you can't see it actually around sports. You where you have a very high velocity movement around imposter around the neck, you know, and so those are the other cases where you can see it. That being said, this is very low incidence. Yeah, low probability of happening. So it's not at the level that you could really tell people to avoid certain sports or anything like that. If if we could bring Harvey Cushing back from the dead, then you could have dinner with him tonight. What do you think he would say if he was, you know, if you saw what was going on in the field that he created? I think that there would be one part of him that is looking at some of the surgeries that we do, or we're still doing cranial enemies and you would say, that looks pretty similar to what we did 150 years ago. I think that's part of his genius. The fact that we still do it means that it still works and it still safe gets people through. And a lot of that credit goes to Dr. Cushing. But there will be things that I don't think he could have ever conceived. The way that we're retrieving blood clots that are reversing strokes. What we're doing with brain computer interfaces, you know, decoding brain activity, the substrate of thought to replace communication for people who are paralyzed. I think that that would have been very hard to really imagine back then. Primarily because our knowledge was so limited in electronics was nowhere even close to being able to imagine what could be done now. So a lot of what we're seeing actually relies on technology that has evolved like artificial intelligence. A lot of the work that we did on decoding the brain just couldn't work, even though we had a hardware, you know, like maybe 10 or 20 years ago. Probably even earlier than that, the decoding was not possible until this modern machine learning. And so these things are just accelerating very, very fast right now. When I was a resident, I used to have this very famous picture on my wall of the sort of the five physicians who are sort of the founding physicians at Hopkins. Of course, you had Hallstead in surgery and Osler in medicine and Kelly, I think, so I think Kelly was gynecology and then there was a pathologist and of course, Cushing was the understudy of Hallstead before he left for Harvard. And I honestly think if you could bring all of them back to life today to see how much each of their fields had progressed. I think that Cushing would be the one most blown away because, and maybe I'm wrong in some historian will correct me, but I really think that what we've talked about today is to your point unimaginable, right? So of course Osler would see medications that he never could have conceived them, right? I never could conceive of a GLP1 agonist and the profound effect it could have on weight loss. You could never conceive at the time that there would be a medication that could eradicate cholesterol, let alone an injection once every six months that could do it. He might have not even conceived obesity back then. That's a good point. Although he was tasting urine, so he certainly would have diabetes. But yeah, I think the mental leap to where we are although look maybe the pathologist would have never imagined the genomic sequencing that we could do of tumors today, right? Of course back then it was all histology. So it is amazing to me how much medicine has changed in a hundred years. And of course it doesn't take a leap to imagine that if we're still around as a species in a hundred years, the next hundred years is going to offer far bigger changes. Absolutely. IMean the pace of acceleration now is unprecedented. The underlying reason why I think Cushing would be the one that would be the hardest to understand what's happening now is because we are talking about the brain. We are talking about an organ system that we're just starting to fathom and put around our heads around sort of the complexity. And for the last hundred and fifty years neurosurgery has really actually been about how do you avoid injuring the brain? How do you take a tumor out of it? How do you deal with the plumbing which is the the vascular system, the blood supply? But if you think about it like the biggest open-ended questions are really being addressed right now in the coming decades, how does the brain itself work? And then how do we tap into that to address a large variety of neurological and psychiatric conditions? The history of neurosurgery was actually primarily about trying to avoid injury, stay outside of the brain, et cetera. Now it's much more inward looking trying to understand actually how the system works, how the organ works. And it's a super exciting time because every time we unlock essentially a function of a certain part of the brain, there's a very high probability that there's going to be a therapy either through brain computer interface or through a new biological approach. Every time we unlock a new mechanism, there'll be something that we can do to treat it. And that's what the future is going to look like. You know, one of my hidden agendas of this podcast is to encourage as many young people as possible to go into medicine. And I understand that today medicine is not nearly as attractive a career as it was 20 years ago, 30 years ago, 50 years ago, and the best in the brightest or typically going elsewhere. But I think a podcast like this as as as our many of the podcasts I do with doctors, I think I really hope it showcases that we need the best and the brightest to go into this. And again, this is not saying we don't need another brilliant person doing AI or investment banking or law or wherever else the top people go, but there is really an opportunity to bend the arc of civilization by choosing a career in medicine. And what you're doing, Eddie, is really on the forefront of that, especially the way it combines all disciplines of science, medicine and technology. It's just it's super exciting. Thanks, Peter. Yeah, I'm really excited for that too. Thanks for coming. I really appreciate this discussion. Thanks for having me.

=== FILE: 365 ‒ Training for longevity： A roundtable on building strength, preventing injury, protein, & more [ac0Nm71GpOY].txt ===

You can build a great body on six exercises. I just don't see any evidence that anything Trump's exercise. 50% of Americans are not trening or doing any kind of exercise. You don't know you're losing the battle until it's too late. They a little bit about the programming. I know that it works and I know that it doesn't have to be hard and it doesn't have to be uncomfortable. Galaton muscle health is really what we're talking about. Do you think that the average person appreciates the role of nutrition in that? The minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be 100 grams. It's not sex specific. It's body weight specific. Up until about 18 months ago, I was still squatting and deadlifting regularly, though, with much less weight. I just sort of decided the risk reward trade-off wasn't there for me. You're not gonna piggyback someone in and take a shit. Like that's not how it's gonna work. In order to get used to the bathroom, you all need to be able to body weight squat. Coaches want kids to specialize earlier and earlier. If you look at most of these people that are telling you that kids need year-round sports, are people who are making their living from year-round sports. It's not like injury rates are going down. So we're playing more and getting injured more. Is there something significant that you've changed your mind on? And not just changed your mind on, but it's changed the way you behave. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Lady and gentlemen, thank you so much for all making the trip out to Austin. I've been looking forward to this one for a while. As some listeners might know, this is our second version of a round table. But unlike the first one where I had interviewed the three guests multiple times previously and they were very familiar to the audience. All three of you are people who's work. I'm very familiar with, but I've never had the privilege of sitting down with you one on one. And as much as I would have loved to have done that first, I think it would have stood in the way of doing this today. So before we jump into what we're about to talk about today, which is all things related to resistance trening, I want to just ask each of you to maybe give the non-biobversion of who you are and as such why I think you're a great part of this. Let's start with you, Gabriel. Certainly, well, my name is Dr. Gabriel Lyon and I'm a fellowship trened physician in geriatric syndrome and nutritional sciences. I did my fellowship at WashU. And at the time, I was very reluctant to do geriatrics because it can be a very arduous and sad experience. But I was fascinated by the nutritional research side. And there was a moment we were working on a study looking at body composition brain function. And I really took to one of the participants and IMentioned her brain. And at her mid-50s, she looked like the beginning of an Alzheimer's brain. And in that moment, Musclecentric Medicine, which is the concept that I practiced and founded was born. And it's really that skeletal muscle is the focal point of all our health and wellness. I'm an author, wrote a New York Times best seller, called Forever Strong. And I continue to do research and work within the space and on UC patients. I do UC patients. I have a medical practice. I do UC patients. And we actually just submitted a paper that got accepted for publication on sexual function, the relationship between sexual function and muscle mass. OK, cool. Yeah. Mike. Michael Boyle, I'm a coach. I've been a coach. This is my 43rd year actually coaching. I was lucky enough to bounce right out of college and into a college job. I started out as an athletic trener. When you said to be amodist, I think I invented trening for the NFL Combine, at least as a book that says I did invent trening for the NFL Combine in the 80s. I worked in the NHL for the Boston Bruins in the 90s from 99 while I worked at BU because strength coaches were basically part-timers at that point. And worked at BU for 30 something years opened a business for profits, strengthen conditioning, probably the first one in the United States in 1997. And then in 2012, I left BU where I've kind of always had more than one job. And I jumped over to the Red Sox for two years and was able to get a world series ring out of the Red Sox in two years. And then realized that that was not very conducive with being what I really want to be a good father and a good husband and was like, OK, I'm done with pro sports. So now I coached my son and his friends. I have a son of a place called the Cross. And I'm still actually functioning as a personal trener, I guess, in some cases and as a strength and finishing coaching, in some cases. So I'm more than anything just a practitioner. And what type of clients do you see now? What's the range? The range is 11 to in their 80s. So that's our client range. We don't take kids until they're 11 because we really don't want them in the gym before that. And we'll take them as old as we can get them. But I think the oldest right now is early. Actually, no, we had 89. And that's actually my son's pediatrician just turned 89 and retired last year, believe it or not, Dr. Leeder had still been working all those times. And he's one of we have a couple of three generation families of which he's won. We have him. We have his kids. And we have his kids that are all trening in the same space. We're at, well, there are a lot of things I want to talk about that are embedded in there. So we'll come back to it and Jeff. Jeff Cavaliers. So I'm a physical therapist by trade. Sort of moved out of the clinic at an early stage. I've got a great opportunity to work in that role for the New York Metz, which was a dream country for me because I was a die-hard met fan growing up. It was like, you know, presented the dream job. And from there, sort of piggybacked into how could I continue this education of athletes on a broader platform? Was well aware of the power of the internet at that time. So I started a YouTube channel, which by luck, beyond just my family members of Scriber Early On, I got a few others that did along the way. And sort of piggybacked that into a broader message, which was, OK, it's now it's not just about trening athletes and empowering athletes, but how do I empower people who want to be more athletic, feel more athletic, move more athletically in daily life, not just in where they're going to pay to paycheck. So that became my mission, really, from that point. Now, beyond having to sort of maintain a certain level of consistency because I want to practice what I preach. I also have two young boys. I started late 40 years old. I have twins. And now I feel like I got to make sure I can keep up with them when they're ready to have me be able to run them play. So I have a lot of motivation to keep doing what I'm doing and stay in the shape I am. But I believe that it requires having understanding of injury, trening around injuries, because no matter what, as we get older, things do start to break down. And I think you have to have strategies to be able to push through that and tren around that. And I think that's where my big strength is as a PT to provide that background to help people do that more readily. Let's start with a question that probably has an answer, although I actually am a bit embarrassed to say I don't know the answer. Some wondering if what any of you guys do. Do we have a sense of what percentage of people in the United States do not practice resistance trening? Well, we know that 50% of Americans are not trening or doing any kind of exercise. I from the research that I've read up until recently, it's probably 70% do not meet the criteria for both activities. 70% in total, then, I don't think it's 70% of people who are doing some form of exercise. That's a great question. I believe that it is 70% of people in total. Got it. Okay. I can't even fact check that. IMean, that's. I can't believe it. I think it's lower in terms of if you talk about resistance trening because we were talking about lower than 30% would do resistance trening then. Yeah. Because I think 20% of people belong to a gym. If we look at home gym stats aren't very good in terms of people, their home gym person who actually has one in use is it is probably more unicorny than we think they are. And so if you start looking at that number, 20% have a membership 50% of those people use it, which now brings us down to only 10% of people in the United States are actually in a gym. And then you look at that and say, what percentage of them are resistance trening? Maybe now we're down to 5% because you see a lot more hamster wheel people who are just walking on a treadmill or walking on a stair climber or whatever it is. So I would think the numbers are pretty low. We spoke a little bit about this, but we have digital statistics that actually show people who have signed up to tren with our programs, let's say, either be at home or at the gym. The percentage of people that make it through our programs is only 20% and that's very high. That's just the industry standard. Right. Which is usually like 10% or so. So those are people who show the commitment, made a purchase, put their heart on dollars behind it, have everything they need. I would think in terms of the tools and sets and reps and what's supposed to be done. We only 10% will finish the program. So I think that's a pretty remarkable statement on why people can't. I think there's a lot more of a desire to do things, but the ability to actually follow through is where I think we're having a hardest time. So it might be then Gabrielle, your stat is 70% of 50. The reciprocal of that 30% of 50, 15. It might be that our range is somewhere from 5 to 15%. If I were going to sort of triangulate between these three data points. Again, that's kind of a hard thing to digest if you're asking thEQuestion. And I've never been sort of shy about my thesis, which is of all the pillars that we have to embark on improving our health, whether it be changing our nutrition, improving our sleep, taking the medications and supplements that can be actually quite important. I just don't see any evidence that anything trumps exercise. Purely from an actual lifespan perspective and from the standpoint of reducing the risk of chronic disease, when you then layer in the benefits it has on quality of life. IMean, it's just sort of a no brainer. So what do you think and Mike, I'm going to start with you because you've been at this the longest? What do you think explains the disconnect between the fact that we have this incredible tool that will lengthen your life, improve thEQuality of your life, make you look and feel better. And yet, five, 10 at most, 15% of people engage in it. What are the barriers? I think the biggest barrier is just life, lifestyle, kids, jobs, people thinking you really have to commit to is it getting there early? Is it going there after work? Whatever it is, it's adding hours to you day. I think that's probably the biggest barrier. In some ways, I guess that's economic, right? People don't have the economic freedom to say, hey, I can devote. That's why I laugh sometimes when I hear people talking about hours. It's a week of exercise and hours, week of cardio. I just kind of snicker in terms of if I can get someone to do two hours a week. And that's why I like your guideline more of, I think you said 75 hard minutes and I'm like 75 hard minutes now is realistic. But even 150 minutes, some of the guidelines are crazy. And then there is a lack of awareness. People, you don't know you're losing the battle until it's too late. That's what we see in our business. We see people coming in and you think, wow, thank God you got here now at 50. You're thank God you got here now at 55 because the end for you is going to be bad. But you're, and I'm not saying this to flatter you, I've been following you for a while. And you know, you and you are getting the message out in a way that it hasn't gotten out before. Because the message before was either geeky or nichey or whatever it was, but it wasn't this, hey, this is really good for you. And this is going to make you live longer and live better, which stubble bonus. IMean, you know, you want to live longer, but you don't want to, who wants a long shitty life, excuse me, I don't know if it's supposed to swear, but who we swear don't work. But do you know what IMean? Versus looking at it and saying, hey, I would like to live longer and Jeff and I talked about this, I've experienced 50 to 65 and trust me. It's not fun. The decline is rapid and the decline is significant. And I think if people like, if you don't wake up by the time you're 50, you're going to be in real trouble by the time you're 65. Yeah, real, how much of a difference do you see between men and women on this front, not from this standpoint, not from the economic standpoint, but from some other barrier to entry? Do you see differences between men and women who are who are new to resist the trening? I do. And the first thing that I want to say is you're absolutely right, there's nothing more important for maintaining health and wellness than taking care of muscle health, whether it's strength trening mobility resistance, but skeletal muscle health is really what we're talking about. Where is the disconnect from men versus women or people in general? Part of it is cultural. We live in a society of comfort. It's very easy to take the escalator or take an elevator when it comes to nutrition. We all have to eat, but we don't all have to move. I literally could sit at my house order my groceries, Amazon Prime, everything, and I never had to take more than 300 steps. Where women typically strength and strength trening has not been the focus. And we know that. Even just from a standpoint of walking to the gym. You don't see or you're starting to see it more. I really do feel like we are on the precipice of women recognizing the importance of strength and muscle, especially with new conversations around menopause and more potent conversations. But they're busy. And the other aspect of that is there are self-imposed limitations. A woman would look at a 40 pound weight and go, I can't let that. But she would look at her 40 pound toddler and go, I'm going to lift that and I'm going to carry my groceries and I got it. And that's really where I think that we can change the disconnect is re-educating the importance of muscle and then also changing the cultural conversation. Obviously, you're really fit. Has resistance trening always been something you have enjoyed. Did you grow up doing it or something you kind of came to in your 20s or beyond? I grew up doing it. But at the time I was five, I was writing 10 miles on a bike. And with the conversation around children, if we teach them good habits now, then we don't have to have them spend a lifetime outgrowing old habits because we're not raising children or raising adults. And yes, I have always trened. So I'm in the same boat and I suspect that's true for all of us. And so one of the challenges that I know I have that's a bit of a blind spot is when I'm talking to patients who are perhaps representative of the real world, which is people who are like, actually, I don't enjoy the feeling. Like, I'm sure you've all heard this. I don't like the feeling of lifting weights. It hurts. I don't like that. IMean, I can't tell you how many times I've heard that. And I appreciate the honesty that I can't relate. And it's hard when you can't actually relate to what your patient is saying. I can relate when they complain about having to watch what they eat because that's a struggle I would have. But I truly can't relate to that. So do you think that that's a function of having started early? Or do you think that there are literally just, just as we have people with different eye colors and different heights, there are truly different, as in genetic, hard wiring that would speak to an individual's appetite for that kind of discomfort? I think it's, I actually think it's the latter. I think people, there are some people who are more inclined to enjoy that type of stress. I doesn't matter how much I run. I do not enjoy the stress of running. I don't enjoy how I feel. I don't enjoy the feeling I get in my lungs when I'm sucking for air. I'll do it because I know I have to. But I do. There's no enjoyability about that. trening hard and lifting weights and pushing myself to the upmost level of effort. That's always been something I actually kind of enjoy. And I think that it can be learned, though, you can get better at it. Just like I can learn the discipline to continue to push and run when I don't want to. So after doing it for a while when you start to see results, the results actually might become motivating enough to go like, well, there is a trade off here. I'm seeing the trade off. And I think that's what when we're talking about before about people, the start being the thing that's stopping people is that the perceived level of what they're going to have to do is usually bigger than what they have to do. I've mentioned before, you can build a great body on six exercises. Literally the row squat, deadlift bench, pull up the curl, done. Like you've got everything you need. You don't have to complicate it. If you keep trying to get stronger at those exercises, now you might get bored at tears, but you can build the prerequisite foundation to get a better body. But people want sometimes to complicate it in their heads so that they have an easier out because it makes it a little easier. See, I don't have time for all that. We like in it too. I've known a few people in my life who have wanted to start businesses. I got this great idea and the gung hole, they want to do it. Then they get caught up in. I don't know if I should set an LLC or if I should do it as a corporation. I want to get my business cards. I can't figure out my logo and they're doing all that stuff. They never take the stuff of actually just starting what their service is going to be. They never get going. People do the same thing in terms of fitness. They make it bigger and they make the commitment larger so that they can almost have a safe landing spot to be like, yeah, I'm just going to get it going. It's our job to educate them as to how simple it can actually be. Simple being like what you need to do, but I think the commitment to actually showing up and doing it, that's hard. What percentage of the people that walk into your gym are coming to resistance trening for the first time? I'd say 50 if I was guessing because some of them were high school athletes and have some basic relationship with strength trening. What percentage of them are approaching intelligence, strength trening for the first time? 100%. Most of them are coming. We're going to party like it's 1999. People come in and they kind of look at us like what are you doing. I think that's where when you talk about people saying they discomfort, my first would be like, what discomfort? They shouldn't be in a discomfort. If you come in and start working with us, my whole goal, I say to somebody, you should get out of bed the next day and be like, I think I worked out. Yeah. I felt okay. I always tell everybody everything's engaged on how you if you get up in the morning and you're crippled. Yeah, we did something like I did a bad did a really bad job. You should not be uncomfortable at all. We should be able to, this is whatever, you know, slow and steady wins the race, 1% better, however you want to look at it. And if we can just layer like, I always think, I'm a big attendance guy. If I can get you show up two days a week for a year, you'll be remarkably different. And you might not have ever had, you know, many people, you know, balls to the wall or go to failure. Like we would have done none of that, zero. And yet you would look at somebody and think, wow, like if you came into our place, everybody looks younger than they do, every single person. I am 100% certain, not just of the longevity benefit, but about the physical change that people undergo because I just show you people and say, yeah, that guy's an 80 year old, two-time cancer survivor and people like he is. And I'm like, yep, they look different. And they all look different, they all look younger. And again, what is that? Is it hormonal? I don't, IMean, I would get out of my not a scientist, but I know I know that it works and I know that it doesn't have to be hard and it doesn't have to be uncomfortable. So let's talk about an example of somebody that walks in. So somebody walks in, they're 50 years old. Let's pick a male to start with, but we're going to do many case studies today. I think, because that's how people I think can sort of connect. My goal is to make sure everybody listening to this can identify with a person, theoretical person we're going to talk about. So 50 year old guy comes in. He's done a little bit of the trade-it-is-health for well thing. So he's been working himself to death. And he's had some health scare, right? He went to the doctor's office and they told him, your blood pressure is really high. There's something going on. Or he's just sort of confronted his own mortality. He's lost a parent, right? That's a big wake-up call for somebody in their 50s. Played sports in high school, but that was about it. So doesn't really do much of anything now. And somehow his land that himself in your gym, maybe he saw a he saw a Jeff on Instagram and he was like, that guy looks incredible. I got to do something. And what he's doing sounds cool. So how do you interview this guy? How do you find out what his goals are? And then how do you create that show up attendance pattern that's going to make sure he can give you a year of whatever it is two days a week? The show up attendance pattern is a big thing. And that's a really good book called Never Loose Customer again. And one of the things we talk about, we approach our business much more like a restaurant. And I got what's an unreasonable hospitality. I think is the Will Grdard book. And we try to get our, we try to tren our coaches. We refer to them coaches more than treners. Way more in the customer service skill, because we realize that we want to get the person to come back. That's the goal. Get them to come back. Get them to get through the first workout and come back. And we don't need to be people. I don't talk a few about their goals. Because I know what, I look, I think your goal is to not be the kind of sad sad sack of shit that you are right now, unfortunately. And that's, you know, we just want to get you going. So it's like, just get them on the conveyor belt and carry them through and make them, this is the one thing. And I have one of the things I wrote in my notes that CrossFit did well. They created community. You need to create community where people are comfortable. One of the, of Jeff problems that we had was people would say, I can't go there. It's all athletes because they come in. And you know, just from our marketing standpoint, there's jerseys all over the place. And it looks like a place where athletes tren, but 65% of our business, so people like us. But just getting them to be comfortable in that environment and getting them to show up again. One week, tell everybody, if you've got new people in your group, you should text them. That day, and you should text them the next day. How was it? How did you feel this morning? We're trying to build a relationship because it's, it's relationship marketing. Get the person, no like trust, all the things that you read about. Get them to know you like you trust you. Want to come back, want to be part of it. And then we can take care of the trening part, but the trening part to me is relatively easy. It's the getting that person to be consistent and to come. And all in why I call them check the box clients. I just want check the box clients. If you check the box, which means I got to Mike Boyle's twice this week, you will get better. You will feel better. They're a little bit about the programming. I want to understand a little bit about programming for us. Very assembly, lineish, very, I always talk about the idea that it's a, it's a recipe and not a menu. So no one gets to pick what they want to do. You come in and it's like, no, this is, this is how the cake is made. It's in this order. This is what you get. Don't like it. Go someplace else with it. You know, go to plant fittings. You can make your own cake. You want to come here. You do it the way we do it. Everybody form roles. Everybody stretches. Everybody does their mobility work. Everybody does dynamic warm up. Everybody throws medicine balls. Everybody does some sort of power trening. I want, I'd ply metrics, not really actually some sort of jump trening. Then they'll go and they'll lift the lift takes 36 minutes. And then they'll go and they'll do some type of conditioning work. And we'll start really, really again, really easy. Try to give them something that's very achievable. Don't get them particularly tired. And then boom, out the door. There's an hour. Hour, hour, door to door. Not hour, door to the shower. Yeah. Okay. And 36 minutes of that is the actual resistance trening. But obviously everything that's leading up to it and on the back of it is, IMean, that's clearly trening as well, right? Right. Right. And the more, I think, honestly, for the old decline, more important. We always talk about it for 15 minutes. It's more important. Getting people to roll to stretch, to start to deal with the tissue limitations. Because most everybody that comes in has something. No one comes in. Healthy, no one comes in and thinks so. I have nothing that hurts. Progress is made by advancing weight, advancing reps, advancing sets, jumping higher. IMean, personally, well, mostly by advancing weight. IMean, if you're going to look at the simplest way, it's just try to get them because again, females, right? You're just trying to get them to engage in progressive resistance. I always think with someone said, you know, I've been doing the five pound dumbbells for the last year. I'm like, oh, you're only wasted like 50 weeks. Right. You know, so our thing is just get them to pick up something that's a little heavier. Get them, you know, we try to figure out ways to, you know, could be isometric. It could be centrics. It could be, you know, we try to vary it because now we're in the, with our adult clients, we're in the entertainment business a little bit. In terms of, we've got to keep it interesting. Like you said, you can do six exercises, but we have to figure out are there 14 different versions of those six exercises that we can do to keep somebody not thinking they're doing the same thing over and over again. And so that's, if we get one complaint, it might be that it's, we're doing, we do the same exercises a lot. It's kind of like, yeah, because we do the good ones. But we don't, our adults don't touch a barbell. Okay, I was going to ask you, were there any things that are off limits? They don't barbell bench press, they don't barbell deadlift, they don't barbell squat. No one squats anyway. That's in, that's another whole conversation. But, oh, almost all of our lower body stuff is unilateral. We'll do goblet squats, basic stuff with people that are really deconditioned because we need them to be capable with two legs before they're going to be capable of capable on one leg. But it's very, I would like, I would say, people were really smart and really safe. And I think that's what you want to be if you want to keep people coming back. I think you can be really smart and not be really safe and you can be really safe and not be really good. And I think the, the mid ground is where we want to operate. So Gabriel, what's the biggest thing you're thinking about when a patient is in your practice? And they're, you know, they're coming along well on many of the other lifestyle adjustments. Let's just assume this is a person who's a lifelong cardio rat, right? So they love to run. They run two marathons a year. They've been running forever. They've got some nagging injuries, though, right? As you know, a runner, especially a female runner, the probability that her proximal hamstring isn't just torn up is pretty low, especially if she's had kids, right? So now her pelvis is tilted a little bit. How do you make the case to her? Because she's lean, right? Doesn't need to lose weight, as though that's the thing that matters. But what, how you make in the case to her, that this muscle centric approach matters? Well, she's kind of want to be active her whole life. And the healthy her, her skeletal muscle mass is, you know, there seems to be some one of a disconnect people talk about strength and then dissociate it from mass. But I believe, you know, and I have patients like this in the practice that are very lean, have always been runners, but we'll see their glucose creep up. We will see an increase in visceral fat. That can be course corrected by addressing skeletal muscle mass. And, you know, when you just think about if this woman and I, I'm thinking about one patient in particular, she's actually in her, she's around 60, she runs a hundred miles. She's an ultra. Oh, she runs, she does. She does. She does ultra. Her body composition was not nearly as good as it is now, just by adding in two days of week of resistance trening. We added in two days a week, we pulled back on some of the mileage. She's able to move more away. IMean, in this girl, she is, you know what? Hey Sharon, she listens to your podcast is a matter of fact. She is incredible by pulling back her trening and increasing her weights and being very specific about obviously I don't program, but we work with coaches that program by changing up the movement patterns. She's able to really increase her lower body strength, but also improve her labs, improve her fasting insulin, her glucose, and that and her triglycerides. And so, you know, do you think that that's purely a function of having a larger reservoir to put the glucose into? Or do you think that it also speaks to the insulin sensitivity? IMean, is it, does it even make sense to try to disentangle those two? It's a great question. I think that the larger reservoir is important for a number of reasons. The metabolic component of muscle, the, you know, as we all know, muscles, the primary cypher glucose metabolism, also free fatty acids at rest. However, it enables her to have more dietary flexibility because when we think about nutritional sciences and we think about triglycerides in sling glucose, what we're really looking at is the health of skeletal muscle, metabolic syndrome, the markers of metabolic syndrome are the markers of healthy skeletal muscle. Does it her activity improve insulin sensitivity? Yes, but her running is she's going to be very insensitive as is, but it's really that metabolic component of having healthy skeletal muscle mass from what I believe. So Jeff, you're working with people a lot of times at the opposite end of the spectrum, right? You're looking, people are coming to you often because they want to have 7% body fat. IMean, they, and it might be that they're, you know, they're an actor. And like, they're about to do a role where they kind of have to look a certain way. Alternatively, it might be an athlete who probably doesn't need to be at 7% body fat, but might want to be at some extent. So you're kind of dealing with the other end of the spectrum. Is it safe to say that these people that are coming to you are so long on motivation, that that's not really an issue anymore? Yeah, when your goal starts to become 7% body fat, I'm assuming that you're probably not 35 or 40, you know, with aspirations to be there. These guys are usually coming in 12, 13, 14, 15% body fat with one desires to want to get leaner for whatever those reasons, like you said, whether it be a role or I always tell like the athletes say have to be very conscientious if not falling in love with what they see in the mirror because ultimately they're not getting paid to look that way unless they're, IMentioned sometimes we work with WWE athletes who do get paid to look a certain way and perform a certain level. But, you know, the people that have to be conscientious of the level that they are, you know, what level of life out there are said they have a certain role. IMean, they are usually pretty good at being able to dial in. They've often times done this multiple times before too. So they've done this and had a history being able to get down and they still have a ability to sustain it. I think that it's always going to be achieved through nutrition. That level of look is a nutritional consistency. It does not has nothing to do with trening, has nothing to do with exercise you're doing, doesn't matter what split your following, it doesn't matter any of the, any of that. All you have to do is be able to remain very consistent with nutrition. And the level that you're able to get down to is just a reflection of how many sacrifices you're willing to make. You know, you want to still drink a couple of times a week? That's fine. Just you're going to have to bump it up a notch or two because you really need to be able to make some cuts. Now, I do not believe. I don't do it myself. I do not make sacrifices to the point where I'm eating poil chicken and broccoli. Steam broccoli. I don't do that. I eat meals that are good meals. I eat, you sell it. I eat. I can eat a meal that anybody else can eat. But I'm very disappointed and not strened from those meals. And so your ability to kind of stay that way is going to determine how low you're able to get and how low you're able to stay. I always say if you're eating, let's say five times a day and that's a seven day week, it's 35 meals. If you can stay 90% of our above, you don't have to be perfect. If you can stay 90% of our above on those meals, you're looking aT3 meals in a week that aren't perfect. Now, I'm not saying to go hog wild and go down to buffalo wild wings and start eating everything you can. Saying that they just aren't perfect meals. Your body almost completely ignores those. It just overlooks it. You keep going and your consistency overrides that and you're able to get to levels that you weren't able to achieve before. But people can't sustain it because either they make it too difficult. Or as I said, it is actually difficult because getting yourself to the gym for one hour, five times a week, two times a week, whatever that might be, even the 36 minutes. That's one level of commitment. It's what you do in the other 23 hours of the day that determines your look because that is an nutritional responsibility that'll allow us to have the ability to manage well. How well do you think that's understood? I'd say that for all of you. This is a question for everyone. When someone looks at a person and says, look at that man, look at that woman, look at how jack they are, do you think that the average person appreciates the role of nutrition in that? Or do you think most of them assume, IMean, that person must be spending 12 hours a week lifting weights? No. I'm sorry to jump in, but it's such a source spot for me. People always think exercise first. In my experience, they always think exercise first. To the point where I have people that will say to me, if they see my abs or something, they'll say, oh, what exercise did you do for that? You know, they pat there. Usually in big belly that they're patting, it's not exercise. You know, they're less of this. If you were to get the reverse circle, if you were to set up that more of these, pushing yourself away from the table, IMean, no, I don't think they have an appreciation for it at all. And their instinct tells them it's exercise movement. Would you guys share that sentiment? I would totally agree. And what's so fascinating is the data supports also the synergistic effect of resistance trening activity and a calorie control diet, which if people could connect the dots that it is not simply trening, but to be fair, trening is the most potent stimulus to muscle. But you cannot, what do they say? You cannot out tren about dieting? IMean, that's true. I feel like you could when you were 14. Like when I was 14, I did tren six hours a day. IMean, I was running 13, 15 miles every morning before the day. You know, before my workouts, they're like, it was just and all I did was eat. But I was like a garbage disposal. Breakfast was a bowl of a not a bowl, a box of fruit loops and a large supper wearable. You could put the whole box in the bowl. You just didn't matter, but but something changes when you're 20 and you can't do that anymore. When you're 13 and and younger, you're very anabolic muscle, the balance between what drives muscle changes as we age. When you're young, you're very driven by insulin. For example, my daughter, who is five, she could have five grams of protein. She doesn't need to have a meal threshold of 30 to get an animal response. Because when you are younger and you are still growing, you're very anabolic. After you are done growing, you want to shift from that the insulin usage to the stimulus, which then now exercise becomes much more important. Oh, I want to talk about that. But I want, so I'm going to come right back to that, but I want to hear Mike's point on nutrition and then come back to that because that's actually a very interesting question. But well, think about it. I think about it in a simpler sense. We go from being extremely active to extremely sedentary. Suddenly you get into your 20s and you get a job and you're commuting and maybe eight hours or 10 hours, you might be sitting on your last 10 hours a week, or 10 hours a day every day. And then you might go to a bar with your friends after. And I don't think people, they don't sense the shift. I think our problem is that the shift is happening and then people don't pick up on it until it's too late. Suddenly you look down and you soften, think, oh my God, what happened? I gained 40 pounds and I'm in horrible shape and I'm completely sedentary and then then they think, oh, I have to do something about this. But then they tend to revert back to whatever information they might have had and think about what's your relationship with exercise in high school. If you're not an athlete, you have a terrible relationship with exercise in high school because it's something that you may to do. It's not fun. You probably don't understand strength trening. So you go to the gym. I saw a great presentation one time at a seminar. I figured someone did it in New York and they brought in. They said I'm going to bring in the most important person in fitness and they brought in a woman who was a member and how to do a half hour talk. And she talked about not, you know, just having the money to join the gym and learning how to tren. She said, I followed this pretty girl who seems to know all the machines around. She said, now I would stay like two machines behind her. So she didn't realize that I was following her, but I would watch what she did and then she'd moved to more machines and then I do what she did. And then you just realize like this is how people are learning. Like we all learned to exercise, somewhere along the way, somebody created kind of that initial imprint on us and most people's initial imprint is really bad. What I learned to do when I was in my teens was just more on it in terms of the way I would look at it now. I would tell everybody and that's what I say the reason I say the things that I say is because I've done everything conceivably wrong that you can do. And I have all the orthopedic maladies to show for it. What do you guys do? Do you guys have nutritionists in your in your business that also help people when they're also trying to lose weight in addition to improved strength and other metrics? We've tried a whole bunch of different ideas and none of them have ever really stuck to be honest. We still have another one going right now. One of the guys that works for us is trying to do nutritional consults and truthfully we've never found one that we felt really was sticky that a lot of people would do it. But we deal in the most basic nutritional information that we can with people in terms of hey and we want you to hydrate better. We want you to eat more protein. That's why I said that's why your message is great. Like your book is perfect. It's like okay if we can just get people to eat not even more protein than my eat protein. We still have people say what's protein. It adults you don't really even understand the the most. Again we're we're so sometimes up here and then realizing that our consumer is somewhere even our intelligent consumer is weighed down here with these incredible you said disconnect by a disconnect written down incredible disconnects, incredible misconceptions. I have women well I don't want to start lifting because I don't want to get too big and I'm kind of like trust me buddy that's that is not what we're worried about right now but they're still trying they're right exactly you're trying like hell and you're you know whatever 125 pounds is something like 100 or 10. 100. 100. You're killing you but you're in your case. Often the gym to build muscle it's not it's not easy to do it's not easy to do for anybody so easy to do for males but we see too much there were use right and then we see too much responders like you look at NFL guys IMean I think there's people that are that are way higher responder levels to another people and I think we look at responders or we look at like when I was a kid coming up I was looking at people taking drugs but I didn't know they were taking drugs I thought I thought I could look like I can remember I'd go to body building shows I can remember looking at boy or co you know and thinking you know I can look like that in Frank's scene I can look like that and then you know suddenly in my 20s realizing that these guys were taking drugs and that was why they look like that but I spent years frustrated why don't I why don't I look that good I'm doing all the right stuff so I think this the that's why these things are good because trying to get people to see reality I guess Jeff you talked a minute ago about five meals a day so let's double click on that a little bit most people think I thought I'm supposed to have three meals a day or sometimes just one if I'm intermittently fasting so talk about the five meals per day yeah IMean I actually I know a lot of people that intermittent fast and I actually do well with that the thing that I think why more more people do better with more frequent meals is simply because they tend to get hungry throughout the day and they don't have good management of hunger and then they're for portion control and they don't have willpower to sort of wait to that next meal so if they are hungry in the mid morning and they have nothing sort of pre-planned or prepared for a snack they'll just go into the kitchen at work and just start picking and grazing and that's where a lot of the calories throughout the day are consumed not in those three main meals but in the grazing that happens because they can't make it to the next meal so I just found it it's been easier especially from the athletic world these guys want to fuel more often so they want something in between their main meals but in the world of just the regular individual who wants to be more disciplined with an nutrition it's easier to actually program in to additional snacks nothing big but just snacks in between that I always think should still focus and center around a protein because again I believe that protein it should be the cornerstone of every one of our meals and snacks because we don't get enough that's enough just to keep somebody a probably more metabolically stable to get to the next meal but also it starts to teach them the willpower to do it so if you're sitting there you eight breakfast is eight o'clock and then now your next meal is let's say 12 or 12 30 when it's 10 o'clock if you get hungry and you have a snack there you don't have to get through four hours of willpower that you don't have right now to get to that lunchtime you only have to get through two hours and of those two hours you weren't hungry the whole time anyway only the last half hour so you're teaching yourself willpower over the course of an hour and a half and then you know I actually have dropped back a little bit to where I'm not necessarily doing five meals in a day now maybe do four but I have you walk me through a day in in the life for you so if you're not not on a day when you're here and traveling so you're at home you your first meal is what time it depends on you know weekend or not but usually 7 30 to clock and what does that meal and usually it's oatmeal egg whites but again not like my oatmeal I we call pumpkin oatmeal like it's oatmeal it's it's walnuts it's a splendid brown sugar or a sore brown sugar if you don't care about you know the the calorie the the calories in it whipped cream but whipped cream on top pumpkin IMix inside it like it's good like it tastes good and it's something that I actually enjoy if it wasn't I could never just eat boiled oatmeal for the rest of my life and then egg whites because you're just trying to cut the calories no you want the protein without the total calorie the egg yeah although I'll mix in I would like just the hotel here all the eggs I just the prepared eggs here because they're there because I have my egg whites and I keep them you know you know frozen egg whites so I can use I don't have like I don't want to start cracking full eggs to put into a little bit simplistic when it comes to my nutrition because I know what works for me but I have no problem with mixing one or two full eggs I think you should people should and then I'll have milk with that or I'll have even a protein shake along with that so they're not small meals either okay that will take me through now I'll actually go to lunchtime in the past I would have had like another small snack I'd have some pretzels and jerky or something like just to look at some protein and then some carbohydrates then I'll go to lunchtime at lunch I'll have either funny because I'll either have a chicken or a grilled chicken wrap with vegetables and yogurt that would be my preferred meat some fruit that would be my preferred meal or I'll have cereal because I am still a cereal addict and we have lots of cereal choices but I try not to choose the cinnamon toast crunch that might sound for furs and I'll have something else but I'll have cereal and yogurt just how much protein are you getting in that meal then? From I'll have usually protein shake there too so I have my protein shake that's 30 grams plus the the yogurt another 8 to 12 grams and then in the cereal a little bit more milk too so I get an up protein from the meal it's just a little bit less preferential in terms of the where the carbs come from I don't really get crazy about the carbs I just try to pick lower sugar carbs I try not to be I try to be a little bit more selective when it comes to that but and then you do an afternoon snack around that then after an snack would be the same would be the same type of thing as whatever the first snack was in terms of I like jerky so I'll have some jerky just pick at it and again some some type of crunchy food just like a like a pretzel be easy for me to have a handful of pretzel then I will have my dinner which actually well actually before that I have another protein shake after I tren so if I tren it will you tren in the afternoon typically randomly I'll tren at five before I finish up work randomly but most often than that I wind up have my shake and then I'll go tren it night like late late late so my whole thing is not I think we have an input into the sleep issue we do have input this sleep issue but I'm not having I could fall right asleep after my dinner the issue for me is that when I get home my kids have been waiting to see me all day and IMake myself available to them we play we run we go on the pool whatever it might be and then they go to bed a little bit late you know we have a busy house holds so four dogs it gets a lot to put everybody down but they go to bed around nine nine thirty and then when I finally get to the gym it could be ten thirty so now I'll go and I'll tren I don't like to tren on full stomach I hate the feeling so I'll opt to have my dinner afterwards but that does mean that the dinner could come at eleven thirty sometimes you can 12 o'clock at night and that is not recommended for everybody listening but like that I also I do thing I could dispel the myth though I do not believe in the don't need after six at all I don't your body especially if you're carrying a good amount of muscle which is why we want to can utilize those calories can utilize that protein can you like those carbs throughout the day provide you know whenever they do come in and I don't think that just magically eating after six is the death melt that having low body fat so that's not part of my equation the only part of the equation for me is I could get like it's a little late in the day to be it might be impacting your sleep more than anything else it's clearly not impacting you know your fuel partitioning no and I've been blessed to have the ability to hit the pillow and fall asleep within minutes and stay asleep because I don't sleep very long I sleep five to six hours five to six hours but my quality is sleep is usually very high I don't wake up I don't wake up when the time to wake up in the morning so I want to kind of go back to what you were talking about a second ago because it opened the door towards protein in kids but before we do that maybe just for people listening who have been maybe not paying attention to some of the stuff we've we've all been talking about elsewhere around protein consumption what type of guidance are you giving your patients on on protein is there any difference between men and women and are you differentiating it based on age age yes men and women no when we talk about protein typically we talk about one thing but it's 20 different amino acids nine of which are essential we actually eat for those nine essentials there is a lot of nuance around protein in general and what it does each of those amino acids do something different for example losing which is I know our favorite amino acid is critical for muscle for muscle protein synthesis but something like three-ning is important for mucin production in the gut when you are eating a lower protein diet the organs well I suppose I should start with why we eating protein we need about 250 grams a day we recycle much of that we don't eat that a portion of that probably the largest portion maybe 75% of that goes towards this real tissue for turnover and maintenance maybe 25% of that goes to muscle but we have to continue to get these essential amino acids so that we can maintain rebuilding and repairing which the efficiency of that changes as we age anabolic resistance protein efficiency decreases those are or that is one reason why we need dietary protein just to maintain the tissue integrity and the structure women and men do not need at this time from what we know in the literature a different amount of protein is not sex specific it's body weight specific the minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be a hundred grams at a minimum men or women that would be the starting place because if you are say 115 pound woman and you are following the RDA at pointy grams per kg what is that 45 grams of protein or so that's that's not enough part of the failure there is that we have to recognize protein is different amino acids and so when we talk about muscle health we need to get enough Lucy to support muscle health and that is probably the recommendations to the three grams a day it's probably for optimal health around 8 or 9 and how do you get folks to think about that right which is because now all of a sudden you get into dramatic differences in terms of protein source so if you I don't really think we should go down the PDCAS pathway necessarily for everybody today but but just in terms of understanding that foods are created different right so you can look at an ingredient label of something that says 30 grams of protein you can look at another thing that says 30 grams of protein but they don't list out the amino acids they don't tell you that this one has more Lucy or more methionine and this one doesn't but there are certain themes that we know right we know that dairy derived protein beef derived protein and egg derived protein seem to have the highest amount of the right amino acids or let's just say the more important amino acids so when you're saying to that person hey I want you to eat a minimum of 100 grams per day does it come with the caveat of assuming you're getting your protein sources here and what you're pointing out is protein quality the there are plant sources of protein and our animal sources of protein and just from hard fast biological numbers we consider a high quality protein to be eggs and dairy fish chicken any of the animal source proteins the lower quality proteins would come from plants when we educate our patients in the practice we have them choose and we really don't focus on plant proteins as a source of protein while they do have amino acids and certainly a combination is wonderful we like to focus on plant foods for fiber and let's say we take out soy but we really want to focus on high quality animal source foods because listen it makes up let's say it makes up 30% of our diet nearly 100% of our calcium are bio-available iron and zinc selenium come from these animal base foods and while we talk about protein we should also talk about nutrient quality whether someone decides to get their protein from plants or animals it isn't just about protein it is also about those nutrients of concern for women like bio-available iron for kids bio-available iron nutrients that primarily come from animal sources I just think are really important and again nothing wrong with plant-based proteins but we plant for fiber and fight on nutrients and so presumably you have some patients as I do who are vegetarians in some cases it's ethical religious whatever the reason is what are some of the things that you and let's go one step further and let's go because at least veg most vegetarians will at least be able to consume the dairy portion but when you if you have someone who's vegan and who is purely looking at animal sources of protein how much of an upil battle is that well it's the challenge is the carbohydrate consumption so I was listening to what Jeff was saying and who's absolutely right he could have you were saying that you have maybe a hundred grams of carbs and you have no problem with it and me on did you say that well IMean you probably calculated it in your head but yeah that's that I can do that for some of my him who is super active he is able to dispose of those carbohydrates but a normal person our carbohydrate threshold if you calculate the disposal from skeletal muscle organ systems it is not much it is about 40 grams in a two-hour period anything above say 40 or 50 grams in a non exercising adult will result in a robust insulin response we do not want that we do not want to be utilizing insulin to help support glucose we want to use activity or have the health of our skeletal muscle be able to balance that and I suppose what we're talking about is carbohydrates and unless you are highly active like you are then we also have to think about the carb portion of this and designing a diet typically for us we think a lot about a one-to-one ratio of protein to carbs at amel depending let me think about that in myself that's pretty tough you have to be pretty deliberate about withholding carbohydrates and IMean I'm probably eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight so it's not like I'm skipping on protein yeah maybe IMaybe I I don't know I would I would you're not a ballically healthy and that goes back to this hierarchy of how we do you think I think I think that's a longer leash if you're active absolutely when we make protein decisions and the practice when we're designing a diet it's age it's activity and it's metabolic health if you are metabolically healthy then you can tolerate there's no problem right carbs aren't the enemy but once we find out someone is metabolically unhealthy which you can see from blood work then you have to begin you know you don't change your protein amount because as your restrict calories you keep protein the same or higher because you must protect lean tissue and also it's it's better IMean we've seen this in the data for a lot of people. What about overweight patients so if you let's say you're a patient who's let's say it's a man 250 pounds and I know we're going to talk about body fat because I'm actually super interested in what you what you have to say about that but let's just assume you did a dex on this guy you don't need to do a dex it by the way you can look at it you can look at them you know you know this guy's carrying way too much fat but the dex it just gives you some numbers the guys 40 percent body fat okay so when you're trying to tell him how much protein to eat are you doing it based on an ideal body weight or are you doing it based on his 250 pounds that he's carrying around. It's target body weight okay so you're going to say I'm targeting for you 16 percent body fat let's calculate how much lean tissue you have it what would be your ideal body weight at 16 percent body fat and that's what we're going to target you have. Yeah. Okay. I want to totally pivot and talk about something that you already brought up Mike and in this speaks to how these round tables get totally messy because I have not done with nutrition I want to come back but I don't I don't I don't want to forget this idea of you in a lateral lower extremity trening. So this is a topic that's near and dear to my heart so I grew up in apologies for people in the audience who've heard me talk about this but this is just context for you. I grew up powerlifting was one of the things I did on this side it actually wasn't a sport IMean boxing was my life but I became hooked on being in the gym and the gym I belonged to was a dungeon it was an old man dungeon two stories underground with no windows and I didn't realize how lucky I was at the time but this happened to be like the power trening the power lifting epicenter right so you basically just had a bunch of middle-aged men who were machines like you know these are even the guys that weighed like you know everybody could bench press two times their body weight squaT3 times their body weight deadlifT4 times their body weight so that's what I grew up doing I was like we bench we squat we deadlift and we do it really really heavy and not surprisingly over time like I started to get injured right I injured my back by the time I was in medical school and kind of decided like I don't know if this is worth the risk anymore like I don't really see that I need to have four plates on my back squatting anymore and almost through necessity had to discover single leg trening so I want you to say more about that experience and help somebody because I have patience who really can't believe that you can achieve optimal lower body hypertrophy without a barbell on your back or without picking a barbell up off the floor yeah which is amazing I had same background as you I got into competitive power lifting in college just because I was no longer an athlete and I was looking for an outlet and it was like okay I'm good at lifting weights so I started competing in power lifting started hurting myself back problem shoulder surgery and athletic trening background get to college as a strength coach start to see the same things I've got athletes with back problems everybody's back problems seems to come down to one thing back squatting every kid because we weren't we didn't run deadlift we were the old school like squat pants power clening because that was the football mentality at that time but the people with back pain had it always related right back to back squat we started to look at that and think okay if we're doing something that we know is hurting 20% of our population should be continue to do that for a while we had to because the football coaches mandated it but when I got to the point where I was kind of fully in control I said one we're not gonna do this anymore and then we went the unilateral route sorry when you say football coaches are you saying even at the level of the NFL at every level the football coaches you know they want to know how many guys can bench press 400 pounds how many guys can squad 500 pounds how many guys can you know there it's it's still a very old school mentality it's getting better and if the level is getting much better because it's still in the combine for any of thEQuarterback yeah everybody's still venturing and still benching in 225 as a strength test they do an endurance test for strength we could talk about the the foolishness of the combine too but that's another the same combine that you know the balance and I helped people for yes it is not I always tell people it's like getting the copy of the SAT and all you gotta do is cheat you just gotta practice the event practice thEQuestions you know the test you know the answers practice you'll get good at it we developed that thought process but so we started going just down this sort of you lateral rabbit hole and then we've but then you start getting into the biggest thing that people have done is just when you get into the bilateral deficit research you're stronger on one leg you have more strength capability on one leg than you do want to because you body there's and there's really so interesting sorry to interrupt you Mike it's so interesting how difficult it is to appreciate that when you're not doing unilateral exercises and people don't try it and then it's very dogma oriented because we we've all grown up around kind of the squat poems and all these things about you know king of all lifts and all this bullshit that people spout and I'm always kind of spouting the anti of that but the reality is we started seeing when we first started testing is what happened was one of my assistants this guy Jeff Oliver who's been in early cross for 25 years said to me if we could test you one leg it's strength would you stop squatting and I was like yes so then we said okay let's try to figure out how we test so we started making up these sort of half-assed one leg squat test you know doing red max is in different split squat variations and things but when we did it the results blew us away in terms of the difference between the sides blew you away uh no the the ability to be stronger than we were or as strong as we were bi-ladderly blew us away so we had guys the first year I did it with my hockey team 2006 or 7 somewhere in there and everybody could split squat what they could front squat same amount so if I did a back split squat test everybody could back split squat 300 pounds was a 300 pound front squat everybody that could back split squat you know predicts a project out to a 400 pound max was a 400 front squat right across the board it was exactly dead even one leg to two legs and then people would say that's because they're using their back like they were trying to cope with all these rationales for why it wasn't but the numbers were just glaring you know then we went to a split squat test and we had one kid who did uh did 240 pounds for 20 reps which you know if you'd buy ladder old it out it's 480 for 20 he's a 200 pound hockey player 190 pound hockey player they just the numbers started to smack us in the face a little bit and I started to look and then you start looking at the bi-ladder like you look at the grip strength research bi-ladder deficit right hand plus left hand will be more than combined two hand you look at you know they've done it with leg extension they've done it with a bunch different things and what they realized I think this is my own theory but we neurologically know that we are unilateral if I said to you try to dunk a basketball I'm going to guarantee you right now I'm going to jump off one foot you're going to jump off your left foot you're going to holdbol in your right hand everybody here's going to do it except 10% of us are lefty so 10% of us are going to grab it in our left hand but everybody knows if I say to you throw a baseball I always say to somebody if I say throw a baseball everyone has to throw it if I say throw two baseballs somebody would think I'm not really sure I'm supposed to do this right now we understand neurology and then we deny it when we start strengthening because we wanted to deny it and I think it's actually limiting I think I've said to people I think I think I spent a lot of time probably making people less athletic at the higher levels one of the things that you you you think that you did that in the past and the past yeah because we had some of our really some of our super elite like and I felt wide receiver type guys would be very resistant to really heavy backsquats and deadlifts and things like that and they would always they were like cats it like I don't I don't like it it don't like it it makes my backs so I don't feel right I don't want you realize is you are probably dampening their nervous system a little bit because the analogy I always use if you think like the mountain the guy from game with drones he was a nice landing basketball player decent mid level i's landing basketball player when he became one of the world's strongest men he was a worse basketball player and I can remember I went to used to go to powerlifting meets and I'd look at the powerlifting meets and I would be like nobody here looks at let no one and then I'd go to Olympic lifting meet and I'd be like these cats are athletic like these guys can they can jump and they can sprint and they've got big traps and big asses they look so they looked more like what I wanted my athletes to look like whereas powerlifting it was sort of like a semi-mobile refrigerator imitation you know just people lumbering and even little people lumbering around a little people lumbering just as bad as the big people and then you go to attract me and go watch the sprints and the jumps and you're like wait that's what I want that's what I'm trying to get everybody too so I became a big Charlie Francis guy in the 90s you know you start looking at this and saying okay let's look at how the fastest people in the world the people at jump the highest in the world what are they doing for trening and again you started to see more unilateral work you know lateral plier working lateral strength work so it was sort of this this rabbit hole that I just I went down and never came back from you know it's interesting Charlie Francis of course a lot of people will sort of just have a sort of negative thought associated with him because the association with Ben Johnson but I but I don't think a lot of people realize his coaching genius can you say a little bit more about Charlie who sadly passed away I think due to cancer kind of young right yeah kind of young I never luckily one of the guys I said someone said you know anybody you never met in the field that you would have liked to have met and I said yeah I wish I had met him at that time but when you think about he developed world class printers in Canada almost all of them from Toronto great at Toronto area the probability of doing that is really really low and so you think and he was so far ahead of his time if you read Charlie Francis trening system right now is originally published as Charlie Francis trening system then after he got in trouble they've republished it as trening for speed so it's the same book you can just get it on the internet but he's talking about recovery regeneration massage now this book is written in the 80s you would read it right now and think my god this thing was written a month ago by guy IMean he was using words that I had not seen yet it was the first time I encountered even the word so I started to think that's we started to do massage work with our athletes we started to form rolling because we realized we can't get massage done for every single athlete but we can get everybody to form roll and he was always talking about tissuEQuality and tissue resets and the therapist that they'd bring the heralds excuse me they would bring therapists to trening camps that they were doing and it was so forward thinking IMean imagine now 45 years ago right I guess you know 35 years ago whatever it was it was a long time ago and he was so far ahead of the field frighteningly and to the point where it's still really I still encourage people to read this stuff now I started reading I read everything he wrote I even they had I read speed trap which was more about what had happened to them in the process and then I read this Angelissa Jango who's one of his apprentice wrote a book I read that book I you're just read every thing I could consume about Charlie Francis to see with you know is there another little nugget of something that I'm missing and I guess from the track and field thing I never looked back I never looked and said you know I don't care what power left is doing I don't really I care what Olympic lift is doing I really athletically and then we started to look at rehab and we realized that from a rehab standpoint it was all unilateral and it was all what they were calling functional and it was all what they were calling closed chains suddenly it just to meet all it all made sense it all kind of it all came together for me at that point in time so and we've been doing that for like said 30 years so Jeff in your world trening people the way you are what are the exceptions to those rules for you when are the times when you're saying or are you saying now I still see that the risk reward tradeoff for someone in a certain position is there for you know a backs what barbell backsquat or you know a sumo dead lift or something like that how do you how do you think about that I think that if there's there's always the argument of can you tren see a lot of times and especially in Mike's world too when when people come to him they've already learned bad mechanics for squats so they're bad squatters when they come to him so they're already demonstrating habits that are going to totally break down their body by continuing to just pile more and more I think when you can intervene with somebody in early age and teach them by a mechanically how to squat better which Mike and I have discussed before at length like it's not it's not easy to really dissect that lift it's a complicated lift there's a lot of moving parts so you have to be willing to spend a lot of time with that person to teach them from the ground up in those instances when you can I think you could probably teach somebody how to squat more safely that doesn't take away the fact that if you can do it and not have to load that way and especially as we talk about the aging population then the benefits might still right away the risks in terms of this is better than single egg squat but I think that you can probably teach that lift but you have to be willing to teach that person to either unlearn the bad things that they've already learned or if they're starting out early learn how to do it more properly and you could do it in stages two you can by squatting two a box you can buy a mechanically fix a lot of people's issues because having the target or the safety net behind them is enough to sort of get them to actually move in a better way but you don't want to tren that way you know I without ultimately going to a freestanding squat if they're going to be ultimately you know playing sports and needing to do something like let's say an offensive lineman coming off the line but again I'm actually in Mike's camp in terms of the value of of single egg trening we do so much single egg trening with athletes and acts because I believe that it's not just the unloading that we get from the single egg squat it's just as Mike said how we're wired how we're actually preferred to move and I get I took some shit along the way because anytime you pick up a leg from the ground it's functional trening and then all of a sudden that has was a cool thing at one time it's not a cool thing anymore but you do pick up your leg and yes that's functional for a reason so I think doing lunging and step ups we did we built a whole program and with the mats around step ups and lunging because we knew how important that was and again we did other forms of bilateral lifting we would do trap bar deadlifting to to clen up some of the issues that people had I always say that if you want to learn how to squat take a dumbbell hold it between your hands or kettlebell and just let the ball let the dumbbell the weight go straight down to the ground it will put you by a mechanic you know most of the perfect position because you're just letting the the weight drop straight down your center of mass that's a great tool for teaching what people was supposed to feel like but when you then go put the bar in their back as soon as the but they don't have thoracic mobility all the things that they're lacking start to change that that dramatically from just you think it's the same exercise because you're going straight up and down but it's a very different exercise because now when your hands are up and again thoracic extension is more required they don't have that and the whole system gets thrown out of whack so it's it's done it's still done in certain circumstances and you're always going to still encounter people who I don't know Mike might just tell them to go to a different gym but like you know there's going to be people who will insist that they still have the squat and they want to learn how to do it and do it more safely and I think having you know the the the willingness or the ability to still coach them through that is important but because of guys like Mike and because hopefully stuff that I talk about like there people are less reliant on those as the as the only things that they can do yeah I you know I'm a little conflicted less less so now but I think up until up until about 18 months ago I was still squatting and deadlifting regularly though with much less weight right I wasn't I was never going below five reps and frankly targeting eight to twelve most of the time and my rationale for it was the following I viewed it as an amazing audit of my chain so I filmed every set so I have a tripod in the gym my phone would sit on it I would from the warm-up set to the last set every set was filmed and my recovery was watching the video and the truth of the matter is despite that about one in every eight workouts I just screwed something up and I would spend the nexT4 days in pain and I'd be sitting in the shower running hot water on my back was it anything catastrophic no not at all I got my erector's just flared up it wasn't the end of the world but what it said to me was IMean people watching us might be offended by the statement but I'm getting old I'm getting old you look great for 25 and as I think all of us would agree the name of the game when you're old is never getting out of the game like there's nothing more devastating it's one thing to get injured when you're 20 you're gonna be back but if a 55 year old never mind a 70 year old the 55 year old has to take a year off because of some devastating injury it's really difficult to come back and so I very sadly decided that the risk that I was going to do something dumb and actually I'll tell you the straw that broke the camel's back I used to have a lot of tire flipping so I used to have this 450 pound tire and my absolute favorite activity was how many there were different games you would play so you would love the gamification of it right it's like how many times could you flip how long you'd take you to flip it 25 times or something like that and so when IMoved to Austin I didn't have my tire because it was out in San Diego so of course I had my assistant call and find a guy who could find the closest tire to 450 pounds we found one that was 407 pounds the guy deliver he's like what the hell do you want this thing for? I start flipping it again and my friend who's a really awesome PT was watching me and he goes have you ever hurt yourself doing that and I said never because you are you are in a remarkable amount of of of Lumbar flexion right now and I would just be careful like you know that the Lumbar spine does not like to be in this position when it is that loaded and I was like you know he's right like I can absolutely see how under fatigue I could just you know do something too much so anyway it's sorry for the ramble but the point was I basically decided as much as I love this exercise as much as it's a great audit I you know this I'm learning I'm I love the idea of critiquing my form between sets I just sort of decided the risk reward tradeoff wasn't there for me do you think that sort of a do you think that's a mistake do you think that I should have stuck with it and made other modifications? No I don't I think because you have these options I don't think there's a compromise in the benefits you're getting from a single way tren like I said there's probably more benefits that you're getting from that I will I'm right in that same boat with you I spent probably from 35 to 45 wanting so badly to get a why have bad knees and I end that probably comes from my flat feet but I I want things so badly to not have to squat because every time I did it would it was just it would kill my my knees the next day would be horrifying we paint in pain and my love back with ultimately why not taking on that same run I know exactly the same spot you're talking about but yeah I kept telling myself but you have to squat you have to squat like it's just what we do we have to squat like so I would try to get past the point of the things that were bothering me and I would ultimately go back onto the bar and squat again until I you know through what I'm liking others said like no you know it really doesn't it's not a requirement to get what I'm trying to get out of it I'm trying to have virtue for my legs I'm trying to get stronger hips I'm trying to try to get a stay injury free and so my favorite exercise at that point became a reverse lunge so I'll do it with a barbell or I'll do it with dumbbells and honestly it's a little easier with the barbell because I'm not the word about the grip of holden's dumbbells and so reverse lunge meaning you're starting in a standing position and you're doing a step back step back and you I've seen a great video on this where you emphasize how wide you're stepping out yeah you need because you don't want that's the thing and this is where some of the functional trening stuff comes up like oh it's a balance exercise that's the best not a strength exercise the balance exercise it's not a balance exercise if you can't keep your feet wide enough you can all you have to do is just step back and out you'll maintain a wide enough base for you still have support and then it's a strength exercise if you're looking a lot away I remember where I was when I watched that video of you and I went to the gym that day and I was like I've never thought about taking a wider stance IMean I added 40 pounds right and I think it's also my second big tip on that exercises as you go down I taught I call like screwing yourself in the place but you know you're really not you just take a little bit of a rotation towards the front leg so you're just taking a tour so you take a little bit over the front leg it will basically stabilize that front leg a little bit more and then get with with enough contact I think what do we when we doing those reverse split like situations is about 75% on the front leg or so yeah about yeah so you're still got 25% going back on that back leg and that's enough to support you and and make sure that you're not falling all over the place but that that is my favorite way and I recommend people all the time to do that lunging forward is fine but people that have knee issues like myself and that doesn't feel too good either so it's like why not do it this way because this is a safer way that it has less orthopedic issues for people and it's still great you can go pretty heavy if you're going to use a barbell there too so that's my favorite stuff too and since I learned that there were other things I can do and not compromise whatever it was that I was chasing at the time I have since sort of backed away from that and you can ask Jesse every now and then I'll go back and try again and inevitably in a few days I start things start you know clicking in my hip or things that didn't pop or click before and I do believe that there's a path away from that so you're really for you before I want to talk about your patience but personally because we're all telling personal stories what have you changed in your trening resistance trening specifically as you've aged as you've increased wisdom whatever whatever the case might be I wish I could say I get less hurt before we started the podcast I said that I had a right torn hamstring and a proxmole it is proxmole and quad fem which is very unusual glute meat and glute men that I love to overachieve I thought it was a great idea about eight years ago to keep up with my husband who my husband was a former seal who's now at bailer I thought we would do a 50 hour event and I was not physically capable or prepared to do that it's just another Tuesday for him and I tore my left hamstring on a sprint since that time I think that it changed my ability to squat I kept going back to this quad I am not able to do that at all now but that changed probably I don't know six months ago I stopped squatting six months ago I also found out that I hip dysplasia all of these injuries all of these patterns you know as I think is someone who is listening or watching this if something doesn't feel right you talk about taking that white step back if someone is doing something that people will say okay this is this squat pattern but it doesn't feel right to you I had been squatting in a much two-nero position for someone that has hip dysplasia and so I ground out my hip and but I'm somewhat stubborn for those people that know me I just kept doing it because I believe that we should squat needless to say I'm now in a position where I am doing only single leg movements and really trying to pull back probably be doing some PRP for this now new injury and I say that all about someone in a roundabout way that as we age like you said Peter the worst thing that you can do is stop you know and I think about dug pattern Jones's work the catabolic crisis model this isn't a catabolic crisis but a catabolic crisis model is when you're off the table you lose muscle mass and strength rapidly over 40 year and that continues per decade so my trening has changed dramatically I do more high intensity on say the bike or the air down air-dine versus any kind of long slow steady state which I would love to get back into and then also the lifts are all so you're able to do high intensity stuff on a bike with a high hamstring tear well this is new this new tear just happened I got my MRI back two days ago got it so I won't be able to turn when you're recovered so let's just say we're we're sitting here in nine months which I'll be recovered before then all right very well when you're recovered how is it going to change what you do going forward and how will that impact what you modify in terms of your patience because I think all of us are practitioners here and therefore we're kind of we're students we do a lot of self experimenting we make a lot of mistakes on ourselves that gets us curious about you know okay what's the lesson here how do IMake sure that my client my patient doesn't make the same mistakes so what's what are you going to change and how is it going to impact what you tell patients definitely it doesn't have to be these big lifts we don't all have to squat and for me personally having to deal with that I prior to injuring my hamstring just recently I was starting to do more you know a lot of work and I will go back and also just being much more particular about form I think as a lifelong exercises we can compensate a lot people that are somewhat athletic compensate very well I think I have to hold myself to a much higher standard otherwise I know I will continue to get injured and also I want to how did more zone two. By the way it's so funny you say that I remember a trener and I can't remember who it was but he was showing me videos of some incredible athletes doing workouts and he was just pointing out all of the horrible mistakes they were making and he goes they're not great athletes because of how they're trening they can get away with trening that way because they are such great athletes how much did you see that Mike when you were trening pros I literally just wrote down the better the athlete the better the compensator that was a note that was a compensation is what we used to get I used to look at these guys and think like my god it's amazing what they can get away with at that level but I want to go back to the adults it's really funny to the squat thing because I wrote an article one time and I forget what I called it but it was basically about slamming your hand in a car door said if you substitute slamming your hand in a car door for squatting and then had the same conversation with yourself saying hey I just hurt my hand I slammed it in the car door and I can't wait till my fingers heal up because I'm going to go back and swim my hand in the car door right that's what you be saying me in the shower every eight eight times. That's why I wrote the article because people do it all time and you just realize that if you just and that's where being rational and substituting something really stupid although in fairness the analogy is more like this the analogy is I love slamming the car door because I love the noise but I like to also reach in the car when I'm doing it. And normally it's fine but on every eight slam IMight edit the article for that and say I even if it was only every eighth time you did it would you go back and slam the car door eight more times and you wouldn't you would be like now that's absolutely stupid the risk reward doesn't work but for some reason squatting has such kind of AI don't know if this rural attachment didn't strengthen conditioning that's why IMean people you should go go look at some of the old YouTube comments about me people the things people were saying about me were unbleed you know now it's kind of like just it's religious right it's religious it's absolutely religious but like an exercise like the clen doesn't have that type of religion because I think functionally again everyone can relate to the squat the squat is something we do every day every time I get out of a chair every time I go to the bathroom so I think there's that's the attachment Jeff sorry interrupt is a very good one which is people are confusing a goblet squat or effectively a sumo deadlift with a goblet which is it's all the same hip hinge they're confusing that with this this is the unnatural part I think we teach everybody to go up a squat we teach everybody to sumo deadlift but I always tell everybody in people like well you know you got to be able go to the bathroom I won't use the inductive disc shit and I said yes but no you're not going to piggyback someone in and take shit like that's not how it's going to work like so you don't have to be able to do that like in order to be able to use the bathroom you only need to be able to body weights squat so once you can body weights squat you're good let's do unilateral stuff for loading because in this is where we get into adults versus athletes like I was people say what's an adult what's an athlete I'm like an adult as a job that does not involve playing sports so and I was doing this presentation for perform better I was writing it up one of things you know pickleball players are an athletes okay like people that are adult recreation athletes are not athletes because if they get hurt like you said you get hurt at 50 or 60 it's really debilitating you don't heal even the rate of healing you're seeing that now the rate of healing is totally different I look at my son and they'll get hurt and two days later they'll be like fine and I look at them and think I'd be six months crippled if I did what you did and people don't see I always say life is this gradual trensition of flaming you on to beef jerky right and I'm in the beef jerky stage of life firmly in the beef jerky I'm thinking I'm going to New York yeah getting a life in the summer but you know you think like you're getting crustier and a little bit more salinated and just you're you're not you're not what you used to be and I actually posted the thing about it's going to say the number one cause of injury and old men is thinking they are young men and that's why when you get into should they squat should it do I always say no because I wrote down ego the problem with that is when you start letting people do these things you then have to become the ringmaster in the circus so for us we just eliminate the the events like nope we're not doing those events because I'm not gonna be able to figure out well you can squat and that lift you can't squat and that lift you can't like no if nobody squats and deadlifts in our adult program then we're just better off and again our right professional athletes I'd won guy in the red socks who's quad it insisted to me after I really fought with everybody about it every single guy except one position picture a picture and a but a real like a real real be don't you John Lester he was a IMean looks like a lieback or he looked like Brian or a lacquer but he was like no I have to do this the rest of the guys were like oh look I'll do the whatever I'll do split squats I'll do whatever you do and but in that situation I was like okay our college kids we have to squat squats so if you came in someone came in and they'd jump at the end like it's squat and they were like look at my go out like so you know is it the factor in in our midst here now I think oh yes to squat he's gonna go back to college he's got to go to his college weight room in his college program those kids squat because we want them to be able to to go back to school and be able to participate in the program the way they're supposed to participate I feel like people don't appreciate the nuance of what you're saying I think I feel like it can easily be sort of turned into Mike thinks no one should squat and what you're saying is no there's a threshold there's a risk reward trade off and it I completely agree with you this idea like if you're not getting paid to play a sport you have to reconsider how you're treating that sport it it's also not as if that the all alternatives are sacrifices in terms of what they're delivering right that is the problem like I always talk about people get on me because I have what I call the iron graveyard right there's a few extra sizes that just belong in there and one of them for me is the upright row it's a garbage exercise it's in and you could tell me no there's no bad exercises that's a bad exercise and talk about it well it's not that I was what it is you know done the way that people you know old school taught how to do the lift you hold the barbell and you lift it up here up under your chain your elbows are much higher and then your wrists are you've got lots of weight usually on the exercise so more fully pushing your arms down to the internal rotation the funny thing about that is that that that position is literally the test as a physical therapist that we put somebody into try to see if they have impingement in their shoulder we put them in this position push down if it gets a lot of pain in there likely something is getting pinched super speed is tended to something why am I doing that exercise when not because I dislike the exercise I never got hurt on it I never did I've did it for years I've done it for 40 years there's always the outliers like we talked about before but when I can just simply tell you I just want you to drop your elbows lower than your wrists I want you to just call the high pole once you go this way but doing that now instead of intently rotating the shoulder I'm externally rotating the shoulder I'm still working my delts I'm still working my traps I get zero sacrifice of what I'm trying to do the exercise for in the first place and I eliminate the part that I don't like that I don't care if you haven't gotten hurt this time but ultimately doing it over and over and over again can potentially cause a problem down the road even just a potential of it not saying that you can't get injured on any exercise you can but on this exercise I'm lowering the risk and not sacrifice in the benefit I think when when Mike talks about squatting the fact is if you can do something that's giving you a better or even equal benefit and it takes away some of those downsides to the exercise especially as the population who's performing it is less appropriate to be performing exercise and more appropriate to be doing the alternative what's the whole point you know it makes me think about how do we re-educate people because we've all suffered from these narratives of you have to squat you have to deadlift and it's just similar to nutrition do you think that there's a way if I can ask you think there's a way that we re-educate getting to our youth potentially so the younger that we can educate the less likely we're going to have adults in their 50s having to have serious injuries and then Mike you wouldn't have to have this conversation about no more I think we're doing it right now actually IMean these things are really the ability to mass-produce this and to have people hear it and see it is something that we weren't really able to do before I talk about the fact when I was a kid coming up I had to wait for the new strengthen health to come out to the new stand and IMean I waited I visited the new state by these mags love the absolutely strife I waited for strengthen health and IMean I would walk into the store and I would say to those mags in the guy I was like nope then I didn't yet because that was our only connection to the trening world and now you think you know you've got 14 million subscribers or something like that on YouTube and I had someone asked me to see what's the greatest thing you've seen the greatest change in strength of condition and I was like the computer and they were like what do you mean I was like there was no computer such a good point and so you start thinking we've got disability now podcasts YouTube we can educate people but our problem is that we copy dumb people there's too many dummies on the internet and not enough people I've taken a little bit more in my old age that kind of calling out the bullshit sometimes I'll just say on Twitter that's a bad that's a bad take because if you don't then people get to establish themselves as experts because this is the loudest voice situation now in terms of who's going to who's going to influence and now there's a lot AI like if you look at Twitter's got all these AI things going that are showing people and sometimes I'll just write total garbage and I'll just click and send the reply because I'm like it's total garbage this is shit like it shouldn't be on the internet shouldn't be anywhere and so what I'm going to be that I guess I'm going to probably we need that I'm going to close to the ground field man states like when you grandfather would say inappropriate things at meals I'm like I'm anxious away um do you have give us a couple more things in the graveyard oh what else do I have in the graveyard um cuban press for the same reason which is when the elbows can you know that arms come down and then press from there it's kind of a necessary adaptation that we don't need um what else do I have in the graveyard um it's not a drawing a blank I had at least five or six in the... oh the chest fly I put the unsupported bench fly in the graveyard simply because probably because of my history working with with pictures and knowing how susceptible the the shoulder caps that can become from chronic overstretching and then we apply a load in that position at the same time and even our as a slime machine would be safer because you're not safer you're much safer and and um and or we'll do like us we'll do a floor fly so in the floor fly we're getting the eccentric over the matter fact the benefit of a floor fly is that you're going to have the safety net of about here on the floor and I could use a heavier weight so if I'm I'm I'm doing the exercise because I like the eccentric overload I get on it um I can actually apply a little bit more weight a little bit more eccentric stress to the chest because the benefit of the exercise is the stretch of the exercise so I can apply a heavier load but in a much safer and again my shoulders aren't going to be vulnerable there too um but again that's because it's an Arnold favorite and it's an Arnold classic and I believe he tore his pack once on on the fly so it's like you know it was his favorite but he did have repercussions for him too it's just not a it's not something that I believe you can't reproduce the benefits of in other ways again but I did nothing is in my graveyard that doesn't have an alternative that's equally good the only reason I would ever throw an exercise into that category is because there's something that could be done that just eliminate some of that risk that's just as good in terms of delivering what it's supposed to deliver so um yeah IMean it's not an extensive graveyard but people are very vocal about their favorites when one finds their way into that graveyard and you have to sort of explain your way out of it or talk a little bit about kids so um I've three kids they all love playing sports um but one of them in particular has has taken a real love of baseball the youngest so you just turned eight about a month ago and I grew up never playing baseball it's not is just wasn't a sport that was particularly popular where I grew up I have to say I have become obsessed with baseball I can really fully understand how people can get obsessed with this sport it's not just the numbers in the data there's just there's so much art in nuance in like learning about all these different pitches and how they hold the ball and I'll tell you what I said okay but you know we live in we live in a world now it seems where coaches want kids to specialize earlier and earlier and I was a little bit surprised at the end of his seven year old seat like you know they're playing three seasons a year by the way in baseball right now right so you've got fall ball spring ball and then like there's this like little summer ball tournament and the kids are playing one position now and most of the kids have a coach and a coach outside of like a position coach outside of the team now my intuition is that just doesn't make sense so so what tell me what you guys think of that do you have a soap box available for me to jump up on abs one I always say follow the money right if you look at most of these people that are telling you that kids need year-round sports or people who are making their living from year-round sports if you look at what most professionals athletes are doing they're not doing that with their kids if you look at what most coaches are doing they're not doing that with their kids what you usually find is some entrepreneur who has developed Joe's baseball and he needs income year-round because he doesn't have Joe's baseball and lacrosse he just says Joe's baseball so as a result they're they start telling you they start giving you that really specialization myth like hey you got to get started early and if you get started early you do better and if you get senior age so somebody Twitter the other day somebody said that you know scouting starts now at ten you this was a woman who runs a softball development program and I just I'd literally I typed these I said no that's absolutely bad information it's they start using words like development and exposure the reality is if you said I have an eight year old who really likes baseball the number one thing I would tell you is make him do something else besides baseball my daughter was a full scholarship I saw you play a very good play a year in the women's professional league you had a scholarship when she was 15 years old I didn't let her play in a summer tournament until she was 13 and people would say all the time can we can we can we can we play in this tournament can you play in that tournament like nope you look what is what she doing so she's gonna go the lake she's gonna water ski she's gonna be on swim team she took up diving one summer because they needed a diver and she became the U12 diver because she the guy started throwing herself off the diving board and said oh she's fearless I'll teach you to dive and I'll say how many hours we take her for and he's like a couple hours a week I was like awesome but so I we made or do that we made her play soccer she did judo she was state judo champion when she was 12 the kids that are better athletes do better in the long run you end up with his whole early sixth cedar phenomenon that we deal with in early sixth cedar's generally they won the the genetic Olympics they generally tend to be from from groups that that develop earlier and they will tend to be ahead when they for us from in my years it was the Greeks and the time kids they always mature they they were the ones that were shaving in junior high school and they were much better in junior high football than the rest of us were because they weighed 190 pounds and we weighed 130 pounds and he just looked at that and think that's not going to have any bearing on the and you have to look this is the literal marathon versus sprint argument in terms of you've got to look at this and think no this is a this is a developmental marathon and the kids who sample tend to do better like your kid loves baseball now but you don't necessarily know that that will be my son love talk he's playing calls across he was playing baseball and across at the same time and eventually we were at us and you feel this way even if the kid is themselves wanting to play all the time would you sort of force I forced my daughter my daughter was hockey only she was that's all I want to do and I said I don't care she was not thrilled about the idea that you weren't letting her play in a summer tournament yeah angry at times with me fights about why can't I do this because she knew she could go and be the best player and I said I don't care for the best player when you're 12 I care for the best player when you're 18 and so being the best player at 12 I'm not getting any ego gratification by going to this tournament and realizing that you made the 12 year old all stars or something like that so yeah we had fights we had fights about soccer IMade a player you 14 year soccer and I did but the specialization thing I always think up to 12 broadest sampling possible the more things they can possibly do the better the more because what we're trying to develop general athletic attributes you'll see the kids in hockey that played soccer because their kids can pick up pucks in their feet my son picked up lacrosse really fast because he played baseball and he played hockey and he understood the whole idea oh we score this and that I can catch things extended all that stuff made perfect sense to him when he went to lacrosse and lacrosse ended up coming together but if you weren't sampling you don't know you just think I always say this is a terrible analogy but I'm going to use it anyway I said if you're sun came to you instead I really like cocaine at this point it's the only thing that I want to do you would be like no we're not going to do that right but suddenly because you have to do a little hero right because you're a little man IMean I like it a drug I just don't want you to be but you know you mean if you're just because they want to do it right if you substitute that for baseball you think you think you say I like I like absurd analogies but I think you see the absurdity of that and you think yeah you love baseball that's great but you really should you know you should learn to swim and you really should learn to do some sort of you know sport that involves your feet you know you should play soccer you should I think you know kids should do I think some sort of combat of sport is really good for kids because you should learn what it's like like it's really funny I took my daughter the instructors when my daughter was doing judo were Ronda Rousey and Kayla Harrison which like what are the odds that you go to the best judo school in America that is 15 minutes from your house and that's who's teaching the classes in judo so my daughter can still say that you know she was taught by Ronda Rousey and Kayla Harrison but having to go out in a mat and fight another kid and you fight the word I guess right is really good for a 12 year old girl and that feeling I remember looking at me the first time like you know and I'm like sorry I can't come out like you're on your own you better figure it out and she did so I just you're sampling is the key and specialist specialization if we can think of the worst possible thing you can do for your kid it is to let them specialize even if it gets to the point where they think that I don't like you you're mean you're you're not a good person because you're not letting me do what I want to do you've got to look at them and think that's why I'm the parent that's why I'm in charge sorry soapboxa soapbox down now let's go stuff I will say that our kids are both in gymnastics and judo my daughter hates judo and she sells in gymnastics and we chose gymnastics because it allows for her fine motor skills all of this development very young and also the development of her musculature she's and again she loves it and we know that the healthier fitter and more active these kids are the greater their metabolic health as adults is but to your point what we see is I think in the US we see a lot more injuries than in other places because of this always having a season and from a standpoint of longevity definitely again make our kids do the same thing I don't know why we haven't stopped in question to a little bit sooner because it's not like injury rates are going down so we're playing more and getting injured more like that's what we've seen across all levels of sport Mike and I were discussing the Achilles tendons and the rash of Achilles tendon injuries are at least it seems to be in prominent players but a lot of it has to go back to just the the repetitions in the mileage and one thing that Mike brought up that I thought was really interesting was the way the style of the game is played let's say basketball there's so much more because it's really come down chuckle up a three you go down chuckle up a three you come down chuckle up a three you come down chuckle up a lot less of that inside game going on the game is faster and they run more and there's a lot more mileage how many miles extra was it 200 more miles a year per team right just because of the way the style of the game is played and they're not all linear miles or start stop start stop start stop so there's a lot of cumulative stress on the Achilles tendon doing that that can you know again on top of the fact that as as as as teenagers they're playing all year long too not like it used to be when Larry Burb was playing when he played his season and he probably went home and it did something completely different um I or just just shot around a little bit so the we need to start looking at these extensive seasons in these multiple seasons per year because it's not changing it's not helping if it we wouldn't have all these athletes being injured things are worse now than they've ever been same more about the Achilles that that is the injury I've personally fear the most at this point because um when you're you know I play with my kids at tongue right so uh it's usually soccer and baseball that we're playing um and especially with soccer I'm always worried like is this going to be the day when despite all of the trening I do despite all the jumping despite all the multilateral trening I'm always doing I don't know what it is I think I've just seen so many of them it's the injury that keeps me up at night is like I'm just literally diving for a soccer ball and it's the beef jerky injury right IMean that's what what is the position of how do you how do you think about maximizing the odds of survival um rolling and stretching one I'm a huge farm roll and stretch person I think everybody should be rolling everybody should be stretching everybody should be doing so specifically talking about the roleiest you're talking about rolling all the way down onto the tendon yep okay so you're talking about calf calf and then doing you know just ankle mobility work basic ankle rocks and then now the it's really interesting because this we talk about dogma right all of a sudden the fun foot elevated stuff is becoming popular and when you think about from a preventive standpoint it makes perfect sense we were always told that you have to have your whole foot on the ground like that's the correct technique if you're on you say foot on it do you mean like toe on it like to play yeah yeah yeah but but initially when I first thought that was like I don't get it and then a physical therapist friend of mine David Gray was like yeah well if you want to get your foot engaged and you want to get your gastroach engaged it just makes sense to put your foot on there and that's where some of the stuff it always goes back to I when I wrote functional trening for sports and they asked me to define it I said functional trening is trening that makes sense when you think about things so that's why when you're talking about flies like flies don't make any sense to me I said unless you're a professional face slapper I don't know why you would do flies so like we don't do stuff like better on the pack that yeah we don't we don't do that like I look at think I don't know why you would do that maybe if you were like you know if you went to a university of Florida like if there was certain things where you might be required to perform that action but you have to look at stuff from a high-perature feast standpoint there's a lot of reasons to do it right IMean it adds it there's a there's a there's something you must be getting out of that movement but you can't get out of just that movement correct yeah well IMean you look at the the amount of adoption that you're getting so any press any dip any push-up it's all limited to about this range of motion but if I can actually open it up even further and get more stretch we know the benefit high-perchery wise of of applying stretch to a muscle but that's that's an exercise where you are also entertaining and range shoulder mobility and then again excess stress on the anterior capsule so like it's like if your body builder if you're a if you're a if you're a rest like if you're in certain sports where the aesthetic matters right it could be a difference between first and second place if you're competitive body builder but that's not that's not my world and and I think that at least educating people about what those risks might be is at least an important first step to have an discussion of whether they should do it or not and again if I if I can provide an alternative for them where I think you could get additional benefits without the risk then why do it what what else do you think is important in the playbook of minimizing the risk of the Achilles injury I was when I said mobility I think ankle mobility is something that we don't no in pay attention to their ankles we don't we don't try to mobilize our ankles at all I think that um tight calves are are common in people and they don't really ever address them and it all starts at the ground everything starts at the ground if you have any compensation if you lack ankle mobility um your knee is going to pay the price for sure because the knee I always said a knee is like that consequential joint in between the hip and the foot and it's just reacting to what's happening above and below and the poor knee might need in in in particular like they got beat up and they never really worked a blame all they were trying to do is just hinge back and forth and they couldn't do a good job because they were being betrayed by flat feet and weak hips but I think if people pay more attention to strength and their hips and to mobilizing their ankles you can feed that chain up and down and if your calf isn't tight or if your your ankle is more mobile then there's less of that tension being put placed down through the tendon itself you're already doing a big as the thing is that forward in terms of decreasing your risk of actually snapping that thing and in terms of strengthening the calf do we think the solius for the gastrocclesa greater role do you need both do you need to have both knee bent and knee straight we always we always focus on both and like a lot of people will always talk about the gastrocc specific strength thing with the knee straight it's just because it's like the one that gives you the the the the better contraction right but I think we don't I don't care about that I care about making sure that all the muscles in the body are strengthened so we'll do equal amounts of seated versus standing cap raises so if you're doing three sets in a day of standing you're doing three sets seated as well so every time we program calf trening it's seated and standing together but I don't think one versus the other is more responsible for for the tears I think as a group together the our ankles are lack of mobility and because the ankles are a lack of we if we've talked about like in sleeping and sleeping at night you know your feet are down and especially if you have like if you keep those those those blankets tight at the end of your bed they're down quite a bit and you're spending six seven eight hours in that position like you're not doing yourself any favor in terms of you know encouraging mobility of the ankle and mobility and flexibility through your calves so it just needs to have we need to be much more aware of those of those areas and do more work towards that and again that's part that's more work that people have to do and when you're talking about from the very beginning when we're saying what do I have to do to be in shape or what I have to do sometimes you have to own little many parts of your program because specific to you they're they're important so for you this big fear of that Achilles 10 and tear which I I'm right there with you I think it's it's just a devastating injury that will take you out for quite a while that would be part of your program that you have to add another five minutes of mobility work for your ankle and and do thaT3 four times a week to make sure that you're you're you're doing something about it that starts to add up and people start making choices and their choices are kind of cutting all the little stuff because that's not going to really know I'm going to see my ankle development so they're going to want to see my my arms or my chest or something so I'm going to do more work there but when you make those decisions to cut those little parts of the program those are ones that usually keep you injury free this speaking of single leg you know the difference between doing uh calf raises with two feet versus single leg that that was one of the most profound i-opinners for me was the the difference in in strength and how much less weight you could do one leg at a time it's not half the weight like there's some sort of interesting compensation when you're doing it two legs at a time and we find we've just started adding that back into our adult program we never put calf work in and then suddenly we started thinking I remember trying to do some calf raises I was so sore I thought my god but again you realize it's kind of a use it or use it or lose it scenario where if you're no longer sprinting and jumping then that the flexibility that you know the mobility of that complex and the ability of that thing to absorb force but the other two things one if you avoid doing it if your calves are sore because if you look at both Tateum and Helbert and had previous calf strens that they were playing with and ended up with a killies tendon tears and I think sometimes um again I'm a meme guy that was in a great meme yesterday and the guy said the doctor was like how much does that hurt and he said oh the usual amount and Dr said the usual amount is zero so you've got to be able to look at that and realize that I could shouldn't hurt it all if you're thinking oh my my calves my shins their sore that's indicating to you that you were doing something that wasn't kind and that now you've got to give that enough time to recover so that that's not sore anymore and I think sometimes we get into the kind of I don't know the hard guy stuff in terms of you got it like I never I tell everybody I wrote an article in time called does it hurt and I said it's all about the idea it doesn't hurt to say yes no question if I ask you does it hurt you can only answer yes or no and any equivocation is yes when you well after I warm up yes or only yes and I always do if you when they start qualifying like yeah that's yes so how it's does it hurt you know people bounce press after I warm up doesn't hurt at all I like that means it hurts it's you can't and so we're like for us we don't like you're using that then as a sign that says I need to understand why it hurts it's not you don't tren it's we need to figure out what's going wrong which movement and figure out what you know Jeff was a looting to like you know I bright rose and rotate it like what is it that's making your shoulders sore what's the movement that's aggravating and for some people like we find that standing you know people it's functional standing cable pressing is the one thing that everybody can do that doesn't hurt so if we have people which you'll look at and they stand in cable press because it's the one thing they can do that doesn't hurt and I don't care whether people think functional non-functionally you can label it anyway you want to label it but I just know I can get you to press pain free and my goal that's my goal all time I want to be able you can look at me and say I can do that and it doesn't hurt at all then I think okay we can build off that well people don't understand too is that it's okay to go through periods of restriction to a single movement like that right standing cable press to actually allow the shoulder to heal to a point where you actually could get back to doing other variants of the press if that was your desire I told you a story myself where I had AI have a laborum terron I had an inability to do any type of pressing I had to restrict myself simply to a variation of a of a crossover that wasn't even a pure crossover but just something that I could do where I can actually pull in a little bit and then crossover my body because that was going to happen to do pain free but I could still work my chest in a way that you know allow me to do to do something I also knew that I could do something completely different like I could I could horizontal row by doing that I'm getting shoulder movement in a way that was different right someone's like the specialization in sport and not just doing all chest stuff but trying to actually attack the chest through a different way by still looking at the shoulder joint and I would do a lot a lot of rowing which probably was good just post really the balance out some of the imbalance I had in the shoulder but also to just give me more joint range of motion in the shoulder can get all this extension through combination of those two things got me to a point where my shoulder doesn't like I'm not going to not go with now but my shoulder doesn't hurt I can actually be able to go and go back to pressing again in a smart way with dumbbells I don't I don't part of our bench press but I do with dumbbells and I have none of the pain that I had years ago when that was going on so it's okay to to understand that this is a long game and you might want to take a step back and stay with the exercises that don't cause pain and allow yourself a chance to be actively mobile to still recover at the same time instead of sitting on the sidelines like you said it was just not a preferred choice that's not going to turn out well so I pivot and talk a little bit about strength trening women across kind of the trensition from Perry menopause and to menopause do you have any experience with that I'm guessing you do and Mike you must just by the fact that they're coming in your so start with you get real what do you what are you noticing is the most important things as women are making the trensition from Perry menopause straight on into menopause. The first thing is to don't don't wait until they start to feel that their body composition is changing the bitter they are going into Perry menopause and menopause the better they're going to be both metabolically and just activities of daily life everything those women seem to suffer much less when hormones are changing I think what I end up seeing is that maybe sleep is poor their tendons you know one of the signs of menopause is frozen shoulder so if someone is a candidate for HRT we do certainly believe in that or menopause therapy when it comes to trening in the literature I haven't seen huge evidence or a variation evidence that good trening doesn't include it's not sex specific there is not something specific for women that needs to happen rather than following good foundational principles of strength trening hypertrophy and cardiovascular activity so you don't say hey now that you're making this trensition we have to alter your periodization or change the way change the amount of time you're spending doing one form of trening say cardio versus resistance or even the number of reps you would do we're not changing any of that stuff I don't one of the things that we do look at though is if they are at risk for injury for tendons or joints because we do see that that changes but then once we treat them I do not see a reason to change good programming is good programming progressive stimulus is progressive stimulus no it was great because when I read your book there was very reinforcing for me because we're getting that question more and more now from our female clients just because because of people like you were talking about it more people are more comfortable than talking to us about it and it's exactly that it's the whole thing I always come back it always comes back to strength and conditioning get stronger getting better shape get them to challenge themselves more with weights and not be content the females are very I always think there's there's an ego component that's absent in females it is very present in males like males will look at you know if I look at what Jeff did IMight think I'm going to try that females just don't have that it they're just very internally driven and sometimes that will cause them to underachieve in the weight room because they're not they're not worried about being top dog and not worried about who lifted most weight it just isn't make some better snipers you know I believe it makes them better clients trust me if I could I would do nothing I have with a lot of really elite females like that are great hockey players and the crossplay and stuff and they're the best people to tren by far because they don't have a lot of the kind of extra baggage sometimes that the guys have they're just way more compliant they just listen to what you say they don't argue with you they don't begin they don't worry about what Jeff is doing but just encouraging them to continually get stronger and encouraging them to continue to and we would look at it as conditioning versus cardiovascular work I guess kind of how we always use the term but pushing them to do more intervals pushing them to do I want more aggressive intervals so you know you have a lot of you two max work out but I want to get that like I love the end of yelping idea like Andy Galpens thing was like hey you just want to get your heart rate up really high once a week I think that's a really good concept and starting to just get people to think hey get your heart rate up where heart rate monitor don't be afraid to push your heart rate to to acts you know whatever that is and don't be afraid to be you know out of breath or get off the bike and feel like you want to land the floor kind of thing because we're big assault bike airdine people because it's just them I think it's the most efficient way to to hit your cardiovascular system with what I would code no orthopedic costs like I can kill you on the bike and nothing bad is going even like you sing with the hamstring I'm going to bet you can't be able to bite back I'm trying to hit her today and then you'll be perfectly fine because you're not you're not weight bearing and you're not getting a lot of aggressive hip extension and a lot of aggressive hip flexion and you can probably torture yourself on there for a long time without having any negative effects but the biggest thing like said with women is just getting them over that I'm going to get big so I don't push myself kind of thing and so it's funny I film a lot of my and ask them to talk about how much they weigh and how much weight they've haven't gained because I've two of the best lacrosse attackers on our US team that are in their mid 20s now and they've been here for five years and they've gained no weight they're stronger they're faster but females gaining lean masses really difficult you have to really be a super responder and usually I always say apples end up like apples oranges end up like oranges it's not like suddenly just one day the apple is going to wake up in the next day going to be an orange like you're going to be if you're an acto morph you're an acto morph you will get the occasional really mesomorphic female way you do think oh wow she really does respond to weights but they're rare they're super rare so Jeff what about you what are you seeing in women specifically the trening especially during that trensition through menopause I think as Gabby appointed out like the trening specifics are pretty much the same what applies and what is good smart trening for for men is equally applicable to women the only thing that I would say from a PT standpoint by on the can't leave there are some differences in terms of something called a Q angle right the the angle of the hip of the femur coming down to the knee it does create a lot more valgus at the knee for for women then then then it does for for men so I think you just have to be aware of those things so what you're doing certain activities you want to be able to coach better in terms of being aware positioning so like the tendency for a lot of women when they jump is to land in a much more valgus knee state which could put more and more stress and even if it's not like we're not fearful of them blowing out in a trening session but as we talked about before that cumulative stress of every time you land you're getting more and more stressed on the MCL or the ACL that would be something that you'd want to coach around and make them aware of because you could strengthen that you could work on biomechanically improving those things you know you put a band around their knees and have them jump that way and land that way they're learning how to activate their abductors and their hip that is probably something that isn't even really a required it would be all men could benefit from that but it's not an additional requirement because we're not dealing with the same biomechanical angles also because of hormones women will have more laxity of hormones at different times of the month that will be make them susceptible to different stresses so I think you just have to be aware of the education side of it and coaching through that but as far as the exercise is the programming we also found that you know women just tend to be much stronger than men in terms of their their output pound for pound and and given the differences in sex they're able to proportionally push more weight especially with the lower body the men can so interesting yeah very strong much much stronger have you found that to like the women are incredibly strong in terms of their their their output in strength comparative to to men we really thought about it in terms of pound for pound the one thing we found is that they're much stronger in their upper body than they think they are that's the one thing that we've seen is that we've got women doing weighted gyms with set you know 45 pounds for five and what oh yeah our best one is that 45 for seven is the best I've seen 45 pounds wrapped around her waist and she's doing seven and up sales carpenter how many men can do that every in our gym we we really emphasize it like most of ours wow my sons did 90 for two the other day he weighs 180 a bunch of kids in his team we really push we push pulling that doesn't sound right but we have emphasized we like push pulling yeah that I'm leading the league in redundancy I want to come back to something you said at the outset Mike you're talking about kids the youngest you tren is 11 you drew a hard line in the sand how come I always said I don't want to be in the childhood stealing business and I think there's some people in our industry that are in the childhood stealing business I want I think kids should be kids and they don't need a strength and conditioning coach when they're seven eight nine ten years old they probably need a playground and a bike and swing said and slide there's a lot of things that kids could be doing that are way more fun than being in my gym so we we actually drew the line at 12 initially but the sports brackets are 11 12 so when we realize that we drew the line at 12 people then started coming and wanted to bring a team and suddenly it was kind of like well yeah Jeff can't come because he's 11 so eventually we kind of bumped it down and then we just resisted bumping it down more because I don't want to run a a kind of a gender gym kind of program I don't want people to run around I don't want birthday parties that's not what I'm looking to do so we just said 11 I think at 11 you're going into middle school you can start to understand that there may be some commitment involved in terms of hey if I want to make a team I'm going to probably have to learn to work at this thing and I'm going to have to learn to tren and it's a very good if you kind of look at the long-term athletic development models that 11 12 is a good learn to tren age to get kids in and get them kind of oriented to today here so I do the exercises and we're very learned to tren oriented at that stage I tell coaches all time I don't care if any of these kids get stronger I could kill us I really care that they're good lifters if they've been here 10 weeks and by the end I can look at them and think wow they can gobble it's squad and they can zoom out deadlift and they can do a clen and they can do a chin up and they can do a push up then. IMean all of that is fantastic right and again it still flies in the face of what many people would think which is oh my god an 11 year old lifting weights it's going to stun their growth Mike aren't you crazy and that's the that's what that really I love it wrote that down it's funny that I was in my notes in the beginning but the misconception the stuff we're still dealing with this done to grow thing and you'd brought up New York Times but New York Times did an article where they tried to pull the string on that where did this done to grow thing come from and it actually came from a study the only study they could find was on Japanese forced child labor the kids who were forced into child labor tended to be smaller than their age matched peers who were not nourished right exactly well nourished and not working at eight in a factory and as result but that was sort of but yeah you still have doctors people say I don't you know they talk about growth plates stuff there's no growth plate damage evidence there's none of those things are there and then you talk about gymnastics here we all I always tell people figure skating in gymnastics are 10,000 times more aggressive than anything that we would do in the gym I look at and I'll get myself in trouble but I always say organized child abuse right IMean it's not even good for kids when you look at what they're trying to do with these young bodies because you need I always think you need little people to rotate right IMean that's the key to those sports and you look at that and then you think what we're doing in the gym okay hold 10 pounds squat up and down and that's going to be bad for you but it's been around three times and land is okay that's just that's physics and I science and I in where you look and think now I can show you the physics of that is way way worse so what are the things and this is a question for all of you because you all have kids so my we haven't pushed our boys and we even pushed any of our kids our daughter just decided at some point she wanted to start lifting weights so that was great but our boys kind of like to come in the gym with us and we just sort of play goofy games with them so you're I know your friends with Jaco and life and they have this fun little card game that they play where you you get the if you see this game so it's basically like you designate what you know what is what's displayed what's a heart what's a diamond it's a diamond you think it is like this is push up this is a burpy this is a setup and then obviously if you flip it and you get a 10 of that thing you do 10 of the jiff you get a 7 of the 7 of the 7 of them and then move on so well this usually they'll just come in the gym with us and play that game they really see they this is the problem with boys they want to want to be each other so you know once one of them goblet squats this amount of weight the next guy wants to go to the heavier kettlebell and the next one wants to go to heavy kettlebell and actually I do get a little worried because I see their form deteriorate right they go into what I call turtle back right so they go from lumber extension they start getting into lumber flexion and I'm like guys enough so so what advice would you have for trying to help little boys who want to start lifting but just you just want them to develop the form I think it's really funny because if you were to ask them to do to jump onto something or to or to even to do like to to walk up stairs two steps at a time their form usually is going to look quite good when it's just a naturally occurring activity that they're doing in their life when you then say hey let's do this as an exercise let's do something call they step up where we step up onto a box so let's even do a push up right the push up if they already get themselves on the floor probably look a lot prettier than it does when the ask them to do a push up they're it passes up in the air their shoulders are wide they're kind of moving in all different kinds of segments so to me it's this disconnect it's not that they lack the athletic skills or the strength to do what it is you're asking them to do they lack the awareness of what it is you're asking them to do so they don't like when it's packaged as an exercise they're sort of like not really sure what that is so it's it's our responsibility to kind of make it seem isn't understand and tell them where they're supposed to be feeling it you know the number onEQuestion that people ask when they are we're starting out an exercise program not just kids anybody when they do an exercise surprisingly because this is what we all do when we are so passionate about it what am I supposed to work what am I feeling here what am I supposed to feel this and to be like well where do you feel it you know but that's it they want to know because they want to know where okay because if I'm not feeling it there what do I have to do to get it to feel to feel it there kids need to learn the proper the proper form and by my care somehow do the exercise again I think they possess a lot more athletic skill and natural abilities and we give them credit for and when we just have them start doing exercises it breaks down so take the time do the exercises right who cares about the way that's in their hand first start with body weight and then have them learn the mechanics of that as I said before that little drop squat the drop squat will actually isn't where they can actually add weight and learn better than it could be if they were trying to learn a body weight squat in this case that that actual implement would insist them and learning how to do it properly because it's going to take their their center mastery down so the form is everything when it comes to kids when we work for kids in in 11 and 12 year old bracket that's what we try to focus on is learn the movement go slow right don't speed through it go slow speed is something that usually breaks down any good any attempt at good form so learn the movements and then we could always speed them up and we could always add weight but if you don't learn the form you're going to basically set up a foundation that's going to ultimately crack especially if they get away with that for their teen years and other and their 20s and then that really now that competition starts to kick in and competing with your buddies and then things get really ugly and are either of you guys doing sports specific trening for these 12 year olds for example if you got a 12 year old who's a pitcher versus a 12 year old who's a basketball player are you having them do different exercises? No nothing I don't play I think sports specific trials I always say sports specific trening is bullshit it's absolutely nonsense baseball is sports specific trening like if you want to go get better at baseball then go play baseball if you come to the weight room IMean I've trened guys in every major professional sport and it's at most 80 20 probably 90 10 like 90 percent of what we do is the same 10 percent of what we do is different and that 10 percent is totally irrelevant to a 8 9 10 11 12 year old it makes absolutely no difference it could it. That's really counterintuitive I would thought that IMean God if you're a pitcher you've got to be taking more care of the rotator cuff then maybe the guy who's you know then you know the hockey player for example right and that's not in the chat that would be the 10 percent you know like the 10 percent with baseball would be that be shoulder care stuff that you might not really worry about with your hockey players or football players so there's going to be that's where your difference in program would be like that one spot um rotator cuff but with kids like I always look at I think you shouldn't be a pitcher you not a pitcher your baseball player and you might end up being a catcher you might end up being a shortstop because again I've had so many no my Garcia par no my Garcia par went to Georgia Tech and tried to kick on the football team and and he we yeah and he glove soccer he married me a ham he's a huge soccer fan he told me one time I used to tren me said I would absolutely be playing soccer if I didn't live in the United States he said but I realized the best kind of the best use use of my athleticism was Major League Baseball and that playing in the MLS would never have that you know given me the type of career that I would have had Major League Baseball but most every great athlete that I've seen was a great multi-sport athlete but we've got this self-fulfilling prophecy now of specialization where people can now point and they'll deal point to tiger woods of somebody and say oh tiger woods specializing it's like yeah you can find me one specialist I can find you a thousand generalists who all have achieved and but you'll continue to use the specialist as the example because that's what you want to believe we as achievement oriented people like for you to be a great doctor for you to be a great doctor for you to be great at YouTube that's what you got to do kids is the polar opposite for them to be great at something down the road they probably need this super broad based skill set that's kind of eventually allow them you know the the base of the pyramid versus the height of the pyramid the bigger the base the larger the height you know if you build an obelisk out of the gate you're probably not going to accomplish much so you mentioned Carl Crawford like he didn't he didn't get those scholarship offers for three different sports because he started playing a 18 or 17 he obviously was playing all those sports at a young age and getting in developing all those athletic skills to where he could select the one that was most appropriate for him either financially or and he was just the best some of this is genetic lottery Carl Crawford could do a standing back flip at 230 pounds we you may have never seen he's still in all the most athletic person I've ever seen but he would have been that in any number of sports I don't think you know it's just the fact that he chose baseball and that's what's interesting in terms of people say oh you look at did your pens you know they specialize in soccer and it's like yeah because they don't have the choices that we have over here we've got a lot of opportunities that maybe aren't present in in other countries so people will kind of people cherry pick because they want to support their their thesis but to me the more important thing is like virtually no kid is going to be a professional athlete right so so you know my interest is in how do you use the interest in sports first to fuel the spark that says lifelong activity is an important pillar of health second how do IMake sure that when you are done playing sports which for most people is the end of high school then there's a narrow subset that'll say well actually it's the end of college and then it's virtually nobody who's playing sports after that because to your point pickleball with your buddies on Sunday that ain't sports so we all stopped playing sports pretty young and yet we are going to need to tren for the rest of our lives and I think that's the thing that I'm still trying to better understand is how do we use youth sports as a tool to set you up to be an athlete for life where the sport changes to life and I think that's the difference in terms of using it to teach life lessons you know they say sports can build character can build characters you have to use it to build the kids character and sometimes that may be saying you're not just going to get you know I get it that you just like baseball but we're going to play soccer in the spring because we think you need to be exposed to more things and the kids learn that lesson like because sometimes they they just learn this kind of micro focus really early on and then later on when they don't achieve they think oh if I wish I'd done more things I wish I'd sampled more I wish I'd explored more I think it's just it's looking at the real body of evidence versus looking at the evidence that's presented to you by the person who's trying to get your money which is what usually happens now is that the issue I think though is that where we're going off track is that the coaches and the parents of these children are over emphasizing the importance of what it is or actually competing and to the point where they why do you think we have you said because of money they have all these additional leaks throughout the year but it's also because everyone thinks their kids can be a pro when they're not and they don't want their kid to be left behind that too and it's is all these social pressures behind this you know and I think that is what's feeding that is what's feeding the problems that we've seen also taking away from the fact that this is introducing lifelong habits to them to the point where is is degenerating something that should be very positive into something that becomes at worst destructive because you're you're you're over you're over doing something and you're actually a lot of times also making a lot of these kids hate athletics by the time they were 17 18 19 yeah that's another issue which is I can't tell you the number of people IMet who grew up collegiate swimming who cannot stand swimming and it's such a shame because swimming is IMean while it's not good for bone density it's pretty much good for everything else so by itself I would say it's not the only exercise you should do but boy if I think about if there's one exercise I could insert into everybody's life it would be some amount of swimming and yeah somebody who swam through high school in college they'll they're like I just I could never do it again it was my best sport I went to the first swimming meeting at Springfield College and the coach I still remember Red Sylvia famous division three coach the first words out of his mouth were the first practice is at and I was thinking he's talking per day here right now they practice their swimming twice today they're swimming for school and after school and I sat politely through the whole meeting like this and nodded and went to the football meeting and tried out for freshman football because I was like there is no way I'm going in the pool twice a day it was the end of my swimming career and I now terrible shoulders I don't even I can't stand swimming because hurts you know I think when you're talking about becoming a lifelong athlete that for us so again our kids are four and five they tren with us they might not be doing the same lifts but we let them play with a you know kettlebell pick things up put them down and we let them run we let them do things that they would physically be able to do without a lot of queuing and as I just think about some of the data on tendon health we know that the earlier people start the better and more resilient those tendons are because they're not starting later in life not getting injured and I just think again it's just a great place to start the earlier the better which is a bit counterintuitive because we've heard all of this information how kids shouldn't lift weights or tren and maybe it's not a standardized trening program but they're in there they're doing stuff with us like every day so I want to ask you guys each the samEQuestion if you think back to the last five years you're obviously all in a constant state of learning is there something you have changed your mind on something significant that you've changed your mind on and not just changed your mind on but it's changed the way you behave the way you help other people I'll start with you get real this is a big one I don't think body fat percentage is nearly as important as we think it is I think that is going to be somewhat of an outdated metric I believe that in termoscular out of post tissue this I'm at is going to be much more predictive of disease and this came from I interviewed on my podcast malniquery and we're talking about PCOS and I'm thinking metabolic PCOS what is the body fat percentage that's going to change the outcome and to the conclusion is because Gabrielle has nothing to do with body fat percent it had to do with their intermuscular out of post tissue and that I think is going to be an upcoming theme it's much more specific to insulin resistance and these metabolic outcomes that we care about and commercially obviously it can be measured quite easily with CT scans and with MRIs to my knowledge it's very difficult for Dexa to approximate it so that's right so how it is ultrasound viable IMay see you wouldn't be able to get whole body but you could sample thEQuads which is where it would be most that would probably be the canary in the coal mine is if you're accumulating muscle in your quads yes and I think it's also very different yes very difficult to test MRI seems to be where a lot of the data is we're not there to measure it but this is something and I think we are going to see so much more of and you know it we're all focused on a muscle son drug approach and for the last 50 years it's been all about obesity and this is the same thing it's almost that we're looking where it's obvious but it doesn't mean that that's where it's effective I really agree with you actually and I think pharmacologically for what it's worth I think that's the next frontier right so I think what the GLP1 Agnes have done over the past five years with the introduction of the third and fourth generations of those drugs the first two were largely failures but because of how successful the third and fourth generations were it were really at a point where I think people can see that you can address the crisis of over abundance from a nutrition standpoint but what people realize the new problem that is yet to be addressed to sarcopenia and when I'm looking at what's at the leading edge in the frontier of biotech right now it's all around anti-sarcopenia drugs now of course we have another great drug that works again sarcopenia it involves holding iron and eating certain types of foods but you know if if if if if if where billions of dollars are being invested is any indication of what people realize is the next frontier I think people are waking up to the idea that it's not enough to solve the adiposity problem you must address the sarcopenic problem yes I couldn't agree more what about you Mike what have you changed your mind on and what's the idea this one I glad you gave me a head start to think about this you know some digestive health I had a bowel resection done nine months ago so they took a foot of my colonel and and I realized I actually did a really good presentation for our staff called you don't know shit and because I think that's the most neglected area of health right now because we don't talk about it and people it's uncomfortable and until you experience it firsthand you don't realize how important fiber is how important water is how badly like most of us are chronic dehydration seems like a it's a big deal but it's really not a big deal but it suddenly is a big deal IMean I liken it to it's like you have a dumpster your whole life that's out in the back of your house and it just gets emptied all the time and then suddenly one day you realize they can't empty the dumpster anymore like I'm in trouble and that's us like we we're worried about our musculosystem we're worried about our nervous system we're worried about our endocrine system and our digestive system is just this thing that's supposed to be this dependable system that's just gonna take care of us forever and then suddenly in our 50s and 60s it starts to fail and we don't want to talk about it and IMean I ended up I was in like I was in the hospital I like I was sick and the guy was like yeah we got it and this is amazing surgery we got to take foot of your colon out and put you back together again I won't go into the the real gory specifics but it made me realize it IMean I take a fiber self-manaltime I put fiber self you know fiber in my shakes all the time now I look at how much fiber is in everything that I eat now be used to our protein numbers look at the fiber numbers our people are way more fiber deficient than protein deficient but they're not they're gonna suffer the effects way down the road and it'll be too late for them to realize so if I would say to anybody I'd be like drink more water eat more fiber and it because you don't want a ballerys section. What about you Jeff? I'm breaking the rules now a couple but personally I think I have to twin nine-year-old boys and so in the last five years they've gone from four to nine which for a dad is sort of where the phase where the where mom was definitely the favorite for the firsT4 years and then you know I sort of stepped in and become the fun guy so I've realized through their interactivity with me number one to appreciate things I didn't appreciate before I think in a in the first half of my adult life I was so focused on professionally achieving whatever I could whether it be working for the meds or then starting this business and really going you know all hours of the night to try to build a business not that I just still don't do that but I really have learned to better prioritize my time with my kids to the point where it's difficult for me to make travels out to do podcasts because I really try to be around them and and I've learned to appreciate because of they they're on the spectrum I learned to appreciate their their their wins every day right so it's like wow that you know I I don't take anything for granted that's a thing that I am so grateful for that being able to benefit from because if I if I don't think if it the situation was different I probably would just continue to work work the way I did but I think from a professional standpoint kind of oddly one of the things that I think is really overlooked is balance trening and I think that it's an area that people are going to probably have to spend a little bit more time focusing on because it's like like we just talked about that's just of health like it's it's another one of those things that's going to get worse as you get older for a number of reasons number one your reaction times will get worse number two your proprioceptive sense is going to get worse which is essentially your sense of body position number three your strength is going to get worse as we talked about inevitably decade by decade when we consider what all that leads to ultimately falling we talked about these fears I don't have the fear of falling right now I'm sure if you don't have the fear of falling right now we have the Achilles tendon stage right now but 20 years from now 30 years from now our biggest fear should be falling because when you do you're likely going to live a pretty difficult end of your life and it might lead lead to a much faster end of life and I think that actually trening balance is another one of those things is going to have to get kind of sectioned into that five minutes of extra work that you're going to want to have to do for yourself and the most important thing when you're trening your balance even if it's just simple standing on one leg and drawing an alphabet with your other foot is to close your eyes because I think that when you don't close your eyes you're actually you know like just one dimensionally create creating an environment that's not actually what we're going to face most people fall in the dark because they don't have that visual feedback to correct by the time you send that signal down to your ankle to make an adaptation is too late you know and again our our reaction times are delayed too it's going to be even worse so it's just the thing that I think people that are already older should start working on because as a skill you can improve it and as somebody who is looking down the line here and seeing things change including my eyesight which used to be so perfect up close you know that that changes I know all these things are happening under the hood and making a dedicated effort is something that I think people should probably invest some time and took it as well worth the investment for that long range safety yeah IMean I think I think the theme here is I think we would all agree in the gravitational pull of aging I just despite the fact of you know what what some of the popular bio hackers might have you believe we're not none of us are getting out of this alive and I think I would bet each of us can remember what it was like what it was like to be 10 years younger what regardless of whatever age we are today but this idea if I could take what you're all saying and impart one thing to a listener it would be you do have a choice at the rate at which this glider is going to come down the glider will come down gravity always wins but you can tren to reduce the rate of decline you can tren to reduce the rate of decline it won't happen by accident the the trening you have to do has to be specific right it's not obvious or intuitive that you should do some of these exercises a lot of the things that you guys have talked about today are exercises I just love the the front foot on a plate on a 45 pound plate putting the front foot up there going into a a lunge taking a plate and doing little twists the amount of stress that that puts on the proprioceptive capacity that front foot is insane what a dumb looking unsexy exercise that never shows up in the mirror and yet what a phenomenal exercise I'm with you 100% on all of these sorts of balance drills with eyes shut and they're frustrating it is frustrating to be on one foot with your eyes shut trying and then add the third layer is turn your head you're doing that oh my god IMean you the the you know the way you feel and and you don't want to do things you suck at but you kind of have to do this and and I I guess I don't know I just hope that people realize that ignoring it won't make it less likely and there is it's a relatively small price to pay you're not asking people to be in the gym 12 hours a week right I lost I checked yeah some of us choose to be in gym or exercise 12 hours a week but that's probably because we're weird and we do that just like other people might enjoy watching TV but yeah if someone could give two great hours a week it breaks my heart they that there are people who don't do it for whatever reason for whatever belief system that says it's too late or it's too hard or I'll do it tomorrow so guys I really really appreciate this I don't know where the time went because we didn't actually cover a single thing I had written which is okay because you know I had good stuff written down but I thought we talked about good stuff so I'm incredibly grateful for all of you making the trip out here and I only wish we had another three hours although we'd have to take another bathroom break or something so thank you all for coming thank you this is the pleasure honestly pleasure to get to meet you guys this guy already knew but I could do this all day thanks guys thank you

=== FILE: 366 ‒ Transforming education with AI and an individualized, mastery-based education model [2g2n_CkAolg].txt ===

We're spending $1 trillion on K-12 education, but our ROI is quite low. Why are we doing so poorly? The standards just keep going down. If you're a B student, you are from three years behind to seven years behind. Where did this virus infect us? The best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports. Everybody in sports is like if you're not doing well, go back and do the basics. You think it's the current material, but it's your pre-rex. It's your foundation. It's your foundation. It's so easy to fix. When you use these learning science-based AI tutors and the apps that we have, kids can learn 10 times faster. You would still say that 95% of all eighth graders in the United States could be what today is considered top 10% performance. The most important part of education is a motivated student. Two-hour learning is motivational for every kid on the planet. Our competition is Fortnite and TikTok. And we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids. They've created a narrative that says I can't do math. Once it becomes a mastery-based system, it's a decision not an inherent capability. And there's this mental view of, oh, I guess I am a smart kid. It's like the kindling that leads to the fire. What's the simplest unlock to fix education in America? It would be this. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Joe, thank you so much for making time to come over today. It's nice once in a while to have a guest who is local and doesn't have to travel so far. Now it's great, I super appreciate it. You know, look, people are probably wondering, like, you know, how does this sort of tie into health and medicine? And this is a topic that's a little bit about outside of that. But really, it's not because it's where we're ultimately going to go is education. And you can't have a great system of health and medicine if you're not educating. Kids today, right, the people that, you know, are learning today are going to be the ones taking care of us. So I think everybody should have a vested interest in this in this process. Of course, also many people listening have kids across various spectrums of learning. But I think before I get into that, your story is just so interesting. And I know you don't really like telling your story. Because I know this because I know you so well. And all you want to do is talk about the work. But I'm going to force you to tell your story a little bit. So where did you grow up? So IMoved around, I was born in Minnesota and IMoved around every couple years. And I'm mostly up and down these coasts. My dad worked for general electric and wherever they had a factory. Whatever town we'd we'd move there. Yeah, IMean, he did very well in high school and you wound up at Stanford. So what would you, what would you major in? IMajored in Econ. I did not graduate. I dropped out. But I would have been in Econ major. IMostly picked it because it was easy in the in the Stanford curriculum. So what year were you when you dropped out? So I would have been class in 1990. I would have been and I dropped out between junior and senior year. I was I'm sure my junior year professors were like he's not really engaged. And probably miss as too many classes. And you know for me and just a little bit on the background was, you know when I was in high school, I wrote a paper on AI. And you know one of the parts of the paper was about expert systems in old school AI. Now what we know today and there was a part like one paragraph called Neural Nats which is sort of today's AI. It was like this is decades away. And so I then went to Stanford and literally I was in a class with Professor Vigabong who's considered one of the fathers of expert systems in old school AI. And he's just talking about how this is you know you can build these incredible systems. And they'd be worth you know millions of dollars, you know if you could figure it out. And so you know if some classmates and I we dropped out, you know and started trilogy. And the story around that was just it was the first AI company we didn't call it AI back then because it had a bad rap in the 90s to sell a billion dollars way of products. And so that's how we got our start and eventually leads to you know today's story. Yeah so so again you it's I always find that amazing when people are dropping out like with one year to go right it's sort of like why didn't you finish it but you must have a strong conviction if you're saying I'm gonna forego my Stanford degree to go and start this company that can't it can't wait a year to do this right. Sure well there's and so back to this story because I I had you know my dad there's a famous Forbes headline that's like you're more on because my dad was very clear what a more I was being by dropping out and you know it's the the issue as I felt there was a time to market issue is a race right and I was just like I I'm sitting in Spanish class I don't care right and my market's gonna run away without me and there's a huge opportunity to go build this company and it's just it's that tension where you thought now with 2020 hindsight it took us over three years to build the product and we thought we could do it much quicker and so there was an time to market issue and with with hindsight I could have stayed but back to that pressure I just felt it I didn't want to miss it I had to go do it and so that's what actually led to the job. Did you guys come and set up shopping Austin right away? Yeah well not right away so we dropped out and did the whole you know we couldn't raise funding still can value back in the late eight eighties was not given money to dropouts like us and but we literally lived in a garage you know we had classmates who had like have a house and we're like can we rent your garage to live at it but then in 92 we moved down to Austin actually John Lynch who is one of the co-founders was like look you know if we're gonna be poor Austin back then Austin was cheap it's like it's a lot cheaper than Palo Alto so let's go move down there and so that's actually what led us down here. Austin. When did this idea of finding your next you know as I guess is it is it David Brooks who wrote that book the second mountain right so if you're if your first mountain was was trilogy this incredible business which really we're not gonna say much more about other than the fact that it basically created an an unlimited essentially word chest of capital that you were then able to go and deploy to your second mountain which is this passion around education yes you always had an interest in AI but when did these two become the next to front to you come together. So back to education so 10 years ago 11 years ago now McKinsey Price started Alpha in Austin and you know it's just still radical idea back that you know and one of the things I've learned is principal of Alpha is that parents want their kids education to be however they were educated and I was the same way I went to Catholic school my kids are in Catholic school you know and McKinsey's like look look at this great new school I got it's gonna be awesome you know and I was like McKinsey I'm it's weird like when she started it's literally in some guys garage I'm like you know her co-founder and like I'm not going to the weird school sorry and it took her two years to actually convince me to move my daughters over and you know they sampled it one time and literally loved it you know and they came back and said it was they did it after their Catholic school got out before they went to summer camp and they came back and they're like that we don't want to go to summer camp we want to still go to Alpha and I didn't like school enough to want to you were gonna miss summer for school that's how it crazy me so anyway I was like okay that's actually really good time I should move over and that was 10 years ago then how I but my discussion with McKinsey always was like this is awesome but it's not scalable and yeah just what did Alpha look like 11 years ago when you first appeared behind the curtain the other co-founder Brian right and he had this philosophy he had these rules like when so when I sent moved my kid over to Alpha I said Brian what are the two things I don't believe about education that I need to understand he's like first kids must love school they must love school and I'm like sort of spinach sometimes dude like no I he's like you're wrong and you'll figure it out and I was like okay and then his second is your kids can do so much more than you expect and I'm like I'm I sort of have really high expectations he's like they're gonna blow you away and what they can do and your expectations are too low and so you know he was you know setting it up it really it was 20 kids right they weren't in the garage after two years but you know it is alternative they would use a set of apps right to do academics but you know they'd have you know the teachers right would help academically if needed and then they would have all these life skills they checked charts and life skills so it was some academics and then workshops and life skills and that was you know 10 to 20 kids that are in there are what grade slash age range yeah they're gonna be from there probably second grade to fifth grade was probably the range sixth grade somewhere around there and you know and they're clustered it's sort of like the one room school house right and you know you go in and it is crazy like he's like oh they're doing spelling these and like they're walking on their hands you know they're doing handstands across the room and he's like yeah watch how they do it and literally they would you know have to buy try they try to walk across the room and handstands but recite all the words on their spelling v is doing it right and could they make it all across and the kids would just have it in a ton of fun right and I was always like are they really learning and sort of all the academics are high but you know testing showed they were and what was the state of technology what what you referred to some apps but what was the state of educational apps 11 years ago yeah there were um there were things like dreambox and uh Khan Academy was out okay so they were static IMean static in the sense that um they weren't adaptive I guess as maybe one of them or there the the the the prom with old ones and they actually even a bunch of them today is you know now we know with learning science you know all these much better ways to do it there's standards of mastery were too low their their implementation of learning science was too little you know if if you look at them but they were good enough that you could you know get your way through but back to some of the problems like when my oldest you know first took her seventh grade test um you know standardized test she failed at all you know and so sorry this is after being in the alpha program this was she had been in the alpha program and with with those apps got it and so the apps were you know janky and not all there um this is before I got involved except as a parent and you know she failed her seventh grade you know test and standardized test state standardized testing like oh wow so something there's a mismatch and there's mismatch they just you know you can use apps you know and people say how does alpha get all these results because there's a lot of people try to use these apps and you're like these apps have gaps and holes and you know figuring out how to change that was a lot of what how I got involved and you know what I've been doing the lasT3 years so you're for a into this is obviously then in this logical way through the experience of your own kids I want to just take a step way back and talk more about education in general so I I don't think anybody listening to us now is unfamiliar with the idea although this is it's not particularly popular at the moment we have enough other things that are going on in the world that have people up and arms but it's it's sort of sickleck when people sort of look at the data and realize that the United States is not doing well in primary and secondary education um or I don't know if those are the right terms but whatever it is up to K to 12 I don't know if secondary is considered college but we start to do pretty well in college right relative to the world but but getting to college we're not doing well and it's it's it's this is further I think the the point is it's further made when you look at the dollars in to results out so I think we're spending what one billion dollars are pretty one trillion dollars on K through 12 education which is about one seventh of what the world spends and of course we don't have one seventh of the population so there's a huge mismatch there but our ROI is quite low so it's actually kind of parallels the healthcare spending thing right where we on a per capita basis we spend more in healthcare than anybody else and yet we're actually not producing the best life expectancy so let's do well on that for a moment why does the United States spend so much money on K through 12 education and maybe more importantly why are we not getting the results at least if we believe we're measuring the results correctly if the results are to be determined by these tests that all the OECD nations take yeah why are we doing so poorly that's a really complex answer but there's there's a set of which it is it is true right our academic performance continues to go down across it as an example there's this test uh NWA map test it's a nationwide test you know when I was a kid I took an Iowa test this is equivalent one you know millions of kids take it and they just updated their 2025 norm table you know the last one they did it's it's 2020 you know every five years they update the benchmark and America knows less now so your average eighth grader in 2025 knows less than the average eighth grader in 2020 which is no less than the average in 2015 yep so you can't you just blame COVID on that no like this it's going to be a new tren it's a continuing tren it's continuing going down there is one actually anomaly which is uh in both the 2021 from 15 to 20 and 20 to 25 there's one one group who actually goes up and that's your 99th percentile so the top one percent academically in America in K through 12 continues to increase right those are your Ivy League bound kids continue to go up um now but everybody else is is going down things are getting easier in tests you know the the AP tests in high school that you take you know they re-normed them in the last couple years and they normal begins college kids because it's like okay if you take an AP test that's like a college class right and so they say well what would a college kids know and they're like oh college kids no less so now our AP test is easier right and so it used to be at alpha if you were going to be the honors track you had to get a four or five on an AP now we're like oh you just need a five because the fours are too easy right just the the standards just keep going down and you know I'll give some more data just you know I just gave the academic talk we had hundreds of families at alpha across the country of campus now everywhere and you know start last couple weeks and so they all come in they take a placement test you know and I got up in front of all the parrots and I was like here's the message and it's going to worry you but you should take away that your you know 40 thousand dollar private school they've been lying to you which is if your student has an AP and you've been getting straight days on your trenscript that student in our tests right is anywhere from one year ahead that's great two three years behind this is an AP student who's three years behind and when we talk abouT3 years behind if they're seventh grader that means they're missing a significant number of questions on the fourth grade test if you're a B student you are from three years behind two seven years behind so you've been paying your title let's give an example of what this means I have a great sense of this because you know you and I have been through this together but I want the I want the listener to understand tangibly what that means let's put that in terms of something mathematical okay so let's talk about what that implies for a B student in seventh grade mathematics what concept could they be possibly missing yeah yeah well I they don't know their multiplication tables or division tables so one of the things that's happened in sort of K through 12 education is they've decided that memorization is bad and that memorizing you don't need to memorize multiplication tables any more you're just going to use a calculator you know that's not what learning science says that is not you if you're going to do higher level math you need fact fluency and if you think of cognitive load theory right you have a certain number of working memory slots and the level of complexity of the math problem you can solve is going to be based on how many slots you have and right how you're using them and you know one of the few places in in in brain chemistry is if you have memorized something to fluency it doesn't use a slot it doesn't use it and so you can do higher level math but if you have to use your slots to say seven times eight is 56 you're now trying to do higher level math and you're using it up on the wrong things so if you want to do higher level math memorize your math tables right and your division tables it's a fluency and that's like the most simple obvious thing we could do in this country is just change that right just go back to what we used to do and you're like scores keep going down and you know if you even get in and even this and this is like the most extreme example is you know we had a student who had a 740 math SAT so again just for listeners who might not be familiar with that the score is 800 so 740 would be a very good score it's very good score centile is that I'd have top 10 percent okay yeah 90 percent yeah 770 is like the top 1 percent okay maybe in top 5 percent I'd have to and so great score yeah she cannot get above it and when we we we do game well we call game film right you review why you miss the test why you miss thEQuestions on the test right one thing as an example that's common in sports right game film people don't do this in academics for some reason so they she would just go through it she's like I know what that is you you decide was it a careless error yep did you not know the material yeah she's like after the test she could get them all done right given time and what happened was is she was overloaded and made careless mistakes when you're right working memory slots are overloaded it reflects actually in careless mistakes so if your students making careless mistakes you're like grit and discipline you're like hmm you probably don't have a fact fluency some are earlier that if you just go fix that also those carosam stakes go away so she literally went back to third grade learned her multiplication and division tables right and back to convincing parents that's really hard convincing students and parents that your 740 baths due to the third grade material she then got a 790 map after she memorized it because she stopped making the careless errors she knew all the material before she was overloading or working memory right and the learning science is like that's that's our issue and in our system we can identify that and fix it and seemingly crazy you know that you can go back and and memorize your tables and get up there and I remember another story Jo that we kind of bonded over a couple of years ago which was the student that was really struggling in uh in entry level chemistry yeah and IMean I can I I think anybody who's been through chemistry can empathize with that the first time you're doing you're going through physical chemistry and you're trying to balance the chemical equations and this this kid is dying and they think the problem is I'll never it's chemistry they problem is chemistry and you came in and said no actually the problem is fractions you didn't master fractions in third grade or fourth grade or whatever fractions are introduced and your failing chemistry because you did you for this exact reason we're going to go back and fill the gap in in fractions and this will become easy for you and of course that's what happened and math science knowledge is hierarchical right and this is back to mastery which is we've why we do poorly we've given up mastery in this country why um we're a time-based system right at the end of third grade you're moving to fourth grade and at the end of fourth grade you move to fifth grade and we don't hold kids back we don't we just we've said we're just going to move kids through no matter what um because it's time because there's all these other social issues right and you know oh my god I can't have my kid hold back the pressure on the school to relax the standards you know 80% of kids at Harvard get an A now you know it's just grade inflation you know grades look like this yeah look at these test floors look like that yeah right and it's just we've just got and for whatever reasons we've done it but in a time-based system you know and here's part just even grading you know there's this concept that you know okay you got a 70 you know you can pass and 80s a B right that's great okay my kids would be student 80 the problem is you know if you only have 80% you know knowledge you're creating all these holes and it all compounds were eventually and it starts to when you had algebra or chemistry right that you're you think it's the current material but it's your pre-rex your foundation it's your foundation and you know we talk a lot about parents because a lot of this is you know we all grew up in this time-based system and just the old system and so this new way is very different but the best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports right just like game film we're like have you your test figure out what's wrong master is the same one you know which is if you're the point card and you lose the ball 20% of the time going down the court the coaches and like let's the work on the advanced stuff like kids let's learn how to drip all right we don't need to worry about dunking yet correct no dunking like let's focus on right get up to 99% get to mastery that you know how to do the basics everybody in sports is like if you're not doing well go back and do the basics well academics is the same way and if you apply that same logic right but in a time-based system with a teacher in front of a classroom right you can't get every kid to mastery right and that's when we get into like the new solutions and why we get these crazy you know kids can learn tendons faster it's because we're able to get out of a non-mastery non-time-based system or a non-mastery time-based system that has a teacher in front of a classroom right teachers are great teacher in front of a classroom's bad you know that that dynamic and so but into your point hierarchical you know chemistry is just algebra with advanced word problems right physics is literally calculus with advanced word problems you know algebra is basically advanced fraction manipulation you can give kids a fraction test and predict their algebra score right and then fractions are how's your division of multiplication tables do you memorize them to fluency and so it just keeps going down the whole track you know all the way down and so part of what you have to do to fix the system right is figure out age grade oh wait I'm an eighth grader in algebra and knowledge grade wait I don't know my fractions are different and so you know what a teacher in the front of a classroom though it's not their fault right I'm a teacher I'm an eighth grade teacher what do you teach eighth grade material yeah and I have kids who don't who don't who don't know some third fourth fifth sixth seventh material what do I do right and this is why you know and so many people hire tutors you know after school at private schools right there's you know it's crazy we have all these people go to private schools and higher after school tutors because the school doesn't teach them and you know the tutors just like okay I'm gonna go give you the earlier grade level material that's it when we talk about kids all these hundreds of kids coming in who are you know three years behind seven years behind the second part of what I tell the parents is that's freaking you out because nobody wants their kid this far behind but it's so easy to fix the remediation of this stuff is no time at all that when you use these you know learning science based AI tutors and the apps that we have kids can learn ten times faster ten times faster so when you actually look at material there's 180 school days right hour a day plus homework so a couple hundred hours most of grade that one subject right per grade level takes our alpha kids between 20 and 30 hours to finish an entire grade level two mastery so you can take fourth grade math and be like you got 26 hours kid you do an hour day homework your 26 days away right 22 hours is 7th grade and 6th grade 22 each right for math and Joe would this work if and again as just as a thought experiment if each student had one teacher the private tutor if you could put a private tutor in front of a student for 22 hours over the course of you know whatever two months or one hour day for 26 days are you confident that that individual and of course we'll talk about why that's not practical but that that that individual if skilled enough could navigate and weave that child through if you give me a few more hours then what I just gave you because the AI can do a little bit better then then then most tutors but yes fundamentally the paper that was written when I was in high school about education like so learning science and we didn't you know learning science has been around for 40 years they've been writing papers there's 10,000 papers published by all the schools of education you know Stanford and you know all over the place that is we know kids can learn two five or ten times faster right we've known it in you know blues two sick blooms two sigmas as a seminal paper and he just said if everybody got a personalized tutor was his first point and second they did it to mastery they worked to master so mastery based not ten year based correct just you have to know the material before you advance yep and there's an individual tutor to coach you you will get two sigma better performance which is right your leftmost part of your curve your worst students are going to be what today is considered the top 10 percent and I have two sigma performance you said to me once four five years ago something and I'm curious if you still stand by it which is at least through the end of eighth grade there is not a single student in the United States that cannot achieve complete mastery in mathematics to score above the 90 youth or 99th percent dial in the national test yes so I think I said that to you three years ago and I would hesitate just for arguments sake take out the bottom five percent just to stop all the all right so 95 you would still say that 95 percent of all eighth graders in the United States could be what today is considered top 10 percent performance yeah they can get to mass in mathematics in mathematics yeah so just let that settle in for a moment right like that just that seems to fly in the face of everything I want to go back and close the loop on something before we continue this discussion which is I still don't have a sense of what's changing right because we've always had a time-based system not a mastery-based system so what has gone on in the last 25 years because that's not the change right what is why are why are white or scores the fundamental answer standards are lowering and part of it is parents right here's so I'll give you you know three years ago when I became principal you know I would sit down with parents and I'm like we have this cool engine it's going to teach your kid twice as much in the two hour block twice as much now they have to use the apps right and engage with it and you know your your students not using it right so they're not learning to X the parents are like yeah stop don't pressure my kid to learn to X don't pressure you know I'd be in a parent meeting it would literally be you know mom dad and Johnny and I'm like look when you know when this is a question he doesn't watch the video right or he's scrolling and just guessing if he just watched the video he'd learn twice as much and the parents is say we're not interested in that now so why are the hundreds hundreds hundreds well the rest of the things parents want life skills community a school is a bundle of which academics is one piece and for the most part in America except for less fewer than 10% like less than 10% market share less than 10% of the parents right fewer than 10% parents really care about academics that 90% of parents are like oh well and so that was an eye opener to me and hundreds of parents IMean later I literally we switched our pitch which was two hour learning the same engine because you flip the you're like it's two hour learning and look we're trying to get Johnny out of here in two hours so we can do these cool workshops and do what he loves right and that flip parents are like then all so they're like Johnny which wrong with you why don't you want to get out of here do the cool stuff and so it's it's back to you know the most important part of education is a motivated student and you know for us two X learning is not a motivating idea except for you know sort of the top kids but two hour learning is motivational for every kid on the planet right and that's if you had to say are my biggest unlock was that realization and you know the product became codename time back give the kids their time back because that is the most precious right that for 12 years we waste kids time we know that kids sitting in a lecture base classroom right retain maybe five percent that is bad it's that bad it's that bad and so like being ten times better you're like I need to remember 50 percent right it's just I there's still you know it's it's that bad we know it's that bad right it's not personalized to them it's not to a master's all these bad things and so we're wasting their 12 years and you wonder why kids don't like academics and they're in a disengage and all these things is we're wasting their time and so for this it's like great just they're gonna learn two in two hours now they're still learning two X right that's just not the part we pitch and so they're learning two X in two hours and then you free up the rest of the day and so we get all our kids right our scores at our Alpha School we're all top one percent right academically our our classes are top one percent of the country there's no school academically who's as good as Alpha you know in the country and the reason is is using this model right and we were just implementing all these concepts that were in these learning science papers for 40 years is there is there a challenge to the intensity that's required in those two hours so I give you an analogy so I get asked all the time hey Peter look I've read that you know I could just do one set to failure once a week for each body part and get most of the benefits of you know grinding it out for you know 10 to 20 sets per body part and I say luckily that's a little bit of an exaggeration but there's some truth to this right like if you could truly do one to two sets to absolute failure per exercise yeah you're gonna get great results and they're like well Peter why don't you do that and I and I say look to be honest with you it's really freaking hard to bring that level of intensity to every single set of every single workout every time you do it and there are a bunch of other reasons that I actually kind of like being in the gym or whatever but but the point is it's true you can get great results in much less time but for many people the intensity is not something they're willing to rise to right and and so I guess the similar question is if for two hours a day a kid can learn what a traditional kid is learning in six to seven hours a day and actually do it better um is there something that they have to be able to bring from an attention span perspective that is very difficult or not something that is you know yeah yeah and so the answer is it's not difficult but they have to want to do it so motivation so if you know if you talk to an educator there's two things you need you need a motivated student and you need to put them in lessons of the correct difficulty not too easy not too hard right that's back to an ed tech and why you know taking this little bit why doesn't ed tech work right back to these apps and yeah you know test scores keep going down but everybody keeps buying ed tech and the answer is ed tech does that second piece that 10% piece of put them in the right you know lessons very well our AI tutors do it even better it can figure out very easily what a kid knows and doesn't know and say age grade eighth grade knowledge grade fourth given fourth grade lessons right and so that parts great now the second part is to the point of my parent meeting how do I get them to engage with the app right because I'm spinning in the chair I'm not paying attention I'm talking to my friend it's called TikTok right I'm doing anything except focusing on it and so what is their motivation is 90 of the solution and for us that's why time back is so valuable which is the kid has to engage with the apps for those two hours or they don't get the rest of the day they don't get their time back right they'll just sit there wasting their time IMean we literally in our app have a waste meter and it just coaches the kid right the AI like what we can get in the AI's and stuff and chat bots are terrible like chat GBT rolled out to America students they 90% of kids use it is a cheap bot it's all cheating that we don't have a chat interface and ours but one of the things our AI does is it watches the kid's screen and coaches them up and is like look you're scrolling the article and guessing not gonna learn that way right you're skipping this right and it's gonna coach them of how to learn better and if you have a motivation for the students to actually learn better and be effective they're very happy to do that right we have a sports academy that we just we'd still been 10 out of around Texas and these are middle schools right D1 bound athletes you know kind of and they come in and they do the two hours in the apps right and then once they hit it you know and they go green where they've done the lessons right they get to do sports all afternoon and so you can take kids who are like I hate school I skip school you know absenteeism is huge and when they get to do that all of a sudden they're like I'm totally motivated right we it's only been a couple weeks that we've been open but you get notes from all the parents who are like my kid always was sick never wanted to go everything now he's waking me up and it's like let's not be late right and it's because they have the motivation to actually learn and so now now so that's the most important you can do that for everybody right and motivation really really does matter and it alphas designed around how do we motivate kids and the biggest motivators time back we also use a lot of other ones but that's that's the biggest thing that makes our system work and when then when you talk just is there also extra juice of the intensity right we measure do kids get through our apps 90 or 95 percent first time right right we're not making the lesson hard enough we're we want to make sure the lessons not too hard where you don't have to have too much intensity yep right now we also have what is the sweet spot is it 90 percent we 90 and 95 it's not where first time right yeah okay actually a little bit there's a thing called the zone approximation development which is what an individual student should be and you want to keep a student in 80 to 85 percent correct questions which is different than first time right I'm getting through the whole lesson you want to be in the zone approximation development which is you know if you're at 99 percent it's too easy you're not learning right if you're getting 99 percent of thEQuestions right you're just regurgitating what you already know if you're missing and half the time or two thirds you know you're only at 50 or 60 right you get disengagement right it's too frustrating or go home out right we literally video game developers the world experts on this on engagement of how do you engage and you know they'll tell you you know always winning always learning you know and that concept in 80 to 85 percent is where that is so we're measuring you know the way to maximize learning is an unending stream of content right both educational questions right and learning content that is at 80 to 85 percent accuracy you know and and this gets into stuff that we're building is you know if you sit in a Stanford lecture you're going to retain one to five facts ideas and concepts per hour our current learning engines depending on what the subject we're at 20 to 40 you know we have stuff that we're working on where when in Gen AI is the driver of this we'll get to a hundred facts ideas and concepts in that or right think of an endlessly scroll tick-tock list except engaging and good content so the the poison that that is and so the learning science part is we know how to get knowledge into kids head 10 times better than the current educational system but it takes a whole rebuild and back to kids when they love school they're going to engage in the app because the whole day is great so let's go back and talk a little bit about education science right you've alluded to it a couple of times tell me what is what 90 percent of people would agree with right there's nothing that I was going to say tell me something that is unambiguously true about education science but but let's let's soften that a little bit and say tell me something that 90 percent of people who study education study the science of learning would agree with 90 percent would agree that individualized tutoring and a mastery based standard is the best way to teach kids right it's dramatically more effective than a time-based system that the concepts in learning science zone approximate development spaced repetition right you would get the testing effect right that actually asking kids active learning is better than passive learning right that retention of sitting passively in a classroom is the worst way to teach a kid they're going to all of those things would also really well-normed you know cognitive load theory is a new area of learning science that's you know sort of developed in the start of the 90s and this is the how many working memory slots do you have and then how many reps does it take to move from working memory slot you know short term memory based working memory slot to long term they're all going to by the way so interesting to me that this is that there's any disputor on that when you see the effects in sports like the sports illustrates that I think more than anything else um you look at the difference between like a Tom Brady versus an exceptional quarterback who's a very good quarterback and it's the it's the it's the processing speed right it's not IMean it's not how fast or how far he can throw the ball it's his processing speed that sets him apart it's it's the cognitive bandwidth of what he's doing and it's this this is IMean it's actually the same in formula one right if you look at what separates the very best in the world from very good it's it's cognitive bandwidth it's the guy who actually doesn't have to think at all about driving and can still drive at the limit while he can use all of his cognitive reserve for strategic decision making and an overtake so yeah and so like that fluency stuff just there's no there's nobody in learning science who's like it's better if they don't memorize their multiplication tables even though our school system you know has a band of that and that's that's you know private private it's not like oh these private schools are you know the private schools are bailing on it too it's not just why was that decision made back pressure you know there's parental pressure again my kid is not happy like one one of the so I there's three things I still this is another one of the sort of coddling of the yeah this is just and there's three thing to come to an alpha school now I have a conversation with parents I'm sort of fry it you know what he'd give you those two things but I've had a third a third one to it which is you know first your kid must love school right really love school and we measure literally measure would you rather go to school or go on vacation like super high standard right we should have kids love school for 12 years right and they're gonna be there your childhood why why do we not have that standard the second is your kid can learn in two hours right twice as much as sitting in class for six right your your kid can crush academics in just two hours day crush it that's the second thing you have to believe to come to alpha and the third and this is where the controversy parts but it's true you know is the key to your kids happiness is high standards right and that's the one that a lot of people do not believe that they think the key to my kids happiness is low standards and the problem with low standards I can't where did this virus come from where did where did this virus in fact well part of it is if you actually you know the parents want to protect their kids right it comes from parents from a good place which is I don't want to see my kids struggle and fail on their road to success they don't want to see that like I talk about you know the cycle as a as a principle I can tell you kids struggle fail sometimes cry on their road to success if they're supported by a caring loving adult right that loop if you ask any child development expert in the planet right you can type that all in chat to be to is the key to kids development the key to their self confidence the key to their resilience right the key to their growth that they go through a the cycle of struggle fail right on the way to success journey it's a here it's it's it's woven into every and back to your point out sports everybody why do you 50% America's like you know where my kid learns life skills and when you talk about life skills teamwork leadership grid hard work it's an actual school sports because that's what the coach does my kids going to go through that struggle and I went through it when I was playing sports and my kids going to go through that and that's where you learn it and they have this view of that's the only place you learn we do that's such an an excuse and the reason it doesn't happen in schools is because in a time-based system everybody thinks good grades equals high IQ and so it's fundamentally that IQ is what determines grades and so I don't want to pressure my kid because you know as if he's really this right it's not fair right and so I don't want to put that pressure on you know one of the magic on locks we have right back to everybody can get to you know that not higher performance right is a mastery based system you know if you take the best kids you know you like who are the kids who do get in the Ivy League right they're basically the high IQ kids who also have high conscientious and it's big five conscientiousness right they're grinders right they just they just cranked through it naturally um and those are the kids who do well and so if we're rebuilding education to fix it we have to take those two constrents away right and so a mastery based system takes away IQ which is every kid you know just the conceptual leaps that are required to get through K through eight actually by the design of common core just aren't that big that does not mean everybody can go be a nuclear physicist at Stanford and design all these things right I'm not gonna that's that's there is areas where you do need more cognitive everybody in math there's a point they reach yep just I can't do the processing but I'm poor K through eight it's designed that everybody everyone will do it everybody can do it so if you went and yet just reflect on that for a moment Joe think of all the kids that are in six seventh and eighth grade who are good students in other domains they're doing well in English they're doing well in history they're conscientious they work hard but they they've created a narrative that says I can't do math and let's I'll we'll dive into that and we'll get into the the second thing of how we on we also use our motivation model to undo the conscientious limitation you you have to use more extrinsic motivators to let people who aren't high conscientiousness still perform like somebody who does so those are sort of magic on locks on those two things that we think can fix education but you're math thing I got I got to give these examples so you know it's an epidemic of kids who come into middle school you know predominantly girls I have two daughters right who come in and they're like I'm not a math science girl and there's just like societies like accepting that and okay let's go read all the learning science papers about how middle school girls can't do math science okay there are not there's not that doesn't exist right there's no such thing but it's this total meme that they they believe and so part of what our job in middle or when they trensfer in high school is to fix that right that there's this concept of oh I'm an art girl I'm an English girl or whatever it is and it doesn't grow boy there's just there's no difference and so like our we have some seniors this year you know the first one she's her big project that she does at Alphay Alphay to these big Alphayx projects she is doing the first all teen produced created musical for Broadway right she sourced all the song and song writers off TikTok she can fill a thousand person venue you know she's trying to raise it up so she can do it so she'd be you know I'm an arts theater girl right 790 math as a team we have another girl right see these are seniors she's you know trying out to be misteen USA right 790 math SAT right third girl who is doing uh this is my daughter right she has a you know uh i call her TikTok girl you know she's got millions likes on TikTok and tons of followers she's building a uh app to teach teen boys how to ask girls out on dates because teen boys are terrible dad um right top one percent at 18 math right that there's this concept that these people can't learn it you're like they all can right there's just no now what do you have to do when they come into middle school they do they don't know the milk patient tables right they don't know the pre-rex they are gonna struggle an algebra right and so you're like okay let's go back let's fill them up and all of a sudden once you fill the holes all of a sudden they can do it and then once you know algebra right you're like oh I can do chemistry right and I can move from you know it's because you can through a science there's no math actually it's all just memorizing facts you know igneous rocks and you know the planets and stuff um once you get to high school that's where you know a biology still more memorization less math but then chemistry and physics are all math based calculus and algebra and so you have to get these kids the pre-rex but then all of a sudden they're like oh chemistry is pretty fun right oh now they're in a calculus and I can crush cowpeasy all our kids in high school right if you want to be on the honest track it's five on cowpeasy right and totally doable right for everybody and so this whole thing you know our freshman coming in by the end of the freshman year they're 14 10 on the SAT right which you know 13 50's top 10 percent right these are freshman these are freshman like in most school's don't IMean that's better than most juniors seniors most don't publish their freshman results right and and we can get freshman there you know and you and and once it becomes a mastery based system how high you go becomes a decision back to your effort it's a decision not an inherent capability and so when you break that link like elf kids are just like in a mastery based system they're like oh it's just more work it's not I'm not smart enough right and that is the unlock that we have to have and why we have to move to a mastery based system because you just need kids to be like oh so if you want to be in the non honor if you're in normal alpha high right 13 50 is the minimum SAT right you gotta get to a top 10 percent if you want to be in the honest track it's 15 50 and we're just like 15 50 and that's top one percent yeah oh yeah and but it's it's just a decision do you want to do the work to get to 15 50 right from 13 50 right and so so it's just that look I'm willing to put in this many more hours this year yeah no so back to my my youngest daughter who's just took the SAT you know it's she's top one percent but she's not perfect 800 and she's like she literally was in she's asking the AI she's like how much time will it take for me to get up to the top to a perfect 800 and you know at that level it doesn't really matter for getting into college but she's like just out of curiosity she's like oh no she's like you know dad you know all those stemboys you know they think I'm this dumb ticked a girl and you know if I get an 800 I get to mow down on the rest of their life and I think it's totally worth it and so she's literally but it's just a decision she's trying to side it'll come back it'll probably be 20 hours probably I don't know some some manageable number of hours and she'll just be making a decision am I going to put the reps in right the practice in to get there right so that I can have this ego boost face that you get as you really love it or no okay you know I'm going to do something else with my time but that's where you know in these mastery based models you know versus you know in a teacher in front of a classroom model where you're a time based system you're like I don't know how to get there right there's no path up and you know when we when you log in to our system it literally tells you you know in two hours a day you know you're three years behind so you first come in you're like your three years behind it's you're like oh my god that seems insurmountable you're 20 to 30 hours per grade level so you could be 60 hours behind if you're three years behind 60 hours that's it you're 60 hours away and you're like so if I do an hour homework so then some there I'm caught up yeah I'm caught up and now back to incentives there's some kids are like do I care that I'm caught up but it's easy to incentive to want to catch up right and you can figure out okay what do we have to do you know one of the things we one of the things else is don't for whether infimously or not is we use extrinsic motivators right to drive yeah use money you pay a good time back is the most important one it's more important than money is you know sort of the you know the West Lake track we got to do you know honors track where it's you know six hours day and eight zillion homework hours I don't think you can pay a kid enough to like love school by going through that versus you know we're two hour actually and just because we're two hours a day for a non-honors track we're three hours a day for honors back at the 1550 it does take more time but we will take middle school kids like this is there's a middle school active program kids come in and we will pay them $1,000 to get to top one percent and you know there's a lot of stories right around this where kids view look I can't do that it's not okay I'm not the smart kid I'm like the math science girl I can whatever it is and well if you get there and do these lessons and we're just going to keep giving lessons and you do the work you're going to get $1,000 you know you're the will pay kids right coming in middle school $1,000 to get to top one percent and the point of this is you know what's even more important than the academic knowledge it's their internal view of themselves that changes that kids come in and say I'm not a math science girl I can't be a top one percent I can't do this whatever limits they have and a lot of education when you talk about it is you know holistically you're trying to take limits in kids and release them right have them understand your limitless you can do all this and this is the best way academically we've found to do it and so they come in and the AI is going to say here's all the lessons you need to do to get top one percent and just go through them and that motivation will get all these kids to top one percent and the number of stories we have you know I have one my own daughter but all you know the alpha families where their student is like they come back and they're like I didn't realize I could be top one percent and my personal self confidence in view of myself that I had to do hard work right you had to do the work right now I'm you know I and then once you take a middle school kid just top one percent as they go into high school they're not going to give it up because and there's this mental view of oh I guess I am a smart kid right or I'm a capable kid right and that unlock is so valuable and so for us that's when you know we think you know juicing it with money IMean we spent 20 grand a kid in this country per student right and you're like in middle school give a kid a thousand dollars in order to have them realize there is that the height there's no limit why does why would most people I assume listening to us have sort of an uneasy feeling about that like they can't reconcile what you just said which is well-weighted and on the one hand I know we're spending twenty thousand dollars per year per kid on these kids and we're getting nothing for it and you're proposing we give them a couple of those thousands of dollars strategically to incentivize half of the equation which is them having the motivation to do this and yet that's going to make a lot of people feel uneasy why so there's a view that there needs to be an intrinsic love of learning for it to be pure and that if you it has to be intrinsic not extrinsic and that if you're buying it it's solid and not good right it's just it's wrong it's fundamentally wrong and you know and that is a common view are there any data that would support one view being favorable to the other how would that be tied there there is a set of papers that have been written that show that you know if somebody is not intrinsically motivated or is intrinsically motivated and you pay them they lose intrinsic motivation now that's not the case that we're sitting with we're have kids who aren't motivated who aren't intrinsically going through it right they need the boost and if you actually ask alphacids and maybe we'll do a study someday no parent who has their kids at alphacix my kids lost their intrinsic motivation if anything it's the opposite because now they think they're and those papers don't talk about is how much of the issue was I didn't think I was capable I now realize I am and I get this crazy intrinsic boost around it right IMy younger star or again would be this example which is you know she came in to middle school you know at that she hit top 10 percent and to write the end of eighth grade sorry this was before this is going in seventh grade okay she was top 10 percent coming in so she'd been there but she's like that I'm not like my older sister I'm not top one percent right that's just not who I am right I'm ticked off girl you know if we're gonna and I was like you know you know what I know you know love more than anything it's shopping and all bet you $1,000 that you can't get to top 1 percent and so she literally would fill her a Amazon cart with $1,000 stuff and in the morning she'd then look and look at the lessons she had to go through and she'd do it right she just grind through it now back to this thing it's you know we had a lot of family discussions around this because my wife she was like wait there's two things and this is most parents are or like this there's two things you're one you're setting one percent top one percent and most parents like that's too hard right and you know why are you putting that pressure you know for on on the kid and number two it doesn't feel right to pay a thousand bucks to get this this is just we're all brought up that there's something wrong and so and but back to the thing so she does it she has top one percent I really buy his but then she sits down right with my wife and she's like mom I know you didn't like us doing this but you need to understand what this is done for me which is I never thought I was as smart as my older sister and now I realize I can do everything right that she can do and it's totally changed my internal view right and that element there of right her and now back she's also the one now it was top one percent on the SAT tried to decide if she wants to do the extorque to get perfect score right that there that change in their view of their capability that unlock is so valuable and I believe we should do this for every kid in America right that but that's the dynamics of why people don't like it and it's you then just have to decide if you can use extrinsic motivation whatever it is I'm concert ticket by right go shopping whatever whatever mode of screen time video game time whatever it takes to get the kid to realize I can go be and learn all this and be top one percent when I previously didn't think that right and I go through that struggle fail sometimes cry I have the road to success loop that then unlocks my human potential and right the point education beyond academic right you're trying to unlock human potential and this is just a great easy way to do it and it's not failed in times the system yeah that's the thing you know it does is not necessarily something that has to happen indefinitely it's it's what I when I think makes sense here is that it's it's an unlock that then creates a new state of awareness that therefore becomes self-perpetuating right in many ways it's like the kindling that leads to the fire you don't need kindling indefinitely sometimes you need kindling exactly that I think that's I'm gonna steal that from you because that's a great way to think about it which is I'm not paying her to decide to go get a perfect score on RSAT I don't need the extra right it's intrinsic right it's her decision to her capability she just needed that kindling to jump started and whatever block was in the month right you're all right good coaches like how do I unblock them and that's what this does you know and since we're on this of paying I'll give you my my second one which if I um the Secretary of Education's coming down next week to meet with Kenzie around Alpha stuff and if there's one thing to fix education in America just the what's the simplest unlock it would be this which is and it's all around wholefilling and paying kids which is so when I first started um I wanted kids to go back and wholefill right we call wholefill I go back and do your pre-rex and so I'm sitting down with seven graders the boys and IMy guys you could get a hundred percent before that I'm sitting down with them and you know it does not motivate us to a seventh grader doing fourth grade no kid wants to do that right no one wants to be going back and the only people who want it less than the kid are their parents yeah their parents are like every parent America has been trened my kidneys be a great level right which once again the learning science is right that is not right get your kid to master the basics and if it's previous material give it to him and so I and I tried to convince parents look you kid these wholefill we're going to get this thing whole thing working and stuff and I base again it up giving up on the parents and so then I went to the seventh graders and I was just like okay here we go guys you could get a hundred on the Texas star you know our state test they're like no way Mr. Lee what I'm like no no all in Sanctuary I'll give you a hundred dollars bill for a hundred on the test they're like that's still impossible I'm like no no there's a catch any grade level they're like I can take a kindergarten Texas star and you're giving me a hundred bucks I was like well it starts in the third grade they're like I'm in they take the third grade Texas star they get a hundred I give a hundred dollar bill they're like a fourth grade I'm like absolutely same thing hundred get a hundred by fifth grade they're running and take out 75 85 right they get 75 85 they're the schools and I'm like well do you want the AI tutor to generate the lessons you missed and they're like well let me see how many of it it's they're like I can do that in a week they're in right get the hundred then you know on the way six and then seventh grade and for four hundred dollars four hundred dollars and you can get up to grade level up to grade level but more importantly they all think they can get and know they can get a hundred on the state test which used to be only the GT kids and smart kids get it like if you survey incoming alpha parents and say can your kid get a hundred on the Texas star fewer than 10 percent say yes they can after you've been at alpha year 90 percent of kids are like I can totally get a hundred on Texas star because they've done it right our building you know over there you know gets more hundreds on the Texas star than a school district of a hundred thousand kids right and it's just because we have a mastery based system where you tell them so our advancement now in this built-in door system is we'll actually advance a kid if they get over 90 right what is our mastery standard it's in the 90s so you have to score in the state test above the 90 to move on to the next grade level material but we also have a hundred for a hundred and so the kids are like okay well I guess I'm just gonna get the hundred because I want to get the hundred dollar bill and so you have this concept where and it just changes and where I could advance that's an interesting experiment in and of itself it's it's sort of what we would call a natural experiment because it's not randomized which is if the kid is motivated basically just to do the bare minimum right they're going to just take the 90 right and so you so and if you make it a hundred it's just back to there's a little reality of bringing your parents and everybody along with you on the crazy journey we're on and so that hundred it lets us out of it which is you know when you get to the higher material and you've done 90 our apps still couldn't go back and fill those 10 percent because it's the best way to learn but it just get them advanced let them go and and do that but the hundred the kids all just do it because they know they can and it just gets the right mindset going which is why our kids literally for the SAT everything you know oh you can't get perfect scores they're like it's just some extra work right I five's on apes people like that seems impossible like oh how many hours is it right it takes 75 hours to go through like ap world history or ap uh u.s history it's 75 hours and they're like oh I got you know 15 hours left to get a five and so you just change the concept that these you know now there's some upper bound where there is you know conceptual understanding and everybody can't get there but k through a curriculum what would change education in America we can totally do this so let's now talk about the the AI piece which we haven't really explicitly talked about and then you you you you said something to me once that I think was actually remarkable which you you compare to medicine right you compare education to medicine in terms of an unlocks so so talk a little bit about that you know if you go back you know to um the sciences right and whether it's biology or medicine chemistry physics all of these had periods in the wilderness I'm sure doctors bloodlighting and things like this but there was the invention of an instrument right in each of those that allowed more precise measurement that unlocked and inflected the science right and medicine had theirs I don't know which one you thought I think I yeah when when I've heard you discuss this I think it's the light microscope if you were going to talk about one instrument that took us from what would what I described as the dark ages of medicine 1.0 into medicine 2.0 which is where we are today that inflection point came primarily around without the light microscope it couldn't have happened some of crg wrote very eloquently about this in his most recent book The Cell but basically until we could actually start to see microscopic organisms we couldn't really handle germ theory right and until we could eradicate germ theory we couldn't really live past about 40 on average right there were just too many people dying too young and so that one piece of technology unleashed an entire change in the way medicine has been practiced which of course has spread out far beyond infectious diseases but but that's I think it's impossible for me to imagine a scenario whereby we are alive today in the way we are without that right so and so when you when you look at AI that learning science these papers have been written for 40 years but they all start with this doesn't work with the teacher in front of a classroom time-based model right you need to change it up so you had the solution you had the conceptual solution for the last 40 years on how to fix education right but there's been no technology to make it up you can't you have a microscope you haven't had a microscope and AI is finally that microscope because of a couple things the first is you know before you know your effect size when you put an experiment you know into a classroom you're like well is the teacher teaching it correctly you know is it you know using space repetition correctly are the students engaged you know do they have the pre-reacts you just don't know and so your environmental variables dominate your effect size and with AI right you get two things you get absolutely precise teaching you know exactly what is being told to the kid and then second you have this closed loop measurement you can measure what do they know and what they don't know and so you know the pre-react you know all of it and then you can create you can do science you can create this closed loop so our system right we rolled out our new system time back you know to the student to to all our all our students this year a couple weeks ago and like our math curriculum we believe this year is going to be uh better kids will learn more in 20 percent less time and we know that because we've been measuring it and we looked on last year's math and we're able to say okay we have this idea okay the kids what percent learned were they 95 percent right how long did it take each kid to go through the lesson what do we need to change what learning science concept can we put in the lesson right that's going to then allow them to learn better and faster and what's going to change the scheme of their brain you know not cramming but really understanding this and then okay they took the standardized test oh look it did work right and you can just create this closed loop system where you're able to do science right and that but nobody else has that and that's the that's the problem right is we need to create that system but to do that you have to give up like the most treasured notion in the world which is the key to good education is a teacher in front of a classroom right one of the things that's true about education you know 200 years ago before there was tutors right yeah you know soccer teams and play it on Aristotle and Alexander the Gray and all the lead had tutors right and then 200 years ago like we have to educate everybody the only way cost effectively to do that is teacher in front of a classroom and that is all any of us know our parents know our grandparents know we've all been in that and it did great things because at scale we have educated people that never would have been educated before because what fracked IMean I would have I wouldn't have been one of the two dirt ones correct right and it is and you can go to the poor school district in India and there's a teacher in front of a classroom not very nice building you can go down to whatever private school that started in your $50,000 teacher in front of a classroom in a very nice building but that model is all we know and we think and great teachers matter and this is always the part with our new model and AI tutors that I I want to take a second here because people get freaked out adults 20 years from now parents are gonna drop their kids off at a building and in that building are gonna be other kids and adults and those adults even call them teachers guide coaches whatever you want you know we think the day will be very different but that concept of a school with teachers and other students that's not going away we're not moving to this AI robot terminator you know whatever that's not that's not what's coming kids are gonna you're gonna drop the kids off at a school and it's gonna now if we do our job right you don't sit in class for six hours a day and have this miserable experience it kids love it and all of those but back to the the science of it we now with AI right can have a one-on-one relationship the AI knows what is the kid know what are they not know how do I give them this lesson and if you look and if you want to talk just about where we're headed the futures even you know gen AI is changing everything that was the the part for me that I saw which is I can craft personalized lessons for every kid that takes into account you know what goes into the L.A.L.A.M. sort of on the technology side you have what what are you trying to teach them what's the curriculum what is their knowledge graph what do they know and what do they not know what is their interest graph right what do they interested it because actually if I know your interest I can engage it oh you want to learn baseball IMean you love baseball and you want to learn stats I'm an internment and that and kids are gonna get engaged to it oh you're the fashionista who's you know I'm gonna teach you fraction is the app already able to do what you just describe so where we are today in 2025 we generate static content with human review because we still have too many hallucinations okay and so we're not we're not there now in 2022 we expect we'll be able to do it there is one meaning just to make sure I'm putting this in perspective so my eight-year-old who is that kid who loves baseball yeah and all he does is talk baseball stats he's a literal he is a walking baseball statistic do you know so and so hit 326 that the this many homeruns and do you know he was able to hit 477 feet above above so he will be able to get to know his AI tutor they will figure out in short order that the way to his heart is baseball and anything that you can teach in baseball terms he's fixated exactly and AI will be able to give him a lesson to pursue mastery but under the guhyes of baseball under baseball amazing and it's just and we all know this which is you're always that's what teachers are always trying to do is how do I get what the kids like and associate with it but at scale you don't have 30 kids who like all the same thing you know etc so here's an example what you can actually do today there's if you we have so static you know you have hallucinations and so you don't you don't want to release those yet but we have a dynamic reading generates called teach tales and the goal of this is to get kids to love to read so if you take a third grade boy it's like I hate books right I hate books I'm not book guy and you're like what's your favorite movie the Avengers who your soccer buddies okay and you create the AI generates a choose your own adventure where you're saving the world with your soccer buddies and you know they have to keep the key to age be an Avenger and each be one and literally in the lexile level right the difficulty goes up it knows right so it's keeping you in the zone approximate development within 10% of you know what you know your lexile level kids will sit there and click for an hour right just totally in game non-stop reading non-stop and just all of a sudden you know because we do have a reading problem in this country people don't read books and all the things this is the kind of thing where Gen AI is going to be able to suck kids in right and you know our competition is fortnight in TikTok right and we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids that's related to what they care about that also teaches okay I gotta teach your fractions but we're doing this baseball thing so you're fine right you love that you know there's a whole program that a lot of people in finance where you know and there's actually program where they have a mother daughter thing back to a different way to try to solve it without an AI tutor where there's all these finance moms who teach their daughters poker in middle school and they're like I'm gonna get them into poker to teach all these skills and the math skills and all the things that aren't being taught in my school but with us we can get that engagement level where the kids are interested in it and to give you a couple of examples and I'll use some of our high school kids so you know when you trensfer into you know alpha high your knowledge of history is very limited which is if it's in the musical Hamilton you know it occurred and if it didn't occur you know it's not in a song in Hamilton you don't know it you know because we don't teach history very much anymore and but all the kids know Hamilton they'll sing songs so our our US history AP world history they literally used AI they did this on their own it wasn't our stuff they used AI to generate here's all the facts you know there's nine units in US history for each unit they created a song and they said give me all the facts that I need to know for this unit and they pumped into sumo which is an available you know song generator and they got they created just their own album of songs and they all would just sit around and sing the songs and you know learn the facts that way and do it in a way they all were very interested in right and they all got five's on their AP because you can do it to mastery and and so Jenny I is going to allow us to create this awesome dynamic content that's relatable you know and focused on what or applicable to what kids want the other part is you know there's learning science concept also bells event frameworks of you know the fastest way to learn is basically analogy and so do you have a knowledge graph right this is the A in the ABC so so Dean Schwartz's book which I guess people were going to link to that in the show notes goes through A to Z everything that learning science has come up with exactly right so he has so Dean Schwartz from Stanford right school education one of the leaders in the field right his written a book and he's like here it is you know um and every letter has a different one but this one A is analogies and other ones are remember and analogies right where that's the fastest way to learn and so if you know what a kid knows like part of we have a content team when I talk about those hundred facts ideas and concepts for our what they're using as reference is they're using TikTok memes as because kids know TikTok right and they know what's on TikTok you know like well let's take what we're trying to teach them and use something they already know and that's actually the fastest way to have kids learn concepts and so those are all coming then even when you talk even further the part we don't have in yet but you know our our team's working on it is we also take into account we will be taking into account the cognitive load right of the brain which is we know we're going to be able to create a lesson that where we know how many working memory slots you have we know what you know to fluency and what you don't and we're not going to give you a question that's going to overload your working memory or we also know how many reps you need right and GT kids need fewer reps and so we're not going to bore you by giving you too many reps to memorize it conversely we're going to make sure you have enough reps if you need them and so this personalized learning where you're generating the content dynamically um I is going to be just as crazy unlock for these kids um and you know five years from now I was going to look back and be like okay obviously you know kids can learn 10 times faster you know it's we're we wake up every day and they're just like you know it's like neo in the matrix right where that's a physical upload ours is right using learning science concepts kids can learn 10 times faster and when you think about that you have 12 years right you've 12 years to fill your kids head with cool stuff knowledge right because they have to hang out in that right in their brain for the necessary life and we've allocated 12 years to fill it up we just need two hours a day a 10 times faster and all the kids can have more stuff and more cool stuff about stuff they like in their heads to mastery level levels none of us is as parents could ever imagine right and still give the kids their time back for the rest of the day to do all other things abouT3 years ago you sort of decided like the you know you got to step out of trilogy right like it's this incredible company you've built um or any of your co-founders still there I think it's your you're you're sort of are they no so I people who've been so three years ago sort of the trensition was when Gen AI came out right which three years ago neural nets are here yeah finally and you know that was an unlock for me where I had seen the kids he's great school and seen you know my kids in there and there were issues like my daughter failing or seventh grade tests and stuff where the apps are good enough you know and all those issues and I'm like Gen AI will allow us to take the magic of alpha make it better and scale it to a billion kids right because there's lots of good educational things that just don't scale yep and so what this was was my realization this was your white microscope this was it light microscopes here okay I've been doing software so I went to my team who've been there for 25 years so my guys for 25 years you've been telling me you're better than me we'll see I'm gonna go be a principal and so they run it you know I'm now you know chairman and I am now literally the worst shareholder you've ever seen because I'm like guys I need more cash flow I need more dividends to fund this whole thing you know the kids you need through a million dollars to open up all these schools you know where we're gonna you know get it for or so so how much of your money have you spent on this now so I took on three years ago I took a billion dollars out of trilogy sort of as my first lump sum and said I'm gonna go use this billion dollars to figure out what I can with education and fix as much as I can now what's crazy about that is a billion dollars is not enough to fix education it's a trillion dollar industry and we obviously have made incredible headway but we have to go back to building schools right back to McKinsey she's opening up you know 25 schools 25 alphas around the country right she needs hundreds of millions of dollars for that we're opening up these sports academies which needs hundreds of billions we're opening up 500 gifted talented schools right so you know the total capex that's gonna be required the second part is I'm gonna do this the next 20 years right I got 20 years in this right my job is to go fix education right and make get it to a billion kids and give kids their time back right change change use the light microscope use AI to totally change the first 12 years of you know a billion kid now at what point jode of the two systems have to merge because one of the reasons that you're having to deploy such insane amounts of capital is because you're basically rebuilding things that are technically already there and we have buildings we have schools we have guides they're called teachers we have all those things but you're creating a new system of infrastructure but I assume you don't want to scale you don't want to have to build the scale to a billion at some point this way has to merge with the existing way that's what point does that merger take place well my view is there's a point of if I had perfect randomized controlled trials with you know back to a billion kids I don't know I do any 10 million kids going through it for everybody be like okay this looks like it works but the bar is so low IMean I guess that's the thing that's amazing to me right when I think about places in medicine right where massive clinical trials are necessary to to change the direction of something usually when the state of play is so bad so let's let's talk about an example which again I don't use this example to be offensive to people that are within education but like let's look at HIV in the 80s and early 90s it was a death sense like the bar was pretty darn low when heart therapy highly active anti-retroviral therapy came out in 95 or 96 and that IMean that's it like boom which changed the protocol now of course pharma is easier than education in the sense that it's you know a simple intervention it's a you know but who's pushing back right when you say hey guys what if we just prove this out in a million kids right like why do I need 10 million kids well especially if they're spread out over abroad enough socio-economic background exactly and so back to that's my sort of our next phase right and why I'm doing my first podcast in 20 you know years is that uh there's a lot of there's a lot of impediments to it let's go back to that discussion of parents don't care about academics so we'll start there and I will do that second believability there's been a tech pitches right everybody every five years Ed Tech's gonna solve the world and you know technology's always gonna solve the world and it doesn't solve it and so there is good well our natural skepticism yeah so let's just go let's just take it right evil billionaire tech guys trying to fix education are the right to meme no it's a meme like a make a movie and so the skepticism should be super high right and it is and so that's part of what the job is and why it takes a billion dollars to we have to go prove it across every right across everybody and in a broad way so completely agree with that but let's talk about some of the problems with it which is you know let's talk about academics right here in Austin right there's there's been three failing middle schools in Austin right and you know I look if I was a super intended of a school or principal of a public school IMean like I want to be really clear that's like a hundred times harder job than mine because you know I'm a product guy people who come to my school are aligned with what I'm building in my offering because it's you get selection effects yeah people come to out for like I know I'm gonna have a screen time for two hours because you don't come right but at public school you know you get what your schools are F's for five years they're not educating the kids and the superintendent you know you made his first proposal whatever months ago he's like well I want to shut these schools and we have these A's better schools right by the kids just go to the school or the kids are learning you know and literally the protests that have been from parents you know and it's you know and you listen to them you know and you know it's the mom who's just like look I know that seventh grade math teacher she'd probably not teaching math very well but my older daughter had her and that she changed her life and so you know what and my kids can walk to school and it's community and so if they don't learn seventh grade math so much so what and so the you know the superintendent you know he's you know you if you take into account community feedback which is supposed to all of a sudden your parents are like I care about other things because schools are bundle and so that makes this hard so there's one just do they even want it the second is obviously just skepticism of this doesn't really work and you know why don't we do randomized control tiles or pharmaceutical caliber stuff with education because there's all these ideas of work we we have a lot of ideas that we're rolling out like no multiplication tables that somebody should have done it's control tile to realize that's a really bad idea right and so all these fads in education because it's not science right the learning science is not if you actually ask one of the scariest data points if you want this go there's three million teachers in the world they're not taught learning science they're not taught learning science and so you know these concepts will be new to them and so back to how do we fix it we have to go teach all the all the teachers about learning science do you get push back on that point do you get IMean how much time do you spend talking with the teachers that are in the trenches right now um I'll give you an analogy for my world right so you know I talk about this idea of medicine three point out right so we're do medicine two point I was been amazing like it's an amazing run you and I wouldn't be alive without it literally we would be dead by now but I would argue like it's time to move on we've plateaued like we gotta do medicine three point out right we have to unlock the next thing um but when I say that I'm not being critical of the doctors who practice medicine two point out because I haven't met many of them who wouldn't in a heartbeat say look I wish I could do medicine three point out but the system I'm in doesn't allow it I can't get reimbursed to practice medicine three point out the entire system of billing and coding and diagnostics and prescribing it's all predicated on this system it's predicated on make the diagnosis for the disease treat there's no prevention I don't get paid to nor do I have the education to learn about nutrition exercise all these other things that are necessary medicine three point out but if I could wave a magic wand my bet is 80% of them would be like if there's a way to fix the system in the structure such that I can be balancing my practice between two point out and three point out I do in a heartbeat do you have a sense have you got enough reps with teachers to understand if you had the that proverbial magic wand how many of the superintendents in the teachers would say oh my god I'd love to be to trensition from being a front of the classroom teacher to an in the classroom guide who's helping the student with the AI with their personal AI tutor correct so the answer is it is at least 80% of the same example which is you're on the same tree no no because we have you know our guides right they're ex teachers right IMean and we got into this whole name naming thing but you know do you call them teachers if they're not doing academics and and what whatnot but fundamentally you know when they tell their story of what they do all day and let's just talk about teachers specifically right teachers are great and critical and teacher in front of the classroom is bad right that's and it's the but you're a point it's the system that's not very huge analogy it's the same thing where you know teachers right they got into teaching to trensform kids lives they did not become a teacher to grade the seventh grade science test right and so let the AI do the seventh grade lesson in the science test and you connect with your kids right your students so during our two hour blocks we do 25 minute pulmetoros right our guides ex teachers who don't they're not in front of the class lecturing they literally take the kids one on one you know and say hey don't you you know your language today comes sit down and talk to me for 25 minutes how was your weekend how the softball turned ago hey you don't see them is motivated lately what's going on and they connect with them right and there are the ones right our guides do to right they provide motivation and emotional support they set high standards and high support they're the ones guiding these kids right through the journey and that's why teachers became teachers right they didn't I want to write a lesson plan nobody woke up and said that's why I'm becoming a teacher they did it because they want to trensform kids lives and that's what this new model does right and so when they see it they love it right so that's what you know we you want to pay more but also the teachers see our model and once they really understand it and talk to our existing ones they're like this is awesome I love this and so there isn't resistance now at the systems level you know so I've talked to a lot of superintendents and they're like what do you want me to do with this what might be supposed to do they're like to our what are the kids do the rest of the day right this is the problem this when you talk about it this is a rebuild around the school day yep it's not six hours a day in class right with teachers right it's been classroom hours a day of learning in the screen and four hours a day of life skills and we're short and all the sorts of other things that are going to be imperative to create well balanced kids right and your life skills curriculum is leadership teamwork storytelling public speaking right relationship building socialization right grit and hard work entrepreneurship financial literacy right those things and they're doing workshops in the afternoon right they're you know this is if you go to McKinsey's Instagram it's you know kids climbing rock walls you know in kindergarten or they're running five k's in second grade or the fifth graders launched a food truck you know and so there's all these different things run in tough mutters eighth or eighth graders you know do that stuff and so you're like if you're a superintendent like okay my system's not set up for this it's right there's just there's no end right now there's no demand from the parents because it's it's not true for obvious yeah and even and let's even get out of public school okay let's go just talk about super high-end private schools right you can go down the street and try to get convinced the super high-end private school and say you have all the flexibility you want there's no vote there's nothing you should trensform and they're like oh my this seems like a bridge too far right and so that's why my my view of my job so is that why essentially alpha exists as an independent school at the moment is you just need to get the scale of holy owned alpha's that that build this out and at some point the others probably the private schools have an easier time joining the model yeah and and and and eventually the hope is of course the the public schools do so as well it's everybody yeah so I got 20 years and I got to get a billion kids so you got to you know 89% of kids are in public school you got to get it to public school and provide it to everything but what is the current cost to you could I'm sure you're hemorrhaging and losing money at the moment what is the current cost to deliver the education to a to a child and does it vary by their grade like a middle school period and so for alpha our job is and that's why we're opening across country in every city there's going to be this alpha exemplar at the high-end where you're like this is what's possible now it's also one where it's money no object it's really expensive and back to the things today my AI I'm using the latest models is you know we're real time streaming video to coach kids you know it's 10,000 bucks kid and so it's $1 per kid per year in just AI just in the AI cost so just your day so much now I absolutely believe in our our teams going to deliver it where you know sometime in the nexT3 years maybe five you know everybody on the planet will have a tablet that's less than a thousand dollars that will teach them everything they need to know in two hours a day or less and the compute will be what do you think it'll be local it'll be local yeah so you'll be on device like a lot of our stuff right now is vision models yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there's on device and the all the hardware manufacturers are putting their AI chips on device where we'll hit that wow and so you know and I'm sure there's still be some stuff in the cloud for higher-end stuff but you what the common core curriculum through eighth grade on device less than a thousand dollars that's absolutely coming and then and then then the second part is you know in part of what alpha is is because it's this high-end expensive stuff you like let's re-invision what a school is from the ground up right so we set around you know I'm a product I'm like what makes what would make a school ten times better than you know old school that we went to you know and so we we sort of have five dimensions that we do when the first is kids must love school and we literally measure more than vacation like that has to be it and we get 50-ish percent of kids depends on the vacation depends on the workshop it's really good 50% of kids were like yeah I want to go to school instead of vacation I plenty parent who will my highlight as a principal was you know in in May this year two thirds of the high school kids sent me a note and they're like can we keep alpha high open this summer because we don't want to take a summer break as we love what we're doing right the girl doing it or you know Broadway music she's like this is I want to keep on just going doing it right and so you know we're you know back to my world where I was not in school it was you know shirking and my dad you know I'm like make a place where kids love school and vacation is good standard number two kids need to learn 10 times faster we just we need an engine that teaches kids 10 times faster and so our AI tutor based on learning science teach just kids 10 times faster right and between five and ten we'll get it up and you know so that's the second part so that you can then that gives you the chance to give the time back the third dimension of a school is what are if you academics isn't everything right to developing kids everybody knows that what are the life skills that every parents has that is what I wish I knew and some are you know traits behavioral traits I hope they they are love learning in our self-driven learner right you want things like that and I want somebody who uplift others in his classroom and behavioral is an independent person others are like those ones I talked about where you're like no I want entrepreneurs and is them in financial literacy or I want storytelling public speaking those those type skills and so the third is have that curriculum of skills the suite of skills that every parent wants so we actually have spent you know the lasT3 years developing life core right the common core curriculum for life skills that because I have four hours of data fill right with all this awesome stuff the kids can do and it's just amazing what they do like if you take atomic habits right that book of one percent better most people don't read that till after college right and then they're like oh this is the way I can really develop last year you know our guide face second grade you know she sat down and she was working on her her workshops you know in her life skills she's like you know what I want to teach atomic habits called the second graders because the concepts they all can understand and she's like you know how I'm going to do it I'm like she's like I'm going to have all our second graders run a 5k in under 35 minutes and that interest I'm like oh no okay the parents are not going to like that right that's too hard back to high standards they don't want struggle fail it where's that road just success part and what percent are going to make it and so I was she's like don't worry it's told I can do this she was a UT athlete and she's like we totally can do it she was like a head cheerleader whatever she's like everybody can do this and so she sits down with the second graders first day and is like who who can run a 5k and they're like that's impossible miss fate the parents all are like that's a possible it's face she's like why sign you all up for the jingle 5k you know what to do me and so she goes out to the track in the first day they walk it and they walk 5k she's like okay so we all will stab but she's going to finish the race right and then the next time they ran a quarter lap walk the rest next time half a lap walk the rest and buy December right all the kids are running the race right and you know when they cross the finish line just that achievement back to the key to kids happiness is high standards that's a really high standard but they loved it and they did have to struggle and go through and learn this but they also learned that life skill of 1% better right and so the second graders like dad I can do anything I can do 50 pushups I'll do one today and two tomorrow and you know build up and that skill that life skill we don't teach kids in school it's a great life skill to have and if you have half the day you can do that so that's the third element of like how do you build a great a great school the fourth element in this gets to the teachers what would make a teacher 10 times better than what it is today and the answer is well not grading science test all day and you know writing lesson plans but instead connecting it's meant to be the kids right and so we ask here's thEQuestions we ask you know the students and the parents which is to kids you know you know kindergarten really do you love your guide right and but you know as you get older it's every adult had one or two teachers who trensform their life right back to that is your guide that for you right and that is what our guides right that is the expectation that they are the ones that the students are like you are helping me achieve things that I didn't think is possible miss Faith you told me taught me how to do the impossible right and so that right that level and actually then you know at the parent side this gets into you know doctor Yager you know has a book 10 to 25 right child psychologist development expert and it's you know from kids how to what matters for kids right from 10 to from 10 years old to 25 right and his whole theory mentor mindset you know high standards high support the the heart most parents are not high standards and high support which is what really matters to develop kids they're either low standards high support that's what happened all our expectations or they're the inverse high standards no support you know this would be your classic you know Tiger mom would be you know good luck figured out right in the real answer for child development you need both high standards high support and so that's our guide but thEQuestion we asked parents in middle and high school right back to having what's a school re-invisioning it it's like do you trust your alpha guide to hold high standards for your kid so you as the parent can provide the unconditional love and support right which trensforms for those who have lessons it trensforms your relationship where you don't have to be the naggy parent for the high the high standards you know my daughter my oldest daughter you know she's writing her college essay and I'm like you want to let me read it and she's like no right no interest in that yeah she's got she's got a taken care of and got someone else and for me I was super relaxed because I was like I know Chloe right back to our guide right she's a Harvard grad I know she was totally high standards for for my daughter and I know it's going to be fine and I don't have to get a fight about it or whatever I'm just like okay yeah I can get my daughter a hug and be like good luck right and so that trensforms what teachers can be right versus I'm delivering those seventh grade lessons and so you know and then the fifth dimension that we talk about is the seas character community classmates and culture and these are also the hardest parts to measure but at the end they're what parents care about the most right which is at the end of the day all those other you don't character right is do I have a good kid did I raise a good kid right and is the school helping me make right raise a good kid and so those elements are what we looked at and said now that you want to re-invision school right from the ground up here's the dimensions and so alpha's trying to be the exemplar you know for for all of it and then thEQuestion is okay how do we get the price point down right so we have opened a whole set of different schools right a half the price of alpha right so alpha depends on its location is between forty and seventy five thousand dollars right but we've opened other scholarship programs tons oh so tons so we have a huge scholarship so you know we have a school down in Brownsville right where it's a second poor school district we have in Texas Brownsville's a second poor school district in the country you know and at that school it's you know SpaceX is there it's so star bay so you have much space ex kids and then we scholarship all the locals to come in and it's we're sixty forty fifty fifty between that make up and to be clear they all learn to exit two hours you're right there's not a right back to where we we tested it out it works with all kids so I want to read you something that is fits right into this so this is I think I read this in New York times before kindergarten the children of the affluent are much more likely to be in preschool by sixth grade students in the richest school districts are four grade levels above children in the poorest school districts that's just by sixth grade by high school richer kids average reading skills are five years ahead of poorer kids by college according to a 2017 study by Raj Chetty children from the richest one percent of earners are seventy seven times more likely to go to Ivy League schools then children from families making thirty thousand dollars a year or less um the academic gap between the affluent and less affluent is greater today than the achievement gap between white American and black American kids in the final days of Jim Crow in other words might read of this is that there is no greater predictor of academic success and failure than the wealth of your parents so are you really suggesting that that could be wiped out wiped out I there's always relative versus absolute and I believe we can raise the absolute standard right and maybe it's always an arms race and you know that and so but if you said today can we take we're people this right years behind instead of the gap being seventy seven x could that gap be twenty point two x you know what 100 percent and the back to that issue because here's what what happens right you're in a rich school district right and I was up in New York and you know these are seventy five thousand dollar private schools teacher in front of a classroom but every one of those parents also is spending seven hundred and fifty dollars an hour on a tutor after school because the school was in teaching them back to that problem but an extra seventy five grand tutoring them hundred and fifty grand a year right and you're right yeah you need the tutor who's going to go back and fill the holes and stuff and know if I am in a school district right and I'm a poor school district I'm not I'm not I don't have the tutor I don't have the access to that right you know if you look in after covid right the number one intervention you know a lot of government funding was spent this was high dosage tutoring everything knows this right it's not a secret it's just it's expensive to get if you know individualized tutoring and there was a study that came out a few weeks ago or a month ago that was like it was really working and then sometimes it they did some you know as it expanded out it did less well and the difference was what it was really working as one on one and then they started to say the same money that six to one and tutoring six to one is not it's not individualized it becomes class because it's just cost driven right it just that's the issue with you know if you have thirty kids you can't generate an unending stream of content eighty five percent accuracy based out with the kid learned it has to be one on one it's just and it just that is the delta it's for each kid it's personalized learning a personalized lesson plan is what every kid needs and so and and I believe that if you get all the learning scientists together and say yes AI is the life microscope don't you agree and can we create a program right that's available to everybody right then and I think they'd all say yes yes we can and that that the the the software is not insurmountable right I believe we could do you know I was actually talking to Stanford has their Stanford Accelerator for learning which is you know how and Dean Schwartz runs it and I was like you know we create an X-Price right for an open source available to everybody right you need you also need better credible people than me you don't mean me saying this you need Dean Schwartz and Stanford and the Ivy League right the people that everybody looks up to an education in america and saying we know this we know this learning science we can run right we can take Stanford CS and AI department with the learning science right and put that together and create this project right for not that much money that we can then get to every right and get it into every public school right they have the relationships with all the teachers we're you know they don't need the randomized controlled trial or the skepticism you know obviously get from talking to me so I this is all very doable you know that's that is this mission what is the biggest risk right now is it the equivalent of what we call market risk where let's just adoption it's just it's the leap of faith that yeah we can somehow abandon the only model any of us or is there still technology risk embedded within the AI that says IMean there he is still some technology risk but that's literally like you can ratchet down and you don't have to be 10 times learner but could we get him three times five times today with more static versus some of the cool dynamic stuff that yes you could right but it's are you willing to change the motivational model for the kids are you willing to tell the kid use this app and I'll give you your time back are you willing to say you don't have sitting class for six hours a right it's it's the rebuild that's the problem right when we if you take our software or magic AI tutor right whatever it is and you put it in a standard classroom and the kid has to sit there for six hours a day I can promise you won't work it will not work and so that's the issue is are you really willing back to what Brian told me a decade ago are you really willing to say kids must love school are you really willing and then go rebuild your school system around that because if they do they're going to engage in the app right they're going to you're going to give them their time backs to do stuff they love is that all are you going to make those changes because it isn't an ed tech solution it's not go build this ed tech drop it and it's going to work that's just we have that those apps do generally work right and to get the real revolution you need to say are we going to rebuild what we think k through 12 the first 12 years of the kids lives are and if that's true then the sky is the limit and what we're obviously doing is trying to say look at this look at these examples right because parents parents need I've learned as a principal they need two things to want to change the school remember I was skeptical for two years right I'm I'm the average parent you know was they need a reference from an adult they trust how's it working for your kid did it work for your kid and second they need to see the kid do something at the school that their kid can't do right and if you have that that's actually the magic that unlocks you know a parent saying okay I'm going to go I'm going to move to this new model and you know what what it is that the kid can't oh he loves school I'm like I can wake up in the morning he's you know he's waking me up so he's not late and he used to cry on the way to school or oh wow some parents are like I love the academic performance right or those life skills I really care about or he connects with his teacher so much more as guide you know because it is different and back to the choices like why we're opening all these different schools we have a gifted talented school right we have a sports academy school we have a wilderness school right where you're fishing an archery and you know farming you know we're going to be opening arts theater music parents want different things and kids want different things and so it's showing these things that is going to be the connection that causes parents to say I you know I want this and if you do and you know a good example of motivation you know if you put the GT moms you know McKinsey has you know her roundtables the GT moms with sports academy gifted and talented and talented and talented and then the sports academy moms you know and they just look at each other like the other parent is you know off the rocker where you know the sports academy moms like you know my kid was just you know comes home just sweating for just running around all day and I literally throw him in the shower with their clothes on you know in the GT moms okay they were having a chest tournament in the afternoon and then we came home and continue it right and it depends on the motivation each kid's different right and all your kids are different and you everybody knows that and you know like when we ask like I sat down with at the guides we're like okay how do we make these all better so on you know staff days you know because we have all the guides from all the different schools and I'm like okay what's going to make kids really love school how do we get it from 50 to 60 to 70 on love school the GT guides are like more they want a third power hour of academics and they want math Olympia and all the other guides are grown in because right now our students do not want more academics they want sports or let's do a better workshop or you know what what it's going to be and so the key on all of this is saying how do we you know focus school on making it awesome for kids right making it great have a culture where it is high standards high support where you have this magic on lock of they can learn 10 times faster which then enables you to give them the time back to do all these other things but that's a big lift right that's why it's it's going to take 20 years right but I do believe that you know everybody every parent right the most important thing is raising your kids it's the same at a societal level right the most important thing a society does is raise this next generation and everybody cares about it and one thing I we spend enough money in this country or globally right that there's enough money to actually rearrange this and build an education system that's great for the kids you know 5% of G&P right IMean $7 trillion right that there is recognition at both the societal or parent level right that this is where we should spend money and we do so it's kind of amazing to think back you in the spring of 1989 you drop out of college to go start a software company obviously there's no way you could have imagined both the success you would have in that company you know creating a multi-billion dollar company and and along with it a fortune for yourself but then somehow deciding right it's your peak that you were going to completely walk away from that take that fortune and pour it into another endeavor that seems as far from anything as possible relative to what you what you what you what you started with like I feel really fortunate to that you're starting this that you started this in Austin for the listener I think maybe I probably should have said this at the outset you know my daughter spent two years at alpha it was an absolutely exceptional experience for her really kind of experienced all the things you talk about right so showed up in what did she show up she showed up in seventh grade shows up in seventh grade with the absolute negative story of you know I love reading I love arts I love these things I'm a musician I'm not I just don't do math in science like that's I know you did dad that's not me I can't do math I never want to do math IMade the awful mistake of spending the past you're trying to help her do math that was a disaster that only resulted in tears but it really I think what would appeal to me when we made that switch was it just seemed so entirely logical that the reason she was struggling was because there were things in third and fourth grade she never mastered and I really appreciated the compounding nature of that gap and and it just made sense it really clicked and so it wasn't a big leap of faith to say oh okay yeah and I feel very fortunate that as just as you predicted by the end of eighth grade IMean she was asing math and that has continued all through high school she did go back to public high school I think you know that's probably something you you do encounter is that are there are kids that ultimately just want to be back in the big public high school they want to play sports on the public you know in the public high school they want to be you know and of course she's at a high school with a billion kids and she's very happy there but I don't think there's a chance I don't think there's a snowball's chance in hell she would be doing as well as she is if not for the fact that she had that two year sabbatical to alpha where she really got to academically create a solid foundation and I will share one last anecdote here which is at her eighth grade graduation she was in tears saying goodbye to her guides to your point it's think of what the impact of those guides were on her life she loved those people and you know it's not that she doesn't like her teachers in high school but she doesn't have that kind of relationship with them right and back to you know you guys were I came in actually you know right then and Andy M who runs our academics you know since you're such a broader up wants to give her a call out because she spent hours with him going through lessons helping figure out why is this not working or what is it and you know one of the things when you're you're starting these new schools you need the this concept of a founding family right and you know your family was one of the most important and your support where you got it but your daughter you know Andy wanted to say you know thank you to her because she did go above and beyond where our lessons and all this learning science in this close loop you know he's like I'm way better because of the feedback and the time she spent with us and so you know it is it is trensformative to kids and to your point of high school you're not if you want to be thEQuarterback on the West Lake team and run track we don't have those in our high school and so we can get you prepared you know we say our middle school prepares kids for any high school right and so all our kids in middle school can get get their pick of high school that they want to go and someone alpha you know of a high which is that but someone you know the traditional play but we hopefully have a quick term where they know they're a self-driven learning and can do it on their own yeah I'll tell you that maybe the last story I'll I'll share Joe which is no surprise to you is it really doesn't matter what corner and IMean this literally what corner of this planet I am standing on when education comes up your name always comes up and this is these are people who don't know that I know you right they don't know that we are friends and I'll be I will be literally on the opposite side of this planet and if if I'm talking with anybody about a education it's like what do you know about AI and education? Have you heard of this guy Joe Leem on at Alpha and it it's it comes up so often which tells me that it is getting out there it is this is no longer just that little niche school downtown Austin IMean it's hard to believe what has happened in five years it went from one building one place to how many now right so we have we're now we open 12 campuses this will be a 25 alpha campuses we also have 25 non-alpha campuses where back to lower price points you know we have we have campuses open where you know it's charter so it's free for kids we have ones where it's five thousand dollar pay for the parents five hundred dollars a month you know some of twenty thousand so we're trying to figure up back to innovating we're like what are the right price points and everything but yes you know we expect 12 months from now there to be hundreds and hundreds of schools that use this model you know you know the demand for the sports academy is through the roof and we think that's going to explode for sure well Joe I appreciate you taking your time to come out today but of course more than anything I just appreciate what you're doing and again I know this is you know not something that is really fits into what we talk about in this podcast but again I don't think you can care about medicine science health and not care about the foundation upon which it's built and it all starts with education so you're if you're working on such an important problem and if there's one last thing I can do since I've had a great career obviously before this in three years ago moved education if there's other people out there and one of the things if you're listening to this and you're excited part of my job is let's go get more talent into education and I can tell you the lasT3 years have been awesome and my next twenty years is going to be better than my last twenty years and so you know if I can if I can convince you to come on in the water it's the best way for because I guarantee you there's a million people listening to us there's going to be a non-zero number of them are going to want to reach out to you what's the best way to get a whole of you great literally my email which is Joe dot lee mont at alfa dot school and send it to me and you know I am overloaded right up to your point the hype has gotten very high about alfa what should they what could someone who wants to get your attention put in the subject line heard you on the purge on the dive podcast or something like that. on the drive podcast right and you know we're looking for you know all sorts of people want you want product people you want engineers you want everybody every week come in we have to go build you know we're building a eyes right there's back to expansion we need entrepreneurs where you know G.T. school needs 500 schools we need entrepreneurs who are going to expand it like it's you know a Chipotle chain right we need AI guys right I'm going out Silicon Valley where we we have to you know current chat bots aren't good we have to make the L.L.M. better we need people we need educators right people who are like okay I want to do this new thing if you're one of the learning scientists that we don't have on our team right come do it right that is we're a sound if you're back to capital we're going to need a lot of capital as well to expand this if back to philanthropy right it's we need to be giving scholarships we're funding a lot of it but we need to make this available to everybody right we have to your problem it can't just be for the elite it's got to be for a billion kids so education touches everything and if you're just in we're like that description where of what they're building I'm in then come aboard because it's awesome Joe dot leem on at alpha.com will alpha dot school alpha dot school okay we'll put that in the show notes just so that people can click directly on it. Joe thanks again thank you for as always this is great

=== FILE: 367 - Tylenol, pregnancy, and autism： What recent studies show and how to interpret the data [GWVM_5knTXg].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Welcome to a special episode of the Drive Everyone. If you've been following the headlines recently, you may have seen, of course, stories linking a seat of men offend or Tylenol use during pregnancy to autism. And not surprisingly, those headlines have generated a lot of questions, a lot of controversy and a lot of confusion. I've heard about this a lot from every direction. My patients, listeners of the podcast, friends, family members, people writing in through the website. Basically, it's, IMean, like I'm sure many people in this space, we've all been inundated by it. And you know, the more I thought about it, the more I realized, this was a great opportunity to, I think, maybe put forth a framework for how to think about these things critically. And while we initially thought we would just do this in the newsletter last week, once we got into it, we realized, now this doesn't really lend itself to an article, or even a short video. It really commands effectively the discipline of what we do in the AMA's, the ask me. Any things, of course, unlike the normal AMA's, this is going to be made available to everybody. So, for we dive in though, I want to kind of lay out some groundwork. We're going to unpack some of the points in more detail that I'm going to lay out below. But I also want to make sure we're starting from a place of reference. I want to start out with a few important observations. Okay. So, the first is autism rates have risen dramatically over the past generation. Now, we're going to talk about why that might be. But it's very important to stay up front that there is unlikely to be a single cause. Why? Because complex conditions usually don't have simple explanations. This is true of obesity. Despite what some people would have you believe that it's just this one thing or just this one thing or whatever. But the reality of it is complex conditions require multiple things typically. So, anytime we look at a possible contributing factor, we need to kind of resist the temptation to assume it's this sole cause. Now, that doesn't diminish the interest in identifying a bunch of potential causes. Okay. Second point I want to make here and it's kind of weird that I have to make it, but I do science is supposed to be a political. Unfortunately, that's not the case. And for reasons that I don't think I'm smart enough to understand autism happens to be one of those examples. But so, are many other topics we've discussed like nutrition or protein, which has become remarkably political. My goal here is not to have a political debate, but rather to examine the evidence as carefully and objectively as I can. Third, we do need to realize something that I think is very hard to accept. And that is that as humans, we are not wired to think scientifically. I want to restate that because it sounds condescending, but it's simply an observation of how we have evolved. We are not wired for critical and scientific thought. This is something I've written about and we're going to actually link to a piece I wrote over 10 years ago that I think synthesizes that point really well. But again, it really comes down to the fact that we should understand that the scientific method and critical thought are humaninventions. They're wonderful inventions. And I would argue they are the single most important invention our species has ever put forth. And without this, nothing else would exist. We'd still be living in caves. But that doesn't mean that it comes naturally and it doesn't mean we're wired to do it. Just keep that in mind as you catch yourself as I catch myself falling into non-scientific thought. We're going to rely on a framework at some point during this discussion, which is very helpful when considering epidemiology, which is the branch of science. We're going to be talking primarily about today. It's called the Bradford Hill Criteria. These are nine principles that were laid out in the mid 60s to help us determine whether an observed observation is likely to be causal. So this framework looks at things like strength of association, consistency across multiple studies, biologic plausibility, temporality, and things like that. They're not a checklist per se. But they provide a disciplined way to try to make sense of correlations and interpret which ones have a higher probability of being causal from those that don't. Another thing I want to point out is we're going to be talking about medications. We're going to be talking about pregnancy. And I think it should be obvious and I'm sure anyone listening to this or watching this who has gone through pregnancy will understand that the bar is very high when we are talking about medications to be used during pregnancy. Most physicians, myself included, though I don't treat very many pregnant women. Think about drugs and supplements very differently in the setting of pregnancy. Of course, because we are typically not treating patients with life-threatening conditions, our mantra is during pregnancy women should basically stop all medications and supplements beyond the obvious ones, such as prenatal vitamins or hormones such as thyroid hormone, which can be essential. But anything that's even in a gray area or probably okay, we tend to just avoid. Now, since the late 70s, the FDA has used a very simple letter system to classify drugs by their risk during pregnancy. These categories go by A, B, C, D, and X. And basically, each letter refers to a level of evidence, mostly from animal and human studies, about the potential harm of the drug to the fetus. So, for more than, I don't know, 35 years or so, this was the framework physicians relied on, about 10 years ago, the FDA replaced it by a framework that is called the pregnancy and lactation labeling rule or the PLLR. The idea was to move away from single letters and instead provide a more descriptive guidance. An infuri, that's an improvement, but in practice, it's been kind of slow to roll out. And frankly, I'm a little guilty of generally thinking about it in the A, B, C, D, X category. And that's kind of what I'm going to refer to a little bit. So, I'm going to stick with that older category. And while it's imperfect, it's widely understood. It is still a clear framework. And I just want to share with you as we begin this, so you have a broad sense of how drugs fit into this. Okay. So, category A means that there is no demonstrated risk in well-controlled human studies. Again, that's pretty unusual because that's a hard thing to do. And that's reflected in the proportion of total drugs and supplements out there that fit in this category and it's somewhere between two and five percent. Okay. So, what does that mean? That means that is completely safe. We have definitive evidence that women can take these things during pregnancy. And obviously, is reflected by the numbers virtually nothing fits in that category. By the way, the examples I gave earlier of thyroid hormone and prenatal vitamins do fit in that category. Then you have category B, which says there's no evidence of risk in humans, but animal data might show signals in some studies. And so, these are generally thought of as safe, but exercise caution. Basically, and this is 15 to 25 percent. Then you have category C. This is the biggest one. This says risk can't be ruled out. We don't have evidence that there's risk, but we don't have evidence that it's safe. And most drugs sit here. Some big range somewhere between 60 and 75 percent. Category D says, actually, we do have some positive evidence of human fetal risk. And the drugs that sit in this category, and I'm going to come back to this and give you examples of each of the drugs. The drugs that sit in this category, you might say, well, why would a woman ever take a drug if there's some evidence of risk to the fetus? And that is only if the risk to the mother not taking it is greater. So, the classic example here are seizure medications. So, if you have a woman who is going to be debilitated by seizures, and this is the only treatment she can have, then a physician will take a typically make that that decision. And again, very few drugs fit in this category. It's typically five to eight percent. And you have category X, which are drugs that have definitively been proven as much as you can prove anything in biology to cause significant harm to the fetus. Regardless of benefit to the mother. And again, these are these are pretty rare, and this is sort of one to three percent. So again, just keep in mind. Now, where does Tylenol or acetaminophen fit into that? Well, it fits into Category B. And to be clear, for the last 10 years, there has been some concern about does Tylenol-Blong and Category B should it belong in Category C? Um, the other thing to keep in mind with Tylenol is you always have to ask yourself about the the switching cost or the alternative choices. And of course, a very common alternative choice for Tylenol would be something like ibutamoren or an N said. Now, ibutamoren, uh, Advil, a leave for example are considered Category B in the first two trimesters, but bump to Category D in the third trimester for reasons I don't necessarily need to get into, but for those who are interested, it has to do with the premature closing closure of a very small blood vessel that connects the Aorta and the pulmonary artery. And if that closes prematurely, it leads to premature delivery and all sorts of things like that. So anyway, I just want you to kind of keep in mind why these categories exist. And the reason we're walking through all of this now is to just sort of set this stage, um, uh, to, for this discussion. So the goal today is not just to look, um, at the potential link between a C to benefit an autism, but also to put it in context so that we can hopefully end with, I think thEQuestion that at least some of you are asking, which is, okay, science aside, Peter, what's the bottom line if a woman is pregnant? Should she be taking Tylenol? And I'm going to resist the urge to just give you that answer right now, because I think it undermines the process of thought. So of course to answer that question, you have to not only take into account the possible effective Tylenol exposure on the baby, but also the health and the well-being of the mother, and also the possible effects of going without Tylenol in the case of fever or inflammation, which is also associated with negative health outcomes for babies that are exposed to those conditions in utero. Um, we're going to take the same structured approach, um, that I basically try to recommend and utilize any time I've confronted with an association between exposure, X and condition Y, and that's true if condition Y is positive or negative, good or bad. So I want to lay this out right now so that you know what we're going to do and how we're going to land this point. The first thing you want to be able to do is confirm that there is indeed an association, statistically, okay? So, you know, a lot of times people say there's an association, but there might actually not be. So you actually want to document that statistically, there is an exposure. So you want to verify that. The second question you're asking is, and of course this is the hardest one is, because that one, the first one's pretty easy. Um, if there is a statistical association, you want to determine the likelihood that the association is causal. Uh, now included in this would be sensitivity analyses, falsification tests and things of that nature. Now notice I said, you're not trying to prove if the association is causal. Why? Because as I'm sure many of you have heard me say before, there are no proofs in biology. It's not, it's not like mathematics. You don't get to writEQED at the end of your work here. What we're really dealing with here is probabilities. And we're trying to determine the likelihood of causality. Now, if the association is believed to be more likely causal than not, then we have to ask the final question which factors into what do you do, which is we have to understand the effect size. So you could have things that are causal, but the effect size is so small that it doesn't matter, in which case, you know, your your behavior is going to bEQuite different. Um, so final point before kind of jumping into this, it's a very important to remember that we, um, we're discussing the state of science today. And science is not about being right or wrong in an absolute sense. It's really about constantly updating our priors, understanding the probability of something as new evidence becomes, uh, becomes emergent. And that's how we should really work. So as more and more data, come online, we might have to revise whatever views and conclusions I've come to here. Doing so is not a weakness. Although tragically, it has become viewed as a weakness, right? You know, certainly if politicians change their mind about things, that's viewed as waffling. But as as as scientists or as communicators of science, we shouldn't be afraid of that. We should be open and acknowledge that as of today, this might be how we view things. And in the presence of new information, we should be very receptive to changing that mind. So I know that was a lot of background. Normally far more than I would at the outset of a podcast, but I think it's really important to have a shared foundation of knowledge, um, in an understanding of the framework before we wait into a that is not only scientifically complex, but obviously very emotionally and politically charged. That's the lens I'm hoping to use for this discussion. Um, now with all of that said, I thought rather than just continue a monologue, it would be great to have, uh, my co-host, Nick Stenson, from the AMA's, join me. Um, and basically lay out this discussion with me in the form of a Q&A, such that it really reflects questions we're hearing and, um, creates a bit of a storyline through this. So Nick, thanks very much for joining me on very short notice. Peter, I think as we get started, it would be helpful first to just even look at and we have the foundation of what exactly are the claims being made about a cinematophane and autism. So the basic just of the scientific claim is that maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of autism, uh, in the exposed child. And this has prompted the government to respond by asking the FDA to issue warnings to physicians and change the labels on acetaminophen products with obviously time and all being the most common and the most familiar to reflect the possible risk during pregnancy. But it's important to note that both the FDA and the scientific community agree that we don't yet have evidence to assert that the apparent correlations between prenatal acetaminophen exposure not to some risk reflect a causal relationship. In other words, no authoritative sources are claiming that we can conclude from the existing body of evidence that acetaminophen actually causes an increase in autism risk. Though some argue that a causal relationship is plausible and others argue that a causal relationship is very likely and that acetamin should therefore be avoided during pregnancy or used at most with strong precaution. And you mentioned at the offset that there could be a lot of reasons why we're seeing autism rates increase and not just a single thing. What do we know about why there are so many things being linked to autism these days? So actually there's two parts to your question, Nick, um, because on the one hand, you're asking me why are autism rates going up because that's, uh, we we can't deny that. Like that, that's, you know, that's sort of like saying, is the sun coming up every morning. Um, but your second question is, uh, why are there so many things being linked to it these days? So I'm going to answer that question first because I think that's the more jugular question at the moment. And I promise I will get to that second question. So why are so many things being linked to the enormous uptick and autism these days? And it really comes down to a very, very understandable, rational and logical desire, which is a very strong motivation to look for the triggers of autism. We are looking for culprits. Okay. So autism rates have risen dramatically, um, both nationally and even globally over the past few decades. So according to the CDC, the prevalence of autism increased from 6.7 cases per thousand children in the year 2000, just 25 years ago, to 32.2 cases per thousand children jusT3 years ago. That's a five fold increase. And again, while some of that increase is due to an expanding diagnostic, uh, definition and increase to awareness, which we'll get into more later, as I said, um, there is no doubt that some residual increase, even after accounting for these changes, uh, is out there. And therefore, in an effort to find these potential causes, a lot of research has been done to find potential associations between autism and countless other variables. Now, all of that sounds great and all of that makes sense, but it poses a significant statistical problem. And this is known as the multiple comparisons problem. If you look at enough variables, you are bound to find statistically significant associations. Again, this is, this is the first example that I'm going to pull forth from what I stated at the outset, which is we are not wired to think scientifically. If anybody out there thinks they are smart enough that they can understand p values out of the womb, more power to you. And, you know, IMajored in mathematics. I spent my life doing math and stats. This idea is not that intuitive until it is explained to you. So it's understandable why what I'm about to say doesn't necessarily jump to your mind as the explanation for this. Now, let me use an example. Imagine if you're trying to detect if someone has psychic powers by having them guess the outcome of coin flips. So you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you create the rules such that if they guess correctly on at least seven out of ten flips, which by the way, that's a five percent chance, somebody would do that based on pure luck with a fair coin. Right? So if I had a fair coin and I flipped it 10 times, each of those has a 50 50 shot of heads or tails. But if you can guess correctly seven out of ten eight out of ten nine out of ten or ten out of ten, there's only a five percent chance of doing that. I'm going to declare you a psychic. So that, that game is basically like a single hypothesis test with a significance level of zero point five. So you see where I'm going with this, right? This is now I'm setting this up like a single hypothesis test with a significance level of zero point zero five or a p value of point oh five. Now, suppose instead of just testing one person, I'm going to test a hundred random people all with fair coins. And let's of course just assume for the purpose of illustration. There are no real psychics. I realize there's going to be a little hatred directed toward me from people who believe their psychics. Well, by chance alone, I'm going to identify five people out of a hundred who are going to pass the psychic test. And they're going to look like psychics. But the probability that at least one person passes the test isn't just five percent, it's much higher because randomness can hit anywhere across that group. So if you keep scaling this up to thousands of tests like scanning genes for diseases and links and running marketing experiments, IMean, anytime you're running massive amounts of experiments, the odds of finding at least one false hit approach near certainty. So you're essentially trolling through noise until patterns emerged by accident, like seeing faces in clouds or winning a lottery if you buy enough tickets. There's a great website called Spurious Coralations. I've been playing with this website for a long time and went back to it recently. That shares examples of how easy it is to find significant correlations. Even very strong correlations between variables that clearly have nothing to do with each other. Provided you're willing to look at enough different combinations of variables. So for example, one very silly one is a 98.5 percent correlation between the per capita consumption of margarine and the divorce rate in Maine. One of my personal favorites, if you look at the number of physicists in the state of California and the ranking of Michael Schumacher when he was driving in F1 between the year 2003 and 2012, the correlation was 0.97197.1 percent. But what's most interesting about this is that the site also demonstrates how easy it is to come up with plausible sounding stories for why two clearly unrelated variables might be related. So they ask AI to come up with a tren of logic linking the variables. So if you consider the example of the California physicists and Michael Schumacher's success, AI explains that by saying that the rising number of physicists in California drive innovation in the automotive industry which leads to faster and more effective race cars that propelled Michael Schumacher to higher rankings, which of course is ridiculous. And so Peter, what do we know about why these ideas about associations with autism tend to persist even if the evidence can be shaky? I think it comes down to the fact that it is literally impossible to disprove the link between any variable and autism the way that you can disprove other things such as the earth being flat or even things that are really complicated like risk-vera troll extending the melee in life where you have the luxury of doing randomized controlled experiment, after randomized controlled experiment, after randomized controlled experiment, all of which fail, you have such a high degree of probability that you've effectively disproved it. But we can't do that in epidemiology and I think that's why these ideas persist. Peter, kind of going back to the recent news, what do we know about? Was anything in particular that triggered the recent concern around a sedimentaphine and autism? Not really other than a publication that we'll talk about, but the idea that autism might be linked to prenatal acetaminophenic exposure isn't new. A handful of studies have reported very small associations between that exposure and outcome over the past decade, more or less. But the recent alarm was triggered by a systematic review of earlier research, which was published in late August in a journal called BMC Environmental Health. Now importantly, and I was a little surprised to see this, this publication was not a meta-analysis, so they didn't pool the data from the studies to reevaluate the overall association or perform any new statistical tests. The authors of this paper just collected all the relevant studies they could find on the relationship between prenatal acetaminophenic exposure and the risk of autism. They also looked at ADHD and some other neurodevelopmental disorders in non-overlapping human cohorts, and they shared the basic study details and results in one place and added some additional commentary. So basically, you can think of it a sort of a review article. And so I think now it would be just helpful to just break down this paper and more detail for people. So let's start with what did the paper show? Yeah, so in the case of autism, there were six observational studies that met their criteria for inclusion, and the authors reported that these six studies, quote, consistently reported a positive association between prenatal acetaminophenice and ASD, autism spectrum disorder, with an exposure response relationship observed in four of the five studies that evaluated the relationship. But this isn't actually true. In actuality, two of the six studies showed no significant association between use of acetaminophenice during pregnancy and the risk of autism in the offspring. And only three of the included studies directly examined the potential dose response relationship well the fourth by authors G and others attempted to assess dose dividing the participants into hertiles, groups of thirds based on acetaminophenice detected in a single blood test. This method, you know, kind of had the advantage of using a quantitative biomarker instead of potentially biased patient questionnaires that tried to get it recall. But since the measurement was based on just one sample taken during birth, it's a very poor indicator of overall exposure during pregnancy. Acidaminophenice is almost completely eliminated from the body within 24 hours. So all the blood tests from the G study really tell us is whether or not a woman happened to take Tylenol in the 24 hours leading up to delivery. Of course a woman who had none before delivery might have taken Tylenol for weeks on end earlier in her pregnancy or a woman could have taken Tylenol with delivery, could have had none up until that point. So again, it's an interesting study the G study which we're going to look at all of them in a moment. But I just want to point out that most of these studies rely on questionnaires and this study attempted to look at this biomarker but obviously it has significant limitations. Another point I'd say is that in the largest study examining a dose response relationship this was a study by lead author, Alkfest who the senior author on that was Lee and I'm going to come back to that in a second because Dr. Lee was interviewed this week by Jama. The dose response was only present in a partially adjusted statistical model where it disappeared in what was called the fully adjusted model. And I'll talk about this in a little bit more in a moment so you can understand what IMean. But this suggests that the dose dependent association between a seat of benefit and autism which is actually very important was actually due to confounding variables that weren't accounted for in the partially adjusted model but were accounted for in the fully adjusted model. So to take a look at this I want you to look at the figure sitting next to my head here which is an analysis that my team pulled together by plotting the risk ratios from the studies included in this analysis. Now this paper I was I was surprised that this figure was not in the paper because almost all review articles would do this and certainly a meta analysis would have. But nevertheless they didn't and so we've done this and you can feel free to check us if you like but we've taken all of the data out of their tables and simply put them into a pooled table and then the one thing we did at the end was pool it so that's what's shown in red here. So let me just orient you to this figure. So you've got all the names of the studies here so you've got by the way the alchrist study is referred to as the Swedish study. So you've got at the very top you've got the pooled or sorry the sibling controlled version of the Swedish study followed by the full cohort of the Swedish study followed by a set of other studies and then the G you're seeing two versions of this you're seeing the third total compared to the first total and the second total compared to the first total. You then have a couple of these other studies and then you can see the summary and red is where we're showing the pooled data. Now let me remind you how to interpret these lines and bars and things like that. The unity line represents absolutely no risk anything to the right of the unity line would represent an increase in risk anything to the left of the unity line line would represent a decrease in risk and the bars represent the 95% confidence intervals. In an idyllic road you're looking to see dots that would bEQuite far from the unity line one way or the other. Peter can you walk people through what this chart is showing us because one lot of people haven't looked at or interpreted charts like this before and two we also have people listening not watching. So for those people this will be in the show notes which will be available to all as well but can you walk through what the big insights that you and the team had from this chart. In this chart you can see that the overall association between a C to benefit use and autism is very small corresponding to just a 5% increase in relative risk between exposed and unexposed children. But there are a few other details that jump out at you when you're looking at this. So the most obvious feature, please to me, is that there is a very strong association coming from one very small study. In fact the smallest study here which is the G study from 2020. But as discussed a minute ago this study was done very different from the others. So instead of comparing the risk between children who were versus were not exposed to a C to benefit during gestation. So they then just divided the participants into three groups or turtles based on the concentration of a C to benefit. It was detected in the samples of umbilical cord blood. So then you could compare the risk in the first to the second and the first to the third turtles respectively. So again this might eliminate the issue of recall bias which of course is a real issue as well where you have to ask a woman after she has the baby, you know how much time on all that you take during your pregnancy when etc. But again it still has a pretty big issue which is the C to benefit does not stick around very long in the blood. And therefore we don't really know how much the C to benefit levels identified in cord blood at the time of delivery really tell us anything about the amount of a C to benefit that the woman took during pregnancy. Now some have pointed out that this isn't a concern. Since the study published this past January by another group reported a positive correlation between three levels of self reported acedamentifin use throughout pregnancy. So they called it non-use less than 14 days or more than 14 days and the level of acedamentifin detected in cord blood at birth. However the correlation was not that great. It was 72% and involved a completely distinct cohort. So there's certainly a lot of room for error based on that. Additionally the G study mentions that all cord blood samples contained detectable levels of acedamentifin but they don't actually report how those levels differed across the turtles, either averages or thresholds. So we have no idea how much acedamentifin we're actually talking about here. However they do report that 70% of the samples had no detectable levels of acedament metabolites which would strongly suggest that the majority of participants had very minimal levels of acedamentifin exposure, such as what you might see you know through drinking water. The essentially means that the comparison between the second and first turtles was comparing sub-theraputic exposure to sub-theraputic exposure, telling us virtually nothing. And as further evidence of this that paper I just reference that looked at comparing cord blood levels to recall number divided them into nothing up to 14 days more than 14 days. It found a seat of metafin in all cord blood samples. Yet it showed that turtles won in two were statistically identical. Again the suggestion here is there's some low level of hermetic Tylenol or Tylenol metabolite that we're probably all exposed to that doesn't really constitute an exposure. Another issue and actually think this is the single biggest issue by the way seems to be the biased participant inclusion. So the participants in the G study were enrolled in 1998 and followed for another 20 years. And anybody who dropped out before the end of that 20 year mark was excluded. But think about that for a moment. People are more likely to stay in an extended longitudinal study if they have a personal interest in the results. For instance if they find their child has autism. This is likely to affect the studies on this subject but it seems especially pronounced in the G paper. As this study which was based in the U.S. reported rates of autism in the participants at roughly 11%. So meaning when you look at all the participants who completed that study 11% of the kids had autism. But for context the general population currently at that 5x increase is 3% and at the time of enrollment it was 0.7% the enrollment was between 98 and 2004. The cohort used by the G study was called the Boston Birth cohort which originally enrolled nearly 9,000 mother child pairs. But among them preterm births werEQuite overrepresented over 35%. By 2018 approximately 3000 diets remained in the active follow up cohort presumably due to loss on follow up. And of those eligible diets slightly less than a thousand had available umbilical cord plasma samples and complete outcome data. So again we have kind of a concentration it would seem of cases due to all the reasons I just stated. But one of the most important things to take away from this graph is the fact that the risk estimate summarized from all the studies what we're sort of calling the pooled one here in red is virtually identical to the risk estimate derived solely from the 2024 alchist study which was done in Sweden and so it's commonly referred to and you've probably heard of it referred to this way as the Swedish cohort study. And the reason there essentially identical is that that Swedish study included more than 10 times the number of participants than all other studies combined. I don't know that's a lot there. I think it's actually worth just summarizing that again before we move on to the Swedish study because if you looked at this graph that we put together you could very easily come to the conclusion that the the G study is indeed the smoking gun but again you have to remember the limitations of this and there are several right one is the sample sizes incredibly small relative to the others too. You have the concentration effect where based on the nature of the study you concentrated and disproportionately counted cases of autism versus non and then of course you have the collection methods where using this single sample of cord blood which may have some association with maternal use during pregnancy but is very unlikely to account for the actual nuanced differences in dose and exposure during pregnancy. Again think about that through the lens of any other thing. If I could only measure how many donuts you ate on your birthday it would be very difficult for me to impute how many donuts you eat over the course of a year would it have a correlation probably but it wouldn't be strong enough to take to the bank if I was trying to use donut consumption as a marker of predicting heart disease. So again it's very tempting when you look at these meta analyses or in this case even just to review article to think more is better but remember a thousand southeers makes not a pearl necklacEQuoting the great James Yang who used to be one of my mentors in the lab. Given how big this Swedish cohorts study was I do think it's worth spending some time to really break that down so can you walk people through that study and what it found in more detail. Yeah the Swedish study was a very large pro-spective cohorts study and the general results indicate a small correlation between a metacetamentifin use in by the mother during pregnancy and later life ASD in the offspring. So there were just under two and a half million Swedish children included in the full cohort and the primary exposure metric was ever use of acedamentifin in pregnancy with dose serving as a secondary metric. So again the primary outcome is binary either you ever used acedamentifin or you did not. So acedamentifin used was determined through a combination of prescriptions because again single healthcare systems so they have access to all the prescriptions and also through maternal interview with midwife or physician throughout the pregnancy. They don't specify the number of interviews and it probably vary across participants. So over a median follow-up of about 13 and a half years the general cohort showed a very small but statistically significant positive association between prenatal acedamentifin exposure and autism. The hazard ratio is 1.05 and the confidence interval was 1.02 to 1.08. So what does that mean? That means it showed a 5% increase in relative risk and the confidence interval of 95% confidence was significant because it did not cross the unity line. So anytime the error bars do not cross the unity line it's statistically significant. Remember just going back to the studying study stuff we talk about we always like to calculate an absolute risk exposure if we can. So the relative risk was a 5% increase the absolute risk increase was 0.09% increase at 10 years. So that's a very small absolute risk increase less than 1 tenth of 1%. So the researchers then examined risk specifically in a cohort subset that was composed of matched sets of full biologic siblings. So the authors examined sibling pairs that were discordant in acedamentifin exposure and found no significant difference in risk for autism between exposure and lack of exposure. So why do this? The logic here is similar to any matched cohort study. But instead of merely matching based on general characteristics like age or sex each exposed individual is matched to an unexposed sibling. This means that exposed and unexposed groups on the whole should be relatively evenly matched in terms of several confounding variables related to home environment and even many genetic factors each person in one group could be mirrored by somebody in the control group. So there shouldn't be any systematic differences between the groups. Can you walk people through what happened when they did the more detailed sibling analysis? Yeah. So when they did that concordant discordant analysis, the correlation was entirely abolished when they compared and controlled for family environment and genetics as best as you could remember. This was not an identical twin comparison. It was just siblings. But obviously this is the best control you could get. And this suggests that the apparent link observed in the full cohort was likely due to confounding factors. Given these results, the authors of the Swedish study came to the same conclusion. And they stated, quote, results of this study indicate that the association between acedimenofenus during pregnancy and neurodevelopmental disorders is a non-causal association. Association's observed in models without sibling control may be attributable to confounding. Now it's important to note that the review article that came out in August in their analysis, they state that the Swedish study only included siblings that were disquadent for both exposure and outcome. But this was not the case according to the Swedish studies senior author. And such a design would introduce what's known as a collider bias, where the selection criteria create a situation where the exposure and outcome are already related in some way. To illustrate why this double discordant selection doesn't work, consider a very extreme example. Imagine autism can only occur with the cdimenofenus exposure. But the cdimenofenus exposure does not guarantee autism. So in biological parlance, we would say acedimenofenus necessary, but not sufficient. If you select only pairs that are discordant for both the exposure and the outcome, you would exclude all cases in which a cdimenofenus exposure did not result in autism. Even if those sibling pairs accounted for the majority of sibling pairs discord for the exposure. In other words, you would falsely conclude 100% risk. Therefore, I believe that Lee, the senior author of the Swedish study, is correct in his assessment, which is that once you correct for genetics and home environmental exposures, the risk of autism as it pertains to a cdimenofenus exposure is not causal. Stateed another way. Cdimenofenus exposure prenatally in the Swedish cohort does not appear to be causally related to autism. Looking at what you just looked at, is there any reason to question those results in question? What that study said? Another way to think about it is do people who argue in favor of a potential link between a cdimenofen and autism have anything to say about those results? Yes, you should question everything. I would say that the one of the criticisms that's been leveled against the Swedish study is that the overall rates of acedimenofenus in that study were much lower than or observed here in the US or elsewhere in the world. Only about 7.5% of the participating mothers in the Swedish study were consumers of acedimenofen, whereas some studies have reported up to 50% of mothers using acedimenofen during pregnancy. And again, given this discrepancy, some have argued that the generalisability of the Swedish study is limited. Which is interesting. And as it happens, you couldn't make this up. Another large cohort study with a similar nested sibling analysis was just published a couple of weeks ago. This was after the August publication of the review article. And it supports the findings of the Swedish study. The new study was conducted in a nationwide Japanese population and consisted of almost 220,000 children, of which almost 40% were exposed to acedimenofen during gestations. So very similar to the rates we see in the United States and in some of the other high exposure studies. The associations reported from this Japanese cohort were similar to those in the Swedish study. In the general cohort, so unadjusting for siblings, prenatal exposure to acedimenofen was associated with a 6% uptick in autism rates, recalling the Swedish study was 5%. But in the Japanese study, this did not reach the testicle significance. So the confidence interval, the 95% confidence interval crossed the unity line. It was 0.98 to 1.15. But when they did the sibling analysis, even this small tren towards an increased risk was completely abolished. So when you take this Japanese study of nearly 220,000 children and parent with the Swedish study of 2.5 million children, and both of them when done by this method abolish any causality, it's very difficult to make a strong case for causality. We've talked about this before, but I think anytime we're this deep in a science, it's good for people to kind of step back. And so can you walk people through why it's so hard to make assumptions about causality based on just observational data? Yes, IMean, again, I think you can think back to the sort of spurious correlation site that I was talking about earlier. It really comes down to the potential influence of confounding variables that we are blind to. That's basically what it comes down to. Dr. Lee, the senior author of the Swedish paper was interviewed by Jam of this week. It's a great interview. I think it's worth reading. We'll link to it. He talks about a great example that I'm sure many people have heard. I'd certainly heard it before in a statistics class, but it's worth repeating. It's the example of the strong correlation between ice cream consumption and drowning. So as we see rates of ice cream consumption go up, we see drowning deaths go up and as one falls the other falls. And obviously, if you were being, you know, sort of cheeky, you would say somehow eating ice cream is causing people to drown. But of course, there's a confounding variable and the confounding variable is heat. The warmer it gets, the more people are likely to eat ice cream and separately, the more people are likely to swim. And therefore, it's this confounding variable that isn't immediately obvious that explains both of these things. And I think that's really the challenge of epidemiology. And I don't say that as a knock on epidemiology. I say it's the legitimate challenge. It's that you can never ever, ever identify all of the confounders. And therefore, you are always at the mercy of wondering, is there something I'm not seeing here that is what is actually explaining the causality. So like the only way to show causation. Unfortunately, is through randomized trials. That's the only way you can really be as close to 100% sure that you've established causality by doing a well-controlled randomized control trial. But unfortunately, somEQuestions do not lend themselves to that for either ethical or logistical reasons. And clearly this question, the use of acedamentifin and autism is one of those tricky questions. So we're not going to get an RCT to do this. And instead, we're going to have to glean what we can as best we can from epidemiology. And that's where I think we get to this set of guidelines that I talked about at the top of the show here called the Bradford Hill Criteria. So the Bradford Hill Criteria, or a set of nine principles used to assess whether an observed association is likely to reflect a true causal relationship. So Sir Austin Bradford Hill, in 1965, put forth these criteria to help epidemiologic researchers examine their data when RCTs were not available. So they consider factors like strength, consistency, specificity, temporality, biological gradient, biological plausibility, coherence, experimental evidence, and analogy. So Peter, I think what would be helpful now is let's just go through the state of the evidence for each of those criteria. So looking at acedamentifin and autism, what's first on the list? Yeah, so let's just start with strength. How large is the effect? And the larger the effect, the more likely it is to be causal. Again, we can talk about a few obvious and famous examples. The example of smoking is perhaps most notable, right? IMean, I'm not a, I've never met a person who doesn't understand or disputes the exposure relationship between cigarette smoke and lung cancer. Like that's, there's nobody out there making the case that we need an RCT to determine that. We don't have an RCT. And why is it? It's because if you run the smoking through the smoking lung cancer data through the Bradford Hill Criteria, it pops on many levels, but effect size is probably the biggest. We're talking about an effect size of 10x, right? So 10x is, is just a magnitude beyond what we normally would find in most biological associations. By comparison, the effect size here is 1.05x. That's what a 5% relative risk increase is. So this is smaller than associations that have been reported for many other things that we actually know are probably almost assuredly not causal based on more well-to-do data, such as the association between red meat consumption and type 2 diabetes, which is a 1.10% relative risk increase per 100 gram per day increase in red meat. Of course, we've argued at nauseam that those associations are almost assuredly picking up a confounder, which is healthy user bias, or even poultry consumption in the risk of type 2 diabetes, 1.08. Again, both of these are stronger associations here. Even clearer example would be the meta-analysis of observational studies that reported that a higher leisure time physical activity was linked to a 5% higher increase in prostate cancer. Again, we know that that is completely nonsensical, but that is what you get when you go trolling for signal in a sea of noise. You will eventually find it. In other words, for this, the effect size is very weak. When the effect size is weak, and here we're defining weak as a subset of the type of epidemiology we're looking at. In this case, we're looking at pharmacoepidemiology versus say nutritional epidemiology or toxicology epidemiology. Week is generally regarded as 1.5 for pharmacoepidemiology. And the reason for it is just based on the pervasiveness of bias throughout these studies. So when you're showing up at 1.05 and the threshold for interesting is 1.5, you're well below it. I would say that we don't do very well in the strength here. Moving on to the next piece of the criteria consistency. How consistent are the data linking autism and the CMLM benefit? I would say actually there reasonably consistent. So consistency obviously just means how often does this show up across multiple studies and maybe even across multiple populations and different methodologies. And I would say a handful of prospective cohorts studies have reported this positive association. But remember, these associations tend to go away when you control for family environment or genetics, as we've seen in the two largest studies here that we've talked about. So in general population studies, IE no sibling control, the reported associations have varied somewhat in magnitude. But you know, some have shown little to no association. I would say more often there is some association. Moving on to specificity. What do we know about specificity? Yeah, so specificity is asking thEQuestion basically how specific is the cause effect relationships. So if an exposure is associated with only one outcome or an outcome associated with only one exposure, causal relationship is more likely. So here it's very non-specific, right? Because there are many variables that have been linked to autism risk. Many with much stronger lines of evidence than a Cdamentifent, for example, advanced paternal age, premature birth, air pollution exposure and heavy metal exposures. So these are all variables that have much stronger associations with autism. So we're not dealing with a one versus one. And some lack of specificity also exists in the other direction. Right? There's observational studies that have also reported associations between a Cdamentifent use and ADHD and language development. So again, what you really want to look for if you want to check the specificity box is a one to one mapping. Again, it's not a deal breaker not to have it, right? Cigarette smoking can cause lung cancer and other cancer and heart disease. And that doesn't necessarily by itself at all diminish the fact that it causes lung cancer. Peter moving next on the list, we have temporality. Does the exposure proceed the report affects in this case? It does. And certainly to a first order, it does, meaning a Cdamentifent use comes before autism. But there really hasn't been a consensus on the impact of timing of exposure or critical, you know, windows in which gestational exposure might be more problematic than others. And if you look at the two researchers, most known for their belief that a Cdamentifent raises the risk of ASD are Andrea Bakarelli and William Parker actually have conflicting views on the critical window of a Cdamentifent exposure. Backarelli, who is the author by the way of the paper in the came out in August that we've been talking about. He believes that maternal use during any part of pregnancy increases the risk to the fetus. While Parker believes that prenatal exposure carries relatively little risk provided the mother has a healthy liver to process the drug. Parker, instead, argues that the greatest risk comes with exposure in the neonatal period or even during birth itself, basically starting from the time the umbilical cord is clamped and onward. And what do we know about dose dependency in this case? Yes, so dose dependency, which you could also think of as biological gradient, says the more you have the exposure, the more you should see the outcome. And some studies have reported modest dose dependency based on the amount of time over which the mother was taking a Cdamentifent during pregnancy. But the results again have been pretty inconsistent. Is there a plausible biological mechanism for exposure that might cause an effect? The mechanism of action for a Cdamentifent is generally pretty poorly understood. It's kind of amazing that we don't understand how such a ubiquitous drug actually lowers temperature and alleviates pain. So therefore we don't really have a much clarity on how it might ultimately lead to autism. That said, um, it's effects are mediated at least in part through inhibition of the synthesis of prostaglandins, which are molecules that contribute to pain and the inflammatory response. And since prostaglandins also play a role in neurodevelopment, some researchers have argued that a Cdamentifent leads to autism by disrupting neurodevelopmental pathways. So again, there's no clear evidence of this. But there is at least what we would call biological plausibility, even if at best it might be a little bit hand-wavey. This of course also leads to another criteria, the next one, which is analogy, where we compare the current body of evidence to another similar intervention with a more established effect. And I think here we can look at the effect of another prostaglandin inhibitor in the CNS, which is aspirin, which is shown to have modest protective effects against autism like symptoms in animal studies. So this potential protective effect was also seen in the Swedish cohort study that we talked about earlier in which sibling analyses showed a small, but statistically significant reduction in autism risk with prenatal aspirin exposure. This was about a 13% relative risk reduction. In other words, the analogy criteria would actually argue against it based on the dual inhibition of prostaglandins between both of these drugs. And then wrapping this section, looking at the Bradford Hellcretary, do you want to cover the last two? Yeah, the last two don't really help us much here because one of them is on whether or not we have intervention-based evidence to support these conclusions. But obviously we don't, we don't have randomized control trials that can point to sub-analyses here. As an example of where we would be able to use this, if you're looking at exercise epidemiology or nutrition epidemiology, you might not be able to answer the meta question with epidemiology, but you could do short-term well-controlled studies to show that, for example, six months of exercise, improve blood pressure, then you'd be more likely to believe that exercise could reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease if that's what the large epi showed. But again, we can't do the short-term studies here. And then of course, the final metric here is called coherence, which is how do we tie the observational data with the in vitro and in vivo testing? And while we have some data here, they're very inconsistent to thEQuestion. So, you know, there are some studies that involve pre or perinatalist sedimentaphin exposure in mice and rats that have reported a few neurodevelopmental abnormalities, but they've been very inconsistent in the nature of the effect. And many have aligned quite poorly with the characteristics of autism. For example, one study showed minor alterations in spatial learning and locomotor activity, which aren't typically associated with ASD, but not anxiety like behaviors which often do accompany ASD. Additionally, some of the studies have used extreme doses for exceeding the therapeutic doses used in humans as adults or children at all. What I think might be helpful is if you could just quickly summarize all the information we just talked about as it relates to sedimentaphin and autism in looking at the Bradford Hill criteria. Okay, so let's go through them one by one. Strength definitely weak, consistency, moderate, specificity, weak, temporality. I would say modest and probably even strong. Biological gradient. I would say moderate, plausibility. I would say weak. Analogy actually provides evidence against this effect. And then obviously experiment and coherence. We don't really have meaningful data, but if we do, I would classify coherence as probably somewhat weak. Based on that kind of word you land on looking at autism in the sedimentaphin. Well, again, to the first question I posed, which is is there even a statistical association? I would say possibly, again, obviously there is in an uncorrected or unadjusted analysis, but I'm really trying to refer to these adjusted analyses. So I would say, yes, there's probably some association between acetaminophen and Tylenol. It's not particularly large, but let's assume it is there. The important question and the only question that really matters here is, what is the probability that that association is causal? And based on everything, we've just talked about and inclusive of the running of the Bradford Hill criteria, I would say the probability that the association between acetaminophen use by a mother and the development of autism of her child is a very low probability event to be causal. Again, let me restate that. What that means is I think the probability that if a woman takes Tylenol during pregnancy, it's going to increase the probability that her child has autism is very low. And I'm sorry for using the word probability twice in one sentence, but that's the challenge of trying to talk about this thing technically and accurately. I hope that makes sense. I'll clarify if it doesn't. Now, I think it does. And I think what we helpful now is kind of stepping back. So early on, you mentioned that one of the things we do know is that there is an increase in cases of autism. Let's assume there is causality here. Is it enough to explain what we opened with, which is a fivefold increase in the prevalence of autism today? And I think the answer is unquestionably no. That's a much more confident thing that we can say. That there is essentially zero chance that maternal Tylenol use is the thing, quote, unquote, the thing in quotes, responsible for the rise in autism. So if it plays a role, it would be a very small role, and it would have to be in the setting of another susceptibility. Again, I still would argue that it is not playing a measurable role based on everything we've discussed. And so Peter, I think now would be a good time to take a look at some of those important risk factors. So if you look at autism, what are some of the most important risk factors when it comes to that? Well, this is something I started looking into probably three or four years ago. So it was kind of actually nice to kind of go back and brush up on this literature and see what had been updated. But the the long and short of it is genetics play a much larger role in autism risk than all other variables combined. And account for an estimated 80 to 90 percent of the inter-individual variability in autism risk. The term for that is heritability. So the heritability of a trait can be assessed through studies that compare mono zygotic twins. So identical twins and die zygotic twins. So these are fraternal twins. This can also be done comparing what are called concordant discord identical twins or mono does a got a twins where you take identical twins that are raised in different environments. So there's lots of elegant ways to do this. So what do we know? We know that mono zygotic twins are obviously genetically identical whereas die zygotic twins are genetically no more closely related than any other pair of siblings. However, all twins are exposed to the same in utero environment. And in most cases, also raised in the same environment. Again, IMentioned that there are some studies that do look at identical twins raised apart. But let's put that off to the side. So this means that you can assume that die zygotic twins differ mostly in genetics, whereas mono zygotic twins don't really differ at all. So again, you have very elegant what we call natural experiment. So if we see that a given trait is highly correlated between mono zygotic twins, but is often discord between die zygotic twins, it must have a very significant impact from genes. So I just want to pause before I go any further because so much of what I'm about to say hinges on that. So Nick, did that make sense? Do you want me to explain this beautiful natural experimental tool that we have? Yeah, I think in this case, it is worth double checking and just reconfirming things. So people understand because it is such an important point. And it's come up on so many podcasts we've done in the past. I can think of the top of my head aT3 guests we've had on the drive over the past five or six years where we have talked about the heritability of various things. They're almost always neuropsychiatric. So the heritability of bipolar disorder gets a friendia major depressive disorder. Okay. So how are they figuring this stuff out? If you have identical twins, they are in the mother at the same time, therefore they are exposed to all of the same things while the mother is carrying them. And let's just to limit this to all twins that are raised together, which most are, then they come out and they're also exposed to the same environment. If you have diysygotic twins, they're just siblings. They're genetically, you know, obviously similar, but not identical, but they were exposed to the exact same environment inside the mother. But then once they're born, they're exposed to comparable things outside. So if we see that trait is highly correlated only in the monosygotic twins, but the correlation is nowhere near as strong in the diysygotic twins, then we know that genetics are playing the role. So let's talk about two things that everyone will appreciate. Hight and body weight. Hight has approximately an 80% heritability. Again, this shouldn't be surprising to people, right? We understand that on average, tall parents have tall kids and short parents have short kids, is it perfect? Not at all, but it's 80% heritable. Body weight also quite heritable, though not as much. It's about 60% heritable. So that's what we mean by heritability. Now, in one of the studies that was included in the August paper, the review paper, and this was the leopard paper, the primary study actually focused on how acetaminophen used during pregnancy correlated with the mother's genetic predisposition for autism. And they didn't find any significant association, but if they had, it might suggest that a woman's genetic predisposition towards autism might be the real variable behind the apparent association between a cdaminophen and autism within the offspring. If the mother is predisposed towards autism, then the child is also likely at a higher than average risk of autism based solely on genetics. But if the genetic predisposition also increases the likelihood that the mother might use Tylenol during pregnancy, which is entirely possible given that autism is related to sensory perception, which is in turn related to pain sensing, then it would appear as if acedaminophen use and the child's risk of autism were related, even though both associations might actually be explained by genetics. And this is what I referred to above when I talked about a sort of middle confounding variable. The example I gave earlier about the temperature being the thing that relates ice cream consumption and drowning. In other words, genetics would constitute a confounding variable that influences both autism risk and acedaminophen use, just as temperature is the confounding variable that influences both ice cream consumption and drowning. If so much of autism risk is genetics, what can we say about genetics explaining the increase and autism rates over the past few decades? They definitely don't because genetics do not shift enough over those kinds of timescales to explain this five, six, or potentially even seven fold increase in autism diagnoses that we've seen over basically let's just call it two generations if you want to go back enough. Now some cases of autism do involve denove mutations, but the majority of this increase seems to be explained by the increased awareness and expanded diagnostic definitions. So let's review a little bit of history here. There has been a progressive expansion of the diagnostic criteria for autism over the last 40 years. In 1987, the DSM3 made a revision which expanded from a strict infantile autism diagnosis or definition where the symptoms must occur between 30 months of age to something called autistic disorder, which was defined by a checklist of symptoms that could manifest well beyond infancy. Then in the 1990s and into the 2000s, a series of revisions in the DSM4 and the ICD 10 created something called the pervasive developmental disorder family, the PDD family, which encompassed autistic disorder, asperger's disorder. Something called PDD not otherwise specified, which I talked about on the podcast with Trenna where you know, it sort of became the all else bucket, RETS disorder, and then something called childhood disintegrative disorder where kids actually go on to lose and already acquired skills. So if they acquire language skill, but then go on to lose it. So further expands this recognition, but with very inconsistent boundaries between the subtypes. The age of onset was typically before three years of age. Then in 2013, the DSM5 collapsed all the PDD subtypes into a single diagnosis called autism spectrum disorder or ASD. It also relaxed the before age three requirement to symptoms in the early developmental period and it introduced certain specifiers with or without intellectual or language impairment. And the severity levels were based on needed support. Other changes that were also made to some of the checklist criteria, but the main issue is that an array of disorders are now lumped together under this ASD umbrella, which has vastly increased the number of individuals who fall under that umbrella. Now the estimates for how much this dramatically increasing diagnostic aperture has contributed to the increase in prevalence vary. But the analyses that have looked and attempted to assess this directly report that the expanded criteria account for 40 to 60% of the increase. And furthermore, increased awareness accounts for 20 to 30% of the increase in diagnoses. A 2009 study found that roughly 26% of the increase in autism diagnoses in California between 92 and 2005 were attributable specifically to cases in which children had previously been diagnosed with mental retardation. And were then subsequently screened for autism. So again, when I hear people say, oh yes, but even the cases of severe autism are increasing, not necessarily. It could be that kids that we now think have severe autism, for example, being nonverbal, were actually previously diagnosed as something else. You know, racial and socioeconomic disparities in autism diagnoses have narrowed or reversed over the last 30 years, which the CDC and others suggest is evidence of more widespread awareness and screening. So take those two together, Nick, 40 to 60% to 20 to 30%. That's really kind of the lion's share of what explains this increase. But that also still leaves room for other factors. And so do we know what else might be accounting for the increase? Not what we just covered. Yeah, I think the next clearest contributor is advancing parental age. Both in mothers and fathers, although the paternal age probably seems to play a greater role. This is seen mostly in the US and other high income countries. And various studies have put this at about five to 15% of the increase in autism prevalence. So paternal age has advanced in the US from 27.6 years when I was born to 31.1 years, 10 years ago, and that proportion, that number seems to be going up to proportion of fathers with more advanced paternal age has also increased. So fathers over 40 at the time of offspring birth has more than doubled and going from 4.1% to 8.9% and fathers over 50 has also doubled going from 0.5% to 0.9%. trens in maternal age have also increased during the same average period by abouT3 years. And the CDC reports that between 2016 and 23, the proportion of births, the proportion of births in women aged 35 and over has increased from 10 to 12 and a half percent. Furthermore, there are other factors such as maternal obesity, metabolic preterm birth and air pollution that are also widely recognized to contribute to the remaining 15% of unattributable factors. So let's talk about these just briefly right maternal health, including metabolic health is an important factor and there's no question that obesity rates among women at the time of conception have risen steadily. A meta analysis of global data reports obesity rates in pregnancy have more than tripled in the lasT3 decades from a pre-1990 rate of 4.7% to 16.3% in the decade from 2010 to 2020 and rates in the United States are even higher than those averages. According to a 2024 CDC report rates of preterm so under 37 weeks and early term 37 to 38 week births rose during that period as well. So preterm births rose from 7.74% of all singletons in 2014 to 8.67% in 2020. Well early term birth rates rose from 24.31 to 29.07%. Sources that track earlier years indicate a steady rise in preterm birth from at least 1980 to 2005 after which rates dips slightly before beginning to rise again in the 2010s. Some of this of course could be attributed to advanced maternal age which is in and of itself a risk factor for preterm birth. Finally I would say globally air pollution has been increasing. We've talked about this a lot on the podcast. We talk a lot about the PM2.5s. Truthfully we've always talked about it more through the risk of all cause mortality and cancer mortality. But here is yet another issue. So we've seen a 38% increase in PM2.5s again just for folks maybe not familiar with those that content. These are particles that are sub 2.5 microns in the air. Obviously you can't see these things. You don't feel these things. But because of how small they are, when inhaled these particles can go all the way into the bloodstream because of their ability to go straight down into the most distal part of the air sex of the lung and cross the diffusion barrier where oxygen and CO2 are trensmitted. And so seeing this enormous increase in pollution driven largely by the industrialization of China and India is another part of this. And while air pollution in the US has been coming down we've seen in the last decade and uptick in this mostly attributed to wildfires. As a Peter looking at what you just covered and those three buckets in that last bucket of environmental factors is it possible that a sedimentaphim could be in that bucket as well? Yes, it is possible. Nothing I have discussed today. None of the analysis we've done or anybody has done has shown dispositively that we can disprove the role, the causal role between acedimenophen and pregnancy in the elevated autism risk. Yes, it is possible. Again, as I've stated a couple of times, it is impossible to disprove anything. It's we can't disprove anything here. That's the nature of what we're doing epidemiologically. But the point here is look at how many other variables we have that have a either demonstrated by eugenetically or much, much stronger associations that even if acedimenophen plays some causal role, it is going to be very, very low. Think back to what we talked about on the absolute risk increase. This was a 0.09 absolute risk increase with a 5% relative increase. Even if you assume that to be causal, which again, I don't because when the twin analysis was done, all of that vanished in addition to everything else we've talked about, this would be a very, very, very small contributor relative to other modifiable things, such as maternal obesity, metabolic health, air pollution, paternal, and maternal age. I think there are many things we should be looking at before this. In sapita, kind of as we finish this podcast, I think one thing you mentioned early on, which I think is really helpful and ultimately what a lot of people are curious about is based on everything we just talked about. What advice would you give to women who are pregnant about the use of acedimenophen? As a general rule, I would advise women to stop taking medications when they get pregnant, but the medications aren't the only potential threat to the unborn child. The health of the mother is also important to the unborn child. The medical conditions that these medications are intended to treat can sometimes also create problems in directly or directly, but we have to balance that against the use of the medication and what's already being addressed. So let's take an example. If a woman has an elevated apob, she should be taking a lipid lowering medication, but does she need to take that during pregnancy? I would argue no. Why? Because nine more months of additional apob exposure are not a meaningful threat to a young woman's life, whereas there may be some downside in suppressing her cholesterol synthesis if we're talking about a statin. Now, conversely, when we think about something like thyroid hormone, where we've established actually quite safe use during pregnancy, if a woman is requiring thyroid hormone because she has hypothyroid to withhold that from her during pregnancy would pose enormous risk to her and by extension to the child. Now, it gets interesting when we talk about other classes of drugs. So for example, example, GLP1 drugs, they're very common. And of course, thEQuestion is, should women stop these during pregnancy? Well, I don't think I have enough data to comment, but I can tell you how one would have to think about this, right? If a woman's taking a GLP1 receptor agonist is the difference between her having gestational diabetes and not, maybe it's considered. Of course, we would typically turn to something like metformin as a first line therapy there where we have much more ongoing safety data. But the point here is you have to be able to consider this in a nuanced way, which is the single most important thing for the healthy development of a fetus is a healthy environment in utero, and sometimes that may actually require the mother taking a medication. With that kind of background, might be worth going back to the historical FDA risk categories and just kind of walking through what they are again. And then even highlighting a few different medications, that are included in each category. So people just have a much better idea of how this is done in practice. Yeah, again, the good news is you don't have to guess here. You should be talking about this with your doctor. So again, that FDA category category A, which is, again, pretty small, right? We only got about two to five percent of drugs here. We have controlled studies in humans, that demonstrate no risk to the fetus in any trimester. So again, the two most obvious here are T3, T4, prenatal vitamins. That kind of stuff. Then you have category B. So animal studies that for the most part show no risk or animal risk not confirmed adequate, you know, human epidemiology that generally shows safety. Again, 15 to 25 percent of risk. We see a number of antibiotics in here, things like benadrill, as IMentioned, Tylenol is in here as is metformin. Then you go to category see. We have animal studies that show some adverse effects, but no real adequate human studies. And here these are drugs that are supposed to be used provided there's, you know, enough benefit for the mother to justify it. Again, this is most drugs fit in this category 60 to 70 percent. So you have something like gabapenten, I'm low to pain, which is a blood pressure medication trasodone for sleep, GLP1 agonists are in here, certain SSRIs or antidepressants, and even very short-term use of narcotic pain medication. So then you have category D. So we have positive human fetal risk data, but in some cases the benefits might outweigh it. So for example, a couple of seizure medications, Valproic acid and phenytoin also lithium, which would be used to treat bipolar disorder, NSAIDs, which in a third trimester should be discontinued for the reasons I talked about earlier, and even long-term use of narcotics. And then finally we have category X, right? We have drugs where there's simply no reason for women to take these during pregnancy. And again, statins would be in this category, methotrexate, and drugs that also are known to cause tratogenic defects in the child. One of the other things you talked about early on in the beginning was not only do you have to look at the risk of taking the medication, but you also have to balance that in terms of what else could be going on during pregnancy. And so how do you think about the use of a cinnamon effect in terms of balancing the benefits that it can also cause for people who are yeah, I think we need to look at the other side of the equation. What's the risk of not taking Tylenol during pregnancy? In many cases, maybe the trade-off is just an annoying headache or some other discomfort that the mother can sort of power through. And in those instances, maybe she's just better off skipping the Tylenol and trying to get to bed. But you know, again, we can't discount the mother's well-being and the importance of that as well, not just for herself, but her well-being in the context of how important it is for the unborn child. And we certainly shouldn't trivialize the likelihood and presence of more intense debilitating pain with pregnancy. If the pain is bad enough that she's unable to get out of bed for several days on end, that in and of itself poses a risk to the child. Let's not forget Tylenol is also used to reduce fever. And for this purpose, current evidence would suggest that the scales clearly tip in favor of using Tylenol since exposure to fever itself carries a number of known risk factors to a developing fetus. So for example, children born to mothers who experience fever during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester, are at a significantly higher risk of certain birth defects than children who weren't exposed to fever in in-eudero. For example, various analyses have reported anywhere from 25 to 200 percent higher risk for cleft palate or neural tube defects. In fact, prenatal exposure to fever and maternal infection are also separate risk factors for autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders. So several studies have reported that exposure to maternal infection is associated with an increase in autism risk by 25 to 40 percent while exposure to maternal fever is typically associated with an even greater risk up to 200 percent across most analyses. So for some research has reported that these risks are attenuated when the mothers actually take a fever reducing medicine like Tylenol. All of these associations between infection and fever exposure and autism may actually be contributing to the apparent correlation that we see between autism and autism risk. Given that a C-domenifin is by far the safest option for reducing fever and pain relief during pregnancy, because remember, NSAIDs and opioids are category D. So if a woman does have an infection during pregnancy, there's a good chance she might try to ease the fever or the aches with Tylenol. In other words, it could be that it's the infection that is the issue and the signal we're picking up and measuring is the acid aminifinus. As we finish and wrap this podcast, is there anything else based on what we covered? You want to share with listeners and viewers. Look, there are some people who might be wondering why did you just take so long to explain all this to us? Why don't you just give us the answer? Like, I just want the soundbite man and it's like if you just want soundbites, you're never going to learn. And honestly, if you just want soundbites, this isn't the podcast for you. But if you actually want to be able to learn to think for yourself, then that's what we're here to do. And that's the reason we killed ourselves over the past week to put together the most thorough gathering of all the data we could find and the most intense night weekend analysis possible. It's because we want to help you think about this stuff because this is not going away. Right? This is going to be a forever game of whack-a-mole. There is always going to be a bad guy. And I'm not going to be here every time to do a two-hour podcast on helping you think through why exposure X leads to disease Y. So, you know, I don't want to sound like a scolding teacher, but the truth of the matter is we live in a world today where people don't want to think. Right? People use stupid vehicles like social media to get their information and they don't want to read the fine print. And even if they do read the fine print, they just want to outsource thinking to somebody else. So, I appreciate that those of you who are still watching this have outsourced your thinking for the past couple of hours to me. But honestly, like we're never going to get out of this rut of people not knowing how to think critically unless everybody starts taking steps to try practicing this on their own. We're going to include amazing show notes to this podcast like we do for every podcast although for this episode, it'll be not behind a paywall and normally our show notes are only there for our subscribers. But I would encourage you to go through this and follow the logic as I've laid it out here with the help of my team. And when the next thing comes up, because it will come up, right? Whether it's, you know, this drug or that drug or this intervention item, it's just going to keep happening over and over again. But you've got to be able to kind of go through this type of thinking. And if you don't want to, that's fine. It is hard. But then I think you've sort of forfitted your right to have an opinion on it. So again, I don't mean to sound like a crotchity old man, but honestly, I think on a day like today, I kind of feel like it. Let me just put a bow on this and let's land this plane. I think the upshot here is that any one potential risk for autism can't be considered in isolation. You have to look at the full picture, the risk of a given intervention like Tylenol as well as the potential risks of not taking Tylenol as well as the nature and magnitude of those risks. For minor aches and pains, maybe it's best to just err on the side of caution and skip the acedaminophen whereas when the pain becomes really a nuisance and it might interfere with you doing things that are otherwise going to help you provide the best environment for your fetus than judicious use of acedaminophen can help with the oversight of your physician. I think for maternal fever, the balance is clearly leaning towards the use of acedaminophen. But I want people to understand that the strength of these associations is very small and in many cases vanishes all together when you apply some rigorous statistical corrections that look at the most important variables that we should be considering here which is genetic and environmental. So I hope that this exercise has indeed provided benefit to all of you not just as we consider this particular question but as we consider the onslaught of questions that we're going to see in the future.

=== FILE: 368 ‒ The protein debate： optimal intake, limitations of the RDA, & whether high-protein is harmful [k2qZT8OQRjc].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Hey David, thanks for coming back. This was probably the shortest trip you've made here, right? You got a new home? Yeah, I got a great new gig and at the Children Nutrition Research Center in Houston, Texas and Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital, I'm having a great time. So it was just a nice easy car right over here. Very well. Well, we're going to actually start by talking about something that believe it or not, I don't want to talk about because I'm kind of sick and tired of talking about it and I'm going to apologize and advance to all the listeners because if they've been listening at all, they're probably sick and tired of hearing about this. But unfortunately, this is a topic that has gone from being what I would consider pretty straightforward to somewhat contentious. And I'm going to do my best to refrain from speculating on the reasons why it's become contentious. Although I have many views on that and many views on the people who choose to make it contentious, which I'll also refrain from. But let's just try to dive into the arguments around the macronutrient that is more in the crosshairs than any other today, which is protein. And that's kind of interesting when you consider the arc of your career, right? It was certainly easy to understand how people demonized fat and then they demonized carbs. And here we are today, common full circle, we're demonizing protein. Where do you place that in the arc of the historical lens of nutrition? Well, I think it shows, you know, many things, but at some level, it's almost perfectly predictable, which is we all eat. We eat every day, eating is part of our food, I've heard of our sustenance, but it's part of culture, family, certainly part of economics, identity, social class, religion, and so on. And so it's fun to talk about and there's lots of motivations. Motivations people recognize and motivations they may not recognize. And that leads always to this attention on it. That attention drives a big economic engine of food sales. So there's lots of interest in this and lots of stakes in this if you're part in the pond. And so yes, people shift and it's not even just the macronutrients, you know, it's, you know, this week at sea doils and next week it's fight of estrogen and soybean, feminizing youth. And you know, it's one thing after another where people look for the villains and the heroes and the angels and the demons in food. Only three macronutrients, so they keep looping around. Protein has become in the last few years, almost a fever pitch of enthusiasm and excitement from one part of the community and it's driving sales and it's, it's driving behavior and some people like me or have fun with it. And then I think there's always that group that sees other people having fun or making money or and heaven forbid doing something that might be seen as the easy way out or the construct, contract or constructed way out as opposed to the so-called natural way out of doing something and then that that upsets them that offends them. You're not being prudent. You're not taking the natural course. You're not taking the old fashion course. You're having too much fun. You're trying too hard to achieve big things and we don't like that. So we're going to try to poo it or shut it down or minimize it and I think that's where things are. Presumably at some point this will no longer be relevant and no one will talk about it and we'll move back to fats being the bad thing. Although I guess we're kind of there with sea doils to your point. But let's talk a little bit about protein. So a lot of the the consternation stems, I think from a debate around the RDA and the recommendation of 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight. So do you want to tell folks a little bit about where that came from? Where does this ubiquitous recommendation that we consume? 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. So again, just to put that in perspective, I weigh 180 pounds. So that is 82 kilos. So I should be eating about 60 65, 60 to 60 times grams of protein according to the RDA. It's the middle of the day. I've had 60 grams of protein today. So I'm almost there. I can basically stop eating protein for the rest of the day now, right? Some people would say that. Okay. Now others, I don't know if I would go so far to say at the other extreme, but a more active proponent of the importance of not only greater amounts of protein, but particular types and distributions. And so on would be somebody like Don Laman. And he might say, I hope I'm not inappropriate with putting words in his mouth, but I think he might say, Peter, you actually need to be eating protein at leasT3 or four times a day. Yeah, because that 60 was in one sitting by. Right. And at each of those settings, you probably want to hit about 30. And I emphasize that word about, it's not like there's some mathematical proof that there's some hard threshold and certainly not that for you who is 20% bigger than me, that you're a hard threshold, with the same as my hard threshold. But in the neighborhood of 30, right off the bat, if you follow that advice, you'd need to be having double that amount of protein. And you'd have to have it distributed differently. And if you have a distributed way or you'd currently did, be more than double. So I think there are a lot of people who disagree with that. The history is, you know, people at some point recognized that we needed protein to live. The key indicator that was nitrogen. And people looked at nitrogen balance. How much did you take in? How much did you excrete? And they found that people could achieve nitrogen balance, or at least sort of ordinary normal people of the time, at about that level. Right. No one ever proved demonstrated, or I think even claimed, that that was the best amount, or the upper limit, or it was just that's probably enough to maintain nitrogen balance, which probably means it's compatible with survival. And if you think about the early days, that was pretty important. Europe couldn't reliably feed its population until two things were entered into Europe. One was guano, back poop fertilizer, and the other was potatoes. And when after the, Columbus hit his banyola, and eventually what came back was among other things, guano, and potatoes, suddenly Europe could feed its population. But it took a while for the potatoes to catch on, Louis XV actually were a potato boot and ear to get people to think they were kind of safe. And a Polish group of two Polish scientists in 1928 published a paper in which they had two young people. They never said they were the young people, but I kind of suspected perhaps they were, a one-man, one-woman. And for six months, they fed them nothing but potatoes. A little bit of fat to cook the potatoes in, and a little bit of fruit to avoid deficiencies. So the only source of protein for practical purposes was the potato, and what they showed was nitrogen balance was perfectly fine. And despite sort of this quote unquote bad carbohydrate, at least some people think it's a bad carbohydrate. No one got diabetes, they didn't get, they didn't gain weight, they didn't get calories, did they eat a day? I don't remember that, but they were sort of, you know, roughly normal weight than, you know, people of the time. So probably, you know, I would guess a little more than 2,000, 2,000, 2,500, somewhere in that neighborhood. And as I said, they did nitrogen balance studies, and they were perfectly fine. But that's entirely different than saying, what if they were older people? Or what if they were pregnant? Or what if they were recovering from a bicep tendentare? Or what if they were bodybuilding? Those were all very, what if they were active? Yeah. Yeah. So when we go back and look at some of the USDA-based studies on this topic, we end we wrote about this. So the subjects for this study were, if my memory serves correctly, lean inactive, sedentary young men. Where I think you said about 150 pounds of alcohol. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe even a bit lighter, but yeah, about that. So these are guys that weighed 65 to 70 kilos, very inactive. And nitrogen balance was demonstrated in them. That you could achieve it at 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram. So again, let's just do the math, make it easy. Say, you know, 50 grams of protein was able to keep these folks in nitrogen balance. And it's, it's interesting that everything you said, you have to be careful. Like, this is true of, I think, clinical research, you have to look at the population that is studied and ask thEQuestion, how do I differ from that population? Am I bigger? Am I trening? Do I have a more ambitious goal than not dying? Or not wasting away? And I don't want to minimize those goals because you alluded to the fact that for the vast majority of human history, not dying was an amazing goal. Uh, living to the next day to the next harvest to the next season was essential for 99.99% of human history. So this idea that being optimal or thriving, it's a very, very modern luxury we have, right? It's both modern and ancient all at once. So yes, you are correct. But also the idea that there are different kinds of goals that we optimize is actually the very nature of evolution, right? What's being selected? And Steve Simpson, David Robynheimer, from Down Under, from Australia, study something called the protein leverage hypothesis. We may want to come back to it some point. And what, what they've shown is that what at least some animals do in experimental settings, they're able to set up is they consume enough protein to optimize their genetic fitness, meaning how many of their genes they trensfer, they're able to trensmit to the next generation, which is if you want to win the evolutionary game, that's your goal, which is different than living a lot longer, right? Yep. That's that's winning the personal game, but not the species. So yes, it matters. And it may be that that we now want to shift a little from one toward the other and it may even change during the course of life, right? It may be that at one point in life, my goal is to be as perhaps big and strong as I can, maybe at another point in life, it's too slow aging and that IMay have different strategies for those two different things. Before we go any further, I should have done this at the outset, but I realize that some people are going to be watching us on video and they won't hear the introduction where I'll have made this point, but we should both disclose that we're involved with a company called David Protein that makes protein bars. So because we're going to be talking about protein today and unrelated, but related, we're also going to talk about processed food, which I think is a very interesting topic. This is a company that makes high protein bars, which are by definition processed. And so I just want to make sure we're listening, understand that I'm involved in that company, you're an advisor as well. And I'd like to hear your thoughts to the argument that says, well, Peter and David, you guys can't really have been open on his discussion about this topic because you have this conflict of interest. What, IMean, I have my own thoughts on an argument like that, but I'd like to hear yours. First, just a couple of factual points of clarification. So yes, I have a grant from and have been a paid advisor to the David Protein Company. Second, the David David Protein is not my David. I don't own the company. Every time I like the bars, I eat them and every time I take one out at a meeting or something, someone will look at me and say, how vain are you? You have the own personalized bars, David printed in big, I say, no, it's not me, it's me because I'm just going to lose David. The idea is you eat the bar, you look like that, David. But I've also we had a protein conference we ran about six months ago, it was amazingly successful. The degree of interest from academia and industry and others are tremendous. We must have had somewhere on the order of 50 different companies contribute. So I'll disclose that as well. So I've a lot of interest in this. I've had funding from National Calamans, beef association, pork producers and other groups with interest in protein. In terms of the idea of does that make us trustworthy or not, I distinguish that from trusted. Whether it makes us trusted, that somebody else is judging me, trust me, you don't trust me or however much you want, that's up to you. Trust worthy I think has to do with the processes. And my colleagues and I, we have a saying, we've sort of coined them, we like to use a lot and we say, in science, three things matter. The data, the methods used to collect the data, which given their probative value, it shows what they mean and the logic connecting the data to conclusions. And everything else is tangential. And so some people who don't have, quote, unquote, the goods on an argument will resort to other things. They'll resort to adhamanamattacks, they'll resort to enuendo, they'll resort to quips. Quips are great, enuendo and adhamanamattacks not so great in my view, but none of those are dispositive. And you mean think about things that really, where we really have, we can really declare things known or not known, no one needs to to argue about your conflicts of interest. If you say that, you know, I can prove that there's a greatest prime number. And people say, well, no, you could prove there isn't. And I don't have to say, maybe you're paid for by the prime number company or something, I can just say, here's the proof and you're wrong and there's no point in discussing anything else. That's trying to number company. So, you know, I think of the value David of prime numbers if they were finite. Can you imagine how much the value of three, five, seven, eleven, thirteen, like these, those numbers would increase in value so much more if they became finite? I think today, like Bitcoin decoding and encoding Bitcoin. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, that's actually, that's a very elegant explanation. And I think it's worth reiterating that point, right, which is, at the end of the day, the three things that matter are what are the data? How were the data collected, what were the methods used to collect them? And then what is the string of logic that connects those data to their conclusions? And all of these things should bEQuite trensparent. Now, you've chosen a career, a field of inquiry in which it can be more difficult to do all of the above than, in, say, genetics or biochemistry or particle physics, where one of those steps is, in your case, particularly difficult. And that is the manner in which data are collected. In other words, I don't think nutrition scientists are at a loss for logic, but where I think they struggle if they're studying humans at least is collecting these data can be really challenging, really expensive. The species of interest is not amenable to closEQuarters for long periods of time, which is how you would obviously run a controlled experiment in a biological setting. So, this is maybe more of a philosophical question, but what is the future of nutrition science? I'm going to come back to the main topic, but this is just such an interesting tangent. What is the future of nutrition science? Why is it that, well, let me reframe it as a question, do you believe that there is a much brighter future, a step function and improvement in thEQuality of nutrition science that lies ahead with AI synthetic data collection or creation rather, is there something that could fundamentally change nutrition science in terms of how we go about gathering data so that we could be potentially less reliant on epidemiology, which I'm sure we will discuss the shortfalls of today. I think the answer is things will get better whether it's a step function or not, I'm not so sure. I want to expand or add to the branch you've thrown in and add a parallel branch, which is I think there are two reasons why nutrition science is so fraught. One you've pointed out is the methodologic challenge. Can we collect the kind of data we really want, with the kind of methods we really want? The other part is the social aspect, which you've hinted out until we've gotten to this point, which is why is it so emotional, why do people attack each other, you know, why do people go beyond the data? And I think we see, I see that in any area, the more that area of inquiry is related to economics, religion, social values, personal experiences, the more you get the emotion and the deviation from logic and so on. And you know, we've seen in, you know, whatever people study, childrearing, same-sex marriage, anything that has that emotional valence that every day experience and so on leads to more bringing in of non-scientific points of view. As so I think that's something we have very strongly. And then I think the other we have is the methodologic challenge of collecting the data. I see benefits on both fronts, but I think both will be slow. I don't think in many cases it's going to be a simple thing. If we could just fix that, if we could just figure out how to measure food intake and free-living people well and we're on the horizon and everything will be okay. That's important. I hope we do figure out how to measure food intake well and free-living people, but that alone will not be a solution, a sufficient solution. What I think on the front of the emotional piece is it's going to come slow. When you look at the arc of history of much of human endeavor, for at least from my point of view, in the point of view, if I think people like Stephen Levitt and so on, you look over the long haul. Things are always getting better. Right? You smooth the functional a little bit. Murder rates are way down, violence rates are way down, education rates are way lifespan is up, etc. etc. Freedom is up, but there are lots of have been flow. So we may be in a little bit of an have been flow now, but I do hope that things will get better as they always have in terms of more and more rationality. And that's something that is a scientist. I feel very strongly about. We as scientists we focus too much on immediate trust in science and we're saying we need to get more trust in science and on immediate issues. How do we get trust in this issue about vaccines or drugs or what have you instead of saying how do we get trust in the scientific process? How do we maybe risk losing a battle? Maybe I'm not going to convince people today that what I think about food additives or vaccines or protein or something is quote unquote the right answer. And I have to live with that, but if I can convince them that I'm an honest broker and here's how science works and we can work together through science in the long run I think that's better. And I think that's coming and something we need to focus on. In terms of the nutrition per se we have so many challenges, but as a methodologist I like challenges, right? Job security and it's fun. I like figuring things out. So it's we can't randomize to everything. So how do we get causal inference? We can't blind every aspect of diet. And if we could we be missing some of what we're trying to study because some of the effects of diet are involved the effects of perceiving what you're eating. Some of the effects of this drink I'm drinking is how it tastes. And if you blind me to it then you've taken away that potential effect. There are issues of measurement. How do you know what I really ate? There are issues of adherence. If you tell me to drink one of these every day, do I actually do it? Do I drink one and only one as you've instructed? There are issues of duration. Could you get me to drink it now and measure something in me 15 minutes later? Sure. Could you get me to drink one every day for the next 20 years and measure stuff? Difficult. There are issues of the model organism. One thing is we're going to talk about longevity a little bit. Somebody once said to me you never want to study longevity and an organism that lives as long as you do. It's a bit of a challenge. If you and I at our age were to start, especially mine, I'm a little older than you, were to start a big study and say I want to study 20 year olds and give them different nutrition and see who lives longer. And that'll help me figure out from myself what I'll be dead long before the study is in and not be able to benefit from it. And also not be able to find the answer and maybe we want answers before 60 years from now. So those are just a few and I could go on and on. Those are just a few of the many challenges we have in nutrition and I think we're going to chip away at them but a lot of it's going to have to be sort of settling for various rough inferences to say this information I need to recognize its limits and I need to be honest with the public about the limits. I need to say I haven't shown this unequivocally but it looks like this is the most reasonable answer now or the most supported answer now and I'm only to accept that but let's be honest. It's not demonstrated. Great example that you're using the feud and the literature now between Kevin Hall and David Ludwig on the use of crossover designs as an example and crossover designs in which you give personal say diet A followed by DIP and you give other people a randomized to DIP followed by diet A they have an Achilles heel that is not there for let's say parallel groups where it's just some get day diet A and some get diabetes and that is you can have what's called carry over effects and it turns out I've started to study this I had to tip my hat to David Ludwig who pointed the issues out to me and I had a fully company hand to them before that there's almost no way around it even with a washout between the crossover not an absolute way you get into what I call argument land you can say come on David it's it was a blinded drug I gave and I know the kinetics of it and I know it's out of the system by this date how could it possibly be having this and I could say you know Peter you're probably right it's a good argument but the validity still depends on your argument it's not an absolute apriotic proof and if I said well maybe what the drug did is it permanently changed something in that person and and we should just explain for listeners why this is an important discussion in science especially in human trials and especially in human trials with nutrition because there's a real statistical power and I don't use that in the beta sense of the word but a statistical gift that comes from being able to do a crossover in that you can now leverage a student t-test for example as a very powerful statistical tool that allows you to use fewer subjects and therefore a fraction of the cost so I'm guessing that if Kevin I don't know I don't follow this debate by the way but I'm going to guess that you're going to say Kevin Hall favors across over and I would not to speak for Kevin but I would bet the reason Kevin favors it is because the type of work Kevin does is insanely expensive he's putting patience in metabolic chambers and therefore the fewer patients that he needs to do that with the easier he can do his work is that basically the argument you're absolutely correct and when you said statistics in the power rather in the beta sense you actually that is what it is it is statistical power the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis if the null hypothesis is false which is one minus beta type two error rate there's actually a little bit more but I think 90 90 plus percent of the motivation is what you've described the other as actually Kevin pointed out to me as dialogue we were having was sometimes it's just throughput even if I had infinite money I can't put people through the procedure fast enough because you know there's only so many chambers yeah someone else pointed out to me it could be patient availability if you said I'm studying this in this rare population I can't get a thousand people even if I had the money because they don't exist I can only get 10 or 20 people so all of those things strongly favor the crossover which in almost all circumstances will be much more statistically powerful meaning you can get the same amount of precision per out of small and any fewer subjects but the problem is that you have this carryover and so that the difference between the two groups who get treatment A and treatment B in the second period could be a function of the true effective treatment A versus treatment B in the second period or could be in effect of what treatment A and treatment B did in the first period carrying over and now you don't have a clen estimate of the effect of treatment A or treatment B anymore now what you can do is what you said is a washout if you said I understand how this thing works and it's it's a molecular effect it's not a social effect it's not learning it's not a surgical thing and cut a piece of their anatomy out you know that doesn't reverse this thing is completely reversible it's completely blinded I gave a long enough washout then you know buy that argument you can say I rule it out but you can never say absolutely rule it out if you're dealing with things other than that we can't have a long enough washout or it might be a psychosocial effect or learning effect or some permanent effect right anything from bariatric surgery to something like an allergen which you know may permanently sensitize the body I know people say mRNA vaccines say maybe the mRNA hangs around for a while is that a permanent effect or a vaccine itself is a you know we hope in some cases this is a permanent effect like a measles vaccine all of those things you do not get a washout so those are things where the crossover has a limit and thEQuestion is does that mean you try to do what David Ludevig is I think arguing again I hope I'm not net appropriately putting words in his mouth is saying they're just in the hell just you know either don't use them at all or you can only use them in this way and if you get what looks like it might be a period by treatment interaction then discard the study it's invalid you know someone or do you say which I think Kevin would say and and I would side with is accept the limitations of the study it doesn't mean it's a flawed or incorrect study it means it's a limited study and as long as you point those limitations out you may or may not want accepted in the same sense if you have an observational epidemiologic study I think most of us again there are exceptions but most of us would not say never do one again they have zero value what we'd say is they're not invalid studies in and of themselves what they do is they leave open alternative explanations for findings other than causation could be some bias of measure could be some bias of sampling it could be some reporting bias it could be some confounding etc etc and we say as long as you acknowledge those then the study shows what its study shows it's weak inference but it's not nothing and I think the same thing is with crossover and we may have to accept that with lots of stuff that's the whole the idea of nutrition we may have to accept there are these limitations or our knowledge so for example if you do a study of cheddar cheese made and Wisconsin and versus some appropriate control and you say look this is what the effects I get of this and so therefore cheese consumption has this effect I think some will Peter are you sure it's cheese consumption in general or is it just cheddar cheese is it just cheddar cheese made in Wisconsin or is it any cheddar cheese is it only cheddar cheese when eaten with these other things or these and I think that's something which's so hard to control in nutrition that will wind up with these statements of saying it looks like it's cheddar cheese in general and maybe we can do some other studies to suck it out or it looks like it's cheese in general but we'll always have this sort of saying this looks like what it is here's a good recommendation but it's not absolute knowledge well with that let's go back to where we started which is the RDA for protein consumption now many folks don't laymen and others have argued that the RDA is insufficient if you're actually trying to optimize health and if you're actually in pursuit of another agenda which might be avoiding sarcopenial later in life achieving your peak in physical performance right that's not the peak of physical performance right but if your if your objective is beyond survival you might want to have more and the numbers for what more tends to be seem to converge in the ballpark of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilogram if you're trying to go for a minimum effective dose but easily up to 2 right so what is your best aggregation of the data on where you start to reach diminishing returns you know again the the I hesitate to talk this way because it's the way I think but I know it's not the way others do I always think about the concavity of a curve right so the more concave down it is the more negative the second derivative thEQuicker you get to that point of diminishing return it just means the curve is shaped that way and so most things in biology work that way right they they don't have they're not positive second derivatives where the more you do the better it gets and the rate at which it gets better goes up that that's very rare so what what is your guest halt on the optimal zone based on all of the above yeah I think it's important to distinguish between concave downward or you know sort of inverted you uh a curve that doesn't keep accelerating a decelerating curve curve with the negative second derivative versus non-monotonic those can be non-monotonic but it's not the same thing so one is the diminishing returns right it keeps going up but it goes all this goes slow yeah and there may be a point at which it never reaches and that point that it never reaches may not be 100% of whatever it is you're sort of thinking about that's different than saying an else you actually goes down at some point so a lot of things go down it's right right to a little will kill you too much will kill you and that's actually more common in biology right so too much thyroid hormone to little thyroid hormone a very bad to a few calories too many calories that's right so yeah in the case of protein if we're thinking about it not in an absolute sense but as a percent of calories let's just say and what's assuming your calories are at an appropriate level for whatever it is you you want to your life what I think we can say with pretty good confidence is there's some level that's too low I think we can also say with pretty good confidence that there's some level above the RDA that with very very rare exceptions perhaps is at most not worse than and then the vast majority of cases likely better than the RDA level so you know you might think of it as like the real base level like you know economy rental and then there's the higher and good rental and then there's something further out there where I would say there's less certainty and that's where probably a little more of the debate is so there's not no debate between the base level and what I'm saying is closer to the you know perhaps I don't want to use the word optimal because that implies a dip yeah but superior known superior level little debate in between but not not so much in my view and then there's more debate about beyond the known superior level and a lot of uncertainty there I think the evidence is very clear that when you go from the RDA level of poinT4ish grams per pound or a point eightish grams per kilogram up into roughly double or even a little bit more that roughly two I know no evidence of harm in any group other than perhaps again the very rare folks and even that would typically not be protein in general it would be specific type so if you said to me phenyl ketinuric can't have phenylalanine okay fine uh someone who's got you know an allergy to way protein can't have way protein but that doesn't mean protein in general I know of no evidence for harm even in people with chronic kidney disease or anything else I think there's lots and lots of evidence for benefit in at least medium term observable phenomena like body weight like appetite control like bone strength muscle and so on for people to be consuming more and I think it's especially true and people who are recovering from injury bodybuilding looking for performance in athletics looking for strength who are older who are growing all of those things IMean sometimes David I think it's easier to flip it and just say why don't we just identify all the people who don't benefit from a higher amount of protein than the RDA because I worry that when we start to carve out a bunch of categories and say if you're in one of these categories you should be consuming more you're always going to kind of miss something or someone might not identify so for example you've used the term bodybuilder most people would never identify themselves as a bodybuilder because when they think bodybuilder they think of the character church type bodybuilder we see in the you know on a magazine cover when you're at the airport that doesn't actually you know look anything like what you want to look like right but the truth of the matter is it's hard for me to imagine I don't know that I can think of one of my patients let me just start with that as a sample size one of my patients who doesn't need to add a minimum work hard to maintaining their muscle mass and many of my patients are working hard to add muscle mass and so what differentiates them from a bodybuilder right the difference is the bodybuilder of course has the benefit of using super physiologic doses of and regions consuming you know basically trening all day and doing nothing but optimizing around that and all of the same but but the reality of it is we're all sort of bodybuilders right like everybody's a bodybuilder if they're really thinking about it in the lens of what are we on this earth for we're on this earth to create the most robust body we can have and it doesn't have to look like it's bulging with muscles first of all most of us couldn't achieve that if we wanted to so not not with anything the most of us could never achieve it anyway let's think through who should be consuming the RDA yeah I would say with rare exceptions the answer is probably no one okay IMean that's a very important statement your hardware exception let's go back to goals you know you might say you might find people in fact not might able I'm a think you almost certainly would who say I don't care about any of those things you just mentioned the only thing I care about is saving the planet and my thing is I should eat as little as possible and as little protein as possible and as little animal product as possible for that somebody else could say my goal is to be nearer to God and this gets me nearer to my God in my way someone else in my goals in a static I want to look like a heroin addict in a doorway in Manhattan in 1970 that's your aesthetic but those people are rare it's I think it's really important for people to understand that this argument around the RDA is adequate and that's what you need to eat and anybody who is suggesting you eat more than that is wrong we we have to actually flip thEQuestion and say okay who is best served by eating at the RDA versus say two x the RDA at 1.6 grams which for me would put me at I don't know 150 to 160 grams of protein per day instead of 60 I think here's where we get into that issue of recognizing the limits of our knowledge and then being able to wrangle with them rationally as opposed to irrationally state the limits of our knowledge so I put up a LinkedIn post I put up many about protein in the last 12 or more months yeah we'll link to them all in the show notes here so that people can kind of IMean again I don't want to make this a discussion where we're plowing through papers because that's already been done and we'll link to all those things but yes so we'll we'll make sure that everyone goes back to them so feel free to reference specific ones so they'll have access to them immediately and one of them I included a quotation was from one of my old mentors and graduate school Harold Eucer who famously said I'm a data not here this students came a t-shirt that's had that and he would say show me the data it was a time I think of that Jerry McGuire movie being popular show me the money it was like show me the data and so what I sort of said is you know people keep raising thesEQuestions of harms I said show me the data can anybody send me and it was sincere I said this is an open call and I sent it says like some of the top people in the world including those who are a little bit hesitant not protein intake were denigrated and I said can anybody send me one or more papers that are intervention studies not observational ones that are in humans ideally randomized but I'll take an intervention even if it's not randomized but it's got to be controlled controlled intervention study in humans feeding different levels of protein in which the different levels of protein intake are separable from other effects that show deleterious effects on a clinically or intrinsically meaningful endpoint right don't show me that this molecule change so this gut microbiota change and what do I do with that would it why do I care that that gut microbiota changed nobody cares about those things intrinsically we care about them only and so far as if they give us heart attacks or strokes or earlier or later death or greater strength or make us better looking right we want to we care about how long we live how good we look how we feel our strength what we can do we don't it intrinsically care about whether this molecule on a body is higher than that molecule or this gut microbi and I said can anybody send me one nobody now I was on part of that thread David and wasn't there one paper that did surface that was a TPN trial total parental nutrition in patients in the ICU am I I think there were some I think that doubly lambing sent the and doubly is a great scientist and a good friend who studies protein mainly in mice and other things but also urban humans I think he cited a couple of references and I think they were from Luigi Fontana, fire call correctly and there was some short-term trials in patients with cancer and I don't remember all the details but I really see those you know yes but I just I'm I'm working my hardest to given honest look to because I think what you did is the right thing to do which is look guys we're we're having religious debates on social media where people are using their Twitter platforms to like lamb asked people they disagree with and you know call them names and do all this sort of nasty stuff why don't we just do this like grown ups and show me the data right and so the data is show me human clinical trial intervention studies the demonstrate the deuterious effects of quote unquote high protein and yeah the only thing that I saw was you took these patients who were very very sick in the ICU so sick that they can't consume an enteral nutrition which means they can't eat because they're probably ventilated and their guts aren't even working so you can't actually put feeding tubes in them so you use a central line you put a intravenous catheter into one of the major central veins in their body and you give them all of their nutrition through that conduit which is called parantral nutrition and with total parantral nutrition you are chemically crafting the exact composition of what they consume exactly how much glucose exactly how much fat what type of fat how much protein what type of protein what micro nutrients etc etc and again I don't remember the exact study but it showed that there was no benefit to a higher protein diet and this was counterintuitive and now that I'm remembering it I believe the study sought to ask thEQuestion wouldn't patients in the intensive care unit benefit from a higher protein diet because they're very catabolic right the body is incredibly catabolic in that setting and so I think the surprising outcome of that study was that the patients on the higher dose of protein did no better but my if my memory serves me correctly they didn't do worse am I remembering that correctly if my memory also serves me correctly there was no statistically significant effect on what I would call an intrinsically clinically important outcome right it it wasn't statistically significant effect on lifespan and and that's a portion population death mortality is the most important outcome right there are other things days in the ICU days on the ventilator those things all matter tremendously but it it's you're looking at such a such a sick population that's on the precipice of death they when you look at ACM or all cause mortality you're going to get some interesting and valuable insights and we're also going to have to really dig into this idea of when we've got different sources of data and none of which are the data we really want right what we really want is the randomized controlled trial in tens of thousands of people so we can look at subgroups and we have a lot of power we want perfect adherence we want it free living we want it in people eating foods under the circumstances about which we're going to make claims right most of us are not asking well if I am on TPN and unconscious and being tube fed by a surgeon then what most of us are saying when I go to the grocery store and decide what I want to bring home for dinner tonight then what and those are not the same thing yeah so we won't have that we'll have lousy epidemiologic studies with lousy self reported data followed people large groups for long periods of time and causal inference will be fraught we'll have mouse studies in which we're not sure we can generalize from the mouse to the human we'll have short term studies of people being tube fed we want to talk about long term studies of people eating quote unquote ordinary foods in ordinary ways and we're going to have to sort of think about if they all line up perfectly right smoking is an example that we're almost everything lines up you know you may not have the perfect study want but the the cell stuff the mouse stuff the animal stuff the epidemiology the clinical trials we get people stop smoking they all line up to say smoky's really bad don't smoke if they all line up great then it's easy if they don't all line up we also have to start to talk about how strong is each piece of evidence both in terms of its generalizability to what we really want as well as in and of itself is it strong and I think those studies are that we've just described are not especially despositive yeah I think another type of inquiry that can be misinterpreted but there's a great analogy for it is around the dose response curve for muscle protein synthesis as protein dose increases and so there was a study that that was that was referenced that looked at as you went from point eight to one point two to one poinT4 to one point six grams of protein per kilogram of body weight what did the rate of muscle protein synthesis do in other words where did you start to achieve the plateau and beyond which you were not going to get more and what I think this study demonstrated was that in less trened individuals you will achieve higher levels of MPS for lower amounts of amino acids but again two things stand out here the first is be careful what patient population you're looking out in the study and make sure it applies to you so you know in an individual who's trening an hour a day I don't think they can compare themselves to someone who went from sitting on a couch to trening 90 minutes a week very different the other place I would say that there's a perfect parallel there and I want to make sure everybody who's trying to figure out what bucket they belong and can sort of do the the mental gymnastics here if you take an untrened individual a person who is 100% sedentary which sadly is the majority of people in the United States and you put them on a fitness regimen of three thirty minute whole body workouts a week so I take that sedentary person I take them into a gym and I get them to push around weights 30 minutes three times a week not to failure not to profound exhaustion there is no desire to name them or make it such that they can't get out of bed the next day will they achieve a trening benefit will they will they achieve some benefit an answer is unbelievably right unbelievable benefit David if you put me into their workouts would I achieve any benefit maybe I would argue virtually none right why why the difference of course you're already sort of on the asymptote right it's like anything else you know you take someone who's never had any value of it and you get a big benefit give a mouse that has no left in just a tiny little bit of left in and an immediately starts to slim down quite a lot give a mouse that has a normal amount of left in a little bit more you're going to observe all's nothing uh give a kid who's been studying algebra for an hour a day vigorously and diligently uh an extra 10 minutes of studying algebra you're probably not going to get that much benefit give a kid who's never been exposed to algebra at all 10 minutes a day of tutoring algebra you probably start to get some real benefits so so so my and by the way that's a that's a beautiful example and when I hear people say you don't need much more protein than point eight because of that study you know it makes me think that's like telling a kid they only need to study algebra 10 minutes a day if they want to master it absolutely you know one of the things that hurts me about the field of nutrition and I don't know the solution to this goes back a little bit to the challenges we have but this is really an economic challenge not an intrinsic challenge look at the sample sizes of studies in nutrition in general uh randomized controlled trials of nutrition in general especially of things like protein intake and then look at the sample sizes of studies of statins randomized control statins glp1 agonists vaccines etc they're different by multiple orders of magnitude it's not a common to really study say well we took uh we were interested in the effects of protein consumption on you know African American women over age 50 with diabetes and without so it's six in each group you know six in each group you know it's 60,000 over there and in that you know farma study and so we have really sort of weak data on this and so it's not surprising that often we don't show these big effects well this is important David I'm sorry to interrupt but I I want to tie this back to the discussion we had around disclosures there's sort of a reason that virtually everybody in nutrition science is taking some money from food industry now there are you know someone who works at the NIA she was funded entirely at the NIH by like Kevin obviously doesn't need is Kevin back at the NIH by the way not to my knowledge okay anyway Kevin was at the NIH but but most everybody who's at a university is cobbling together money from both the government and industry and that's as demonstrated by the the sort of belt and suspenders bootstrapping approach that comes into nutrition science studies which are you know not well funny so maybe just explain why is it that it's it's easy to fund a farma study with 60,000 people in it and it's hard to get the funding to study 600 people in nutrition study the first question is very simple it's the economic model of it pharmaceuticals are patentable and the way our country works is in general you cannot market a pharmaceutical without the FDA's approval and the FDA will generally not give approval unless you've met their bar for having demonstrated as the act of Congress for the FDA's you know structure mandates they must have a reasonable basis for concluding that the benefits outweigh the harms under proposed conditions of use and so the FDA says this is what is going to take to convince us and it's going to be these big randomized control trials as well as a few other things and so the company said we've got to do it then there's the economic model that makes it feasible for them to do it in most cases sometimes the reason we don't have certain drugs is not because they can't be made is because the farmer companies say it's not worth it for us because we won't make enough money to offset the development platform that's a problem there but in any case in other situations like a GLP one agnistice does so they develop them they spend hundreds of millions of dollars they do them to the utmost rigor they're probably the most rigorous human health studies done on the planet these days so to your point if you're willing to spend let's say it's two billion today three billion whatever the number is ten years and a couple billion dollars is an enormous investment but if you can recoup it it's worth it so how how do you recoup that in nutrition science so you don't they're margins in the food industry a much lower they often can't patent stuff quite so easily you know it's hard to patent the grapefruit right so if you're the grapefruit sellers you know and you want to do some study you know I got a patent grapefruit even though you may have some you know benefit from it so that creates a problem which sometimes leads to why people want supplements and things so they maybe they can get some patent protection but even that can be limited at times you don't have the economic model for it and so they just don't I don't have the numbers out my fingertips I don't know if anybody does but if you said to me we're gonna take all the money spent on research looking at the effects of food not how do you make food not how do you make a better chocolate bar a better macaroni and cheese or something but what are the effects of eating that chocolate bar or macaroni and cheese um and you added it up across every single commodity group the dairy council the eggboard every single food company every dietary supplement company and you added all of what they spend on research I would be very surprised if it exceeds a billion dollars crossing entire country so there's very little money relatively speaking there they don't have the economic wherewithal to do it they also don't the mandate to do it my group 20 plus years ago we did the first randomized controlled trial ever commissioned of their products by the Fuddle-A company um and my gosh what they scared about this is it just didn't know what they're getting into it for now this study we compared chips fried and corn oil to low fat chips and cookies and crackers and things to traditional chips and cookies and crackers that had more saturated fat trens fat and the idea was is low fat better than corn oil and the answer was no um you know assuming you can control your calories you're better off eating the full fat corn oil chips we're about the saturated the high saturated fat and the trens fat are they really worst yeah and and what were you what were the outcomes oh a CVT type out comes so biomarkers yeah with the exception I think of triglycerides my recollection is you know the traditional trens fat fat fat we're worse I think the low fat high carb was worse for triglycerides and the high fat corn oil type stuff was better for everything and that's published in A.J.C. and Malmy P.S. on tholunch was the first off through that and it was interesting the criticism we got again it was uh Marianne Nessel was one of the few critics uh and it was typical never touch the science you know and ever said well the design was wrong or the measurements were wrong it was like well they were funded by industry and I call this this is her words I call this a calorie distractor you know if you have something to say about the science why don't you stick to the science and do that instead of quips and add home and attacks but that's all we got anyhow so the food industry traditionally has not done a lot of this these studies are expensive that study we did aren't remember the exact number but it's probably in the neighborhood especially if we inflated it today's cost you might be getting close to a million dollars or something but that's nothing compared to what we talked about with form the other issue is uh the other big funder is NIH and NIH I think both have seen often these things as something the industry should fund well IMean if it's they're selling it let them fund it that's one sometimes it's not seen as really deep big science yes it's practically interesting doctor Allison but where's the big deep scientific hypothesis and then the last thing is the the in my opinion here's clearly an opinion the misprayaritization of funding and this is something that you now we see the NIH addressing very vigorously again I would agree with some of what they're doing it disagree with some of what they're doing but you know I know Jay bought a charioteal real smart guy and he with others are trying to say let's repurpose some of the funding less here more here and I look at the observation epidemiology which can be very expensive in nutrition and I think the new information yield and I underlying that phrase new information is often very low right somebody else comes out with a new study tomorrow and says we did another one and it was a million subjects and we measured the food intake as carefully as we can with self report in this population we had a couple of biomarkers and there's something interesting about this and here's what we showed with protein intake and longevity I don't care what's directions and you show great longevity so less than longevity like I already knew it was a question you haven't answered thEQuestion for me you gave me a little thing to scratch my head about maybe but it didn't really move yeah let's let's talk a bit about the epidemiology in this in this space so again I think everybody listening to this podcast knows what epidemiology is and we talked a lot about the limitations of it and the you know what a healthy user bias is but what maybe give us the landscape of how epidemiology has looked specifically at this question of the relationship between protein intake and out comes of health and what are some of the near unique or particular circumstances of epidemiology that lend itself to confusion here yeah I think the most important thing that I want to say is a sort of maybe a little bit of a weird kind of left turn on this but is I think the greatest limit or problem with the nutrition epidemiology in a context like we're discussing now or this exact context of protein consumption things like longevity and long-term major health is the opportunity cost it's that we're spending the money and often a non-trivial and automatic these big epidemiology studies can be very expensive and we're not spending it therefore in the big randomized well-bund controlled clinical trials that's I think the biggest problem if you said to me well we did some epidemiologists something we can clen and it's interesting and fun and there was no cost okay but if say we did that but we could have done one really good or maybe 10 medium size randomized controlled trials that that was a bit loss now in and of themselves if we just stick to the epidemiology you and many others frequently and correctly point out the issue of confounding we all say correlations not necessarily causation the example of ice cream consumption and murder rates is trotted out and we say you know more ice cream consumption associated with more murder rates guess what it's he you know people eat more ice cream and top they murder more on the side all true right all fine but that's actually just a tiny piece of it there's so much more there's the measurement problem and that measurement is not random and even if it was random it's usually not taken into account if it was random and we knew it was random and we took it into counts statistically we could make the problem kind of go away but it's often not random and maybe correlated right people who eat more of this may systematically bias their reporting down than people eat less of that there's selection bias people may choose to be in the study or not choose to be in the study and that may affect things there's what's called collider bias you know I control for something and I think on doing a good thing by that but in fact I've created an inadvertent association I could go on almost statistical obscure what do you think are the three most important biases that impact this particular question when asked through an epidemiologic lens I think it's the confounding particularly but not only by culture and socioeconomic status and social class education second would be the measurement error in particular again the non-systemat then the non-random measurement error and then I would probably say some selection biases that are a little hard to specify Miguel Hernan at Harvard is perhaps one of the most thoughtful people on talking about the other ways these biases can creep in in terms of when people start the study who gets in the study and when we consider their exposure as occurring and he's he's does some ways to try to correct that he thinks that's more important than confounding so I think those are probably the three biggest ones and that's those are the intrinsic issues I think the other one which is very big but not intrinsic is I'm going to say honesty and maybe that's a little too strong but I think it's the honesty or maybe the sincerity perhaps is a better way of saying it this sincerity of reporting by the investigators I don't think many investigated are lying in explicit sense but I do think they are both intentional and unintentional efforts at distorting that is people want to tell a story and they emphasize some things in de-emphasize others they hide some things and don't hide others so it's not an explicit lie but there's a manipulation of the information and why do you think the editors at journals are unable to address that in the review process for the majority of editors it's lack of ability lack of resources and lack of courage for a minority of editors its limitations on the ability to really go in and sus it all out so the New England journals of the world the sciences of the world the jamas of the world they have the resources within reason and the sophistication and to sort of go after this but they can't get everything often when I think about the idea of peer reviewing but also to some extent the editorial review which has a little more teeth than the peer years themselves I look at it like restaurant reviews right if you know sag it or whoever goes into review a restaurant it's going to give a mission on stars they can tell you did they like the offerings on a menu was the food tasty did it look good was the service good they're not going back and doing a microbial count in the kitchen they're not checking how often the chef washed his or her hands those are things you need a health inspector who's got some authority who can do spot checking surprise visits it's got equipment and so on that's what you need there and I think peer reviewers are like restaurant critics now this a look good is an interesting you know as a peer review I can't go back and look at everybody's raw data in some cases we'll see something that looks funny and then through the journal we're doing a couple of these now we will get the raw data from people and then we often see things that arEQuite funny and we often get a lot of fights with review authors who don't want to let us look at their raw data and kind of tells you something where is AI in this process IMean why are we not or are we using LLMs to serve as peer editors short answers we are long answers we're at the stage of infancy and amateurishness with it so it's coming it'll get better and better but we can do some very simple things now people look for the so-called tortured phrases you know when you find these phrases that kind of look like a word salad that's sort of a hint often that you've got something plagiarized or just fabricated we can look in some circumstances for things that literally don't add up so some people made something called the grim test I forget what it's an acronym but it's basically when you know let's say you have a like or scale and you know you have a certain number of subjects then the mean of that scale can only have certain values and if you say hey it doesn't have that one of those values something must be wrong those are examples and do we know if these AI agents these peer review agents all call them are being trened on known fraudulent manuscripts because we certainly have an abundance of things that were demonstrated to be fraud so it would be I assume a reasonable thing to do to start trening these AI agents on that to start identifying the patterns again the answer is yes but very much it's infancy okay who's leading the charge on this I don't know if this one person is leading it I think James Heathers who's now got a position you know part of the challenge with a lot of the so-called data slutes is it's hard to get paid to do that you know so I get paid to be I was a paid dean and and now I'm a paid center director and kind of in my spare time I do a little slew thing people like James Heathers where it's more his full-time gig it's hard to get paid but we traction watch said something up for him sees one Tracy Weisberger in over in Europe is is another there's a woman whose name I unfortunately am missing a miss pronounce but who's a Dutch scientist who came up with something called stat check and stat check if the statistics are poured in the format of the American psychological association which is very clear format has software that will specifically go and make sure those all check so those are some examples but there are many others and people working on what do you think is the most compelling piece of epidemiologic data against the idea of exceeding the RDA I don't think there are any compelling observation level epidemiologic data you know when I think of the things where you've got relatively hard endpoints relatively large sample sizes there usually they've not looked at hard big thresholds and even if they have they've looked more continuously at protein intake even if they have I can show you you know studies in either direction studies that make it look like it's more protein is beneficial and studies that look the other way and I don't think any of them are dispositive I think protein intake is highly confounded with social class as well as type of protein intake so what about the let's flip thEQuestion now again which is okay I'm gonna argue that lower protein is better because I've just demonstrated you were not gonna starve to death at let's just round up and call it one gram per kilogram of body weight Peter you should be eating 85 grams because I know that that is safe but I don't know that if you double that you're not gonna get cancer so you know what what can we say about quote unquote high protein diets and cancer or heart disease so I think we can say is absolute knowledge is beyond us in this context but we can have reasonable degrees of certainty certainty for practical purposes as long as we need to be open with them you know one of the things that I often get frustrated with the nutrition science and some other elements of scientific communities we say science is always evolving and the public needs to understand that it's not something wrong when we we in their view flip flop and we change our mind we change our mind when new data become available but that's true but then the the implication is we were honest with the public all along and saying this is what we think today it's not absolutely certain and I the the one like thing that I was just stands out in my mind is early 1990s Michael Jacobson, Dr. Michael Jacobson, PhD nutrition scientist director of something called Center for Science in the public interest somewhere in science and coming out on national TV and a camera holding a plate of feticiniopfredo outside an Italian restaurant after a new report of come out on composition of what people had Italian restaurants got huge press and as he holds it out to the camera he says this is a hard attack on a plate this is a heart attack on a plate is not a tempered statement that says this is what I think we know today but it could change later so I think we need to be more honest about that why the way what was he referring to that was causing the heart attack and that I think the implication was the saturated fat or maybe the saturated fat and sodium so in any case I think you know we need to do better with that I know of no compelling evidence for harm that doesn't mean there couldn't be any but I know of no compelling evidence for him I know of no studies showing that humans get more cancer with this I think we need to be skeptical of the mouse studies the epidemiologic studies for reasons I've indicated I think at some point we we need to recognize as people did when I put up that that linked in post and I said show me the data can anybody send me one many people responded with something akin to I can't show you that study David but can you show me the compliment or the opposite study that meets all your criteria and shows there isn't harm and the answer maybe no I'm not sure but what I can say is at some point when you've looked enough and you failed to see harm where is the burden of proof so if you don't have a really strong apprary rationale now we can argue about that that they probably is legitimate debate you know you might legitimately say I have a strong apprary shall there is an arm and Dudley's having might say I have a strong apprary rationale that is harm and you're entitled to your opinion those are opinions and then we can both look and say well neither one of you has the absolute definitive data at what point where's the burden of proof and I think right now the notion is the burden of proof is on those who want to argue for higher protein intake well the evidence is unclear enough to show that the RDA is too low to which I would reply well the evidence is unclear that it isn't now where is the needle point where is prudent's point and I don't think the status quo is necessarily what's always prudent right saying leave everything the way it is is always the best way sometimes it is but in this case I think we've left it a long long enough I think it's time to say you know we've looked and looked and looked if I look at a thousand swans and I cannot find a black swan does that mean that no black swans exist of course not but if I looked at 10,000 black swans if I sent a helicopter in the air and we scoured and we looked with binoculars if I sent teams of undergraduate students to walk around ponds and measure look for every black swan if I put drones with cameras out and I have failed time after time after time to find a black swan it wouldn't say maybe for practical purposes I can say black swans probably not something we need to worry about yeah I think that is probably the most logical way to frame this which is I do not believe we're ever going to get a dose toxicity to her study for protein the way we do for you know figuring out what the LD50 of a drug is right you know where you push the toxicity and you figure out okay this dose we will kill 50% of people so the real question becomes what would be the bracket you would put around for 90% of the population to exist within this range is an appropriate way to interact at the grocery store right to your point like what's the problem we're trying to solve here the people listening to us don't care about most of what we've said today IMean we had to say it but they actually just want to know look man I'm really confused because I'm reading people who have a lot of piss and vinegar and what they're saying on this topic how how much protein should I be eating what should my family be eating you know should my kids should I be you know avoiding protein in my kids should they not be eating snacks with protein whatever the argument is so you know our guidance to our patients is pretty straightforward and it varies based on their preference we have some patients who are vegetarians who have been lifelong vegetarians who can't stand the feel of meat right they're not this is not like a belief that they have that meat is bad for them they genuinely don't like meat we have other patients who won't eat any animal products so they're going to have a harder time reaching the upper limits of protein consumption and so you know with those people we're just trying to nudge them as high as we can get them and that's probably not going to get much higher than about 1.2 grams per per kilogram of but the guidance we're giving people is we really like to see you at about 1.6 to 2 it's an easy heuristic it's easy to remember too because you're basically consuming almost a pound a gram per pound of body weight so how would you advise people based on the just tell me the for all intents and purposes like you don't need to worry about black swans argument right so let's separate the idea of what I think people ought to do if they have these goals that most of us have like live longer be stronger be healthy etc and how do I think we should tell them to achieve that the latter one I'll loop back to in a minute but I'm not really the expert on that the former one what I would say is I think you and I are largely aligned on this I would say if you just want to survive stick to the or if you just want to survive the RDA is probably okay for most people but if you want to thrive in these goals that most of us share then I would aim for in the neighborhood of two grams per kilogram per day per person spaced out throughout the day so for example if you want to pass you should study this many hours per day and you will get a C right but if you want to have the best shot at getting into the best college you could get into because you want to study engineering you should probably study this much and you're probably going to need to try to get A's great analogy my my uncle my great uncle who was a professor and from the old country and the old school and a philosophy professor when his kids would come home in America from school he would say good now play times over now you sit down and we study Latin and math and logic and you do to real work and then there's probably at another example you may know that in South Korea they actually at the past some laws recently or chose to pass some laws recently that I forget the details of them but that students could only study so much because they're really starting to aware of students just going too far and I think those are good examples to me it's it's sort of like the RDA for protein intake is is like what my uncle saw the American schools as it's a yes it's just enough to get up you know to pass high school and do something the next level up is what my uncle did which was we're going to really do some work and get you to a closer to an optimal level maybe what some students do is maybe go too far but I also think it's interesting to see in what way were they going too far that is did anybody ever say or show that if you study algebra or anything else 12 hours a day instead of two hours a day that it directly causes harm and I don't know of anything like that now if you said to me if you study algebra or whatever for 12 hours a day if so facto you are not exercising you are not socializing you may be not sleeping enough etc then you have a problem it's not the direct effect of the studying it's once in a situation if so if I literally drank I handed you a drink when we came in one of my favorite you know play time things I love to play with these different protein products and have fun with them and this is a drink that has 20 grams of protein and 90 calories so it's almost pure protein and there are other things like that if you or I would say I just want as much protein as I can so I'm just going to live on that stuff there would be no to my knowledge no direct harm I'm not worried about my kidney shutting down or something but I would say well wait a minute you know did you have any vitamins and minerals did you did you have any pleasure from eating other foods did you have enough energy to work out hard by not having any carbohydrate maybe a little carbohydrate you would make you work able to work a little harder so I think there are other losses but beyond those other losses or did you get a fatty acid deficiency because you have an an angelinaic acid beyond the losses I don't know of any risk so to me I look at and say life support you know basic maintenance RDA strong evidence for thriving tuition above to probably more benefit but you're starting to hit the awesome tote I don't know that it's going to come down right and anything that says that it's not going to be monotonic it's going to turn around but diminishing benefit and then starting to get into more costs of economic costs of buying fancy products of the costs of that your time and attention on it the costs of not eating something else you might like I know you and I have both sort of out of struggle with is the right word but wrangled with fruit we both like fruit and we both play with diets at times that where we've minimized the consumption of fruit for other goals and yet both perhaps come back to it a little bit and said I don't want to give it a fruit and those are examples I think where you there's some optimization but I see no harm and I think the more refined your goals are then the more it's reasonable to push it a little bit if I wanted to win the Olympics I'm more motivated to push it for me if I can lift one more pound of weight on the bench press who cares but if I'm trying to win the Olympics it matters so let's pivot from here into kind of the extension the the logical extension I think of where we're going which is not just as it pertains to protein but to a broader discussion around process foods so this is also a very very hot topic today and so I want to just talk about it broadly and then we can talk about protein as a subset of this because obviously a lot of process foods are optimized around protein and not just pleasure but I will say I have read quite a bit on this topic and I've read some pretty compelling arguments on all sides that that that if you just took process and ultra processed foods off the market people would be better you know you would you would force a change in the system that would would lead to healthier outcomes and of course I've read other very compelling arguments that say look if you actually correct for caloric intake there's nothing per se that is wrong with a processed food that leads to the first order second order potentially so let's let's maybe start with just some of the definitional stuff what separates a processed food from an ultra processed food I don't know that there's in in fact I know that there's not a single accepted definition the most commonly used classification systems called Nova it's very controversial for many reasons some social some scientific some linguistic or definitional it has to do with the degrees of steps and the types of steps and so on involved these are very popular topics because they give us a new demon we talked earlier about the importance of demons Kelly Brown now who as much as anybody has been one of the leading thinkers in the field of obesity research in the last half of the 20th century see a else tell no no he he moved to do years ago and I think he may be semi retired now but anyway really good thinker and I can remember being in a meeting with Kelly he and I were both speakers the meeting was convened by leaders in the food industry and we're inviting him this is just as he was ramping up the rhetoric of toxic environment toxic food environment the epidemiologic environment the public health environment argument this was when it was just it had just begun emerging the n-haines three and then the later in haynest data was suddenly this wake up call for the country so yeah we knew there was obesity and we knew was getting worse we didn't realize how rapidly it had started to get worse in the last couple of decades and now there was this hype this panic and Kelly spoke and he said we need you know social movement here he said we can't do it on our own I've been the behavioral psychologist type he himself struggles with obesity it's not education the guys brilliant he's you know enormously educated but he's still struggle that just has did many other people of a similar degree of education and expertise and he said we're treating this too much as an individual problem he said you know you've got companies like McDonald's who have a goal of nobody should ever be more than X minutes away from McDonald's if they're driving in the United States and he said that's a problem you know and that's a problem and I'm driving down the street and I'm being assaulted by all the signage and so on and he said we need to change this we need a social movement and he's looking at all these executives from the food industry and he says and history shows us over and over that social change happens when there's a villain says we need a villain and he says guess who it is you so that was the start of this villainization for a year was on I remember exactly but I would say it was mid-90's all right and it was Michael Mud who was from craft at the time convened that meeting I was good meeting and he's like I invited this guy my clad courage and anyway so that was that start of it and now ultra-process is just a great way to demonize stuff it's just another demon right so you know we're off a soybean oil maybe fight-o-estrogens you know we dealt with that for a while we dealt with sugar for a while those are still floating let's get folks a couple of examples of processed versus ultra-process so like dried fruit is processed sure virtually everything we just processed yeah every almost everything you just processed but then how do you draw though how do you then cross the chasm to ultra-processed yeah again I don't know that even if you say there's a single definition like Nova I can't recite for you the exact criteria but it's the it's the number of steps it's the degrees of steps it's the types of steps but the most things that come in a package are now viewed as ultra-processed that's right it's it's there are more there are more number of ingredients and number of greens number of steps but you're right dried fruit even fruit that's cut-up is processed wine is processed cheese is processed milk is homogenized sometimes it's pasteurized hopefully you know almost everything we just processed and for that matter I don't want you to have a lot of certain on processed foods is lots of evidence that you know unprocessed dairy products cause a lot of farm so processing is good now let's talk about the state of the evidence because again a good a good story goes a long way right IMean our ancestors and to be clear IMy view on this is that this story is much more nuanced than the one I'm about to lay out but but the one I'm about to lay out makes sense and I get it we didn't evolve eating ultra-processed foods level on processed foods and ultra-processed foods are engineered to be highly palatable and part of that engineering process also makes them calorie deaths because part of making things hyper palatable is putting in a lot of sugar and a lot of fat so it's not that the food companies who make these things are trying to make us fat they're not trying to hurt us they're IMean Marbro's not trying to hurt you with cigarettes they just want you to smoke him forever or so so it's an unfortunate consequence of the product right so so they really want to create something that tastes remarkable that you just want to keep buying over and over again and the problem is you're going to end up eating more of it in terms of calories because of the very nature of the product they're trying to sell you so clearly this is a problem right it's we can't have these foods around because we can't eat them in moderation we're going to overeat them and I don't think any but this is one thing we can agree on right is over consumption of calories always leads to bad things relative to what your needs are right so again that number is variable by by individual but for any given individual eating more than they require leads to physiologic harm so by that logic why are we having this discussion why don't we just get rid of ultra processed foods I've given me so much to work with one threat I just want to throw out quickly but we may or may not have time and interesting coming back to it is the idea that fewer calories are better at least two point two point is true but one of the things particularly with protein is you know when we look at some of these studies that people are citing I realize I'm sort of looping back to our prior conversation but these are from the mouse looking at longevity and it's interesting they're very dependent on ambient temperature so the studies of caloric restriction in general and protein restriction in particular which show benefit are much more present at 22 degrees Celsius which for mouse is a thermogenic challenge thermoregulatory challenge as opposed to thermonutral conditions roughly 27 to 30 degrees Celsius we don't live our own lives in the chronic cold so we'll leave that out there and say it depends on the conditions there's several threads you've allowed me to pick up here one has to do with the idea of categories all categories are social constructs we often hear that said about things like race and stroke races a social construct so is furniture so is vaccine so is medicine etc what you choose to use as a category and how you choose to define membership in that category is a judgment call and it's not intrinsically it's not written in stone what that should be they're useful or not useful for your purposes that's the first thing to point out so same this ultra process there's not a right there's not a correct definition of ultra process you can define it anywhere you want the words mean what they say we say they mean once you define it clearly then we can say what's its value what is it how can we use it what's its utility second thing I would say is as with any category if it permits a lot of variability in that category which ultra process certainly does it starts to get a little silly to talk about the overall category because you say so wait a minute you want me to consider a meal replacement shake and the same category is I consider a big goal in a 711 and the same category consider a chocolate bar and the same category I consider a TPN nutrition you know these are all arguably ultra process in very different things and I think we want to talk about the things the next thing I want to bring up is what are we trying to do with it and this is probably intellectually most important if you say to me David what I am looking for is a heuristic and this loops back to something I said we did dress later or earlier IMentioned I said we've come back to the distinction between how much protein do I think somebody ought to eat for a certain goal versus how would I tell them to eat it or what would I tell them about it? Those are two different things if you said David I just want something I can tell people so that when I tell the this it has a beneficial effect does telling them not to eat ultra process foods or to eat as few of them as possible defining ultra process in this way help the answer is might help a lot depends on how you you know might might a very little bit depending on how you said it we need more studies we need to figure out my guesses as with everything else it won't last long right so you could tell them not to drink sugar sweeten beverages you could tell them not to eat feduccine Alfredo because it's a heart attack on a plate all these things you know have a small effect for a while and usually not so much for a long term but might help we need to study that okay that says nothing however about the effects of a food per se she said no David my goal is to tell people about the foods they should eat if they actually ate them what the effects would be or my goals to determine the effects of foods then I would go back to a statement from a wonderful book called a fly in the women by someone named Joe Schwartz and Dr Schwartz whose a food scientist says something like there is a model repeat after me the effect of substances in the body depends on their molecular structure not their ancestry so if you give me this molecule or a concolexion of them do eat and you extracted that molecule from some berry and it's natural or you synthesize that molecule in a laboratory but in the end it's the same molecule we agree IMean you could try to synthesize it might have some slight difference but let's assume it's literally the same molecule and it's the same structure you know you give it to me and liquid form and liquid form or gas is forming or whatever it is if you say these are going to have different effects because of where they came from seems to me we're in homeyopathy now this makes no sense yeah and my favorite example of this is natural sugar versus processed sugar which is I don't know if the people who say this are ignorant of what fructose and glucose are or if it's deliberate sort of marketing shenanigans I think it's a mixture of deliberate marketing shenanigans but it's also the marketing of ideas not just food products by people with particular philosophical and other bends who are anywhere from you know it just makes themselves to push a philosophical thing to push an anti industry thing whatever it is but yes I agree with that or you know then and there's so many others natural vanilla versus synthetic vanilla if it's still vanilla and it's vanilla and there's a wonderful book by Alan Levinevitz called Natural in which he will blow away every common conception of what natural is and what its value is and he talks about the idea of you know lots of people want natural vanilla most of the vanilla flavoring we get in this country is not so called natural from the vanilla plant but if it was it would probably have a much worse environmental impact than the other sources so it's not always so simple in any case I think Schwartz is right it's not the ancestry so whether you give me the molecule and it was locally grown or not locally grown organic or not organic ultra processed or not ultra processed it's the molecules and their structure that matter conditional upon the molecules and the structure doesn't matter where it came from but in defense of the argument that ultra processed foods must be worse if you look at the ingredient list David the sheer number of molecules there would suggest we're playing Russian roulette here I don't recognize half the names of the things on the bag of Doritos like I don't know what they are making that up I haven't looked at a bag of Doritos in a while but but you know corn corn oil salt and spices well I don't know but maybe you could you could you could you could certainly find an ultra processed food of the grocery store in which you cannot comprehend 50% of what's in it that's right and you don't really know the dose either because the only thing that the FDA requires is that you list them in order of abundance but it could be that the first one represents 99% of it and the other 12 represent 1% of it and even amongst that there's an uneven distribution etc etc etc and it could be that these are just preservatives and color additives and they have no physical bear may be you just don't know so but but the point is when I eat an apple or even if I eat a processed apple in the sense that it's been pre-cut up or it's just a dried apple that's you know dried apple chips where I can look at the ingredient list and it says apples um I gotta be safer than if I'm eating come on 20 things of which I can't pronounce 13 of them if that's the logic of your thinking you have a great product I'd like to sell you it's gluten free it's uh cdoil free it's uh not all terprocessed it's free of any harmful thing it's chemical free has no chemicals in it I call it vacuum and I would like to sell you this vacuum and uh basically IMean nothing because we are chemicals as my friend for a Clydesdale who is the former head of the nutrition food science department that uh UMass Amherst used to say the whole purpose of eating is to get chemicals into the body to replace the chemicals the body loses through the process of living all food is chemicals we are chemicals when you eat that apple and you say I understand it that's apple unless you have a lot of chemical knowledge I don't have and most people don't have you don't understand that any better than you understand something else that says Benzoate phosphate or what have you and it you just think you do because you think you understand what an apple is at a chemical level you understand what is a fruit level maybe but not at a chemical level there is many chemical I should make there are many chemicals in an apple and an orange that you or I couldn't pronounce and that if someone wrote out what the chemicals are we would say what is that scary sounding thing and we also know that things that we think of as natural can be just as harmful right fox glove hemlock right soccer tease kill by being forced to drink all natural hemlock it was all natural very harmful so poisons drugs often come from natural things there's also a misperception that what we think of as natural is somehow has been around for thousands of years and in some cases it's true in many cases it's not so the oranges and the apples and the grains that you're eating today were largely not around years ago they've been bred even if it's not trensgenic they've been bred by ordinary breeding things the cows the chickens the pigs have been bred to be different they are not indigenous species all the chicken all the cow all the pig that we eat in this country the soybeans none of that's indigenous they're all invasive species right turkey that's indigenous to North America pecans and black walnuts but not the other walnuts that they love so much in the Mediterranean diet over there they're not American so I think this is all silliness the only thing that's artificial here is our our creation of these categories and we should just recognize that we create the categories let's make them meaningful and useful so back to ultra process foods if you said to me I'm just looking to give my patients or my friends or my mom or myself a hint a heuristic there are lots of heuristics that don't don't require that classification right but there are lots of heuristics that work even though there may be some illogic embedded in them or some incompleteness or some variability if you said to me for example don't talk to people on the street who look like this you know if I was your kid and you said looking walking down the street you're in a big city you know someone comes up ask you have a match just keep walking it's probably good heuristic right they probably don't really want a match but some might and you might miss some but it's not a bad way to stay safe okay similarly if I said to you you know what don't eat anything from the center aisles the grocery store or a little as you can get as much as you can from the periphery you know the dairy the produce the meats the fish and so on you might be better off you will wind up eating less ultra process foods you'll wind up eating less energy dense foods in many cases etc etc but that doesn't mean there's something intrinsic about the periphery of the aisles doesn't mean if I took twinkies and put them in the periphery and I took fat free Greek yogurt I put it in the middle that suddenly it becomes bad and twinkies become good it's a heuristic and it might work for you right to extend you can stick to it and to the extent it's correlated with these things it might work but it says nothing about the causal effect of being in the periphery or the central aisle and I think as long as we take ultra process foods at that level I say hey more power to you in the same sense as if you know we were talking to that person back with the proteins and how do you explain it to them maybe you don't say to grams per kilogram because that's too hard you have to use the metric system in Americans hate the metric system and you have to do math and so on and you have to count stuff but if you just said make sure you have two servings of lean fish and per week and one serving of lean this and you know eat some egg whites and so on maybe that works right and we all have our own foods and you know during World War II they tried to get Margaret Mead to the hard Margaret Mead federal government to try to get people eat more organ meats because you know they want to send up stake in all to the soldiers overseas didn't work right even Margaret Mead couldn't get people eat a lot of more organ meats I have an 11 organ meats and some of my go to protein sources are chicken desserts you know fantastic protein to calorie ratio and I love them a lot of people look at that girl you know no we need to figure out the way to get people to do this but it's the food that matters not this now if we go back to those idea of wanting to understand the food the effects of the food then I think calling an ultra-proud or working with ultra-prostes food is just silly I think it's it's a not a meaningful category and I think any attempts to say let's find the right definition I wouldn't even bother I don't even think it's worth even discussing I would say is let's talk about the substances in the food and say let what is the effect of eating dried apples or what is the effect of eating things with these with this composition well what is the effect of eating bottled wine or dried dates or grilled chicken gizzards and that's I think with the knowledge so I want to continue on this point a little bit more from from a public health perspective so I think we could sit here and convince ourselves I think quite easily and everybody else that at the individual level this the heuristic of don't eat ultra-prostes foods is simply not helpful right it's it's it's too coarse a tool to parse out to nuanced of a subject is the bottom line right I'll I'll go 10% or or you know some percent of the way with you on that I would say it's a very suboptimal tool they're probably better tools this certainly could be better tools I don't think it would be very effective and I don't think it would be effective for the long term but you're talking at the level of the individual or it's society because I want to distinguish these either one I think at the heuristic level what IMean by that again is nothing to do with causation or really understanding the foods if you said just it give me a rule right and it's different for you you're very sophisticated you know you have a lot of knowledge if you were to say to my dad when he was alive who's a smart man but probably intentionally kept himself not too smart about nutrition so he could faint ignorance and then make the choices he wanted you know for him something like that might work a little bit it would only work a little until he got sick of it and board with it and until good marketers were smart and said will market you things that skirted the definition of ultra-process so we could say not an ultra-process food but that's still had the same degree of fat sugar calories and whatever David Kessler said this nicely and well and some of his work and he he makes the distinction between I think he says ultra-processed and ultra-formulated and he says ultra-processed waste of time. Ultra-format, I'm sorry, waste of time as a terminology or as a category. The thing we should focus our touch on for helping people. He says ultra-formulated is better because then it talks about what's in the food. Process talks at the process I don't care how you got there yeah I want to care where you got to and so that's one way of making the thinking a little better. So do you think that there are public health solutions to the metabolic situation we're in as a country? If you define public health solution as things that exclude things we really consider clinical usually like pharmaceuticals and surgery and you say things where there's palpable and demonstrable success at present I would say no. It's painful to say that but I would say that after depending on your point of view, after roughly 50 years of looking at this no I just put a bulletin post about a one of the latest papers that came out of this group I think was an Australian group that just said you know we looked at all the parent trening type stuff with kids and obesity and you know a big metanalysis of study after study after study of year after year if there is nothing there. I guess I you could argue that the only area in which public health has changed the course of societal health in this country smoking cessation seems to be a success right there have been public health measures. I am I am now trying to talk about other areas there right so I'm saying so smoking cessation efforts at the policy level right so exercise taxes advertising laws rules for where you can smoke those have appeared to have a significant reduction in the number of yields yeah yeah great so we've got some wins in public health why do you think public health has been unsuccessful in this arena and it can't be for a lack of trying can't be for lack of trying at all it may be for lack of trying in a little more intelligent and unbiased manner. I think there's two really big reasons one is intrinsic to the problem one can never stop never start smoking for some people as difficult it is one can abandon it entirely one can't never start eating and one can't for practical purposes abandon it entirely so it's a different problem you've got a very strong intrinsic push there IMean it's so linked to our survival it's hard it's a hard goal to manipulate I think it's intrinsically just very very difficult we like our freedom we like our variety I want to give up my freedom and variety if somebody were to say if we eliminated all of these choices or we were only you only got to shop on Monday or you're only out the buy x calories it's like rationing in a war because some people horrible bees even though IMyself have struggled with my weight I would say I don't want to live in that world I don't want to give up my freedom of choice even if it means I and some other people are going to struggle with our weight so I think there's some real intrinsic difficulties everything we do in the public health realm almost seems like either we can't get it to stick or we didn't think through enough that it really if it's stuck it would work or it's like whack a mole that as you get me to eat consume fewer calories here or expend more energy there and then I expend less here or consume more there so I think that's the intrinsic problem and then I think the the other problem is that we started off with the obvious stuff right we we looked for the keys under the lamp post because that's where the light was best we said our school based approaches farmers markets walking trails calories on the menu so on good ideas all good ideas nudge we try them none of them really seem to work meaningfully right and I think what we've then had at the beginning that was fine what I think we have is a failure of courage honesty and creativity to say we've shown that none of those things have large demonstrable meaning for effects we've not shown that none of them could ever have any effect under any circumstance but I think for practical purposes we've shown that those things don't have large demonstrable meaning for effects and I think it's time to start pretending that they might and proposing and funding the next study that's only a trivial variant on the many many such studies that went before and were shown to not be successful I think we need to start taking radically different views and say the next time someone comes and says I've got this parent based or school based or community based idea say tell us how it's radically different then what's gone before not changing all different do you have any radical ideas that if you ignore the challenges or issues around implementation you would you would want to implement yeah I think you asked me this once before and I'm gonna change my answer slightly but not that much I think before I said two things if you really want to decrease suffering now make some for some subset of the population for which we could afford it make bariatric surgery freely available and then from investing in research investing research on the effects of general quality of upbringing and general education especially but not only for women and girls I'm gonna stick with the second one say we still need that we need to look at what are the effects of general education not nutrition education general education general parent trening general security financial and other kinds of security growing up on obesity levels that would be my research public health piece and what's the hypothesis there but hypothesis that general education security so that you're not constantly worried about can I pay the bills will I be able to get food at all general good parenting which delivers whatever psychological benefit it delivers there's I would say at minimum circumstance 11 that all those things lead to reductions in obesity and diabetes decades later the two best studies I know of this or it's called the moving to opportunity study funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the uh a back-adherian study done by the ramian ramies Craig and Sharon ramie but of those three things is an education financial well-being higher today than it was 50 years ago I kept the other the third one parental support is probably less today there are probably more broken families today but two of those three are better today than 50 years ago aren't they? I don't know that I would say I'm not sure I don't want to say they're better but I think this tremendous disparity so the thEQuality of the education and security and so on that some people get very different than others and I think Confucius famously said we are not concerned about poverty we are concerned about differentials of wealth so it's possible that the public health solution to obesity is becoming a Marxist I'm not sure we all want to volunteer but uh I think some of these things are worth looking at we do see that there seem to be these long-term benefits in studies I said IMentioned when I think of the two best but they're not the only ones where they weren't meant to be primarily nutrition obesity studies but how does that explain what you see in the Middle East for example where you have countries that are remarkably wealthy there there is no poverty right? You know obviously there is disparity and wealth between the very affluent which is effectively everybody and then the ultra affluent families aren't broken everybody is educated and yet there'll be city and diabetes rates are greater than even in the US. Yeah I think there's at least two ways to look at that one way is the idea of interaction and how many of the golf nations I've seen that right? That the same causal effects may not be in one place or the same exposure may not have the same effects in one place or another for example we consistently see that in less developed countries poorer countries less industrialized countries greater wealth is associated with greater obesity we consistently see in more industrialized wealthy countries greater wealth and education especially among adult women tends to be associated with lesser obesity so there you have the interaction the other is you know as you and I had said earlier you know the strength of the evidence one of the things people frequent like says when you say well we think temperature is this effect they say but what about those people in Iceland they don't have well alcohol is this yes but those people over there they drink a lot and they don't have they're different it's the different in many ways we don't know that you know any one factor has to explain why Qatar has this you know versus Somalwa or something but I think it's good hypothesis so that that's what I would look at at the public health level in what we think that's traditional public health now with the GOP one agonist related drugs and some other drugs being as profoundly beneficial as they appear to be I think we're going to get to the point where it's going to be hard I think we're already asking thEQuestion and I think it's going to be hard not to take thEQuestion seriously of should it almost be the default that is just like we've asked thEQuestion and people give different answers but we asked thEQuestion should it be that the default is you get this vaccine when you're a kid that you get your T floor dated at the dentist that you know it's not maybe some people should get that are we going to be at the I think we are at the point where we're saying as these drugs continue to be tested and experienced if we continue to see the effects we're getting or we're getting to the point where we start should start to say you know what that idea of the poly pill that came up decades ago or you know young adults even if you don't have diabetes obesity hypertension etc you'd get a low dose diuretic a low dose metform and you know etc low dose statin or at the point where we probably still should do that and then say and everybody get a low dose GLP1 agonist related drug and we'll roll it out and we'll pay for it and anybody in the country who wants it can get it or almost anybody I think that may be the future David thank you for for making the trip down as always it's pleasure truly my pleasure Peter let's keep doing that thank you

=== FILE: 369 ‒ Rethinking protein needs for muscle and longevity, and the benefits of creatine & sauna use [VhbpSc6pKRQ].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Ronda, so great to see you and I didn't realize until a few minutes ago that the last time we spoke it was virtual. Yeah, good to see you. We go back a long way. You're still in the same art, same former neighborhood in San Diego. I know, and I'm thinking that, you know, you found the same feeling here in Austin. Yeah, we did. All right. Well, there's a lot. We want to chat about today. And I'm a little hesitant to say this, but I do feel like reluctantly. We need to have one more discussion about a particular macro nutrient that seems to get a lot of attention lately. And I don't necessarily want to talk about this because I think it's especially interesting. Or even to which there's some new study that we need to shed light on. But it does seem to remain somewhat surrounded in some controversy, which I will refrain from publicly speculating on why said controversy exists, although privately. I'm very happy to speculate on all the reasons for it. So with that said, let's talk about protein. Let's do it. I do think it's an important topic. You know, you and I have probably talked to all the world's experts on protein. And, you know, we were chatting a moment ago about this recommended daily allowance for protein. So called RDA. And really what it should be called is the minimal daily allowance. And all, I would say, it recommended all those sounds like optimal and away. Like I think people confuse that with the optimal amount of protein, right? So it's kind of tricky. And I think that's an important place to start because of that reason where this amount, which is 0.8 grams per kilogram, body weight per day, is the RDA for protein, right? And I know that you've probably had countless experts on talking about this. I've had experts on talking about this. Two Phillips being one. There's so many different publications that IMean, people can start off by reading one of them here by a two Phillips perspective. Protein requirements and optimal intakes in aging are we ready to recommend more than the recommended daily allowance. And there's several of these out there. Okay, then this is just one. And essentially, if you, if you have the time and the willingness to go into the scientific literature and actually read something for yourself or listen to the drive, or listen to my podcast and the actual experts talking about it, what you will hear or what you will learn is that a lot of the studies that were done to determine this RDA or flawed. They were called nitrogen balance studies. And for many reasons, they're flawed. I can't, I don't want to get into all the technical reasons, but for one, what they are doing is measuring the amount of nitrogen that is excreted in urine after you are metabolizing protein. Right? And some of the flaws that are, I would say the most important here are that different types of foods that have protein in them have different nitrogen to protein ratios. They're collecting urine in which, you know, the case is that it's incomplete collection. IMean, like when you pee in one of those cups, like you don't get all the urine, it's incomplete collection. And so essentially what's happened and we lose nitrogen through other means that is not true. Yes, exactly. We lose the nitrogen through other means. And so essentially the signal to noise ratio is pretty low. And ultimately what, like countless experts have now agreed upon is that the protein for the RDA has been underestimated because of those reasons. And there have been new studies that have been done. These have been like more stable isotope studies that major isotope that's used is the L13 carbon labeling phenolal alanine in which case these studies take a small cohort of people, give them a known amount of protein with that isotope tracer. And then that tracer is oxidized when it's metabolized. And that's measured through breath, the oxidation of phenol alanine. Right? And so now you're getting a quantification that's much more accurate in terms of your protein, you know, steady state and turnover. Right? And so the whole point here is that you're trying to figure out the minimal amount of protein you need to take in every day to make sure that you're not in the negative protein balance. Why is that important? Well, that's important because we don't store amino acids. Right? We don't store amino acids like we store fatty acids. That's triglycerides or we store glucose as glycogen. Right? The major source of our amino acid storage tank, so to speak, is our muscle, skeletal muscle tissue. And you don't want to be pulling from that skeletal muscle tissue to get amino acids every day. Why do we need amino acids every day? Because everything in our body requires proteins. Proteins are doing all the work in our body and proteins are made up of amino acids. And so we have to be giving ourselves an intake daily intake of amino acids to make sure we're able to do all those functions. Right? I want to state that again because I do think there's a very important and fundamental point here that is glossed over when we talk about it because we take it for granted like if we studied biochemistry and anybody who's, you know, studied biochemistry will know this, but we can store fat in unlimited quantities. Right? So if you deprive a person of fat calories for a period of time, they have a long reservoir that they can dig into. Not indefinitely, but they can. We can store carbohydrates now. We can't store them quite as much because, you know, we only have so much glycogen. We can store in the muscle and in the liver, but when we break down fat, we keep making the substrate to actually make glucose so we get into a nice little rhythm. But to your point, the only place that an amino acid sits in residence in our body is in the muscle. Therefore, if we even get near the edge where we are not getting sufficient intake of amino acids, we don't have a buffer. We don't have a rainy day fund that we can dip into. We immediately start to cannibalize or break down muscle. Now, I don't think we have to make the case that that's a bad idea, but for the sake of completeness, we should state there is not really a single scenario I can think of that is clinically relevant where it would be desirable to give up muscle mass. You know, maybe if you're Mr. Olympia, you can sacrifice muscle mass, but for you and me, and I think everybody listening to us, giving up muscle mass because we are falling short on our protein intake would be a strategic error and an unforester. Exactly. IMean, for short term and long-term health. So, I think that's pretty clear. And that's where, you know, it comes, this RDA not being enough is a very important point because if we look at the actual, so let me go back to this isotracer, isotope tracer studies, those multiple studies, okay, multiple studies, as you know, have shown that the minimum. I will link to these in the show notes, by the way, just so that people can go and actually look at the papers as opposed to reading about it on social media. Sounds good. Multiple of these papers have shown that, you know, really going up to more like 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day is what is needed to prevent people, us, adults from being in this negative protein balance. That's quite a bit more than the 0.8 grams per kilo. 50 percent more. So, like most of the studies done isotope tracer studies are between 30 to 50 percent more. So, that's really important because if we look at the actual protein intakes of adults, you know, these are nutritional surveys that are done. Of course, they're all flawed. We can talk about it. IMean, we all know the flaws of question areas, but let's just talk about what we think people are actually taking in. Adults are mostly taking in all adults are taking in about 0.9 grams per kilogram body weight per day of protein. So, pretty close to what that RDA is. Not what it should be, right? Older adults, if we look at the gender, male versus female, males are taking in about 0.9 grams per kilo on body weight, females are taking in pointy. So, they're really just hitting that what we call RDA, which now we have established is not enough. The RDA is not enough to not to basically be in a net protein balance. So, that's really important. And that's essentially telling us that most adults are walking around without being in a good, you know, in steady state protein balance, right? So, there's a- So, here's an interesting question round up. So, we know the rates at which muscle mass, skeletal mass, are declining by decade in an aging population. Is there any way we can estimate, I'm guessing the answer is no, but on the off chance you would know, through any way we can estimate what percent of that decay is simply being driven by insufficient amino acid consumption versus other factors, right? Other factors would be anabolic resistance associated with aging. Other factors would be anabolic resistance associated with sedentary behavior. Other factors would be lack of sufficient resistance trening. Like there are many factors that explain clearly the fact that as a person goes from 50 to 60 to 70 on average they're losing muscle mass. But it would be interesting to consider how much of that is explained by the fact that they are also barely scurting the minimum amount of nitrogen that they need. And in many cases falling below it. Right. So, to answer your question, I don't know that there's a direct way to do that, but I do know that there are studies that have shown that when older adults so older adults that are really more susceptible to the things that you were saying, like anabolic resistance where people are basically where your muscle tissue is not as sensitive to amino acids because mostly because of physical inactivity which increases with age. But when older adults take in 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day of protein it nearly eliminates some of the age related muscle loss that happens. So, I think that is some evidence to sort of support what you were saying in that if you just increase your protein intake to 50 percent. Yeah, 50 percent to this minimum what the RDA should be 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day. I think that's pretty much what most all the experts agree is that like it's time to change that RDA to that number. Right. The minimal amount that you need per day. If we just if elder adults just do that they're actually preventing a lot of the age related loss in muscle that occurs. And we also know that older women if they take in that amount of 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day they're 30 percent less likely to have frailty in old age which is also very important. Right. So I think that's pretty good evidence that it's clear that just increasing your protein intake by 50 percent is really important for aging for our muscle, for our muscle health and also is getting us out of that net negative state that we're in. So IMean I know so step one is we should move the floor from 0.8 to 1.2. Yes. I think the floor being the minimal amount of protein that we need to take in per day. This is not optimal. We're going to get into optimal. This is just like the new RDA. Right. And and as you mentioned so you kind of hit on this antibiotic resistance and I think that's also really really important point because it does compound with the fact that we're already not getting enough protein to to to to to be in a positive state of protein balance. And then you compound that with antibiotic resistance. Right. Now antibiotic resistance is where your muscle to tissue becomes less sensitive to amino acids and so you're not making as much muscle protein synthesis as an occurring as much as it does when you're younger. I think it's pretty consensus now that a lot of antibiotic resistance is not necessarily aging the aging process per say. So much as connectivity. In that tip. Yeah. And the experiment that Luke von Lund shared when he was on the podcast. I think was a very elegant way to do this, which is they took young subjects. I don't remember if they were in their 20s but it was thereabouts. Maybe in their 30s. So Luke very young subjects and they put a cast on one leg, no cast on the other and they left them in this state for a period of time. Again, the details have now completely escaped me. But the point is has not escaped me, which is after whatever period of time the individuals were casted on one leg, not casted on the other. Let's just say it was two weeks, four weeks, something to that effect. They removed the cast. Of course, while the person was casted, the casted leg did nothing. The other leg continued to go through exercises. They were doing just single leg extensions, leg curls, things like that. They then ran the stable isotope experiment in these individuals and looked at muscle protein synthesis rates and low and behold, the individual, the leg that was uncasted perfectly normal, the other one significant antibiotic resistance. So to me, that's the clearest demonstration that in activity is the main culprit. There's probably an all things equal age-related component as well. But I suspect that in activity is playing a larger role than aging per se. Totally agreed. I think there was another study that was done in older adults. So first of all, if we look at maybe we should talk about... Can we explain about the substance? I think it's worth people understanding why this idea matters. Yeah, antibiotic resistance. So when we eat protein, we're breaking down amino acids. And the primary amino acid that is anabolic is elucine. So these amino acids like elucine are getting into the muscle tissue and that is instigating it's a signal to increase muscle protein synthesis. So you're making more protein in your muscle and that in turn increases muscle hypertrophy. The other major signal to do that is mechanical force. So that would be the resistance trening, the working of the muscles. So as we get older, our muscles do become less sensitive to those amino acids. Like the elucine trensporter being one of the major ways, but I think there's others as well. And so what happens is that for the same amount protein dose and the study has been done. And if you compare younger adults and older adults, 65 years age and older, you give them the same exact protein dose. The older adults are have, like so I guess let me say it the other way. The younger adults have twice as much muscle protein synthesis. And for the older adults to get the same amount of muscle protein synthesis, they're a double their amount of protein to get the same amount of muscle protein synthesis as the younger adults. That's a lot that it double that amount of protein. So that's because again, it's just your muscle tissue is not sensitive to the amino acids and sort of get more of them in. You have to increase your intake of the protein. Now to your point about physical activity being the major driver here, it's I think that's 100% I agree. I think it's totally true and there's so much evidence out there to prove that Luke Van Loone's study being one. But also older adults that do engage in resistance trening have the same anabolic response to the same amount of protein as younger adults. So in other words, the activity makes up for it. It does. You don't have to as your aging as you if you're a 65, 70 year old male listening to this episode and your engaging resistance trening, you're likely not experiencing much anabolic resistance, maybe a little, but not much. And so you don't necessarily have to experience it if you are physically active and trening. And that's really the bottom line here. That's the most important thing. If there's a public health message in this episode, it really is you should be trening. Yeah, and think about the impact that physical trening has on insulin resistance as well. Completely different mechanism of action. Probably ties in more to fatty acid accumulation within muscles and all sorts of other things that lead to it. But again, the most effective remedy is physical activity. And again, this is, yeah, IMean, it's just, it's been demonstrated so conclusively that actually nobody really talks about it. It's just taken for granted. Yeah, it's a good point. But, you know, so, so the anabolic resistance, if we're talking about like general population and again, we're going back to these surveys that are done, looking at how physically active our people, because those numbers are out there, right? We know that generally speaking adults, including young and old adults, about 32% of them engage in resistance trening. How much? 32. And both young and old. If you just look at older adults, it's 22% of the population. So, essentially, most older adults, most people are not engaging in resistance trening. They're not, they're not doing resistance trening, right? And physical activity kind of mirrors a little bit those numbers. But I think the bottom line here is that most people putting in the effort, it's harder for people. Putting in the effort is harder. It's easier for them to just increase putting something in their mouth. That's why pills are so popular, right? IMean, people always kind of gravitate towards the easier thing to do, which is like, I'm going to eat something. I'm going to put something in my mouth. First is like putting in the effort. It's unfortunate, but it's like, it's a reality. And so I think that even just going back to this RDA being too low, it's just so important. It's so important because people are out there thinking they're getting enough protein, older adults younger adults. It's really more important with older adults. You have a little bit of wiggle room when you're younger, right? But IMean, and then on top of that, first of all, it's not enough protein. And then this antibiotic resistance is setting in. And most people are not being active. They're not engaging a resistance trening. So there's all these compounding factors that's really just digging into their muscle. It's taking away this like insidious sort of taking away each year, each year. And then the next thing you know, your frail, you have circopenia, you know. Yeah, my patients are obviously indoctrinated into this, but I'm a bit surprised that there aren't more people that talk about this. You do a lot. But the medical system doesn't seem to talk enough about frailty and sarcopenia. And I worry that even when I wrote out live, I didn't do enough of a job emphasizing it. IMean, I certainly talked about it. But when I talked abouT4 horsemen, I talked about cardiovascular and cerebral vascular disease, cancer, neurodegenerative and demanding diseases and metabolic disease. Because of course, those are the things that are the main assault on your lifespan. And relative to those frailty is not as big as as big and assault on lifespan. It is, as you know, the risk of falls are enormous and the mortality is very high once you're north of 75. But relative to those four, it's, you know, I had to pick four horsemen. I didn't want to go with five. But when you think about quality of life, which most people care about at least as much, if not slightly more than length of life, I think frailty just kind of wins the day. I think along with cognitive health and minimizing too much cognitive decline, frailty is the thing that seems to determine thEQuality of your final decade on this earth. And here we have lots of great tools, both in terms of trening and nutrition that can offset that. And yet it is surprising that despite the fact that most people have witnessed it, that's the part that's amazing to me. It's not like the people who are suffering from frailty and sarcopeney are out of sight because there are parents and our grandparents. We've watched it. We've been to the movie over and over and over again. We see how it goes. And yet somehow we either don't think it's going to happen to us or it somehow still seems abstract because it's so many years off. IMean, what would your take on this overall challenge? IMean, well, for one, I think that I completely agree with the frailty risk being as important if not more. And witnessing it with like family members, you know, what I think it is is that it's like this incremental thing, right? Where something happens to like maybe there's a fall or maybe there's just a surgery, a plant surgery, a hipproplacement or a knee replacement. And your parents or your grandparents are inactive for many weeks and they lose a lot of muscle mass, right? So this happens when you're, yeah, if this this is a younger person, it's much easier to gain back that muscle mass, right? It's not the same with an older adult. It's just not the same. Even if you're engaging in resistance trening after it's you're not going to get the same amount of muscle mass back as you've lost. And these sorts of events kind of happen like in periods of time, right? Where like there's a plan surgery, and there's a fall, maybe there's another surgery, or maybe there's the co-vader of the flu, whatever it is, they keep hitting, right? And you reach this sort of what's called disability threshold, where all of a sudden your parents like they just can't walk much at all anymore. And it's like all of a sudden it's like when did this happen? Well, the evidence was like mounting over the last five years when they had these points of inactivity that that were occurring. And so I think people kind of just don't follow the timeline, you know, where it's like they see what's leading up to it, and before this sort of catabolic crisis occurs, where then they reach this point now where they've just lost so much muscle mass from these several events that have occurred, where they're just not mobile. And then of course, anabolic resistance is kicking in even more and more and more and everything is just compounding. And I don't think they've like observed the timeline and said, oh, a plus b plus c's getting me to this point, right? And so I think that's kind of what happens, whereas with Alzheimer's disease, I don't know, it's just like this disease that everyone knows about, and it's like, yeah, this one thing causes the problem. Do you know what IMean? Yeah, I think, and again, you know, Luke Van Loone made a really good point when we spoke, which was when we draw the curve for how people lose strength and how people lose muscle mass, we draw it in a curved smooth line, which gives us the incorrect impression that this is a gradual and imperceptible changing physiologic process. But he goes, that's because it's averaging everything. If you zoom in and look at it at the individual level, it looks like this exactly as you described, discrete periods of loss from which there is no recovery because at the later points in life, it becomes very difficult to make those recoveries. All of this, of course, points back to where we're going today, which is when you are young and young is 40, 50, even 60, you have to build up as much physiologic headroom as possible. You have to prepare for the rainy day, because the rainy day is coming. It's not a question of if it's simply a question of when and exactly in what fashion it will be delivered, but you must prepare for this. You must steal yourself for what is coming and you must build up as much muscle mass and strength and cardiovascular fitness as you can muster because the longer you can ride it out, the better you're going to be. The cliff is coming for sure. IMean, it's like your retirement fun, right? You have to, you have to put money in. There's one day you will retire and if you don't put any money in that fund, you're going to be screwed. And so with the muscle mass, you're right. You have to bank as much as you can while you're young and we haven't even talked about optimal. We've just talked about like, like, not going backwards, right? Yeah. We've talked about not going backwards, which is what most people are doing, right? Because this RDA is too low for one. I think that's the big, the big problem. But, but optimal is the whole other story, right? And that's again where it is hard to, it's hard to kind of wrap your head around why there's controversy around this, although coming from the field of aging, I do have somewhat of a, I think there's been a little bit of a nuanced, you know, there's a nuanced approach to looking at how protein affects the way we age and I think some of that data has biased researchers and, you know, people to think that protein is bad. I think some of it's coming from that evidence, which we didn't have about. Yeah. Yep. But, but again, aside from that, it's really hard to understand why someone would be so opposed to increasing protein intake when there's really just no evidence that it's harmful, is at least in healthy adults. Yeah. IMean, I'd like to talk about harm down the line as we get further up the chain, because we've now just, I like the way we're talking about this, where we're going from sort of the point eight up to one point two. And now let's talk about going from one point two to one point six and one point six to two. But as you continue this journey, and you let's say you look at the data of which there are some studies looking aT3 grams per kilogram per per day. Which I think anybody who looks at the data would argue, you're not really getting a benefit aT3 grams per day that you aren't getting it two grams per day. You're not like the curve is saturating, you know, you're hitting an asymptote of muscle protein synthesis at that point. So there may be other reasons a person would choose to consume that much protein, satiety, and things of that nature. But from a purely anabolic reason, under normal conditions. So let's leave bodybuilding out of it. You're sort of hit the saturation curve, but can't seem to find the evidence that it's causing any harm. Right. So this is experimental evidence, even epidemiologic evidence, just no evidence. So with that said, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Let's go back to we've established a new floor. Really, there is nobody that should be consuming less than 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram per day. What happens is we start to increase that from 1.2 to 1.6. Great question. And this is again, is where I turned to the experts like Stu Phillips. In fact, he did a really great meta analysis looking at about 49 different studies in adults that were undergoing these are controlled trials resistance trening alone or resistance trening plus supplemental protein. And the supplemental protein went up to 1.6. We actually went above that. But what was really found in that study was that even going from like 1.2 grams per kilogram bodyweight per day, obviously, to 1.6 grams per kilogram bodyweight, people gained about 27 percent more lean body mass and 10 percent more muscle strength compared to just trening alone. Same trening, just adding the protein. Right. That's pretty big. I was going to say that is bigger than I would expect, especially on the strength side. It's in the strength side. They're they're getting so the protein itself. But if you think about it in a way, we're talking about supply and demand. Right. So now we're talking about more optimal, a little more optimal. We're talking about people that are trening. That's number one. You need to be trening. If we're talking about optimal protein intake, you need to be trening. And then, you know, what's happening when you're trening is you're breaking down muscle. You need protein to support the repair of that muscle and the rebuilding of it. And so that makes sense in a way. Yeah. But yeah, I was surprised by the strength as well. And so really, once you went above 1.6 grams, there were still increases in muscle protein curve. It's slowing down. I like the analogy that's due. Philips uses. He says, like if you have like a wet wash cloth and you squeeze all your squeeze it to get all the water out, you know, like most of that water is coming out at 1.6 grams, particularly on body weight. But you can keep squeezing a little and you're getting, you're still getting some water out. It's just sort of marginal. And it's like most people don't care about that difference. Some people do. Now, let's say you're someone that's obsessed with banking muscle mass. You're going to care about that. Let's say you're a high level athlete definitely going to have to go above 1.6. That's when you get into the more two 2.2 grams, particularly on body weight. So people that are doing a high level of trening, whether that's endurance or strength trening resistance trening, right? Because endurance athletes, IMean, they're there. You were battling Catabolic. So that would be, I think the evidence for more optimal, you're talking about 1.6 grams per kilogram body weight. And then you can, you can get marginal benefits above that, right? Up to like 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight. But again, that's again, people that are really trening. Yeah, to me, there's an analogy here with apobian cardiovascular disease, right? So if you look at the, the three bodies of evidence. So if you look at all of the epidemiologic data, if you look at all of the clinical trial data, and if you look at all of the Mendelian randomization data, and you plot every single one of them on a graph. And there's a beautiful graph, which will include in the show notes that does this. So on the x-axis, you, and it's done in LDLC. But again, LDLC apobie is easy to sort of view them together. So you have, on the x-axis, you have LDLC going down, right? So from 160, 140, 120, you know, 180, 60. So descending, LDLC, and on the y-axis, you have mortality. Cardiovascular mortality. So not surprisingly, all of these point down as LDLC goes lower, cardiovascular mortality goes lower. What's interesting, though, is you can see that there are different points in the curve at which it starts to matter more. And at some point, it flattens out. You don't get as much benefit from reduction. And so we could use the same argument of, well, what is optimal? What is, so, so it because we're doing the reverse here. Here, lower is better as opposed to going up on protein. But peer-lipy has done an analysis that has demonstrated that you will continue to see a meaningful reduction in cardiovascular disease as apobie heads towards 30 milligrams per deciliter. 30 milligrams per deciliter is really low by most people's standards. For context, 60 milligrams per deciliter is about the fifth percentile to population level. 30 milligrams per deciliter is about what a child is. So, you know, we're born with relatively low levels of apobie. And as we age, they just keep going up and up and up. Which, of course, is one of the things that's driving cardiovascular disease is this rise in apobie. So thEQuestion then becomes, how low do you need to go? Should everybody be walking around at 30 milligrams per deciliter? Is that the solution to eliminating ASCVD? And the answer is is probably not. Right? It probably depends on your previous exposure, though. Right? So, if I have a patient who's already had two stance placed and has a significant burden of disease, you bet your bottom line there at 30 milligrams per deciliter of apobie, even if we have to puT3 drugs on them to make sure that's the case, because they're burden of disease and their lifetime exposure to apobie has been so high. But if I have an individual who's 40 years old who has perfectly pristine coronary arteries and is walking around with an apobie of 60 milligrams per deciliter, I don't think you need to do a thing. I think they're just fine. And again, it's, it's the inability I think for people to understand that level of nuance and understanding when it's worth the second squeeze versus when just the sloppy squeeze is good enough is is is is is is is is very frustrating for a person like me who craves nuance. Right. Agreed. I love that analogy. And I think it's perfect because again, I do think most people that are trening probably are getting a great amount of benefit from 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight. But that doesn't mean you can't go above that and still get a little more benefit. Right. And certainly when you start to get into that energy deficit phase as well, like so we were talking about elite endurance athletes, that's one way to be in an energy deficit. But there's also people that are actively trying to lose fat, gain muscle. If you want to lose fat and gain muscle at the same time, you're going to have to take in a lot of protein. Yeah. And so that's another very important point. Another point I want to make is you're still dealing with an asymmetric target. And so we tell our patients to be closer to two. Now I know that's just going to get a whole bunch of people on the anti-protein tren just losing their mind. I can just see the phosphorylation going off right now as they're watching this clip. How is this guy so irresponsible to tell his patients to eat two grams of protein per kilogram of body weight? Didn't he just hear what Rhonda said 1.6 is good enough for most people? Well, my patients unfortunately don't live in labs. Unfortunately Rhonda, my patients live in this place. It's called the real world. And in the real world, you can't always hit your targets. Some days you do, some days you don't. Some days you're traveling, some days you're not. Some days you can figure it out. Some days you can't. So if I'm telling somebody to hit 1.6 and one day they're at 1.2, another day they're at 1.7, another day they're at 1.5, another day they're at 1.9, on average they might hit 1.6. But how many days were they below versus how many days were they above? Let's just say it's an equal split. But we've just established the shape of this curve is like this. So that means every day you're below the downside is much greater than the upside of being above. In other words, all the days you're above are not making up for all the days you're below. So what I'd really like to do is shift the range so that your low day is 1.6 and your high day is maybe 2.2 and then guess what? You don't have days where you are ever, ever amino acid restricted. And this is the difference between people who take care of people in the real world and bozos who write on substack who don't know the first thing about clinical medicine when it comes to managing athletes and people who have to defend for themselves every day with every meal. And this is why I'm so tired of talking about this, but I feel we need to talk about it. And so if you're sitting there listening to this and you're confused and you're asking, oh my god, should I be eating 2 grams per day? Yeah, more or less. And that way if you fall short at 1.6, you can be confident that you're okay. But if you're aiming at 1.6 and you have a bad day and you will, when you hit 1.2, you might be taking a step backwards and you won't make up for it the next day. I can just tell you from personal experience, it's actually smarter to aim higher because I'm constantly not meeting the one thing. I am not. This is the thing. People look at me like I'm a protein eating machine, which first of all, I'm not, but secondly, I have a hard time hitting my goals too. I'm busy, IMiss meals. Sometimes we just have a low protein meal like for whatever reason my kids want to have pasta for dinner and they don't, and we literally have pasta and sauce. It's like there's no freaking protein in this anyway. So it's very difficult if you don't have a chef preparing your every meal and I never have a chef preparing any of my meals unless I'm out at a restaurant to hit these targets every day. Right. And also, I was thinking about this because we mentioned the 1.2 being this sort of the minimum buy-in. The 1.6 grams per kilogram buy isn't necessarily just for people trening a little bit. It's also older adults that are not trened. Like because we talked about the animal like resistance, some needing twice as much protein as well. And so what you're talking about here is going up to 2 so that you can really have an average at least of 1.6. Right. You're getting that average. But again, it's just I never want to fall below that. That's really the point is I know because again, I'm trening every single day. Right. Now, am I trening like a madman? No. But seven days a week, I'm either doing some form of cardio or something in the gym. So it's just I know that I'm going to take steps backwards if I'm below 1.6. So I'm going to over shoot so that my down day is 1.6. Right. And if my up day is 2.5 once in a while, who cares? Because that gets to the next point. Show me the data. Show me the data that eating 2.5 grams of protein per kilogram per day is even remotely harmful. Still waiting for it. I'm still waiting for the data. David Allison wrote a piece on LinkedIn recently where it was basically a call to anyone. Just show me the data that meet these criteria. Human clinical trial of this duration, that are the like nothing but crickets. Yeah. IMean, I haven't seen any human data either for sure. IMean, the most negative data I saw recently was a study that looked at total parental nutrition in ICU patients where thEQuestion was, hey, should we be ramming high amounts of protein in these people? And the most negative thing you could say is it had no benefit. And that's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe we shouldn't be ramming high protein total parental nutrition into the central veins of critically ill ICU patients. But it didn't harm them. Right. And if anybody's going to be harmed, I would think it's the people that are in renal failure. Right. Yeah. Exactly. I haven't seen it either. We haven't spoken specifically about pregnancy or adolescence. What do we know about protein requirements? Because there are clearly women listening to us right now who are pregnant or who will be pregnant. And I don't think there are any adolescents listening to us, but I bet there are parents of adolescents. So what kind of guidance would we want to give you? IMean, it goes up with pregnancy and also adolescents. IMean, so they're formal recommendations. I don't pay an attention. Don't remember the exact, again, it's all about like going a little bit above what's the RDA. And we've already established that's not enough. Right. So IMean, honestly, I think of people listening to this episode just knowing that 0.8 grams per kilogram body weight per day is just not enough at all. So if we are complex, nothing else that's the single most important take on message here. I really think it is because everyone looks at those guidelines, you know? Yeah. It's really funny. The other day I was eating something and I forget how much protein it had in it, but it had like a percent of daily requirement, but it was obviously baked to a very low number. Because I remember my son was looking at it with me and he goes, is that really like, I forgot the number was it that really like 40 percent of your daily protein requirement? It was ever relatively, and I said, no. But I just didn't have the energy to explain the RDA to him. So I was like, no, this is just wrong. You can ignore this. Growing is also an important time for protein, right? Because these amino acids and the essential amino acids are activating IGF1 growth hormone and that's really important for growth. I know there were studies done in like infants and toddlers that were given egg versus like milk versus like some kind of vegan protein and it was like clear that the egg was the winner here. Like giving protein with a more essential amino acids was important for growing taller. And that's always something that I, as a mom, think about, right? I'm always trying to get protein and Mason plus the kids are more active. In a kids are more physically active. They're doing sports and things like that, right, adolescents. So it's really, it's really important to get the protein requirements. I don't I haven't dug into all the nuanced of that data. It's just kind of my the way I look at it is, it's got to be like a 1.2, even though that's in a get doll. It's more like a 1.2 gram per kilogram for an adolescent who's pretty close and body size to an adult generally speaking. They start growing pretty tall. Yeah, IMean, I would think for kids it should be at least the 1.2 to 1.6. Anything, IMean, again, I just look at the activity level of my kids is they make me look sedentary. Right. So, um, okay, anything else we want to say on the topic of protein to help with some of the confusion that is out there. I think we should talk a little bit about some of the misconstrued understanding of mechanisms of action around mTOR, cancer, and stuff like that. I would say the other thing would be the calorie restriction people doing intermittent fasting, people doing anything if they wanted to be body recomposition the gaining of muscle and, you know, lose fat. I think that is a very specific, you know, group of population of people where the high protein intake is critical, right? Because if you're in a caloric deficit, you really are battling your body pulling from your muscle reserve. If you're resistance trening that helps somewhat, but you're certainly not going to gain muscle. And we just talked about wanting to bank as much muscle as possible as we're younger while we can, right? Because we need that reserve because we're going to start pulling from it eventually. And so I think that that's where you start to get really high numbers, 2.2, even higher. IMean, you've confined study, the studies out there. It's like three grams per kilogram per body weight. Going above the 1.6 in this scenario seems to be key as well. You're getting up to that 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day because it does give you a little bit more edge over gaining muscle, muscle protein synthesis in combination with resistance trening as well as it's like you mentioned. It's, you know, satiating, it's a little bit thermogenic. I don't know that that's the big, the big mechanism here. But I think the big mechanism here is just that like you're, you're really wanting to prevent this metabolism, right? So I think that's just another important point. Because there are a lot of people that do intermittent fasting, time-scripted eating, you know, they're trying to do body recomb, gain muscle, lose that. I think a lot of people are interested in that. There was one period in my life. Over the course of a year, IMade a very dedicated goal to lose body weight and gain muscle. So I wanted to see like, could this be done? And it did requirEQuite a bit of intermittent fasting or time-scripted eating. I suppose to be more accurate. But the amount of attention I had to pay to protein intake was pretty incredible. And what I did that seems counterintuitive, because I wasn't intermittent fasting because I believed that a fasted state was producing some benefit. So, you know, there's some people who think that, well, if I don't eat breakfast, I'm kicking off some atophagee or something. No, no, it wasn't. It was purely a caloric restriction play. So my fasting window did not prevent consuming liquid protein. In other words, if I wasn't eating breakfast or lunch, which I wasn't, I was only having a meal a day, which was dinner, that I would still consume protein shakes outside of those windows. Otherwise, I could never hit the protein target. So I was in a caloric deficit, but in a amino acid excess. And again, you can actually do that with liquid protein pretty easily, because basically all you're getting is, you know, you're getting relatively few calories, because you're just consuming way protein. Did you have any like GI, like problems you're consuming so many shakes? No, really? I get. No, but I did a lot of experimentation, right? So ultimately, I set a lot of brand. I'm blanking on the name of it now. I have no affiliation with these guys, and I'm blanking on their name. A scent? Maybe? Does that ring about? Yeah, I really like them. I got out. I'll give them a shout out because one, it was the only protein I found I could mix directly in water and not have it be lumpy. I didn't even need a blender. This was a sound silly, but the hassle of me having to like wash a blender twice a day was sometimes an impediment to not making a shake. So just be able to put the scoop or two scoops, I would usually put into a glass with water and mix it with a fork and actually drink it and have it be totally fine and not, you know, lumpy. I don't know how they do this, but it was amazing. It actually tasted fine. I don't like sweet drinks that much, but it was not too sweet. And absolutely no GI issues at all. Whereas sometimes the pure egg proteins, I didn't like the feeling on my gut. So for whatever reason that worked for me, but to your point, it is it's another level of challenge if you're trying to recomp in that way. Right, or people on GLP1, right? We're stepping out of this. Right? IMean, like, and I don't know how how difficult it is to eat a meal versus like take a protein shake. So I know you're like, you don't have a real, you're associated pretty much all the time. You don't have a real appetite, but also digestion is slow. So if you're like consuming more protein, like I don't know how that all affects. We've seen in our patients. So again, I would say, I get asked this all the time. I would say 15 to 20% of our patients are on triseptotide. And unlike five years ago, when we started using some of GLU-tied in patients, and we're just watching muscle fall off these people. And frankly, my point of view five years ago was, I don't know about these drugs. I think, you know, I think there's some benefit in some people, but I think there's a lot of downside. I today think that virtually anybody can use these drugs safely, but and by safely, I don't just mean in the obvious sense of the word. IMean, safely for long term muscle health as well, right? But it requires a ton of deliberate attention. So I'm glad you brought it up. That's this is exactly the group of people who you want to be using easy to digest protein sources. And if you're on triseptotide, you don't really want to stake. You don't really want to have a big chicken breast. You might not want to even have an omelet. But if we have to make sure you're hitting that 1.6, you might be doing a bunch of liquid shakes. And yeah, we can sit here and poop who processed food and say, how disgusting is it that people have to resort to eating shakes? Okay, fine. But if the alternative is they're not getting enough protein and they're on a drug that is making them anorexic, IMean, we know we also know the downside of that. Well, the answer is clear, right? You don't want to be losing muscle mass for sure. My point is, you know, we do dexib before and after, we're not seeing the type of muscle loss we saw with our v1 approach to this. Right. What kind of dose are they on like a higher dose? No, IMean, I think for look for, you know, triseptotide starts at 2.5. Some people are getting enough benefit there. IMean, the other thing that I think our approach has been is that slow and steady wins the race. Right. So we've seen anecdotally, some data. I've seen, I've heard from, from others and we've seen it as well that yo-yoing on and off these drugs is probably a bad idea. So I always tell a patient, look, I'd probably rather you were on 2.5 milligrams until there was a new drug that we thought was even better, then you're on 10 milligrams. You lose a ton of weight. You come off. You gain. You go back on. You lose like this, the idea of being on a saw is probably a bad idea. I think the data suggest you're getting most of the value by about 10 milligrams. So once you go to 12.5 and 15, which are the two highest doses, you're still getting a benefit. But it's, you know, it's like most drugs. You're getting most of the benefit at the lowest dose. So five to seven point five milligrams of triseptotide is probably where you're getting the majority of the dose. And again, I, I'd much rather a patient be sort of slow and steady on it and as opposed to try to go for maximum and rapid weight loss. What do you think about some of that data on like heart issues or bone loss? Do you think, it is that concern you at all? Sure. I think it all does. IMean, I think all of the stuff has to be paid attention to. And I think thEQuestion again comes back to how much of that is occurring due to, due to trening, right? How much of that is happening due to the loss of amino acid intake and the loss of trening? Well, the neuropsychiatric, IMean, like that's another one on the eyes. What I'm interested in is, you know, we have these GLP when receptors like so many different tissues. So what, systemically, like, how is it beneficial? Was it not beneficial? Like, I don't know that we really know. We have data where there's obviously positive effects. You see, like, reduced Alzheimer's disease incidents with people taking this GLP one receptor agonist. But is that how much is that due to weight loss, right? Yeah, we've looked into this a lot because I do remain, you know, it's funny. We did a podcast on this somewhat recently where I went through this particular question, which is will GLP one receptor agonist ultimately prove to be geo-protective? And I defined, I came up with a very obscure way to define that, which is independent of weight loss, right? Because obviously, at the macro level, they're going to be geo-protective because if you apply them to people with type 2 diabetes and significant obesity and you correct the metabolic dysfunction, you're going to live longer. So by that regard, it's a geo-protective agent. But the real question is, if you take a person who is of normal weight, who does not have type 2 diabetes, but maybe has a higher risk for Alzheimer's disease and you microdose them. So you're giving them 2.5 milligrams per day, which, by the way, we are doing in some patients for metabolic, for obscure metabolic condition without obesity, right? So we have patients who have, um, who have diabetes, but are already at very low body weight. We have two patients actually in our practice, in this regard. And after lots of detailed back and forth, machination with Ralph DeFranza, who's a previous guest on the podcast, you know, we sort of realized that at least one component of the drug regimen for these patients was going to be a GLP one agonist. Now, it seemed very counterintuitive to give Trezzepatide to people who have a BMI of 23. But we've been able to do it without them losing weight. So again, very careful strategies around nutrition and the effect on their diabetes is profound. So they're looking more metabolically healthy. Oh my god, totally. IMean, these are really interesting cases that, you know, maybe at some point, obviously, a D identified away, it would be interesting to talk about, where, you know, you have OGTTs that are unrecognizable. You simply cannot believe the degree of metabolic dysfunction in a person who otherwise looks the way they look. And in one case, in particular, it was so confusing that even after all the genetic testing we did, like we simply couldn't figure out an answer for this. We couldn't understand where the beta cell fatigue was coming from absent a formal diagnosis of type one diabetes. And within three months of being on 2.5 milligrams of Trezzepatide, this individuals, OGTT had almost normalized and I suspect by about six months it will. That's fascinating. And we've managed to do this without any weight loss. So this to me is the interesting question, right, which is when you look at some of the Alzheimer's biomarkers, which are improving, improving significantly, it begs thEQuestion, should this be part of the playbook for an individual who's at high risk? Especially given that we now, I think really understand how to make sure people don't lose weight and don't lose lean mass and therefore, I suspect, don't lose bone density and all these other things that matter. Or like you said, you know, if you're doing this microdose, like maybe you're not going to be as issued. Like you're just still have somewhat of an appetite because you're on such a low dose. Maybe you're going to have a little bit of an effect. We've also seen some other weird things anecdotally. Patients have told us that when they inject in the abdomen, so when you inject in the fat, in the subcufat of the abdomen, the anti, basically the anorexic effects are greater than if you inject in the leg or butt. And we looked into this and there was some, some mechanistic data to suggest that maybe you're getting more vagal tone when you inject in the abdomen. Again, I just don't know if any of these things are correct, they would need to be studied. But again, that would be a very important piece of data, right? If there's a way that if there's a location you can inject this, where you minimize the anorexic effect of the drug. Again, for some people, that would be a feature, right above. For some people that would be a bug as opposed to a feature. So you have to understand how to, how to, how to use the tool. Yeah. Um, and this just reminded me of something that we should have pointed out. Like talking about the protein requirements, grams, per kilogram bodyweight. I do think it's important like because we're talking about, we were just talking about obese people. Yes, is that why do you brought this up? And yeah, exactly. Where it's like, you know, most people aren't going to do a dexist key on to see what their lean body mass is. But like, ultimately, I think, you know, and I've talked to a variety of experts, Brad Schoenfields, two Phillips, they agree that really, if you're someone that's overweight or obese, you shouldn't be calculating it based on your actual weight because you're protein required. It's more like your target weight, right? Or that would be, IMean, if you empirically could measure your lean body mass, that would be better. But yeah, I just wanted to point that out. Yep. And I'm glad you did. So that's right. For most people, probably not much of an issue. But if you're, if you're at 300 pounds right now, and your ideal bodyweight is 220. Um, and again, I don't, you don't need a dexist to figure that out. A dexic can help. But most people who are 300 pounds remember, you know, gosh, you know, at the end of high school, I was 220. That was my good weight. Or maybe, you know, at the end of high school, I was 200 pounds, which is I'll probably never get back into those jeans again. But, you know, by the end of my freshman year of college, I was 220. That was kind of a good weight for me. And then it's just kind of gone downhill from there. You know, I had this orthopedic. There's the story of how you've got to be 300 pounds. Yeah. Most people can figure out 220 is probably my goal. And that's what I should be targeting. Yeah. Um, but yeah. So should we get back into like, yeah. So it's a great point, right? Which is, how do we reconcile the following? So caloric restriction as an intervention, as a geopolitic intervention is the oldest one in the book. I'm not really aware of an intervention where a non-genetic intervention that has from from a longer standing perspective produced a more consistent outcome in terms of laboratory animals, where you restrict the mercaliaries, and they're going to live longer. So again, to my knowledge, there are only two interventions that have extended life across all four models of organisms from yeast, worms, flies, and mammals, rooms. And that is caloric restriction and rapomison. And they have something in common, which is they both result in the downregulation of M. Tour. Right. So we also know that in Amino acid, you just mentioned a moment ago called Lucine is the single most important of all the Amino acids at turning up M. Tour. So how can we reconcile the idea that protein seems to be good for you, but M. Tour going down seems to be good for you, at least in another way. Well, for one, I'm being very fesic. I know. I know. I know. I know the answer to this question. And it's like, oh gosh, where do we start? IMean, you know, because let's ignore the worm and the fly and all that because we care. IMean, even the rodents is like, or we're getting to, like, it's a stretch, right? But obviously, you know what else turns on M. Tour, exercise. This is a collectivity of mechanical force, turns it on in our muscle. And we know exercises like one of the best things that we can do for our health. I think here, I think, simplicity, the best way to think about this is that you want M. Tour active in your skeletal muscle. You want it active in your skeletal muscle. You don't necessarily always want it active systemically, but if you are exercising, if you're moving around and you're taking your protein, it's going your muscle. Actually, we know that for a fact. I just, I talked about antibiotic resistance and how exercise can counter that while it's increasing the loosening trensporter, the expression of loosening trensporter. It's causing loosening and other branch chain amino acids to go up into skeletal muscle. Multiple human studies have shown this. These are, you know, tracer studies, beautiful data, no argument. Exercise causes loosening and other branch chain amino acids to be taken up into skeletal muscle, where you want it to be, so that it activates M. Tour increases muscle protein synthesis. When it comes to deactivating M. Tour, whether that's through protein restriction or rapomias, that would be like an hours long podcast talking about all the nuanced data there because there's all sorts of differences with the different genus. Sex differences in the rodents, everything, you're aware of all this data. My biggest thing here with the protein restriction, we'll talk about one. I did spend six years in grad school working with mice. I did a lot of animal studies. Okay, these mice are in a small cage. They are not physically active. They're not running around. They're, IMean, they move a little bit, but they're ultimately not under threat. They're not under threat. They're being fed, they're adlhythm. They're just being fed up, you know, as much protein as they want, but perfectly thermoregulated. Totally, no, they're not being exposed to influenza or COVID or whatever viruses, anything that's going to take them out for period of a couple of weeks. They're in a sterile environment. And so, they're happy. They're happy, and that's it, right? People are not mice, right? We talked about earlier as we get older, we're being exposed to infectious diseases. Things are going to make us immobile for a period of weeks. And that is devastating to us, especially when you add them up. And they happen this year. And then the next year it happens again. And then you're just losing that muscle mass, right? And then you reach that disability threshold. You talked about Luke Van Loone, talking about those curves. It's very clear. IMean, you can see the data where there's a disability threshold. You get enough of these like catabolic crisis events, right? Where you're just immobile first or in period of time because you've had a surgery or you've had the flu or whatever, kept you inactive. That doesn't happen to these mice, right? So protein is much more important to humans because we, of course, need that muscle mass. And we need to bank it early. We've established that. And I think that's a really important difference here is that, you know, we can't just look at the data in mice and go, oh, you can restrict them from protein and they live longer and they're fine. Well, they're not going through these catabolic crises. They're not going through these you know, points of, you know, not moving for a period of time for like, you know, losing all this muscle mass, then that happening and they reach this disability threshold. And then, you know, it's very different. So I think that's first and foremost important to point out. The second thing is that if we're talking about protein intake, I think that you and I agree, the optimal scenario here isn't a sedentary person just sitting there eating as much protein as they want. No, they need to be moving physically active. Like, that's the whole point. You're supporting your physical activity by increasing your protein intake. And so in that scenario, again, the amino acids that are activating M2 are going to skeletal muscle. Like, that's been shown. Lucine is going into skeletal muscle. So who cares if you're intakeing and more? Yeah. In fact, I think that's such an important point, Rhonda, that I would even go one step further, which is if you told me come up with the optimal nutrition strategy for the individual who is active and then come up with the optimal nutrition strategy for a person who is going to be sedentary, they would be very different. I'm going to try to talk that sedentary person into not being sedentary, but if at the end of the day, I can't. If that individual says, I just, I don't want to do anything. I just want to sit in front of my computer. You know what? It probably makes sense to be a little bit caloric or stricted. Right. Because at least I want to make sure I can't solve your metabolic challenge through activity, but what if I could at least solve it through nutrition restriction? And again, I think it's the inability of people to understand that those are very different states. Right. You can't not treat those two people the same way. Right. And it's really, it's, there's even, there was a study by, um, falter long ago of all people. Like years ago, came out as a large cohort study looking at dietary protein intake from vegetable versus meat sources, right? And we all know that meat sources have higher levels of essential amino acids like lucine. And all cause mortality was looked at and, you know, the same, you know, statement that you've heard millions of times from other studies about, okay, if you, you know, vegans have a lower all cause mortality than meat eaters. Well, turns out when you actually start to analyze like the data and and correct for a lot of confounding factors, meat eaters that were that were physically active, not obese or overweight, didn't smoke, didn't drink excessive alcohol. So in other words, they didn't have all these unhealthy lifestyle factors. They had the same mortality rate as the, you know, vegans. So I think that also is a good, is a good point here where it's like, okay, if you're going to be a sedentary person that's smoking and if you have unhealthy lifestyle factors, you know, maybe you don't need to be so obsessed. You definitely want to make sure you're at least getting the minimal amount of protein because you don't want to be in the deficit. But, you know, you don't want to necessarily just be constantly activating M2R if you're just going to sit around and smoke and be overweight and not do anything with that protein, right? Yeah. And the other thing I think that is, is missing from this discussion is, and this is where I think inflammation serves as a great analogy, right? So I think most people on the surface understand that a constant on state of the inflammatory system would be bad. But of course, if you had no inflammatory response, that would be also bad. So the ideal state is inflammation when you need it, otherwise, off. Inflammation when you need it, otherwise, off. And I think that's probably the right way to think about this, right? Which is we want M2R on when it has a job to do and we want it relatively silent when we don't. And I think if Rapamysin is zero protective, and, um, when I say if IMean in humans, I think it's unambiguously protective across most species, but we still don't know if the species of interest is is going to benefit from this drug, and we may never, by the way, but it's probably working by tamping down the chronic inflammatory component of what we see with M2R activation, which by the way, might actually involve inflammation as well as one of the many things. So that there's also this challenge of trying to, to get folks to understand the difference between chronic and acute things. Again, cortisol, right? Great example, right? So cortisol, vital hormone, pulse, you know, the appropriate rhythm of cortisol is essential for life. If you took that away, you would actually be dead. That's called Addison's disease, but cortisol constantly being on would also be a problem, right? That would be cushionous disease. So both extremes, bad, it's, do you, do you know when you need it, and what it's supposed to do? And I think the same is true with M2R. I'd also like to see data comparing, like even, even if it's animal data, comparing like giving, giving rap and myisin or inhibiting, you know, somewhat inhibiting M2R versus like physical activity, like in these, like making them run on a treadmill, like being physically active, because if you look at like a lot of the protective effects of rap and myisin, I'm like, this is what exercise does. And actually, it does it better. So I'm just not convinced that someone who is, who's already bought in to like how important exercise is, both cardiovascular and weight trening. Well, Eric Verdun made a very interesting podcast, a very interesting comment on my podcast a while ago. And so Eric is in the camp that he does not believe rap will be your protective in humans. And he talked about the longevity quotient. So for listeners, the longevity quotient is a plot, a very famous plot that on the x-axis puts body size and on the y-axis puts life span. And you just plot all the organisms on this thing. And as a general rule, it rises up into the right. The larger an animal is the longer it lives. And it's a pretty straight line. In fact, we should find a good example of it and link to it in the show notes. But there are always animals that punch above and below their weight. So there are animals that fall off that line either too high. So these are animals that live much longer than you would expect based on their body size. And there are animals that punch well below their body weight. They live much shorter than they should based on their body weight. Well, turns out two interesting examples are mice and humans. mice live on average two years. I forget the exact number. They should be living close to four or five years, I think, based on the longevity quotient line. So they are punching well below their weight. And humans, we live 80 years. We should probably be 40 according to the data. By the way, we did live 40 years until modern medicine came along. So maybe we were totally on the curve correctly until medicine 2.0 came around at the turn of the last century. And basically over five generations doubled our lifespan. Eric argues, and I think this is a very interesting argument. Rapa mice and disproportionately works well in animals that are below the longevity quotient. So that's why it works so reproducibly in mice. But he argues, it might not have any effect in humans because we're already we've already captured so much of our genetic potential in terms of lifespan. Now, the idea that Rapa would give us an extra 15% of life, he feels is just kind of hard to imagine. And again, because a theoretical argument, it's super interesting. But I'd never heard it in relation to the longevity quotient before. And I thought it was very much worth pondering. Yeah. Well, that's interesting. I've also seen data with Rapa mice and given to people that were undergoing resistance trening. And it like blunted obviously some of the muscle proteins synthesis as would be expected. I don't remember the dose of M. Torre. It wasn't like I'm sorry. I wrap a mess and it wasn't super super high. But to me that was like enough to be like, well, IMean. Yeah. And then thEQuestion of course is, is there a way around that, right? Is there a way where you could intermittently dose it? You just take it once. You time it so that it's not in proximity to about a resistance trening by a couple of days or something like that. But yeah, there's a lot there. There's a great expression I heard recently, which is mice usually lie. Monkeys sometimes lie. It's humans we care about. It's just fantastic, right? Well, to get back to the M. Torre story, I think that's like that that recent study. I don't know, it was in the last couple of years that came out. It was the animal study where they gave mice 25 grams of protein. And you know, M. Torre was activated in macrophages and it was like this whole story was pieced together about 25 grams of protein. Sorry, maybe it was the equivalent. Yeah. The equivalent. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. That's the that. The way they're eating their body weight in human equivalent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it was essentially like arguing that atherosclerosis was being caused by protein. And I'm like, you kidding me? Like, well, for one, we know atherosclerosis, like the bigger story there, right, is not protein. But again, it comes down to this whole activating M. Torre in like systemic circulation versus the loosing going to the muscle because you're physically active. And keep in mind, like those trensporters, like the loosing trensporters, they're pretty sensitive for quite a while. IMean, you're talking about at least 24 hours, right? Maybe even longer. But definitely 24 hours. I think that I think the mice, atherosclerosis studies are very dangerous. It's it's it's we have to be very careful. They have a very different life of protein system than we do. They evolved in a totally different manner than we did. They're amount the amount of protein. They require is totally different from us. So I'm always I'm always really wary when I see these studies that are using the mouse model of atherosclerosis. I think I understand why we do it because it's much easier and cheaper than looking at that primates. And obviously, you know, we can't do these studies in humans. But you can find a lot of things in mice when it comes to atherosclerosis that don't seem to matter whatsoever in human biology. I would chalk this up to one of those examples. So then there you have it. IMean, that's like a lot of the controversy around protein being bad for you and activating M. Torre is coming from that study. And then there's countless studies on cancer increasing with IGF1 and M. Torre. And again, same deal where, you know, IGF1 exercise is causing IGF1 to go into brain, to go into muscle. So people also don't appreciate how short the half-life of IGF1 is. Like it's a staggeringly short half-life molecule. Oh, really? Oh, yeah, it's insanely short half-life. When administered systemically, it's on the order of minutes. Okay. Yeah. And by the way, administering IGF systemically is allows you way to get it to the muscle. Right? Like it's, you want to think of it almost as a paracron thing, right? Where it has to be delivered into the muscle. So yeah, I look all roads for me, still point back to this idea that, and I know you would agree with me. So it's not going to be that controversial. But exercise is the most important drug. I just don't, I'm just not aware of a drug in quotes that is that is better than exercise. And I know there's this enormous effort to figure out a way to put exercise into a pill. I just can't imagine it'll ever happen. It might be, there might be several pills that come out of it, right? We might figure out a way to make cloth though. We might figure out a way to make BDNF. We might figure out a way to deliver IGF directly to muscles. Like there might be a whole bunch of little things. There's like 500 molecules. Yeah, this is, this is, this is, the member, remember, I don't know if you remember this. I'm dating myself. But I don't know if you remember Irisin? Yeah. Yeah. IMean, there are no shortage of these things. Right. And there's so many things going on for sure that has been official with exercise. And just kind of bring it back to the protein, you know, I think that they go hand in hand. Like we're talking about being optimal, increasing our health span, increasing our lifespan, having a good quality of life, then you're talking about having a higher protein intake to support your physical activity, period. And athletes, there's some of the longest live individuals on the planet. And we talked about this in our last podcast. IMean, Olympic athletes live on average five years longer than the gen population. Same goes with a lot of these athletes playing these indoor team sports. And there are several studies out there looking at elite athletes, including people in the NBA, major league baseball, you know, a lot of these big professional sports leagues. They're taking in, and at least, you know, two grams per kilogram of protein per day. So clearly, protein isn't killing them. In fact, they're living longer than the degenerate population. So again, it comes down to that supporting, like exercise, exercise is the king, right? Exercise is like the most important thing. But you need and protein to support that physical activity. And so I don't understand why anyone's arguing about that. Like, what's the argument? Yeah, I'm, I'm despite all the, despite all the flack I'm taking, I'm going to just defend this one and continue. And by the way, if new data emerge, I'm always happy to change my mind. I've changed my mind about so many things. It is absurd. The number of things have changed my mind on. I've changed my mind on GLP ones. I've changed my mind on sonas. IMean, I can count the list of things I've changed my mind on over the past 10 years. And if there are data that will make me change my mind, I will stand up here with a straight face. And I will eat crow. And I will tell you that I've changed my mind. But I'm going to stand by my recommendation. Two grams per kilogram per day. And my rationale, again, I explained that earlier in the podcast, but just to restate it, if you aim for two on the day you fall short, you'll still be at 1.6. If you aim for 1.6 on the day you fall short, you'll be 1.2. And that 1.2 won't be made up for on the next day. Because the downside is asymmetric compared to the upside. So that's our recommendation clinically. And that's how we work with real people in the real world, not on our sub-stack pages to try to help them with a longer life. Yeah. Is there anything else with the protein? No, let's never talk about this again, pending new data that fundamentally changed the way we think about it. All right, I want to pivot to another topic, which you may be single-handedly more responsible for the buzz on this topic than anybody else I can think of. And that is creatine. So should we start with, well, first of all, just tell me, what got you interested in this topic, right? So this is when, like, you're not the typical demographic, no offense intended by that. But like, when I was in high school, right, and I'm probably 15 years older than you, like we as young boys in high school in the 80s were mainline and creatine, like it was our day job. But here's the thing, I don't remember why, right? Like I, it must have been your friends were doing it. Well, no, no, no, but it must have come from bodybuilding magazines. Like I don't know what the, I don't know where we got the information. Because like, I was thinking about this the other day because I knew we were going to talk about this. And I was like, okay, there was no internet, like, like, what was our source of truth? It was muscle and fitness. So there must have been something in muscle and fitness that told us this. And then, you know what I realized we did, we would hang out at supplement stores. Like we'd literally go in and the supplement stores always had some big bro in baggy pants that paper down to his feet and he was barely wearing a shirt and he was yoked and he was explaining to us. And we were like, at the altar of this guy and he was telling us there's creatine monohydrate and then there's like creatine phosphate. And at the time, everyone said creatine phosphate is better. And you have to load 30 grams a day for two weeks. Then you go into your maintenance phase at five grams a day. And then you repeat the cycle every eight weeks or whatever it was. And we were like buying this stuff by the truck load. And this is like almost, I don't know what 40 years ago, right? Or, you know, 30, 30, yeah, easily 35, 40 years ago. Okay. Fast forward. I don't know a few years ago, we're paying attention to creatine again. Well, you just made a really important point. And I'll talk about my journey in a minute. And that is it's one of the most well-studied sports related supplements ever, right? And then there's just decades and decades of research out there on creatine a lot of it has to do with muscle. We'll talk about, you know, the brain, which is sort of my my interest. But IMean, it's, it's one of the tried and true. IMean, it's safe. I don't know that there's any other sports supplement out there that's safe as creatine. I don't think there is. So that's an important point, right? My journey with it began with my obsession with increasing my resistance trening after like your performance or your hypertrophy or your recovery, what specific? And everything that we talked about in the first half of this episode, where I realized that I was so focused on endurance trening for long-term health, for brain health, that I sort of neglected my muscle mass and thinking about how important muscle mass was for long-term health. And you've been, you've chronicled this pretty well on your social media. You've got videos if you're deadlift doing like your mullion bracing, yes. So this is, so, you know, after, after having a couple of experts on ingest, when I have an expert on, I read the literature voraciously. Like, I just dive in and I want to be in it, right? And it's part of the fun. I love it, right? Like, this is like, I get to learn all this new material that I'm interested in. And so, I finally realized that I wasn't doing enough trening resistance trening. And so I got a trip, I have a personal trener now. I'm doing resistance type trening. I do like a cross-fit type trening for at leasT3 hours a week. I'm doing now. It started out. I was doing like 30 minutes a week. So I've gone from 30 minutes to like three hours a week, big difference, right? And that's when I became really interested in creatine, or I was like, okay, I know this one supplement is obviously like shown to benefit people that are working out. I didn't know why everything until like gotten to the literature, but that's kind of what got my interest into creatine. So I started supplementing with, well, let's talk about creatine, right? So creatine, most people know, creatine is stored in our skeletal muscle as creatine phosphate. And it's essentially used to rapidly recycle ATP, a denocene triphosphate. This is the major energy currency in our cells. And so creatine phosphate is able to help rapidly recycle that so you can make energy quicker. Very relevant for a lot of scenarios, including high-intensity, able trening resistance trening, even endurance trening, because it increases, I'm sorry, it decreases recovery time, because you're recycling that ATP. So it's really relevant for a lot of scenarios. And we do make creatine and dodginessly, that's another thing where it's like, okay, this is a molecule that we make in our body. It's not like a dangerous thing that I'm really scared of. We make about 1 to 2 grams in our liver. Our liver's make about 1 to 2 grams a day. And then we can take in another, depending on how much meat meat is the major source of dietary source of creatine, right? So vegetarians, 100% rely only on their 1 to 2 grams a day. And they're probably the population that benefits the most with supplementing with creatine. And there's just countless studies out there showing this because they're just not getting anything from their diet, essentially. And there's like, it's negligible, whatever is in plants. Does a type of meat matter does fish versus beef versus chicken, I would imagine there are different foods. Yeah, there are. There are differences. Like beef would be the most. Most. Yeah. Yeah. And it's probably why people on a carnivore diet, they just get so like jacked. Right? They're getting the creatine, they're getting the protein and they're working now. And it's like this combination, right? They're just getting so much. Do you have a sense of, if you're reading, if you need a 12 ounce steak, how many grams of creatine would you get in there? I people can figure that out with, you know, Google, I don't, I know, generally speaking, that like on average, people are getting in their diet, like probably like 1 to 2 grams. Additional. Yeah. So you got your endogenous plus. Yes. Yeah. And then you can supplement on top of that, right? And this is where I would say, for many, many, many decades, the literature was all about the effects on exercise performance, right? Because the muscle is a big consumer of energy, especially if you're working the muscle. And so I'm totally just summarizing this, like, you know, I'm not going into every single detail. But generally speaking, five grams a day of creatine is enough to saturate your muscle tissue. It takes about a month, maybe three weeks, to actually fully saturate it. If you're doing five grams a day, which is where the load of the pump. And the bros that we're telling me to take 30 when I was right 13. That's coming up. That might have been overkill. Yeah. Well, no, it's coming from the fact that in these studies that have been done, because people haven't been taking the five grams a day for like three weeks. And they're doing the short term, you know, weeks long study. They want to, like, quickly get their muscle saturated. And that's why they do that loading phase. And so most people don't have to do that. The problem, unless you're like doing some competition and you like need, you need, you need it like right then and there. But like generally speaking, it's just not necessary. And you really just increase the risk of like GI distress. And I think today is just take five every day. And then you should be all right. Well, that was my thinking, like up until a few months ago. And I was, I was taking for the last year and a half. I was taking about five grams a day. And that, you know, the evidence there is that the, the creatine is essentially improving your exercise performance in that it's, you can do one to two more reps or, you know, you're essentially the volume of trening goes up because you're recycling that energy quicker. You're able to do more. And that is why you then get gains in muscle mass and strength. It's not like the creatine itself is acting like protein, right? It's not increasing muscle protein synthesis if you're just a couch potato. You have to do the work. You have to do the work. Right. And the reason that you do increase the muscle mass and strength is because you're able to do more work. Right. And so that was, and it's pretty obvious, like anyone that for me with my CrossFit, it really is useful because there's a lot of explosive like trening, a lot of hit. So for me, and it was pretty obvious that it was having an effect. And of course, there's probably a mixture of placebo in there as well. I'll definitely admit that. But then, you know, I started getting interested in some of these brain cities. As you know, I'm very interested in brain health, energy genocides, risk, anything that can improve cotton defunction in a safe way, like any kind of safe, new tropic. And that's where I really started to get interested. And this is built up over years where I was getting interested in the brain effects, even though I hadn't been supplementing with it. I had been sort of just keeping an eye on the literature. And finally, when I started using it, I got pushed over. I'm like, okay, I'm all in. I want to get into this. And so you felt like you got all in because you actually felt a difference or you were like, well, look, I'm already taking it for these muscle purposes. Let me really now go deeper on the cognitive science. Yes, I was already like this is clearly improving my, first of all, the literature was clear with the muscle. There's a lot of literature. You can't deny it. You just can't, like whatever one off said it without. Yeah, it is a little odd. There aren't that many things that show up where the consistency of the studies is always in the same direction and really what you're basically looking at is the magnitude or the effect size. But you're always on the same side of the tornado plot. Exactly. Right. And when we're talking about 40 years or whatever of research, this is a lot of data. With the brain, so for one, your brain does make a little bit of creatine as well. Something, I don't remember. I think it's somewhere between one to three grams a day. But the data on the effects of supplemental creatine on the brain isn't dating back as far. And so you do have to kind of take the data with someone of a grain of salt because there's a lot of small studies and they're not like, you know, I wouldn't, you can't hang your hat on. IMean, like, this is the end all be all. However, I feel like as more data is going to come out, I'm pretty certain that it's been talked about some of the measurements because I think one of the advantages of studying the effects of creatine on physical performance is we have really good objective measurements that you can demonstrate in a short period of time. You could do a 12 week study and in just 12 weeks, you could objectively unambiguously determine if there was hypertrophy and if there was an increase in performance. Right. How do we do that on the cognitive side? Right. What are the data that you've been looking at that have given you an increasing level of confidence? Okay. Well, first, let's talk about dose because that's important. And I think that that was where initially when researchers were looking into like the effects of creatine on the brain, the five grams a day didn't seem to be doing anything in terms of like getting creatine into the brain. And so thEQuestion is crossing the blood brain barrier that's established? It is. However, the muscles are greedy as hell. Yeah. Lovely, greedy muscles. Yeah. The greedy muscles. And so there when you're taking in up to about five grams of of creatine, they're they're consuming it. They're they're taking their share. Especially if you're trening. If you're trening, it's like, yeah, exactly. But even if you're not trening, it's still going to muscle. But yes, especially if you're trening. And so it was a there was a German study that that was published a few years back that did dose, a dose dependent effect and looked at creatine levels in certain brain regions. And that study, the naivEQuestion, are they using an isotope or they label in the creatine? I believe they were using an ion. They're not using like CSF levels or anything. I believe it was an isotope. Okay. And but don't hold me to it because, you know, I don't remember exactly. I'm more creating. I know. But the 10 grams was where creatine was now. Was not rate limited. It was exactly now. You were increasing levels of creatine in the brain pretty sure it was um, radial isotope labeled. So essentially 10 grams. Yeah, you have to double that. And that's where, you know, I was like, okay, and so it just to be clear, I keep them sort of interrupt you. Does that mean that you're going to get mixed results if you look at the cognition literature because you're going to have some studies that were underdosed. And if if you have a study that was done at five and it shows no effect, you're going to come to the wrong conclusion potentially. Be in go. Just like with any supplement and or drug right, dose, dose matters. So yes, that is, that is the case. But also it's important to point out. Just like with muscle, you have to be stressing your muscle for creatine to work. Right. You're, you're basically putting in the work and you're able to put in more work. Right. And that's why you can increase muscle mass and you can increase strength. With the brain, it works in the background of stress. And what IMean by stress is sleep deprivation, psychological stress like you have an exam, marital, IMean whatever psychological stress, emotional stress, sleep deprivation is a big one, neurodegenerative disease or anything that's compromising brain function. Right. That's where creatine really shines in terms of cognitive function and we're going to measure them. But I think that's important to point out and you might, this is my argument. I feel like I'm constantly under stress. I think most people are constantly under stress. First of all, anybody listening, if you're not under stress, I'd like to hear from you. I want to know what you're doing. Same. Same. But yeah. So IMean like even just like diving into the scientific literature, like what we do every day, learning, that is the stress, right? That's very, it's the brain consumes a lot of energy as well. Right. It's 20% of our total caloric intake goes to an organ that weighs less than 2% of your body weight. It is the most insane statistic of the human body. Totally, which is why it makes sense that giving your brain extra creatine, which can recycle that energy quicker, would help particularly in the background of when you're using more of that energy. Right. If energy is being triaged to whatever stress in the hormones and whatever, whatever is going on, fill in the blank. The studies that typically are looking at the effects of creatine on cognitive function are looking at like processing speed. They're looking at a battery of tests that are typical of any fill in the blank supplement or treatment that is either going to improve cognitive function, memory being another one. Right. Processing speeds of big one too. I would say that that creatine's been shown to improve. But again, really it's in the background of stress, whether that's stress being aging. So older adults, so aging is kind of a stress brain aging. So older adults seem to benefit from taking exogenous creatine or supplemental creatine. And people that are sleep deprived, that's another one. That's a really big one. In fact, there's been a few studies that have shown people that are sleep deprived. If you give them, this was on a per kilogram body weight basis. So I think total, it was like 20 to 25 grams of creatine that were given just based on their body weight. But if there were sleep deprived and given that creatine, not only did the cognitive deficits that usually occur when you're sleep deprived, not occur, but their cognitive processing speed was improved more than baseline. Now, this is a small study. It's like, if you, if you Peter were to go to the study and look at this, you'd be like, this is small study, we got, you know, and I agree, I agree. We can't, we can't just hang our head on this one study. Who's doing these studies? Because there can't really be any financial incentive to do them. Right. Creatine is ubiquitous. There's no IP around it. We can talk, I want to talk a little bit about pre-appure and some of the actual, help, I want to give people some advice on how to go buy creatine because if you go to Amazon, it's like, what do I, which one do I buy? But who's sort of taken the mantle on trying to understand this? Because it is an important question. And if you've got something that's insanely cheap, completely safe, has other benefits in the body anyway. And all we're really trying to figure out is, hey, should we all just be doubling our dose from five to ten? But it'd be great to quantify the effect size and stratify patients that we need to be reaching out to because, again, not everybody listening to us is doing this anyway. And it's just one more thing to ask somebody to do, which comes at a cost. Right. There's a psychic cost to just asking people to do more stuff. And it's one more thing you got to do. So, just be, IMean, again, this is like low hanging fruit in the world of biomedical research. It is. And, you know, like Darren Kando is someone who he's getting into the brain stuff. He's been doing, I think there's quite a few people that have been doing muscle research. Or now, it's opening doors for them where they're like collaborating and they're kind of reaching out to like people that are, you know, doing more neuroscience and, and they're, and it's kind of explosive. This got like Dom Degasino's name written all over, right? Act, that's a really good point. It totally, we got to talk about them into doing this. It's, I'm, so there was like a pilot study that came out and I don't, these are researchers that I don't know necessarily and some of them are pretty junior. But there, there was one that came out with people with Alzheimer's disease. And they were given 20 grams of creatine and it improved, caught defunctions in these patients. So, with Alzheimer's disease, I think there was also a placebo control as well. And then they took those same patients and then had them exercise and improved strength and improved, you know, lean body mass. See, I'm just going to be skeptical that, that, that, I still think that the name of the game is prevention, right? Like where I'm most interested. And of course, that's the hardest thing to study. But, you know, when we think about the energy crisis that is happening in a brain with Alzheimer's disease. And while there, I think, you and I would agree there are probably many paths towards AD, right? There are inflammatory paths. There are lipid mediated and vascular paths. And then there are, there are sort of these more metabolic paths. But when you take that individual who is most susceptible to the metabolic path towards dementia and 10 years earlier or 20 years earlier, you're giving them a substrate that is augmenting ATP creation. Yeah, I get it. That's the hardest thing to study. That's also the single most important question in my mind. Totally. IMean, prevention is the name of the game for sure, 100%. Unfortunately, there's a lot of people's parents out there that have it right now because they miss the boat on prevention, right? But, and so, and those people are, you know, obviously, like their kids are willing to do anything to help them. It's terrible, right? But, IMean, I think the reality here and the point I want to make is I think that creatine for the brain is the most interesting aspect of this area of research right now, that at least for me. I certainly think that there's really no downside to doing 10 grams a day. Now, in some cases, sleep deprivation, like I just got back from China about five days ago. I've been like doing 20 grams a day, 15 to 20. And are you having any, I was, I remember as a kid, I never had the GI side effects with even 30 a day. But is for some people is, is 10 to 20. In one dose, it would probably affect a lot of people's GI. I do five gram doses. And you'll just put the five grams into water and just put the five grams into water or like tea and then I just take it like that. And, you know, I do it mostly before noon. So I like to take it. And then we're because for, you know, like I said, I don't know if this is placebo, but I don't get sleepy in the afternoon anymore. If IMiss, if I only get five grams, I get this like Venus. And again, it could be complete like bias. And who cares? If it's not like, if the placebo is working for you, it's because it's because it's physiologic, right? IMean, it's a biological mechanism that's working for me. And if you listen to this episode and it works for you, that's great because there's really no downside. In fact, I think we're going to get more and more evidence out there that it's going to be beneficial. And 10 grams is going to be the new the new base line. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be the new baseline. But if you aren't in this state of jet lag, 10 grams for day, you do two shots of five and you're you're feeling great. That's what I do. 10 grams a little bit. Let's talk a little bit about brands. Are you are most of the companies out there that are otherwise very reputable in making supplements? So whether that be thorn, momentous, like, I've lost track of all the names of the companies out there that make supplements. But there, there are a handful of like supplement companies that actually really seem to be credible. Do you have any difference between them? Do you always look to make sure that Cree-Appeer is the active ingredient within it or does it matter? I don't. I think the most important thing is that it's creating monohydrate. The reason people like Cree-Appeer is because it's like pure. But what I like even more than that is NSF certification because there's rigorous testing to make sure there's no like a lead contamination and these like heavy metals and things that sort of paycheck on a lot of these supplements. And so I personally, that's what I look for. IMean, I think Cree-Appeer is great too. I don't know if that depending on whatever brand, you know, is easy to create. Yeah, lots of brands are using it. So NSF is what I look for. I use the thought- There's no reason you can't have both, right? You could have the pure NSF certified product. One thing I want to call out that one of the members of my team was sharing with me yesterday. Apparently there are a whole bunch of Cree-A-Teen gummy products out there. For the obvious reason, they're very popular. There was a third party test. Why don't you tell what they discovered? Yeah, IMean, it was essentially, there was third party testing looking at, actually quantifying the levels of Cree-A-Teen Monohydrate in these gamies and there was essentially none. In 95 percent of them. IMean, and that does, I think, trenslate to gummies in general. I've talked to vitamin manufacturers and they've said it is incredibly challenging to get an act of ingredient into a gummy and you're heating it up. So there's the heat component that's degrading things. So gummies are, yeah, unless you can find a third party tested gummy that actually has the amount of Cree-A-Teen Monohydrate in it that's labeled, that says on the nutrition facts label, I would have avoided gummy. Yeah, and also the thing about this whole gummy craze that drives me bananas is you have to ask thEQuestion, how many gummies do I need to eat? So look at the chalky white Cree-A-Teen powder. Look at what five grams looks like and ask yourself, how many gummies would I need to put this into such that they would be palatable? And then thEQuestion is, do I really want that many gummy bears? Like, what am I doing to my teeth? Yeah, what else is in the gummy? How much sugar do I need to eat that's totally unnecessary? Like, if I'm going to have sugar, let it be good. Give me a nice piece of chocolate, right? Like, give me a piece of carrot cake. I'm not going to squander my sugar calories on gummy bears. That are not even giving me Cree-A-Teen. Don't eat the gummy. Like, you need the powder. Like, thanks for bringing that because also capsules, you're going to have to take so many capsules to get, like, I say the 10 grams are even the five if you're just looking for the muscle effects. Like, you just have to take a lot of capsules. And so that's also an important point. I also think that, like, the vegan thing in vegetarian is another really important aspect here. Like, they're, I don't know what. But if you take them the 10, they should be fine because they're at least offsetting the couple of grams. I'm just saying it'll change it. Like, I have so many vegan friends. I have vegan friends that it's literally changed their lives. Like, my phone blew up, like, IMean, I couldn't believe the magnitude of a fact that these women were experiencing was way outside of the community when I was getting. And I noticed it in effect. They, if they were just, IMean, it was like unreal. How long had they been vegan? One of them not that long. One of them, like, not that long. Maybe, like, two years. But the other one just, like, you know, most of her own. Yeah. And so I'd be interested. The one who had been vegan for two years. Like, when she, all of a sudden got creed in back, I wonder if that was a short enough period of time that she was like, oh my god, this is what I used to feel like just two years ago. Or there's probably too many confounders. You know, she's always kind of colorically restricted to. And I don't know how much protein she was really eating when she wasn't. Yeah, but that's a good question. Talk to me about kids. So my daughter is 17. She's really trening hard. IMean, she runs cross country. She does tracks. She's in the weight room. Um, is she too young? No, she should she be taken creed in? Yes. Their studies out there on kids. And so, like, children, like younger than 17, that are doing like, so I'm going to be getting to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. If I remember correctly, it's like a 0.1 grams per kilogram body weight. I give my son like two and a half grams. Okay. And again, their studies out there that it's it improves agility is a big one in speed. So a lot of these studies were done more like an endurance. Like, because kids aren't like lifting weights. But so it improves like agility and speed. And would you for my daughter give her five? Yeah. Of course. She's also she's studying hard. Like, does she just need the full pen? Exactly. Um, could question because she is almost an adult, right? IMean, I don't think she's done. If it were me, I would do 10. All right. If it was my daughter. That, yeah, there's so you know, there's actually some studies that have been done in college students who are undergoing like taking a test and stuff. And of course, you're super proud when you're saying for the test and the creed team improves test score. So I'm I'm all in on the creed team. Like, my creed team budget, literally the household creed team budget just went up abouT4 same with the same average. Like, you know, like six months ago or so. But again, there's no again, the harm that people like claim, there's just it's unfounded. You know, like the kidney problems, like it doesn't cause first of all, as a physician, you know what the problem is. People are looking at creatinine. If you're like supplementing with creatine, you got to tell your physician. Well, the other thing is physicians listening to this, please make this another reason to just look at sustatency, please. I don't I'm sure the test costs an extra dollar. It's worth it. sustatency is a far more accurate way to measure and estimate GFR. And you don't have this problem of getting the confounded creatine levels increased. I know we have to get you out the door relatively soon because you were giving a talk today. But if we have a little bit more time, I want to talk something about a topic that is near and dear to both of our hearts, which is temperature. You know my journey on the sauna tren, right? I was probably the biggest sauna skeptic for many years. Not because I didn't love it. I love I just love to sauna. I just had a hard time believing that the data were causal, right? I was just like there's too much health to use or bias in here. But, you know, over the last five years, as I've looked closer and closer at the data, while I can't comment on the effect size, I think it's very difficult to comment on the effect size from all the epidemiology. It's very difficult for me to believe that there isn't a positive effect in terms of at least cardiovascular disease and dementia. So those are my priors. My priors are I'm now in a place where I actually view sauna as an intervention that can help an individual reduce their risk. And for me personally, because I don't really worry about cardiovascular disease anymore, it's so easy to manage the risk around that otherwise. But dementia is a very difficult risk to manage because, you know, there's fewer things we understand about the causal pathways to get there than we do, a, c, b, d. So in many ways, I'm in the sauna, not just because I enjoy it, not just because it's a wonderful social opportunity to be with your spouse. If that's how you choose to do it. But because I'm also banking a little bit on, hey, I want to get some benefit to my brain. So tell us where you are currently because you're one of the people who I think keeps up with this literature more than anybody. So tell us if anything has changed in your mind, one way or the other, both in increasing confidence, decreasing confidence, you know, just update us on where you are. Yeah, I am still a huge proponent of using deliberate heat exposure to improve your health, both cardiovascular and brain. I do think that the physiological mechanisms are somewhat in many, in some ways, mimicking some aspects of moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise and that is how it is improving cardiovascular health and also a pot and aspect of that brain health. Cardiovascular respiratory fitness that's been shown. There's been not only like observational data, but there's been intervention studies looking at endurance getting someone on a stationary site cycle and then adding the sauna on top of that and bio2 max improvements were greater in individuals that are also doing the sauna right after their trening. So anything that improves cardiovascular health is going to improve brain health. But there's another aspect to the story here and this kind of dates back to like the origins of my like one of my first biology, you know, experiments I did when I was actually a technician at the Salk Institute before I went to graduate school and that has to do with the heat shock protein response. And so we do know that heat stress in the form of either hot baths or going into a hot sauna. Infered sauna, a little different, you'd have to stand there really long, like a long time to get to get a real heat shock response. But if you're in like 163 degree Fahrenheit sauna for 30 minutes, we know that heat shock proteins increase about 50% over baseline. And what would be the equivalent exposure in steam or water? In the water, it's about 104 degrees for 20 minutes, like shoulders down. Okay. 20 minutes? Okay. Yeah, about 20 minutes. And then presumably if you're in a hotter dry sauna, less time is needed. Presumably we don't have that data. I'm just quoting the data that we that we in particular data that we have. And what tell me more about the IR? Because there are no questions I get asked more than hey, are all the benefits you're talking about, which all seem to come from studies in dry sauna, but they also applicable to to infrared saunas, to which the only data I can find is if you're using infrared, you actually have to rely on the change in skin temperature to know you've hit the if whereas in dry sauna, we can look at time and temperature and humidity. Right. Like if I know the temperature of the sauna, the humidity of the sauna and the duration that you're in there, I know what I know how to measure the effect size. We can't do that in IR. So we looked at some data that looked at basically thermal skin change. And I can't remember the numbers, so I don't want to get it wrong. It was either five or eight degree increase in skin temperature was necessary to produce similar benefits. What do you do know about this? I so I had not that. I don't know specifically about that, but I do know most of the studies that have been done comparing and they're not been many, maybe three or four that I can think of. They have compared a regular hot sauna to infrared sauna at the same amount of time. So in other words, the dose is the same. Obviously, the temperature difference is pretty vast. Depending on the study, the hot sauna could be, you know, one 60 or it could be 175 or 180, and the infrared is like 140 or something like that. So a lot of variation in terms of, you know, the temperature of the sauna. If you're looking at, there are having, in fact, there's like one study, like the title of something like infrared sauna, or like does not mimic cardiovascular effects of exercise or something like that. And that's because at this given dose, right? If you're just doing like a 20 or 30 minutes, it's not going to be the same. Like your heart rate doesn't go up as much. You don't feel as hot because the temperature is not as hot. Now you will sweat based on a different mechanism. But as far as my take of the literature, it's pretty clear to me that infrared sauna, if you want it to mimic the cardiovascular exercise response, you might have to double that. You might have to double that. Yeah. So rather than spending 20 minutes in 175 degree, 180 degree sauna, you're going to spend 40 minutes. Right. So you're giving up your time. If that's the kind of sauna that you either have or enjoy. Because if you do, and I've been in infrared sauna as many times, if you stay in long enough, like you get that, you feel hot and you feel that like heart rate going up just like you do when you're in a hot sauna. It just takes a lot longer. Now I know you've had Dr. Ashley Mason on this on your podcast. She's been on my podcast as well. We collaborate. She's awesome. She's awesome. She's awesome. And we collaborate on a variety of sauna studies. She does a lot of she wears a lot of hats. And her data, she's a psychologist by trening and she looks at depression and she's looking at depression as an endpoint in terms of these infrared saunas. And she's looking at core body temperature increases. Right. So people, their core body temperature is going up by almost two degrees. And in that case, IMean, she's got them in an infrared sauna for like 85 minutes. They're in there a long time. They are getting hot and she'll talk about it. You know, the people are, they've got, she's got assistance that are cooling them down on their head because it's a head out in infrared sauna. It's like basically like a bed. And anyways, that's a whole other area looking at the effects on mental health. And this, this actually stems from her mentor, Dr. Charles Razan, who I had on the podcast many years ago, he did this like really phenomenal pilot study looking at. It was kind of funny. It's called hyperthermia. So you're like, you're inducing hyperthermia, right? And it's like this funny chamber where it's increasing your core body temperature. But we're, actually, it's not using that anymore. She's established the heat bed as a, you know, same way. And what I think is the role of the head being hot. So when I am in our sauna, which is a dry sauna, I think, and I'll run it pretty hot. IMean, I'll run it above, at least 190. Okay. And again, part of it is I don't want to be in there for more than 20 minutes because time is tight. Time is my most precious commodity. So I'll rather do 190 to 200 for 20 minutes than go longer. But I will tell you, the most discomfort is in my head. Now, of course, part of it is I'm sitting on the top bench. And so temperature is hottest at the top. So I think my head is exposed to more heat than my torso, just based on that difference. But is there harm or benefit or do we know anything that's happening from any of these other metabolic parameters? I will, okay, to answer that question, it'll take me to hold all the directions. Should I go there right now? Or should I finish? No, I'm sorry, I'm finished because I want to get into that. Yeah. Yeah. So basically, the only point I was getting at was the pioneering study where people with major depressive disorder were exposed to this device where they're heating heating up their core body temperature by about two degrees. And they had an anodopress and effect that lasted six months compared to a sham control, which was also heating people up at not single treatment. Single treatment. Now Ashley has gone out and she's done four to eight treatments depending on the person whether or not they completed the whole study. And she didn't have a sham control, but she's got an a just phenomenal. How do you sham control that? So he, so what he did in his study was he had the same device that just got people a little bit warm enough where they were thinking they were getting the active treatment, but it was not crazy. It didn't hit the threshold. Yeah, I raised in there core body temperature by two. It was a phenomenal study. And this by the way, Peter, what got me interested in the sauna back in like 2008 when I started doing it like every day was I was I lived across the street from OIMCA and I was going into the sauna in the morning. It was freezing in Tennessee and I was going the sauna the morning before I would go into the lab to do my experiments. And I was going every single morning and saying it a long time because I was like, you know, I'm like, go, I'm kind of the thing and I love the heat. And it was incredible. The effect it was having on my mental health and my ability to deal with stress and anxiety. So much that I was like, this isn't saying what's going on nothing has changed other than I've been going to the sauna every day before I go and do all my failed experiments. And that's kind of what got me into the whole sauna was actually the effect of my mental health. So it's kind of fun to go full circle and team up with Ashley on some of this research as well. And she's amazing by the way. We've got some she's got some new studies coming out that are really in this whole field of sauna depression. I think just she's opening the door. So that said, the effect on the head. And you know, if you think about like hot tubs to Cousie's, right, we're all sitting with our head out as well, right, we're in there and it's it's it's it's a good question because I agree with you when I'm in a hot sauna and I'm also on the top and it's like the same deal. I want to get out in 20 minutes. If I stay in too long, I will get a headache. And I have no my I know my threshold now. I know the temperature and the duration and the amount of water on all the like I know all those variables. Isn't it amazing how much water you can drink in a sauna like I know it's it's I worry I'm going to get hype when I dream you I'm like you got slow this down. So the interesting thing is is that talking about dementia risk I talked about heat shock proteins and I kind of didn't even lay like one off on this tangent. Sorry, but the heat shock proteins what they do is they prevent proteins from misfolding and forming aggregates, right? And so you know it's it's obviously when you're getting into a hot sauna you are denaturing some proteins. And so your heat shock proteins are a stress response that's activated to help with the proper folding of those proteins that were kind of denatured somewhat from the heat that you were exposing yourself to. Well, it turns out the heat shock proteins stay active for a long time and so they end up having this like effect where you're now just improving the folding of proteins in general even after you're out of the hot sauna, right? So there's a lot of animal studies that have been done. I did a lot of studies and worms like many many years ago where you can take amilloid beta 42 injected into a worm muscle tissue and then activate heat shock proteins and it like prevents the aggregation and it prevents the muscle sort of paralysis that occurs in these worms. Animal studies have been done looking at amilloid beta and heat shock proteins and Alzheimer's disease. Again, it's having a protective effect. Now, is that the whole story? No, the cardiovascular effects are also important for brain health in my opinion, right? You know the data coming out of Dr. Yariat Lachman's lab showing that dementia and Alzheimer's disease risk is 66% lower in people that are using this on a 47 times per week versus just one time a week of course all that was at 179 degrees or greater for 20 minutes or greater. Yeah, like 175 or herncy benign exact for 20 minutes. Now here's where your question comes in and that is like what about the head and there was another study out of Finland. It was not Yariat Lachman's lab. It was another professor that I'm not aware of but this study looked at sawn a use in dementia risk and then it sort of it stratified the data based on temperature and it was protective again people that are using this on again. They're getting a protective effect against dementia but when people were going extreme so if they're going above 200 degrees Fahrenheit and they're on average it was like if they're getting to like 212 people do this by the way this is like you can go on Instagram and see it's not an uncommon thing. Their dementia risk was actually increased with that temperature or it was a really hot and my concern is the head at that high of a temperature. I've started wearing one of those sawn a hat. The sawn a hat. Yes. And again, I don't know why it works. Do you? It's not logical to me why it's hurting. It's why it's helping rather than. I don't know it's it does seem to help. IMean it shields probably some of the heat that you're being exposed to right because you're not a like a little bit but the fact that that's a net benefit because it's also got to be preventing you from dissipating heat but clearly what it's preventing coming in is the excuse but but it makes such a difference. Those IMean these cultures and like I'm aware of. I'm sorry dialed mine down a little bit. I used to be consistently going to at least 200 and now I'm like you know what honestly like 185 to 190 is good enough. I'm 180. I do 180. And my wife is going to be very happy if we dial it down to 180 because she's more she seems more sensitive to the heat than I am. I'm more sensitive to the heat than my husband is as well. I wonder if there's some kind of sex thing where yeah if it's definitely like I'm more sensitive to it. So so that's great. But this is important. So you really think that we could even dial it to 180 and just totally get the same benefit. That's the data is showing. Yeah I know. You know me more is better. It's not just you. It's a common you know it's like a go hard go home right. But I do think we're talking about a type of stress here right? Yeah and you have to get it or medically correct. Exactly exactly you know I don't know that the 2012 and I hope people that are out there doing the 2012 are like listening to this because it's too hot. There's no need for it. You're not there's no evidence you're getting added benefit and if anything there's potential benefit. But potential risk that you're in there. Exactly potential risk downside. I don't you know that's just one study. Yeah. Yeah. But it's enough to make me go. I don't like there's no there's no data showing we need that. So why are we doing that? Ron I know you got to go but I want to end with with just one onEQuestion and topic which is what year did you launch your podcast? I launched it in 2014. So here we are we're 11 years in you are the OG in this space you have an incredible podcast. Are you still enjoying it and what are you most excited about? I love doing the podcast. I don't do it every week like some people. I like to find the guests that I'm really interested in learning from. What I love the most is I've always learned more from the conversations I would have with my colleagues or professors than I would from reading a paper. And now I get to do that for a living where I'm just having like these superstars on my podcast and they get to learn so much from I read their papers first but I also I I learned so much from the conversation and and then people get to like benefit from it. IMean it's so rewarding. So I get to like each my own you know, your scratch my own age and then I also get to like help people. Well you know I just want to make sure that everybody listening kind of understands your place in the podcast podcast landscape which is I've talked about one of my favorite podcasts probably my favorite podcast or one of my two favorite podcasts in the world is called a choir. So a choir does a podcast about companies, great companies and what makes them great and the hosts of that Ben Gilbert and David Rosenthall they only put out one a month on average. But the reason is the amount of work that they have to put into the preparation is insane and I've gotten to know Ben especially and you know I think Ben is putting at least 120 hours of preparation into each podcast and therefore you can only do one a month and it shows. So in many ways I think of you as the acquired podcast version in our space which is just the the breadth and the depth of what you're doing is is awesome. It's such a treat and it's just it's always it's always quality over quantity and yeah I'm sure if you could put out one a week you would but the real obvious you wouldn't be able to put in thEQuality if you were trying to bang one of these things out a week and so anyway I'm just I'm glad to hear you're still loving it and it's hard to believe how fast time has gone. I remember being on your podcast in 2014 so that's kind of insane. Yeah you were like one of the first 10 guests I've had. I don't think I knew what I'm IMean I sort of knew what a podcast was because Tim Ferris had had me on his but it was like I didn't really understand what this was I was like I wonder why she want to talk to me like it seems kind of random but it looked at how much it's evolved right? I know well thank you for the kind words and I feel the same about your podcast you know when I'm when I'm looking for information that I know I contrast it's always like I'm like what I a Peter Peter Peter Peter someone that I've always been able to trust for being rigorous right and really like like you said if something changes then you change and then I respect that. Ronda it is it this has been super interesting as is always the case there were about 80% more things we were supposed to talk about today but I'm really glad that we got to the topics we talked about. I think the the protein question the creatinEQuestion and this nuance around temperature are all things that matter to everybody and and in two of the three cases I learned a lot. Obviously in the protein side it was more about you and I trying to set the record straight but I this creatine stuff is new it's going to change what I do and also you're going to you've already made a change to what I'm going to do in the sauna so anyway thanks again this was awesome. Thanks Peter for having me on I really appreciate it.

=== FILE: 371 – Women’s sexual health： desire, arousal, and orgasms, navigating perimenopause, and more [_SZUHFA8KyM].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Sally, thank you so much for coming out to Austin. Thank you for having me. This is a topic that on the surface might seem somewhat directed towards 50% of the population, but I think it's safe to say it's probably going to be directed towards a hundred percent of the population. So you have a practice, you're an OBGYN, but your focus is not just on maybe the standard OBGYN things, but really around women's sexual health. Is that a fair assessment? That would be a fair assessment. Yes, from a hormonal and physiologic perspective. Yes. Awesome. Well, by the way of background, we were introduced through a mutual friend slash patient who had listened to the Rachel Rubin. The reason to the Rachel Rubin podcast that I did recently was super impressed by it and said you have got to speak with Sally and one thing led to another and we are now speaking. So let's start by helping people understand why would a podcast that focuses on health, longevity, all of these things that pertain to living longer and better. Why would sex be an important part of that discussion? Well, I'm having a hard time understanding how sex couldn't be a part of that conversation. I think, you know, first of all, this is a performance driven podcast. And so for the 50% of your listeners who are male, if you want to improve your performance, I'm going to give you facts and anatomical descriptions and describe some pathophysiology so that you can improve your performance. This is clearly sexual health is health. And when you look at your longevity levers and you think about your centenarian to Catholic and what you want to do when you're 100. For many people, this is on the list and I want to talk about how to structure your life and get you ready to do that. I also think that there's probably a small group of listeners similar to myself who always thought that the drive was supposed to be about sex drive and that you just had a branding era when you named it the drive. So for those people as well, we're finally going to talk about the drive that you actually care about, which is extra. So there's a lot to sort of unpack there, but I think I want to kind of go back and talk a little bit about something you said vis-a-vis the actual health component of this, right? So if you if you if you look at this through the lens of just evolution, everybody clearly understands why sex is important and it's the single most important thing in the propagatianavar species. But can you say a little bit more about how it actually factors into health? And I don't just mean emotional and mental health where I think we could easily make that connection. Is there any evidence whatsoever that a healthy sex life plays a direct role in in health as it pertains to disease? Definitely. I'll start out with my two caveats, though, which is one. This is an understudied under investigated area of our health. That's part of my messaging today. So many of the studies that I'll reference are not going to be robust in volume. And second, this is an incredibly heteronormative conversation for that reason. This is a data driven podcast and I don't have a lot of data on non heteronormative meeting. Men do identify as men having sex with women who identify as women. So that should alarm you as well that we don't have that data, but that's sort of the space in which if we're going to stay in a data rich zone that's where we have to stay. And also the discrepancy when you look at sexual health is greatest among those two participants. When we look at sexual health and we try to make the argument that sexual health is a part of health. You know, we can sort of use your longevity framework if we start with sleep. There is great data. We know that when you are sexually active with or without orgasm, just participation in a sexual activity. You switch from sympathetic to parasympathetic. So post orgasm. You have a great activation of the parasympathetic nervous system. You release neurotrensmitters, dopamine, oxytocin. These are relaxing neurotrensmitters. And when we study it either via diary or via there's great studies that look at resting heart rate, sleep latency. Many of the measurements that we look to in terms of looking at sleep efficiency and quality, subjectively and objectively improve within of course. What's really interesting and why I want to pull in all listeners, not just 50 percent is there was a great trial that looked at how women slept after an orgasm with themselves and they slept better. And then it looked at women being intimate with a man and they slept better. But women being intimate with a man and having orgasm with that man synergistically improved their sleep. You're getting sort of the dual benefit of that neuro pharmacology that you're releasing from your brain improving your biometrics. But also there's a connection and intimacy, a partnership that we know faster is better sleep. Cardiovascular health, this is also limited. We don't have tons, but we know that sex can mimic a lot of the pathophysiology that we experience during exercise. There's been arguments over the decades about is it low intensity, moderate intensity. I think it depends on the couple. But we have studies that have tried to measure the metabolic equivalence or essentially the energy output for women on average. It's around six to seven metabolic units for every sexual encounter. It's about 60 to 70 calories used during sexual activity. And there's a great study that compared this to walking slowly on a treadmill for the same amount of time. And they said that all those sex was slightly lower in your energy export than walking on the treadmill. Many of the participants reported that they had a much better time having sex than they did walking on the treadmill. And so it's still something to consider. We know the net sort of tapping into the body's natural pharmacology. Think about neurotrensmitters and the sort of positive impact on mood and relationships. It's really interesting to think about from a relationship perspective. I think what I don't want to say what I don't believe is that everyone has to have lots of sex and that's, you know, sort of, and that there's a number that we're trying to target. Is there a number needed to treat? Is there a dose that we're trying to go for? No, there's no studies on that, but I also don't believe that every person every couple is different. When you look at couples, I like to look at sort of who's having sex and by what frequency. And so about 20% of couples and this is ages 30 to 60, about 20% of couples are having sex twice a week or more. About 10% of couples are what we call never having sex and that means in the last year. And about 70% of couples are having sex between those, meaning one, some month, twice a month, sort of around that number. When you look at risk factor for divorce, it's the same across all numbers in the sense that it doesn't matter how much sex you're having. You could never have sex. You could have lots of sex. The divorce risk factor is what we call sexual desire discordance or one partner wants more and one partner wants less. And so identifying that as the risk factor, I hope gives people sort of affirmation or interest in the fact that if you want to work on it, I will help you, but not everyone has to. This is not a podcast about everyone needs to go work on their sexually, but if you do, also go through the normal path of physiology and some additional tips and tricks. To help you have a healthier sex life. All right. So two things I just want to reiterate that you've said that that are both important and at least interesting to me. One is. Discoordinates of desire is a much bigger risk factor than anywhere you lie on the distribution of if I recall 10% of people are basically asexual 20% of couples, or is it 10% of couples 20% of couples are at twice a week or greater. Basically, two thirds of couples are somewhere in between. So that's very interesting. Second thing you said, I can't resist coming back to the centenary into Kathana. I've wide you brought it up because it is one of the items on our list on the framework that we hand to patients. When we ask patients to pick the 10 most important things that they want to be able to do in their marginal decade and the last decade of their life. And I would say about two thirds of our patients select having sex as one of those 10 activities. That says something given that we're giving people a list of about 150 things to choose from all of which arEQuite tempting. And to go back to your point about meds, if seven meds is what is required energetically to have sex, we can convert that into VO2. So seven meds trenslates to about a VO2 of 25 milliliters per kilogram per minute, which means if you want to be able to have sex in your marginal decade, you need to have a VO2 max of probably about 30 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Why? Because it would be pretty tough to have sex if you were doing it right at your maximum VO2. That would be like me asking you to do the fastest 800 meter run you've ever done and bring that level of exertion to sex. You got to be a little bit below your limit. And while most adults can easily muster a VO2 max of 30 milliliters per kilogram per minute. If you want to be able to achieve that in your 80s or 90s, when your your age, you're a lot younger than me, you need to be probably north of 45 or 50. So if I could just make one more shameless plug for having a high VO2 max, it's going to allow you to be sexually active in the last decade of your life. I think in addition to that, it would be great if at the end of this, we had a list of a few sort of action items in addition to a minimal VO2 max that we could consider a toolkit in order to get this action as something that's actually attainable on your centenarian list. Let's talk a little bit about, well, let me ask a very silly question. When it comes to understanding what an orgasm means for a man, it seems relatively straightforward in that it's tied to a jaculation. And well, there are examples where a man can have a retrograde ejaculation due to exemplary use of medication. And he can still have an orgasm, but you're not actually witnessing an ejaculation with with women. But how is an orgasm actually defined? Is it a biochemical response in the brain? Is it a muscular contraction in the body? Help me and help us understand that. I think it's important to say that we're going to talk about normal things. Yes, there's a lot of pathophysiology and deviations to what's normal and you should see a doctor and we can talk to you about it. But similar to sort of your focus on what's normal in men, to describe what's most normal in women is a rhythmic contraction of the pelvic floor muscles. It is there's four stages to an orgasm. It starts with the excitement phase, which is an engagement of the pelvic tissues. There's increased blood flow. There's lubrication released by the skin's glands and other glands of the vaginal canal. Then there's plateau phase that is predominantly in neurotrensmitter phase in a hormone release phase. You can stay in that for a variety of time periods. It's person in partnership dependent. There's the orgasm and then there's the resolution phase. And these four stages understanding how they work and where you are in that stage can allow for the introduction of interventions that can improve your sexual life or help you foster a healthier life in general. What is the period of time in which a woman will go from those first to fourth phases? Again, I realize there's going to be a lot of variation. But what would be sort of considered interquortile range of that trensit? So it really depends when women are on their own. It's the average time to orgasm is less than four minutes. And when women are with a partner, it's upwards of like 21 to 25 minutes. Question there. With a partner, you could still have it manual. You could stay because it's to be oral. And that's the inner course. So how much does that really skews the data? I don't have the numbers on that. I don't think we have that. And women are actually individually so different as well. An interesting takeaway from your interest in looking at those numbers is to think about a statistic we do know, which is thaT4 play last in greater than 21 minutes over 90% of women orgasm. So it's really sort of interesting and enlightening to think about, oh gosh. So time actually does matter in that stage. And why do we care abouT4 play what's happening during that time? That's sort of when you're in the excitement phase, building up towards orgasm. So blood is flowing to the area. So we think about your anatomy changes. So the vagina that's usually like three and a half by nine. So three and a half inches wide by nine inches deep. We'll actually get longer and wider. And why do we care? 30% of women will experience pain within a course. So actually appropriate for play where the vagina not only gets wider and longer, but actually the angle of the vagina changes. And I think this is something that I love talking to couples about because I have many women who will say, you know, my wife is a woman who will say, you know, my partner loves this position and often it's a deep penetration position. But it really hurts me. And I see how much for play is going on. And so if there's not enough for play, you don't actually change the angle of the vagina or change the angle of the canal. And so you will experience more pain. You'll have the tightness of the pelvic floor muscles and pain fosters pain. You can get into a pain cycle. And so actually appropriate amount of for play, allowing the angle of the vagina to change can allow women to participate in positions. Most commonly we call doggy style or sort of deeper penetration positions, which can then be sort of a part of your repertoire if you're interested in that. So what about just kind of the differences in ability to achieve orgasm? The so called orgasm gap. What can you tell us about that? I hope I've proven to you that sexual health, pleasure, orgasms are a part of health. And so I think when we then look at the disparities in how different parties will participate or receive enjoyment out of these activities. I hope it highlights to you how important it is that we work on this. And so I'm going to quiz you now, which is what percent of men do you think report when they're having sex with a woman? Report that they almost every time have an orgasm? 95 percent. 95 percent. And what about women? What percentage of women would report always be able to have an orgasm with a male partner? Correct. 50 percent. 30 percent. And what about for a one night stand? What percent of women are having orgasms on one night stands with men? Well, if it's 30 percent on a regular basis, I would say 10 to 20 percent. That's around 12 percent. What about men at one night stands? Still 95 percent? Correct. 90. Actually I should say it's 90 percent. And so when we think about the orgasm, so if I prove into you that sexual health is health, and if we understand that orgasm is one metric that we can use, it's not the end all be all. There's other sort of satisfaction intimacy connection, pleasure benefits that women get out of intercourse, but this is one numeric finding that we can track. This disparity or this discrepancy is a big deal. And this disparity in how women experience pleasure becomes a health disparity because of sexual health is health and women are not experiencing it with the same amount of pleasure that men are. This is a health disparity. By the way, within women, does orgasm at all correlate with underlying health? Yes. We do. We see that we know that orgasm is related to strengths of the pelvic floor, vascular blood supply, so there are issues. So there's a lot of sort of bidirectional, you know, if you're healthy enough to be able to have an orgasm, then you can have an orgasm and if you're having orgasms, you're likely healthier. So there's a lot to that. And we know that by directionality, but I think still looking at the numbers. I'm hoping that you're thinking, my gosh, this is this matters, this is a big deal. We should, you know, we classically think about sexual health as sort of an afterthought. When we think about longevity, we think about cancer screening and prevention and chronic diseases and now sleep and exercise. And once we've sort of addressed all of those, we now have the luxury of addressing sexual health. And I just think we should put it a little higher on the list. Okay. So let's talk a little bit more about foreplay. When I think when most people here for play, they assume what anything that is sexual shy of intercourse, how do we define foreplay? Great question. There's medical definitions of foreplay and social social definitions tend to say anything outside of penetrative intercourse. Medical definitions rely more on the physiologic changes that are happening in your body, increased blood flow, recruitment of a swelling of the clitoral nerve. Physiologic signals from your brain that sort of prepare you emotionally to participate in this interaction. What's most interesting to me about this is when we think about sort of, let's start with desire. When we think about desire, we think of more of this spontaneous desire. Spontaneous desire is more common in men. Spontaneous desire is only present in about 15% of women. Women have what we call is responsive desire. So sorry, just help me understand that. Oh, you were just about to the point spontaneous. Yes, so spontaneous desire is you've been married for 20 years. You see your partner get out of the shower for the 8,845th time and you think to yourself. That's spontaneous desire. That's sort of desire in anticipation of intimacy. Responsive desire is you see your partner get out of the shower for the 8,645th time and you think, did I sign up for the right treadmill tomorrow morning at 6am? And that's because your brain's just not there. That's not the same place as your partner. But if your partner comes over and starts to rub your shoulders and rub your feet or maybe has made dinner, we call chore play, which is where sort of emotional investments in the relationship can sometimes lead to, to responsive desire using lubrication. And we'll talk about how to use Loub using a vibrator sort of creating an environment in which you are capable of being aroused. That's responsive desire. And thinking about what's happening in that circumstance can be really helpful in validating for women and it can help their partners get them there too with those middle of sort of being aligned in your sexual desire from a frequency perspective. And so you're saying it's more typical that men experience spontaneous desire where arousal comes on in a moment. In anticipation and anticipation and often based on perhaps a visual cue. For women that is less common. Correct. But not impossible. Correct. And so acknowledging that there's a few sort of lessons that we can take from that. The first is if you're listening to this podcast and you want to work on your desire, if you're waiting for your husband to get a new shirt or a new selfie or anything, the visual stimulus is not evidence based. Stop waiting for that. I want you to think about. What about getting a new car? I love one, but no, but just to be clear, I would love one. I want you to think about how you get responsive desire in response to arousal and how we do that is lubrication. So we know how to use loop most of us do. You're in the act. You take some lubricant. You put it on the penis. You put it on the vagina. You have intercourse. I want to sort of encourage you to think about loop potentially using it 30 minutes prior to intercourse. So I want you to take a silicone based loop and I'll tell you why in a moment. I want you to think about using a loop shooter, which is a little droplet to take some of the loop and put it in a higher up in the vaginal canal. And then I want you to read a book, drink a cup of tea, wash your face. Women as you sort of alluded to are less visually stimulated into desire. There's great data that women like to read, erotic literature and there's great apps for that meat rosy, dipcia or great companies that are in the same way. There's great data that mindfulness can work for women. Lori brought a wrote a book called, better sex through mindfulness. Thinking about breathing techniques, staying present in the moment. My favorite strategy for this is to describe to yourself in your head not allowed. What's happening? My breathing is relaxing. My vagina feels wet. Sort of talking yourself through what's happening from a pathophysiologic perspective to bring yourself to the right. But when we think about how to curate that arousal, essentially what you're doing is showing up at the party and then seeing what happens. And there's no expectations what happens at the party. But Emily Nagowski who wrote, come as you are, talks about, you know, it's Friday night. And you really want to put on your bathrobe and watch love island. But instead you're going to go to a party with your friends because you said you would. And you get there and it's actually kind of fun. So you stay and you have a good, you have a good time. You have a drink. You actually like your like it when you're there. That's the sort of idea behind curating your own arousal desire through arousal, which is use of vibrator, use some lubricants relax. Get in the moment. Start to participate and if you don't want to obviously consent is of utmost importance and stop. But if you sort of start participating and decide that you're happy that you're there and you like it, please stay and have a good time. Okay, a lot of questions come up and you said all those things. Let's start with the need for lubrication. So I very naively have assumed that women who are young enough, right? So not even approaching estrogen withdrawal are not having an issue with lubrication. That clearly must be incorrect or you wouldn't be stating this. So what can you say about perhaps the differences in the amount of lubricant and maybe even just talk a little bit. Physiologically about where is this what is what is the loop that is naturally made? Where is it coming from and what drives variability both across women and within a given women's life? Let's not even talk about it within her life within a given month or something like that. You know, you're correct with that line of questioning to sort of assume that throughout the month. Women will have different levels of lubrication medications can impact lubrication. Life age, life cycle. There's so many factors that go into your ability to have the amount of lubrication that you need in order to have a comfortable sexual encounter. This idea that we just use loop need loop as we age. I want to completely dispel. I think the majority of women need lubrication and should use it. The reason the way that we sort of naturally get looped in our vagina is from a variety of different glands that work, you know, better or worse. There's the skin's glands that sort of support the vagina which are where they're right on either side of the urethra. And fun fact about this many people will have more prolific skin's glands in the sense that they can sort of shoot the lubrication a little bit stronger. So when we sort of talk about women who what we call squirt it's actually the skin's glands releasing lubrication in a more aggressive form. There's barthylins glands that produce lubrication that are commonly known for their likely hit to sometimes get clogged into cause pain. But there's so much that goes into lubrication and it's so important throughout the life stages that the WHO, the World Health Organization actually has guidelines in terms of how to pick out your loop. And if you're wondering right now, how I never knew that the WHO cares so much about my sexual life, that's that's wonderful. They don't they care about HIV trensmission and picking the appropriate loop. Deacreases micro abrasions less friction less tearing less HIV trensmission. But we can sort of take this data into the pleasure world and think about sexual health and sort of what so what types of loop should we use I think is the next part of that question. Well, actually I want to go back and ask a different question, which is isn't there sort of a min max optimization problem around loop because friction is also part of what is necessary at least for the male to have an orgasm. How much does it matter for the female. Less so friction is friction matters less so to women and let's talk about the literal nerve anatomy to answer that question. I I'm going to leave this for you as a gift, but I I'll keep it on my desk. It's pure pure gold. So you may want to put it in your safe, but this is sort of the anatomy of the Clarice and what you're looking at is sort of what we tend to discuss in terms of clear all not many typically we talk about is the tip of the iceberg or the the Clarice. But there's there's the crew of the Clarice and there's the vestibule which is an engagement structure when blood comes to the area. Your labia menorah would be here and your labia majora would be here this would make up the vulva. When we think about the literal nerve it actually has two types of nerve fibers in it. One is a type A nerve fiber and one is type C type A response to vibration and a response to deep pressure and type C response to heat and light touching. So A is vibration and deep pressure and C is heat and light touching. What's really interesting about using this to answer your question is that there's you don't friction is not a requirement to hit any of those four metrics. And actually is so significantly associated with migrataring and pain with the 30% of women experiencing pain within our course. I would argue that women need no friction. But to think about how that nerve changes over time is really fascinating because type A fibers the vibration and a deep pressure. They have a mild and sheath around them. And so they age better. The nerve is protected by a mild and sheath are more resistant to degradation. And that's the A fiber. And that's the A fiber. And so I have women come in to my clinic and they say I've been with my partner for 35 years. We do this position for six minutes. It always works. It's not working. And I say have you considered using a vibrator or introducing a vibrator into your sex life. And there's a law. I don't know if my partner would feel good about that. I don't want him to make him feel. And I sort of say this is an evidence-based intervention. Understanding the science of myelin sheets and nerve degradation. This has nothing to do with your husband and nothing to do with your relationship. How would you do that? So if a woman comes in and says in this position, it's exactly as you just said, When you're saying introduce a vibrator, do you mean use it doctor or before or during. I see. So put the vibrator externally. And there's different types of vibrators. Some are internal. But if you're trying to pick a vibrator that you want to use when you're with a partner. Buying something like a wand. So something that sort of has a is long enough that you can reach the structure in a variety of positions. Something Jimmy Jane makes a nice wand. Goop the wand makes a great great product as well. Did you bring any of these? You know, I a long discussion with your staff about what you wanted to laid out on the table and the net net was no. Oh, we might have been a strategic error. I don't think that I think people at least I'm kind of curious as to what these products are. We'll link to them in show notes. That sounds great. There are air pulse vibrators that you can put on the clitoris. These are sort of all external vibrators that you can sort of bring into a partnered encounter to have an evidence based way to continue to achieve orgasm. Because that is one of your greatest ways in which you can continue to maintain a healthy sex life. And again, not to get too graphic, but just because if I'm asking this question, I'm sure someone watching this is. If you're talking about a sexual position where the man is on top of the woman and she's using an external vibrator. Does the man also receive some pleasure from that? He might and there are more strategic ways that you can try to do that. If the man likes that, but there's ways that the man can angle his pelvis that he doesn't he may or he doesn't feel it. He doesn't have to. You want to go back to something about the female ejaculation that all of that ejaculatory material seems external. Not in the sense. So yeah, so how is the vagina being lubricated inside? So they've actually studied as the Kinsey Institute. Put has great studies where they put cameras inside the vagina and they actually watched the vagina essentially sweats. The cells of the vaginal canal release water molecules. There's cervical mucus that also serves as a lubricant as well. Again, all of these things very dependent upon hydration and medications and things like that. So you can understand the importance of sort of making sure it is appropriately lubricated through the use of external lubricants. But yeah, there's many different ways. So the vagina sweats the cervical mucus and then the glands that that's secret, mucus into the canal. And for women who do experience that ejaculation that's perfectly normal, do they have control over that? Most people think that they do not. Most people think they do not in terms of like how much if you're more hydrated, if you're more relaxed, but no, in general, people do not believe that you, that it's a normal physiologic response that you cannot control. And it doesn't imply a better orgasm. No. Okay. And what was the frequency again of women who achieved that? Squirting. I actually don't have statistics on that. I don't know. Maybe a helpful thing to do right now would actually be to go over a little bit of the anatomy. And I see that you brought a model that I think will make it easier for everyone to kind of understand. So I want to start by asking when you deal with your female patients who presumably are much more familiar with this anatomy than men are. What surprises you the most when a woman comes into your clinic. And you're taking care of her. What are you most surprised by in terms of her lack of knowledge about her own body? In its humicle lack of education from a- This literacy? Literacy. From a, where was this like, education? Well, did we have it? Did we go, IMean, from a verbiage perspective referring to the vaginas, the vaginal. That's the vaginal canal is the vagina, the vulva is the outside of the vagina. There's Libia, Majora, and Minora. And all the way down to the, to the clitoral nerve and sort of the fact that it has different different nerve routes. And so if we think about, you know, looking at this model, this is sort of if a female is lying down on her back, that's the angle that you're looking at. There was a great study that was done recently that said that only 41% of Gen Z men could accurately identify the clitoris on. A, pictorial. Women, a surprisingly. What would that be for Gen X? Like how much of that is a representation of declining intimacy as, as people are in younger generations, or is that a general statement of men period? I take from that sex education needs to get better. IMean, I sort of take from that the need for better sex education that's actually anatomical and not fear-based. So women as well, IMean, most women, not all, do know about the clitoral hood, or which is the clitoris or the bulb. That's what we sort of think about in terms of the iceberg. But what women often don't know is that they have sort of what we call is the vestibule of the clitoris, which are these sort of bulb-like structures that can receive engagement, or when there's an increase in blood flow. And then there's the crew of the clitoris, which is these nerve structures that go on either side of the Libia, Minora. It's a wish-bone-like structure, and what's really fascinating is to sort of normalize that anatomy can and should look different. There's a great website called the Libia Library that normalizes all different types and sizes of Libia, Minora and Minora. But the wish-bone structures are often asymmetric as well, and so it is quite common for a woman to experience clitor, greater pleasure on one side of the vagina versus the other. Meaning that this nerve root of the clitoris may be thicker or more sensitive. There's over 8,000 nerve roots as a part of the clitoris, and there can be more focused on one side versus the next. And so I hope that half of your listeners are thinking, I always wondered why I was a righteer. I always, I am a lefteer, but I also hope the other 50% are wondering if you've been with your partner for a long enough time. I hope you know if your partner is a righteer or a lefteer because there's asymmetry in how we experience pleasure. And then very interestingly is that there is, you know, if you're sort of looking at the tip of the clitoris, there's a nerve root. There's a part that goes sort of inside the vagina, and that's what we talk about in terms of social terms we talk about the G-spot. And what that is is it's a branch of the clitoris that runs along the anterior or the front part of the vagina. It's about a third into the vagina. The best way to find it is to, if your sort of, if a woman is trying to find it on herself is to take her dominant hand, middle finger, stick it as far as you can. It's sort of do a come-hitter movement or sort of movement of the finger towards the top part of the vaginal wall. It's easier to find when you're aroused because there's an agreement of the tissues. It feels a little more regated, and you'll know that you're there if you feel a sensation to urinate, but if you relax into that you won't. And so only about 10% of women now are able to orgasm from stimulation of that internal branch of the clitoris nerve. There's some data that shows that with education that can go up as they're talking to women about how they can find the anterior branch of their clitoris nerve. Not only allows them different ways to orgasm, but also gives them a sense of empowerment and sort of ownership to sort of talk their partner through how to sort of maintain pleasure. But for those people who can't have orgasms from the inner part of their vagina, the other 90% are having orgasms from external stimulation of the clitoris nerve. And so Dr. Lauren Stryker says, you know, for the 10% of women who can orgasm via the G-spot or the anterior branch, that's great. And she diagnoses the other 90% who can't orgasm from stimulation of the internal nerve as normal. So it's totally normal if you can't have an orgasm from that part of the clitoris nerve, but many women after hearing this podcast, I hope try. Partner should try. It has a little bit, it has better blood supply than the tip of the iceberg. And so as we age, this is one of my favorite techniques for women in the parrymenopause and menopausal period as their hormones change and the nerve fiber degrades a little bit. Teaching women how to have orgasms from the part of the nerve that is better, better has a better blood supply can help maintain pleasure and help maintain interest in sexual activity as we age. All right, so when a woman is having intercourse and maybe for the percentage of guys who might not be familiar, can you point out where the entry to the vagina is on this model? Yeah, so here's entry to the vagina. Of those, there is some statistics that talk about what percentage of women can orgasm simply by having penetrative intercourse, so penis here. And what's interesting is that the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening is variable. And the shorter the distance, they tend to say less than one inch, the shorter the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening, the more likely you are to be able to orgasm during penetrative intercourse. And that's because the distance is so short that the angle of the man's body is sort of able to stimulate that area. If that distance is greater, you're less likely to be able to orgasm simply from penetrative intercourse. Q introducing a vibrator or manual stimulation, it's such a thing. So what percentage of women are able to intercourse without any stimulatory vibrator or anything like that from intercourse less than 10%. Wow, so it's the same number that you have from the G spot. So if a woman is listening to this and she's never had an orgasm through intercourse, she is in the 90% there's nothing wrong with her. We would diagnose her as normal. And for those women out there who are regularly achieving an orgasm through intercourse, you're in the minority in. Or they're doing external, more likely they're doing external stimulation of the clitoris. Those those graves statistics are without any external manipulation of the clitoris. So for women who are achieving orgasm with a partner is because they've identified positions with their partners. They're using manual stimulation, they're introducing vibrators. They've figured out regardless of distance of clitoris to vaginal opening how to stimulate the clitoris, the external part of the clitoris. And I like to talk about anatomy so that patients can sort of think about their own individual anatomy. Talk to their partners about it and think about if there's someone who needs to sort of introduce that external stimulation. Or she'll they as a couple just try to find the anterior branch of the clitoris or if there's lots you can you can do as a part of that. How often do you have men in your practice who are there with their female partners who you're trying to educate? For a sexual health consult 20% at the time. And what is the most common? I don't want to use the word ignorance, but what is the most common thing that you appreciate about men when you're helping them in terms of their lack of understanding about the their partners and actually. The their partners anatomy. Giving men a roadmap being very descriptive, you know men most partners want their partners to be happy. It's not you know there's the selfish aspect of performance and there's the sexual empathy component where they care about their partner and they want their partner to feel well. Giving them a roadmap to sort of explore around and find the anterior branch and think about the wishbone structures is really exciting to them. Desire spontaneous desire thinking through that is really exciting for them how they tap into that how they can curate that with your their partner thinking about their partners or Rousal. And then sort of supporting there's a communication component I think when we think about sexual dysfunction. We tend to break it down into a biosyco social model. I like to talk mostly about bio. I'm a clinical physician. I'm a guy in ecologist so I think a lot about anatomy and pathophysiology and neurotrensmitters and hormones. But there's a lot of other people in this field that are helping with psychosocial sex therapists communication. There's a great book called Sex Talks by Vanessa Merin, which talks about how to communicate with your partner. Clitorate is a great book to think through different ways that you can sort of improve your communication about what pleasures you and how to investigate that. There's really good websites now.OMgyes.com is a website that sort of talks about your anatomy and how to find it and how to find your pleasure spots. So there's a lot out there. I'm not alone in the space by any means, but I like to think about it from a very sort of biologic physiologic perspective. You mentioned a moment ago for example that a number of women are able to have an orgasm during intercourse. But it requires them using their own hand for example. How much does a woman control her ability to have an orgasm by the way she positions her pelvis? Female dependent and depends on her own anatomy. So if you're thinking about how far your Clitoral hood is from your vaginal opening thinking about if you're a lefty or a righty, understanding your anatomy, exploring your anatomy can help you sort of figure this out and talk to your partner about it. So yes, there is a good amount of control that women can have over this, but the first step is understanding their own anatomy. And it is a myth that if a woman uses a vibrator regularly on her own, it makes it harder for her to have an orgasm with her male partner or unless she becomes dependent on using it as well. It is a myth. There are in a sense that there is data on either side. And so there is some data that talks about if you sort of acclimate to sexual practices that you cannot bring into a partner model, maybe harder to have orgasms in a partner situation, but if you are comfortable using whatever technique you find upon your own time, and you can bring that into your relationship, then you're more likely to have orgasms. And so thinking about whatever it is that you're doing and however it is that you're doing it, if you can sort of inject that into your life with your partner, you are more likely to have orgasms. There is really good data that sort of orgasms, you get orgasms meaning like the more orgasms you have, the easier it is to have an orgasm in terms of trening. The system sort of learning, you know, your body's response to stimuli can be trened. Your body's response to things can be trened. And I think from a going back to sort of how we could use this from a desire perspective, there is good data that sex begets sex meaning, the more sex that you have, the more sex that you want. And so I talked to my patients about scheduled sex as a way to sort of work on your desire and most of my patients when I bring up scheduled sex are like, oh my god, another thing I have to do, like, what a hassle. And I sort of, I point out the fact that you've always scheduled sex, right? Like when you met your partner and your partner said, what are you doing Friday? He was scheduling sex with you. And when you said sushi sounds good and you shaved your armpits and put on a nice t-shirt, you were planning for sex. So you were prioritizing your sex life in a way. And so scheduling sex is a great technique that we use. How that sort of rolls out is depends on the patient and what frequency they're going for, but I have my patients do what I call a fuck it February, where I essentially have my patients having sex scheduling sex two to three times a week for the month of February. It's a romantic month. It's the shortest month of the year. And this sort of takes pressure off of patients wondering, you know, the person who's been the initiator sort of gets to relax and not have to worry about rejection. And the person who has been less interested knows that they're sort of working through in a rousal pathway, they're working on responsive desire. And scheduling just means that you'll show up. You don't have to have sex, but you just show up and you try it. And there's great data that sort of after a month women will sort of have that maintenance of, you know, their increased desire. And so you can sort of write on that for a couple of months. You mentioned earlier discordance as an issue, discordance of desire. How often is the discordance in one direction versus the other so how often is the discordance at the mail wants more than the female advice versus. I wish I had a specific number for you. We can probably look that up and put that in the notes, but anecdotally I'll say it is most often. And then the higher desire than the female does it say anything about the couple if it's the reverse or is it. I anecdotally as well have I have the reverse as well. And there's so much that goes into this in terms of like, you know, the partner is health status and chronic diseases and and, you know, stressors that works. So there's a lot to sort of think through and it can happen both it can go both ways, but by far and large it is predominantly the mail with the stronger sexual desire. And so on the topic of sexual desire, what are the, you know, because this podcast is called the drive and we're talking about cars. What are what's the throttle and what's the break pedal on sexual desire for men and for women and I assume it's different. I would assume it's different to I never talk about men because I'm not an expert in men's sex life. So I'm going to all over cues that to the next guest. But when we think about women, we think about accelerators and breaks. It's a common framework that we use from a social behavioral perspective like, you know, what helps you feel relaxed and what turns you off. But from a pathophysiologic perspective, we think about neurotrensmitters. And so accelerators from a neurotrensmitter perspective would be things like estrogen and testosterone, nitric oxide, dopamine and oxytocin. And those sort of five neurotrensmitters are in a complex interplay to sort of tell our brain and our body through a variety of different pathways. I'd like to participate in intercourse estrogen is very interesting because although we know, you know, there's different types of estrogen receptors throughout the body. But when it comes to sort of sex drive, we think about alpha receptors, which stimulates sex drive and beta receptors, which decreases anxiety and inhibition. And not as clear cut when we replace estrogen. It's not a slim dunk that you cannot make the connection then that oh, so if I replace estrogen as it's dropping, I fixed my sex drive all as well. To stastroon has a little bit more of a direct link to that. So when we think about, for example, the postmenopausal female and I'll use the term menopaus hormone therapy over hormone replacement therapy. And I would be so excited if you switched your nomenclature as well. But I think when we think about postmenopausal women, we think about menopaus hormone therapy replacing estrogen. We sometimes do see an improvement in sex drive, but that's usually through an indirect pathway. You're sleeping better. You have more energy. Like you're not having as many hot flashes. So we'll see sort of an indirect improvement in sex drive to stastroon is, you know, well studied for hyp proactive sexual desire disorder or a problem with, you know, I was shouldn't say, but a decrease in your sex drive. To meet that diagnosis, you have to have a low sex drive for more than six months. And you have to care. Not your partner cares, but you have to care. And if you meet that diagnosis, testosterone is very well studied in terms of its benefits on your sex drive. What is your preferred method for administering testosterone to women? I prefer a cream. I, you know, I think, percribing tests. I so I do also prescribe test him, which is an oil. And that's where I will sort of like get receivable packets. I'll put it into a empty syringe and that syringe. The kind that we give our children Tylenol with, not an actual needle syringe. And so, and then you can administer 0.5 cc's and rub it on the inner thigh as my favorite place to do it. I do a lot of compounding cream. I use Coshlin pharmacy. They have a pretty standard like well mixed formula and also use. I'll prescribe a testosterone cream where the patient will use a pump a day when they get out of shower. They'll let it dry for 20 minutes and then they can put on their get sort of get dressed. Do you think the oil is more efficacious and consistent in its absorption than the cream? I don't. I find sort of when and I do try I do follow labs when prescribing testosterone. So anecdotally and from a lab perspective, I don't find a difference. I'm interested in what you say. I sort of go maced up based more on patient preference. If they want an FDA approved product, although it's not FDA approved for women, then we'll go ahead and use the test him. I don't IMuch prefer to just compound it. It's it's clener. It's less messy. It's easier to dose. There's so many dosing issues with the oil in terms of how we dispense it when it's not dispense you know supposed to be dispensed for women that IMuch prefer the cream. How about you? We use a cream more typically. Yeah, I don't use intrenaisal. I do use introvaginal. So I will use but sort of in the form of DHA. I use a lot of intro Rosa intro Rosa or press and then press the test run is sort of a metabolite that can ultimately you know come down the testosterone estrogen pathway. I will use that. But in terms of that's for pain of the vagina, but when it comes to sort of sex drive and desire to administer testosterone, mostly cream. Do you target a level for total testosterone or free testosterone or are you just basically saying I want to get it above a certain floor and then symptoms determine where we end up. I want to get it above 20 in terms of total testosterone. It's very very low and then I use symptoms. And so then I use so for example, so 20 to 80 would be you know the range at which I'm interested. But I'm predominantly use symptoms. The guidelines in terms of how to titrate it are not clear and I you know anecdotally I'll have patients at 80 who have no benefit to their sex drive. I have 20 you see a great benefits. So I want to see like you know some sort of moderate modest improvement in their testosterone and then interview see other doing. And given how much variability there is in men with energy and receptor density. We I think we have a pretty clear sense that in men levels don't tell you much unless you're below you know 350 400 you know if you're below that level you're really going to be hypogonatal. But men can be replete at 600 and other men might not be replete till they're at a thousand and again it just comes down to AR density. Do you have any sense of how that works in women? Other than it's incredibly complicated as you alluded to but more so in women because most women who are on testosterone are also on estrogen. And we know that estrogen increases your sex hormone binding globulin quite significantly. Sex hormone binding globulin thing that protein that sort of runs around and gobbles up free androgens or testosterone. And so you know because I'm prescribing estrogen and that we know progestons actually have the ability to to blunt or mitigate that increase in the sex hormone binding. The sex hormone binding globulin the more androgyanic the progestin the more mitigating effect on that increase in sex hormone binding globulin. And so this is where. This is my true passion and sort of thinking about hormones and contraceptive and menopause hormone therapy and sort of tinkering with hormones. Because some of what you do will help the sex drive some of what you do will hurt. But the addition of the two variables of estrogen and progestin make this incredibly more challenging. As you know we talked about this at length with with Rachel Rubin, but I think it's always worth rehashing how how do you like to initiate. Estrogen progesterone testosterone use in a perimenopausal woman who is. Obviously one of the most difficult to treat because she still has waxing and waning natural levels of all of those hormones. But during her natures is typically pretty. Debellitated by the symptoms. So how what is your what is your playbook on that which is obviously pretty challenging. This is when you'll see me get very animated. I love this topic because it's so different. It's so different for each woman in terms of how she responds the first question that I try to answer in my interview with my perimenopausal patients is. Do you like ovulating or not? And that's the sort of first branch point at which I sort of decide how I'm going to approach this patient. So the part of this. Let's just stop on that question for a second. I've never really thought of that question. Obviously being someone who's never ovulated but. Tell me why that question matters and why would a woman know the answer to that question at the risk of sounding naive. So I'm going to answer this from first is sexual health perspective and then in general health perspective. Some people when their sex drive is higher around ovulation, they love it. Like the benefit that ovulation gives to their sex drive. There are times in the month when they have a great sex drive, they ovulate and they feel good. Similarly, the first half of your cycle when estrogen is climbing right before ovulation is a is a high performance part of your cycle. And so these women who like to cycle feel good the first part of their cycle. They feel great right before ovulation. There are a lot of biometrics that are peak right before ovulation. Your memory is stronger energy is stronger. I have a few Olympic athletes in my practice and we will figure out when their events are and we will try to figure out their ovulation. So that they are competing in the first 10 to around day 9, 10, 11, 12 to 15 of their cycle because right before ovulation is where they can lift the heaviest. And the fastest I'd love for you to do a steady on the O2 max throughout the cycle. But I think it's really interesting when you look at the metrics that we care about, many of them are peak. So, but sorry, just to be clear, at that moment in time her estrogen is pretty much at her highest. Progesterone is very low to testosterone is high. Correct. So does that mean? Progesterone is a performance inhibiting hormone or does it mean that estrogen, because obviously testosterone is a performance enhancing. Does it really mean estrogen is performance enhancing? Progesterone is performance inhibiting because in the in the luteal phase, you would also see high estrogen, but you now have high progesterone. And not as high estrogen, but you're correct. I think to to make this at the risk of boring anyone listening to get a little more academic about it. You're really talking about a progesterone is sort of which is a there's estrogen and there's progesterone. And there's progesterone. And there's progesterone. Now, natural progesterone, we know, which is that's what's in your body is progesterone. Yes, it is a sort of rest and digest a low energy phase, a preparation in case you need. Helps with sleep helps with sleep. But in terms of the progesterone plantation, Progesterone pregnancy, exactly. In terms of the progesterines, which are a synthetic class of progesterines, we then think about what is the family that this was derived from and decide effects can be very, very, very different. And I think about that in terms of what pills I will prescribe my patients. But to bring it back to thEQuestion, I essentially threw interview. And this is where the patient can really advocate for herself, you know, sort of for patients who are listening. We, you're, we care. Doctors, we, we've worked our butts off to get here. We deeply care about helping you. All doctors too. But you sort of coming in with great symptom tracking and timelines and relations to bleed and things like that can really help us. Understand through interview, whether you're someone who feels great because of obelating or whether you're someone who, you know, really suffers from PMS, pre-menstrual syndrome. Has it turned into pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder where it's PMS, but now it's impacting your life. There's so many reasons by which you would say I actually feel terrible cycling. I would prefer not to, but that's the first branch point when I have a period of menopausal woman. And just give me the divide there, Sally, what percentage of women who are, let's just call it 44 years old, 45 years old. We'll respond to that first question as, yep, I really enjoy ovulating. Let's keep it up versus let's make this go away. I would say about 70% of my patients, 7080% of my patients prefer not to ovulate. Okay. This is the 45 year old who's like, you know, I used to be really short tempered with my kids, the day before my periods. And now I'm just, you know, it's the whole week before I'm really short tempered. So, you know, I have all of the symptoms of low estrogen hot flashes, vaginal dryness. I have all these hypos estrogen exemptums, but I also have, you know, periodimenopausas, you know, your brain is yelling at your ovaries. To please do unlast ovulation, listen up so you have this sort of hyper simulation of signaling. A hyper responsive FSH follicle stimulating hormone. So much so that you can get, you know, a loop event, which is a luteal out of phase event, we're essentially you ovulate twice. Your FSH is so high. It's so busy yelling at your ovaries that your ovaries are like, I heard you. And I heard you again, and they essentially double ovulate, and that's that story where you'll have, you know, long cycle and then a short cycle and then a long cycle. So these are all clues that you don't like to ovulate. And so if you do like to ovulate, let's go down that sort of less lesser trouble. Either you're the first person besides me who I've heard used the yelling analogy. I'll never get 10 years ago, I was sitting down with a male patient, and he came in and he had a pretty high testosterone. It was, let me not very high, but it was probably like 7 or 800, which for his age was actually pretty high. And his FSH and his LH were two ex normal, and he wasn't taking, you know, anything. And I was like, this is really interesting, and he's like, why? And I'm sort of drew him a picture, and I said, basically your pituitary gland is yelling. It's screaming at your nuts, and they're really responding. And like, I forgot about the statement, right? And like a six months later, a year later, two years later, he keep coming back with that. At some point, I started taking care of one of his friends. His friends told me about it. They're like, he's really been bragging about this. And so anyway, I just thought, you know, I'm sure women do not go and brag to their other friends that their pituitary glands are screaming at their ovaries. But that's a guy thing, a guy would brag about that. I would agree with that. What women do do is, you know, they're walking around the block with their protein shakes. There's, you know, doing their thing. And you have one 46 year old average age of periomatopaus being 46. The of 146, the of 146 year old saying, gosh, I feel so great. I'm on a birth control pill. And I just feel so great. And the other 46 year olds like me too. I'm on menopaus hormone therapy. I just feel so great. And then they look at each other like, wait, where are you on that? Why did you, where are you on that? And the heart of this for me is who likes to ovulate and who doesn't. And from a sexual health perspective, understanding is your sex drive. And all the other things that make you happy and feel good, which ultimately go into your sex drive. Do you want to ovulate? And if you do want to ovulate, then we can think about, you know, do you need contraception, right? So how can we sort of, yeah? And sorry, just go down that branch point again because you just, you just made a distinction that I, I don't know that every listener will understand. You just talked about oral contraceptives, which are hormones. And then menopausal therapy, which is hormones. Can you explain why that branch point is different in response to your question? Yeah. So menopaus hormone therapy, the dosages do not suppress the gonantropin pathway. And so when you are on menopaus hormone therapy, you still ovulate. If you're going to ovulate, you still ovulate. You're going to still ovulate to your skin. Yeah. Whereas contraception, many forms of contraception suppress ovulation, but not all forms. To be clear when talking about contraception and how it affects your sex drive, I just want to sort of, you know, we talk about ovulation and how women's sex drive can be ovulation dependent. Remember though that we've looked at how suppressing ovulation impacts your sex drive. And the data shows that they've great meta analysis of 32 trials. And it looked at over 14,000 women. And it said that 20, and it said that 20% of women who suppressed ovulation still had an increase in their sex drive. 65% had no change in their sex drive and 15% had a decrease in their sex drive. So I don't want you to think that by choosing some form of contraception, that suppresses ovulation. You know, we'll absolutely have an impact on your sex drive. It's so multifactorial and safety from pregnancy can be so sort of reassuring for patients that that's, you know, definitely not the case. And when we think about how hormone pills can impact your sex drive, we think about sort of the twofold suppression of the hypothermic pituitary access in terms of suppressing your hormones downstream and you're there for ovulation. But also going to ovaries and shutting them down, which then decreases their production of testosterone. So even though yes, we have, you know, biologic plausibility for how contraception impacts your sex drive. There's so much going into this from a bioscico social perspective that we don't see the, you know, equal number of changes in terms of how it actually impacts your sex drive. And so once we sort of identify, okay, you do not want to ovulate, then we can sort of march down, okay, do we want to use, do you need contraception? Do we need to do contraception? But that continues to allow you to ovulate things like a parigard, IUD, spermicides, you know, there's a vaginal pH modifiers. There's many ways that we can provide contraception without impacting your ovulation. Or if contraception is not an issue and you like to ovulate, then we go down the menopause hormone therapy route. If you said that 70% of women would be fine without ovulating anymore, does that imply that 70% of parigandopausal women would be better off on oral contraceptives than on estradiol and progesterone? My patients and, and yes, in my patient panel, they are happier on that. What's, what's really interesting is, I want to talk about so when we think about menopause hormone therapy, we're thinking about 17 beta-astroidal, which is this estrogen, it's an E2 and it's the predominant estrogen when we're in our reproductive years and there's so many benefits to this estrogen, right? There are some new birth control pills on the market that have this 17 beta-astroidal. So it's an fascinating mix where you're suppressing ovulation, you have contraception, but you're potentially still getting the health benefits of being on a 17 beta-astroidal or an estroidal value, which is metabolized into 17 beta-astroidal. And so for my par amenopausal patients, once we establish, okay, do you want to ovulate yes or no, do you need contraception? Yes or no, then we can sort of think through how we pick a pill. Because that would be my concern with an oral contraceptive as a bridge through menopause, which is they're missing out on real estrogen and progesterone. And I think we have pretty good evidence that the benefits you accrue later in life, especially with respect to bone density, but probably with respect to other metrics of health, are heavily dependent on getting real 17 beta-astroidal and real progesterone right away, never having an interruption in those hormones. So if that is correct. I agree with you. I've had if what we believe on that front is correct, then it means any woman who's going to go down the oral contraceptive route would be best receiving that oral contraception in the form of what you just described, which is a real 17 beta. And I guess my next question, I'm worried I know the answer to this question, but I'm going to ask it anyway, what is the cost of that type of oral contraceptive and how often are insurance companies covering that? Rarely covering it. So to sort of. And the out-of-pocket monthly cost on that pill would be 100ish a month. So to incredibly creative. Yeah, it's incredibly prohibitive. So when you, you know, if you were to think about, okay, so now I'm par amenopausal and I don't want to ovulate. The first question is, do I want to be on estrogen? You and I are sort of looting to the fact like, yes, I want to be on estrogen, but a certain kind of estrogen. Remember some people are not candidates for estrogen, right? My greens with or a blood clot, family history. So then, but we still want to suppress ovulation. The newest progesterone on the market is something called, Dr. Spirinone. Dr. Spirinone, the pill is called slind. It suppresses ovulation at about 98% of women, whereas previous progesterone only pills suppressed ovulation 50 to 70% of the time. So you're getting a huge mood benefit for these women who cannot take estrogen, but really don't want to feel the ups and downs of par amenopaus cycling, which can be wild. Dr. Spirinone being a derivative of spirinolactone, there's a diuretic component to it. And so it's a really well tolerated, really exciting. I hope I can convey how excited I am about this, progestin because having just spirinone means that we can mitigate some of the other side effects. And so such as water retention. And so then, okay, so now we've decided, all right, if I don't want estrogen, I'll use slind. This just spirinone only, but ovulation suppressant medication. What if I do one estrogen? Then the branch point is, do I want something synthetic? Said very few people ever, or do I want something more natural said both of us? The people who do end up on a synthetic estrogen are, it's, it's your insurance covers it. It's available at all pharmacies. So there's sort of an access issue here that we would be sort of remiss to ignore. I still have favorite pills. And within that category, I still have pills that I like. And historically, if you interview patients, they may be able to tell you, oh, I did well on this synthetic estrogen. So as we sort of get into the later forties, I care more in terms of getting them back on a more natural estrogen for the reasons you mentioned in terms of bone protein. When you're talking to a 28 year old woman who just needs birth control, you don't have a concern with putting around a synthetic estrogen. I don't. And I still have favorites. So I still, you know, low low esterin. I was just about to say that's my favorite. Yeah. So I use low low esterin a lot. Low low esterin is North and drone, Progestin. The reason why I like North and drone is it's a little bit more endrogenic. The more endrogenic the progestin, the, the, it has the ability to blunt or mitigate the increase in sex hormone binding globulin. Again, I'm talking about pills from a sexual health perspective. There's lots of other ways you could do this, but today this is my angle. And so when you think about super low dose ethanol ester dial, low side effects, plus a, you know, slightly more endrogenic progestin. You then can have a, you know, blunting of the increase in sex hormone binding globulin. It's less likely to gobble up all those extra androgens and patients tolerate it really well. Side effects are there's more bleeding because of the low ethanol ester dial. So sometimes I'll go up to a less, which is a 20 microgram ethanol ester dial. And this has a, we've no gestural, Progestin to it. And this progestin is similarly a little bit more endrogenic, less likely to impact your sex hormone binding globulin. And then my last two very popular jazz and jazzmen. The reason why those are so popular is the progestin in them is just spironone. And so it has that ability to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, more, but diuretic. Exactly it acts as a diuretic. When we think about ethanol ester dial and I, if I could just sort of step out of professionalism for a moment and ask my father and law to tune in because he's a nephrologist. And he would be so excited to hear that I'm going to talk about angio 10cinogen, which is in the kidneys, ester gen goes ethanol ester dial goes to the kidneys. And some 17 beta ester dial goes to the kidneys and causes sodium retention water retention. So when we think about estrogen and how it impacts our bodies, our PMS, our breasts feeling heavy and painful. Bl loading slight waging. This is from, this is estrogen effects. And drosperonone being a derivative of spironolactone can have a mitigating or a diuretic, a blunting effect on that water retention. Dave, if you could tune out now because IMight say orgasm soon. But anyways, using this sort of counter acting principle in these newer medications can help me pick a really good synthetic form of contraception. Now, if we're going to go to the natural form, one of the, there's a few combinations that I'm using now that my patients are tolerating really well. The first is to go back to that progesterone, progestin, only pill, progestin, only pill, which is sling drosperonone. And adding it a 17 beta ester dial patch to it. So you're essentially taking an ovulation, suppressive component of contraception, but adding in menopause hormone therapy ester gen. And that's where the benefits are. You get the bone protection, you get the, so from a patients who are on contraceptive pills. But you're saying the progesterone and ruptured, the progestin alone will help with suppression of ovulation, which will harm the sex. Such that you can use physiologic 17 beta ester dial. Correct. That's super interesting. I'm ashamed to admit I didn't know that. So it's a great, this is a great sort of in-between stat because you can call contraception. You can provide your spironov, which is a diuretic, which 17 beta ester dial does have, you know, some sort of water attention components to it. But the downsides to it as the, although these sort of work very well throughout the body, they, at the level of the endometrium or the lining inside the uterus, is you have a little bit more breakthrough bleeding. Because the 17 beta ester dial does not stabilize the endometrium as much. So one of the side effects in limiting reasons for which I won't, my patients won't be happy on this is if they're having breakthrough bleeding. So when there's other options that are better at that. So a newer, that sort of two medications that I want to make sure, you know about, and I have no disclosures, but I'd love to have some. Is, is that the next medication that we think about is next cellus, and next cellus is Drows Spironone, which is the spironovlactone derivative, the diuretic with esterol. Or E4, it's a natural esterogen. It's typically produced by the fetal liver. But this has a longer half-life than 17 beta ester dial. So you get less breakthrough bleeding, less spotting. We don't know. We think natural esterogens. You must get bone protection and bone benefit. We don't know yet. It's currently being studied. It's only made by the fetal liver. Correct. So that you have none of this in your body right now. I hope for you. Yeah, I'm less you're taking this. Hopefully not. Yeah. And what do we understand about, and this, we might have to cut this out of the podcast, because it is so freaking nerdy at this point. But we understand how E1, E2 and E3, esterol, esterol, we understand, IMean, if we want to, we can understand exactly how they move between each other. Yeah. Do we understand how E4 fits into that pathway? Does E4 have any conversion back to E2? Or is it going to be a one? Or is it going to be a one? We don't, we don't, we don't totally know. We think it's independent. But with, really, something we do know about E4 is that it does not activate the NGO 10centage in pathway. So you don't get these. So you don't get this swelling. You don't get this swelling. You don't get the bloating. So you have that pluster spironone and patients feel really good. Remember, just spironone is so good for bloating in the end. If we don't know that this has, IMean, until we know if this is going to be protective of bones and all these other things, when there be a risk that we're solving one problem without addressing the jugular problem? Yes, currently being studied, but it is a, the benefits of drows spironone less spotting or breakthrough bleeding than the drows spironone plus menopause hormone therapy level estrogen. But I think by you asking that question and sort of the dedication to making sure that we're on a study in 17 beta ethanol ester dial. The newest medication on the market is called Natasia. And Natasia is a progestin with ester dial valerate, which essentially is 17 beta ethanol ester dial. And this is a huge sort of hugely important contraceptive option for a few reasons. The first is the only contraceptive pill that's been approved by the FDA to treat heavy menstrual bleeding. And this is a huge issue in perimenopause and contributes greatly to sex drive and desire. But this is once you've ruled out fibroids and things that otherwise can't be treated like that are not going to be. This is sort of like, you know, I said that I wanted to stay and sort of the normal pathology part for this for this podcast. If you're Clark to Disseptuous coyote or so an include you'llinental tablets, €2 overall will be about 20% CAR. We'll just continue to look at the guidance of stonterip ι patients from the big beta beta Foundation. It will be very helpful with the relief in healthcare times. Benefit categories will cause highly psychological painst coronavirus stress in the brain painstも condition, mammal legs to get been immunostoresme, bone in circulation to allной out the muscle and distraction to the brain. to suggest micronized progesterone, even at 200 milligrams, which would probably be the upper limit of what we would use. That's not enough to simulate to suppress ovulation, obviously. For 300. 300. 300 plus is what you would need to sort of predictably reliably. But of course, aT3, most women can't tolerate them. Two sedating, you know, and additionally, you know, not to be left out is menopause hormone therapy plus aniodee, right? Or menopause hormone therapy plus a salping jack to me removal of the tubes. There's other ways to get at this. But I think that's why I really start at the branch point. Those those points do not block ovulation. So that's why to me, I really care how you feel in relation to ovulation. And that's the branch point and how you decide how to treat my patients. So a lot of what we just talked about probably went over the heads of a lot of people, which is understandable. It is pretty complicated stuff. Um, I want to kind of bring this back to to a listener, right? To me, the takeaway is if you're a woman, um, you've got to show up with a point of view on what you're trying to optimize around. You have to show up on a, you know, you just show up with a point of view around preferences. Um, and this one around, do I like ovulating or not is important? So that's something that regardless of how young a woman is listening to this and, you know, truth be told, I don't think our audience skews very young. But I'm sure there is a 25 year old out there listening. This is something she could be paying attention to right now, right? She's 20 years away from having to deal with what we're talking about. But she can still be pretty receptive to the idea of how do I feel during my cycle? That would be my greatest takeaway and to sort of end to, and to make you aware that that changes, um, that the way in which we feel in the second part of our cycle, um, as our estrogen declines as we age can become more and more dramatic. So it's a very important question to me for everyone and a very, very important question for me for my Perryman Apostle Patience. And how much does that change based on children? And, um, and the number of children in women has or any other factor like that? I, I would feel a little theoretical going into that. I don't think we have great data. There's some, you know, some studies talking about the later, um, in your, you know, the later you have your last child, the earlier you'll go into Perryman Apostles. Um, the way that I think about hormones and, and what happens from a, uh, I think one thing I want to go back to from a neurotrensmitter perspective is you ask me about the accelerators and we launched into a discussion about hormones, but we didn't talk about the breaks. Um, and the breaks are, uh, serotonin. Um, so we know about how SSRIs can impact our sex drive and what, you know, we could think about what to do about that. But pro-lactin, um, is a break. And that's really interesting because when in our lives is pro-lactin, breastfeeding, breastfeeding, postpartum. And so women can find this very validating, but from a biologic perspective, we know that pregnancies spaced 18 months apart. That's the a cog or American college of obstetrics and gynecology. They recommend 18 months between pregnancies because that second pregnancy will be healthier. The baby will be bigger. It would more likely to make it to term. So we know that spacing pregnancies is healthy. And so having a high pro-lactin postpartum and keeping you from being interested in sexual and of course, is your body's natural way of spacing out pregnancies for the better? Well, we're in the topic of evolution. There's something I've, I've always wondered, um, that seems a bit at odds with pure, a pure natural selection and this is going to expose how naive my thinking might be. So it's not a surprise that men would have a high sex drive for as long as they are, you capable of reproducing, which is seemingly indefinitely, right? But you could make an argument maybe theoretically that women's sex drive should decline after a certain age, call it 30 or at this. When evolution narrowly, their probability of producing healthy offspring goes down. But I don't think we believe that to be true at all. I don't think we see that women's sex drive goes down as they age, which sort of flies in the face of maybe at least one naive interpretation of what natural selection might interpret. Is there a smarter explanation for why a women's sex drive goes up? Or it doesn't go down, maybe to phrase it more accurately? There are many explanations. You know, this is hard to study. Potentially the most popular one, which the European Society of Sexual Medicine gives like a grade to level B rating. So not super high rating, meaning like case control study. No, no, this is like theoretical. If we can sort of tangent on the theory for a little bit, there's something called women's dual sexuality. And it basically talks about women's motivation to participate in, and of course, being different at different parts of the cycle, meaning mid-cycle when you are able to get pregnant, you are fertile. You are more likely to participate or to want to participate in, in a course for purposes of reproduction. And the mates that you are more likely to select during that time will have features of genetic dominance, such as a very symmetric face, more masculine features. We talk about the histocompatibility complex, and there's dissimilarity that we look for at this time, because we know that mixing and feeding is better than not. And then there's other times of the cycle when you're interested in participating in a course, and you're seeking out things such as partnership, shelter, companionship, protection. And so talking about that. And you're not optimizing around. And you end up with genetic features. And that is effective or less symmetric or less masculine partner. But your partner may have better communication skills, the ability to provide better shelter or protection. It's very interesting. People take this and run with it online, and they talk about, you know, and your 20s, what form of contraception should you be on when choosing a mate? This goes back to that question of, do you want to ovulate or not? Because there's so much this is not an anti-obulation anti-controsception discussion. Your sex life is so multifactorial and being protected from pregnancy is, you know, for many can be such a positive contributor to their sex life. But if you believe in this evolutionary hypothesis, and if you believe that you would rather pick your future mate when you're still ovulating, versus being on something like a contraceptive pill that blocks ovulation, there is some data to show that you may pick a different partnership. The discussion section is, you may want to pick a partner that has a less symmetric face, but is more likely to have a partnership in communication skills. But that's sort of excuse myself from that. You can decide for yourself on that. That is super fascinating. And honestly, there's more to explore there than the simple and obvious stuff I proposed. I want to go now back to some of the other stuff that we talked about around desire. We didn't touch on this, but this must be a very important topic that you deal with, which is how much do adverse sexual experiences during the early part of a woman's life negatively impact her ability to have a healthy sexual life later on? And again, we can, I think we can talk about this across the entire spectrum, right? So we could take the most egregious example, which would be sexual assault, rape, things of that nature. But then we can also, I think, fan this out into things, which is just like, no, you know, the first time I had sex, it was awful. It was in a car in the back seat with a guy that I didn't really know that well, and we were both drunk and yeah, I was consenting, but it was awful. So it's hard to imagine that many women can't relate to that type of experience. How does that play forward? I see it incredibly often in my patient panel. It is unfortunately, you know, if you're listening to this and you have a history of sexual trauma, you are unfortunately not at all alone. And there are things we can do about it. So yes, it plays a part, and yes, we should do things about it. So there are lots of different approaches. You know, I hope that patients are in therapy, and that they have sort of the right support team around them. I want to bring up sex therapists are a great sort of contributor in this area, and sort of thinking about how your experiences are brought into the bedroom and sort of, you know, how do we sort of use a trauma informed approach when sort of talking about how to curate or rousal and bringing yourself to the encounter when you're not quite ready. There are, there's a sense-saint focus exercise that is really evidence-based for survivors of trauma, but can also be very applicable to patients who, for example, are listening to as podcasts and it's been a year or spend six months, and they want to sort of think about how to become intimate again. And it's a, it's a four step program that can be done over a month, over four months. You can sort of pick how long each stage you want it to last. Dr. Lee Amel Hauser, who's done a ton of work in sexual health from a gynecologic perspective, talks about this, and it's essentially, you know, step one is to, you know, let's say spend 20 minutes, a couple of times a week if you want it, the stage to last a week is to sort of be intimate with your partner, no touching of the breast, no touching of the genitals. Step two would be okay to touch breasts in genitals, but orgasm off the table. Step through the orgasms on the table, but no penetrative sex, and step four is penetrating, of course, is allowed. And this is sort of, it's a evidence-based way in which you can create a safe space to sort of start to, you know, find yourself back in your body. There is a book called The Body Keeps Score, which talks about how to bring your sort of mindfulness back into your body when you are a, you know, trauma survivor. And Emily and Agowski talks a lot about it in her book as well. And then there's this sort of potentially less traumatic but still pain that can, you know, sort of presented self in sexual encounters like it just hurt like, you know, I see this a lot in my cancer survivors. Just about to ask you about cancer, but I'm sorry. Yeah, so I see this a lot. Cancer, I often see sort of a two-fold hit. There is this sort of a psychosocial of, I'm mad at my body and I, you know, there's all those sort of complex feelings. Sort of like physiologic aspect of, you know, chemotherapy, radiation and how that impacts pain and lubrication of the vagina and, you know, comfort of hormone use, although, you know, we really feel, you know, quite, quite confident that, you know, local estrogen treatment of the vagina is completely safe. For almost all cancer survivors, Dr. Tammy Rowan talks a lot about this with the, you know, is wish and menopause society sort of, you know, encouraging not only patients, but also doctor. To feel comfortable prescribing local estrogen and this patient population. Physical therapist, pelvic floor physical therapist can be incredibly helpful. I think every woman, you know, if you're sort of making a centenarian plan and you're seeing a physical therapist to keep your posture and your muscles healthy, I think you should see a pelvic floor physical therapist. There, you know, great in terms of increasing the tone of the pelvic floor. We know that strength of contraction can lead to better quality orgasms. I often get emails like, oh, I just had the best sex thanks for sending me to the pelvic floor at this physical therapist. But it also is good for hyper tonicity where your pelvic floor is too tight, where you carry stress and trauma and pain. You know, in terms of thinking about how we take care of the vagina, I would like to encourage you to think about taking care of the vagina like you take care of your face. You listen to my recent podcasts. I did. And I would like to say, so, you know, you're going to go out in the sun. And you put on sunscreen, you put sunscreen on your face. So if you're going to have intercourse, you should use loop. That's just one week. Well, then if a woman says I've never had any difficulty with lubrication, I don't have any discomfort with sex. You still think a woman should be using lubricant. I do the data shows less micro abrasions. And also what I really... And I'm sorry, if you're not concerned with sexually trensmitted diseases, which is what the WHO is concerned with. If you're with one partner and only one partner, our micro abrasions are problem. They lead to pain. And once we get into a pain signaling process, you can get, this is a common cause of what we call vaginism, or a tightening of the pelvic floor, which then leads to more pain. It is very possible. And you should absolutely work at it. The breaking of aginism is cycle. It takes a lot of work. And so part of this recommendation that almost everyone should use loop is this idea that we're trying to avoid pain. And we're trying to avoid pain. Do you have any other woman? Yes. This is one of my favorite things to talk to young teens about. You know, when we think about sexual education, and there's a great study looking at 1200 high school students, and we ask them about what we call sexual debut or their first sexual encounter. And then it's for us just first sexual encounter. That includes kissing. No, no, sexual encounter. What defines that? I'm going to guess penetrate a dinner course based off of, yeah. Yeah, yeah. And 70% of boys gave responses related to pleasure. And 70% of girls gave responses related to pain. And that's a big deal. And so talking about foreplay and lubrication even for young women who have an adequately lubricated vagina and decreasing the likelihood that they'll get into pain. That they'll clench up the pelvic floor. It will then hurt more breaking out of that cycle is incredibly important to me. So yes, Lou, if you're going to have sex. Going back to the face. You like there putting moisturizer on your face. Only recently. Only recently. So there's vaginal moisturizer. So if you want to use your vagina when you're older using a vaginal moisturizer, there's good ones on the market. There's reverie, which is a hyaluronic acid suppository. It lowers the peach of the vagina and brings water molecules with it. There's Replains, which is a polycarpiphyl suppository that also recutes water molecules. You're moisturizing. Gear of a vagina. And then sorry, just explained to me how this is used. This is like part of your nightly routine. Yeah, yeah, put on your eye cream. Or moisturizer. Which is more important. For people like evening because I'm looking at what if you're having sex after. So whether you're using a vaginal moisturizer or whether you're using a hormone, which will be the third part of this facial analogy recommendation. If you put it in and you decide you want to have an, of course, like please do. I wouldn't use it for the purpose of it. It's sort of you're playing the long game. Yeah. So if you think about sort of step three with your face, you're using a vitamin C serum or a, you know, DNA repair enzyme or an exosom or whatever. That's sort of the long game in terms of, you know, collagen and overall sort of tone of the face. So hormones would be this sort of counterpartum of vaginal perspective using using a yeah, inter vaginal topical. Um, local estrogen of my patients who are on menopause hormone therapy. About 30 to 40% of them. And that's consistent with with the data are also on local estrogen therapy. So just to be so clear that we treat local vaginal conditions with local treatment for women who don't respond from a vaginal health person. So we treat them with vaginal health perspective to systemic hormones. All right. So let's recap that. So the equivalent of sunscreen was lubrication lubrication. Um, you'd said silicon based. I like it. So silicon based because it is needs it lasts longer. So water based lubricant doesn't last as long. And so in order to make a water based lubricant work, they have to add a lot of additives. You add additives. You get hyper osmolar. Um, lubricants which then if you go back to high school chemistry means that you're actually long game is water molecules are going from the vagina into the lubricant because the osmolality. So it's trying you out melancholy. So I like a silicone based loop. Give us a cup of grand you like Uber loop the osmolab Uber later. Get like what I took care. Yeah, like I took a Uber here. So yeah, I like Uber loop. Okay. The osmolality is 600. Um, I like good clen love almost naked. Osmolality is about 280 to 300. The osmolality of the vagina is 300. Um, it's it's really quite shocking to me when you go to, you know, a drugstore and you sort of pick up, let's say, Astro glide the most, you know, sort of popular. So the osmolality of Astro glide is 8,000. Um, they have a gentler one that's lower. Most people don't know about that. Don't buy it. If you look at KY, it's just around 4 to 6,000. Wow. These things shouldn't be sold. They should not be sold. Um, but they're and they smell good and why are they? Why are they the most ubiquitous loops out there? They taste good or they smell good or they have a cool package or, you know, it's essentially like, you know, Do these, uh, loops say the osmolality on the package? If you look on the back, they should say it. Right. So you want to be basically in the 280 to 300. 300 as close to 300 as you can. Okay. Yeah. Great to know. So Uber, Lou, what was the other one? Good clen love almost naked. That's a long name. They might want to shorten that. Good clen love. Okay. Good clen love. All right. And then the sex. So if that's your sunscreen, um, your moisturizer is a reverie or a replens and these are suppositories that you can put in the vagina nightly. And the suppositories providing what? It is recruiting water molecules into the cells and the reverie is also slightly lowering the pH of the vagina. The lower the pH of the vagina or as close to the, is a natural desirable outcome. And how does a woman know if her systemic hormone therapy? Uh, is insufficient. And therefore she requires topical as the third part of this playbook. If you are going to respond to systemic hormone therapy in terms of. Improvement of pain, dyspruneo we call it. Feels like sandpaper can now. There's this sort of a rubbing raw feeling to the vagina. You'll respond by about six to eight weeks. So I tend to start my patient. Got it. So give it a start. See if things get better. If there's no change. Yeah. If you weren't having pain and nothing gets better. Yeah. You were probably fine. This strikes me as a great example of something that a male who's listening to this podcast, whose female partner is not could actually bring home and talk about over dinner. I'm on the scene the back of my mind. I'm I'm look, IMean, half our audiences men, half our audiences women. So there's a guy who's listening to this episode, who's partner is not. And he's, if I'm in his shoes, I'm thinking, what am I, what am I bringing back to the table? And this would be one of those things, which is, hey, let's have a discussion about these three things. You know, and and so anyway, hopefully we'll link to examples of all of these in the show notes. What percentage of women are regularly receiving oral sex? I don't have that statistic. I'll have to find that and look it up. I will say that when you look at orgasm frequency with any sort of intimate encounter, it is one of the highest likelihood to be able to achieve orgasm acts that a man and a woman can participate in together. There's a great book called She Comes First by Ian Kerner that has diagrams and tips and tricks and talks about essentially how to do that. One of the best way, if you sort of from a performance perspective is to go back to the sort of stages of orgasm that we talked about the excitation, plateau orgasm and resolution. When you think about the plateau phase, that sort of the hormone cascade that's happening in the woman. There's two different ideas in sort of that that are relevant here. The first is something called the approach and the approach is the second sort of moments just prior to orgasm. The first is that the person who is in the right way is to observe two thirds of women report that whatever is happening when the approach starts that it should just keep happening exactly as it is. So no increase in pressure, no increase whatever you're doing, just keep doing it, no change in temperature pressure, speed, depth, nothing. So understanding that is sort of like a key component for most women, but not all can be something that can sort of help you from a performance perspective. The only one that's known as the woman in the man, the woman needs to recognize she's there and have a cue to her partner that says don't change a thing. The guy needs to not try to be a hero and needs to know when she taps my head or whatever it is, don't change a thing. Yeah, and that's the strategy to help women sort of have more of a guaranteed orgasm. And then the contrary is something called edging, which is where you do stop what you're doing and you sort of like bring your partner close to orgasm and then you stop what you're doing and then you can bring your partner close again and then you stop. And this is for women to be able to achieve more of an intense orgasm, this edging technique. So if you were to give a guy a few pieces of advice on how to be more successful at helping his partner achieve orgasm using oral sex and penetration, what would be your advice. Loop, get over it. It's evidence-based, it's for friction and has nothing to do with how interested your partner is in you anatomical awareness. So understanding that there's two these two wishbone nerve pieces enjoy being massaged. Try to explore with your finger two thirds of the way into the vagina on the anterior or the front wall where the G spot is find that rugated area. So, you know, for play, what does that look like for you as a couple? What does it look like outside of the bedroom is it? Is it you made dinner or you put the kids down? What is your chore play? What chores did you did as a part of for play? What nice text messages. There's so much contextual going on. There's really funny. And there's really research pieces that talk about, you know, people who are in the military who are traveling around and there's bombs everywhere and it's really dangerous and men are still like ready to have sex and women are feared for their lives. So, there's, you know, there's women, there's a lot goes into a lot, a little bit more that are a lot more that goes into women's sexuality that I want you to be aware of. There's no need to take this personal. I hope today sort of understanding, you know, a rousal versus desire, responsive desire and it's homically thinking about not just the tip of the clitoris. Although many men haven't even thought of that, but in addition to the tip of the clitoris. The wishbone structures that go down, the anterior wall of the vagina thinking about, you know, what phase of orgasm your partner's in is she in the excitement phase is she in the plateau phase or is she sort of in in the orgasm phase. And what does that look like? What about little details like for example, if you're stimulating the clitoris, is it just very individual variation up and down side to side around like individual variation. And is this something where a guy should just ask a woman and say, hey, how do you like this done or is a woman put off by a guy asking that? In my dream world, these conversations would take place. There's books that walk you through how to have these conversations, the sex talks book that IMentioned by Vanessa Marin, she writes it with her husband. So you get sort of both perspectives. You think, you know, that website, omg.com actually teaches women how to find the different techniques. So they go over, you know, a hard stroke, a round stroke, a gentle touch an internal touch. They actually teach women. And yeah, I have a dream that women would, you know, go to this website and learn for themselves how to do it and talk to their partners about it. Men can also go to the website. It's a look a one time flat fee website. Then you have access to all of their content. And it walks you through different techniques. So you can actually learn and talk about with your partner what she likes. All right. Let's pivot a little bit and talk about sort of the pharmacology of arousal. We've talked a little bit about it through a hormone perspective. And we've obviously talked about how testosterone and particular, but also estrogen and progesterone player role in in the arousal of a woman. But there are also drugs that are specifically used to target this. What can you tell us about them? There are a couple in particular that that I know have come up on this podcast previously. So using that sort of accelerator and break analogy. Many of the medications will work on one or both of those pathways. The two most common medications and the only two that are FDA approved for women are adi, which is a pill in Vilecy, which is an injection. They work along the M.A.O.I. pathway on increasing nor up in effort and dopamine and decreasing serotonin. So if you go back to those neurotrensmitters thinking about serotonin as a break. So they decrease that. Nor up in effort and dopamine to the rewards center of the brain and they increase those. I don't use them a ton in practice. They are studied for, they are not studied for postmenopausal women. Adi is a nightly pill. You take it for six weeks or you take it forever. But after it takes about six weeks before you can see benefit to it. In the trial for which it was FDA approved, it increased your number of satisfying sexual encounters by one. So you went from having like two to two-ish satisfying sexual encounters a month to three-ish satisfying sexual encounters. You can't drink alcohol on it. It can cause nausea for some people. It can interact with anti-depressants and mood stabilizing drugs. It's not a contrendication but can change the way in which they work. I just don't use it very much. How much is this drug cost? I don't know the answer to that. Why do you think this drug was approved with such limited efficacy? It's statistically significant to go from what's a two-ish to three-ish satisfying sexual encounters. But there was a social movement at the time. There was frustration about how easy it was for Viagra to be approved. The data for Viagra men is much more clear and easy to see. This is women's sex drive is very complex and this is potentially one angle at improving it. But it's a bit of a bad analogy. Viagra is not really a drive drug. It's a performance drug, right? It's a performance drug that ultimately can impact drive as well. But it also impacts, are there any data that show that Viagra or Cialis or any phosphodastric inhibitor improve orgasm quality in women? They've looked at Viagra a great deal. The studies do not show for women across the population level when study that it impacts driver gastric quality, except when looking at a specific patient population. So when you look at Viagra, the patients who had an improvement in their quality of sex, be it dry or orgasm quality, etc. Or women, diabetics, N.S. multiple sclerosis, spinal cord patients and SSRIs. These are women who we think that the vasodilation of the nitric oxide and the physiologic response. That they have to Viagra, dose at 25 to 50, you know, one to two hours prior to anticipated intercourse can be helpful. Let's go back to Adi, the pill. When I talk about one satisfying sexual encounter, you know, improved per month, like remember that that's compared to placebo. So there is still a great placebo benefit here and for many that's, you know, exciting and fine to introduce into their life. Viagra is an injection. You may get questions about it from your patient panel because it's similar to the peptide PT-141. Malanotan, this sort of has the, the, the, the street name is the barbie drug because it works through the MCR4 or the Malanacordicin pathway. So you, you get tan and pretty happy and, and horny is what they say. So they call the barbie drug for that reason. There's a significant amount of nausea. You inject yourself for the first two hours. There's about 40% of women will have nausea. I often prescribe so-foran and antide nausea medicine when I prescribe this drug. After two-ish three-ish hours, the nausea can go away and then the drug lasts for up to six hours. You can't use it more than twice a week. But this had slightly sort of similar efficacy to adi in terms of improving your sex drive. When, when I hear that a drug causes that much nausea and you can only use it twice a week. I worry that it's doing something unhelpful as a side effect beyond what you just said. Do you have a concern with long-term use of this drug? It has not been, it's been out since 2019. We don't have particularly long-term data on it. I have the same, you know, questions. People anecdotally do like it. But I do think there's a great placebo effect going on here. Do you think one is better than the other? It's really hard for me to convince patients to inject themselves with a shot prior to, you know, an hour or so prior to intercourse. It doesn't really feel so- It's a preloaded end. It goes socially, yes, that's easy. Well, yeah, I guess it speaks to, obviously, the magnitude of the problem. I don't suppose these drugs have been compared head to head to testosterone. I don't believe that they have no. I assume that it would be prudent to make sure a woman's testosterone has been pushed to the physiologic limits before you would engage with any of those drugs. I just prefer testosterone, which to be clear testosterone is sort of from a guideline perspective, recommend it only in the post-menopausal woman. So if we're going to sort of stay in the, you know, where is most of the data? You know, when do I ever use these drugs? So this is in the premenopausal premenopausal premenopausal. For an FDA perspective? Exactly. So if you're like, you know, why even use these? This is studied for premenopausal testosterone is postmenopausal. But there's a lot of sort of behavioral interventions which I've already mentioned. And then, you know, sort of more off-label would be cannabis. There is some pretty good data now that we have in some states, you know, legal THC. That opens up for researchers to study and investigate. And there's really good trials talking about cannabis and your ability to have more satisfying sexual encounters. But it is dose dependent. So when we think about T, when we think about cannabis, I'm probably an inverted you shit. It's inverted. Yeah. So it's specifically THC. We around one to two milligrams is the recommended dose. Anything higher for some can be sedating to speak to your sort of inverse relationship, which adversely affects your sexual experience and desire to participate. But around one to two milligrams patients report that they have more satisfying orgasms or, you know, have a hyper awareness of their senses. Sex drive is higher. It's quite significant in the data. Much more significant than the medications they've already talked about. And one to two milligrams. So is that through any form, edible, inhaled? How do we even, I don't know enough about how do you dose inhaled and know this getting that amount? You know, so first, you know, if this is an illegal substance where you live, it is not a recommendation. If it is legal, there are safer ways to ingest THC smoking, vaping, obviously have a great impact on the lung, or you know, incredibly worried about that. One of the best ways to sort of dose adjustments to get name brand THC. So there are brands out there that have, you know, unregulated, but some, you know, but arguably quite standardized dosing of gummies and you can get, you know, one milligram or a two milligram or a five milligram. And is one milligram, um, altering a sense is it all? For most people. Yeah, it's pretty low for most people. It's sort of a heightened sense response in terms of physical sensibility to appreciate orgasms. But not enough to cause like paranoia or, you know, things like that. Munchies. True for men and women are just women. Both. Interesting. Let's talk about pregnancy for a minute. What is happening to a woman's arousal during pregnancy? Again, if you go back to my naive evolutionary view, now I can modify my view, by the way. So my view would have been a pregnant woman should not want to have sex at all because any amount of penetration puts the feed is at risk. However, based on what you taught me a few minutes ago, there's another reason for her to have sex during pregnancy, which is to keep her male partner around to protect her and hopefully their child. So I assume it's a balancing act of those things. So how does that shake out in the real world? What do we actually observe about a woman's sexual desire during pregnancy? And what are the do's and do's? So complex is you can imagine and yes, that would be the evolutionary approach to it. From a medical perspective, because I think it might scare some women to say, you know, it puts the fetus at risk to be clear in a healthy pregnancy in the absence of a contrendication, a low lying placenta, a low lying blood vessel or a cervical insufficiency, which we would pick up on in routine ultrasound. Sexual health sex during pregnancy is completely safe, totally fine, and has a lot of relationship and psychosocial benefits. Is there a point that, which laid enough in the pregnancy where you would recommend a woman not have intercourse? In the absence of a, you know, pathology, absolutely not. Wow, okay. We know that for many women sex during pregnancy can bEQuite intense in the pleasurable category. The reasons for this are the neurotrensmitters, right? You have super high levels of estrogen and oxytocins, so that can make for a more pleasurable experience. There's more blood flow to the genital area, so the contractions of the muscles are sort of more, or more intense, the blood vessels are sort of bringing more heat to the area. And then for some women, I wish this for all women to feel sort of safe and supported and bonding with a partner in pregnancy, but that's done not the case for all. Post pregnancy, what do you advise your women, assuming they've had a normal, well, let's start with a vaginal versus c section. So for women has had a c section, what do you think is the right time for her to go back to sexual activity, pending her desire? We don't change the recommendation of for when to resume sexual activity, post vaginal birth or c section. It's six weeks across the board. That's the time when you go see your doctor, they check you out, they make sure everything is well healed. It sort of sits uneasy for a lot of people to say, well, gosh, like why would, why is it the same recovery time for both? The c section is so much bigger. The thought process is that by six weeks, you should have complete healing from the c section. In the absence of complications. And we're more sort of from a hormonal physiologic perspective, making sure that the uterus has shrunk down a significant amount that you're not at increased risk of infection by having things in the vagina. You're a good candidate to have contraception at that time, so we can provide you with protection from future pregnancies. But I think from a postpartum perspective, you know, maybe reason number 15 why I love your podcast and why love Rachel Rubin is she recently published on the Genedow urinary syndrome of lactation, which basically talks about the hypostrogenic or the low estrogen state of the vagina postpartum and how that mimics the pathophysiology of women in menopause. And so for a lot of my patients who are breastfeeding, who have high pro-lactin, who have low estrogen, I'm prescribing them the estrogen cream that I'm prescribing my postmenopausal women to sort of keep the vagina as healthy and sort of moisturized as possible. Does an episiotomy affect the ability to resume in a course after pregnancy or is that usually healed by six weeks as well? I hope is that it's healed but unfortunately pain from tearing in general or episiotomies which are to be clear out of fashion in the absence of an emergency. We don't do routine episiotomies, the data is clear against those, but we do see that any sort of tearing or cutting that happens. We can lead to pain which can lead to dysprunea pain with sex and therefore we have you know, drive issues and sexual health issues as well. Another thing to think about from a postpartum perspective is how these, you know, these insults of pain can sort of manifest into something bigger than they are. So initiating, you know, sort of participating in sex before you're ready and having a painful sexual experience can cause tightening of the pelvic floor, or rigidity in the muscles and can set into motion a pain cycle that then takes you know future pelvic floor physical therapy to break that pain cycle. You alluded to sexual education a number of times I have to be honest a little naive. I don't really know what's being taught in sex ed. I don't even really remember what I learned in sex ed although I remember watching these really embarrassing movies that's on a VCR that's about the extent to it. You were sex ed, ZAR appointed from a top the mountain. How would you design the curriculum? How would it differ for boys versus girls when would you initiate it? So if I were a queen of sex ed, I would get away from the fear based, don't get pregnant, don't get an STD, you know, don't don't don't don't you're going to get HIV sort of fear based counseling and really provide the The first thing is important though. They are important, but there has to be some actual education in terms of pleasure and anatomy and pathophysiology. This is not a podcast talking about you know the plight of women. I have as a mom to four boys. I'm equally committed that boys are as educated as girls are and I care that my boys care about the experience that their potential future partners might have with them. Women's sexuality is complex. It's the anatomy you cannot see as well as you can see with that just sort of the nature of the fact that you know in a bunch of boys are in a locker room. They can see other boys anatomy. They see the differences. They understand that that's healthy. Women don't often see other, you know, girls don't often see other girls vaginas as clearly as as you know boys see other penises and so normalizing through you know the the labia, you know librarian and realizing what's normal and understanding the literal nerve for both boys and girls thinking about safe ways to sort of explore intimacy. If you don't provide them with information content such as you know OMG yes and and teaching them about how to explore their anatomy they will turn to porn. And we have great data that almost all of the porn is not healthy for teens in terms of setting expectations that are unrealistic. Both anatomical and sort of describing you know penetrative penis and vagina sex is the way that women have like screaming orgasms that's just not accurate. And so it sets expectations for encounters that are just not obtainable and leads to you know disappointment and self confidence issues. So I'd love to for for for the you know sexual education to be informative from an anatomical physiologic accurate pleasure based perspective and talk them through how to have safer encounters. So this is obviously near and dear to your heart. What is. What is the way in which you're going to communicate with your boys about this in an environment where they're growing up in a world that you me or husband like we just can't relate to right like I've made this point before I think with with Rachel on the podcast like when I was growing up porn was a black and white playboy or something right like it's a totally different thing. So what what what what are you going to do and what is your advice for other parents out there who have growing boys and girls for that. Yeah, I think I don't distinguish the genders you know as as much I think that you know pull I think that education about all bodies should be provided to all people. And you know so first it's sort of like you know using the correct verbage and anatomical no manclature calling a penis the penis and you know calling a vulva of vulva and sort of normalizing this is a part of your health. So there's also a mission for uh. Is still there a 거야 or half A there's a? So I do really super. You you know, where are the first parts of this world? And you know now is it says hey yoh and I those are amazing things that we did in your над no part so you know I just will ask myself what are you thinking of so-called of their body, it's normal, it's healthy, it's a part of your health or gasm is healthy, but it should be done in a private place. And sort of how you interact with what is consent, what are the components to consent, what does that look like? You know, is it specific? Is it enthusiastic? Is it persist as the activity changes? Is there a timeline on it? Like thinking thinking about all the different ways that we think about consent? And then sort of changing the way that sort of society allows its perceptions to trickle into what we think of in terms of safety. So for example, you know, as a culture we tend to say that, you know, penetrative sex, penis and vagina is sort of the end all, you know, top of the pyramid, most intimate act you can do with someone. But condoms are relatively quite effective at preventing sexually trensmitted diseases when used, you know, in a penetrative sexual encounter. People don't really use protection when performing oral sex, either, you know, women on men or men on women. And so as we see the rise of the, you know, herpes across college campuses, this is an intervention that we really need to talk about. If you're at a party and you're with someone and you want to be intimate with them, having penetrative intercourse with a condom on is safer and less likely to trensmit a sexually trensmitted disease than if you're going to perform oral sex on each other. And so thinking about it from a safety perspective and not a cultural perspective would be another sort of key foundational change that I think needs to happen. And also sex education needs to change. Like what we talk about in, like, did you have sex education in college? What about grad school? What about Perry menopause and menopause? There's sort of needs to be an evolving door in terms of, you know, different providers coming in and talking and educating because our body's change, our physiology changes and our needs change. And this is not a like eighth grade one hour, you know, split the boys and girls talk about it kind of a thing. But coming back to this specific issue, how much of an issue is pornography for young boys and what, what is the solution? Like it's not going to get regulated away, right? Although there are some states where at least age verification is required. I don't know how effective that is, but I assume it's, IMean, that's a step in the right direction. So my strategy in general when thinking about don't do this is always to do it, don't do this, do this. So it is sort of like introduce what you should do instead of what you should. And so let's introduce something healthy. So what does a healthy sexual life look like? There are, you know, the poor industry is, you know, there are parts of it that have evolved. There is, you know, healthier informational videos that you can watch if you're looking for a rousal. There are healthy ways to have an orgasm and to interact with another human being. And talking about how you, you know, bring someone into your life, that's healthy and how you have what, you know, what frequency is healthy for both of you. And if you're not getting that, like, to what ends do we go to get an elsewhere? And, you know, what are you searching for? Is it a dopamine release? Is it, you know, what can we add in a replace of that neurotrensmitter release that you're looking for? Is there a crisis of intimacy in young people? I've heard this a lot, but again, I just don't know the data, but I keep hearing that people in their 20s today are becoming less and less intimate over time relative to a decade ago, two decades ago. And so first of all, I don't know if that's something you know, but is that, is there a, I don't. I, I sort of have the same anecdotal experience in my clinical practice where I have very lonely, less intimate, 20-year-old, you know, women in my practice would have asked, you know, and when I, when I take a sexual health history, which, which I always do, you know, there is, there is a lot lacking there. And we could, you know, it would be a whole another podcast to talk about AI and how that's going to sort of, you know, replace intimacy and how we can use that for a rousal and things like that. But I think it's something to think about. So I guess maybe final thoughts. What are you most concerned with right now, as you think about your, your, your professional world? And what are you most excited about? I'm most excited about the new information that we have coming in about hormone options in terms of how we provide menopause, hormone therapy and how we treat perimenopause and the new types of estrogen and progestin and how we tinker with those and moderate those to optimize women and how they feel. This is super personalized, super individualized medicine and we want to do this as physicians. We love doing this. But I think the more research that's coming out and the more, you know, drugs available make it really fun to be a part of. So that's definitely my area of passion right now. In terms of concerns, do I have to have a concern? I guess I just have another passion, which is that I, I, I think, where I think the world is changing and I think we're, I think people are ready for it. I'm ready to push it there. You're pushing it there. I think it's really exciting to think about sexual health as a part of your health and talking about it in a various sort of like generic safe place from a physiologic perspective. Think about all the people you can get on your team to to help you, you know, sex therapists and pelvic floor physical therapists and how to tinker with your hormones and behavioral interventions. And I love thinking about couples listening to this podcast together and trying different things. And, you know, seeing this as, you know, potentially orgasm as another biometric or, you know, sexual satisfaction as another sort of longevity lever that we pull when improving, you know, the happiness and health of our lives. I think that's an awesome way to to close this discussion. And I definitely appreciate the optimism and lack of pessimism around it. So thanks again for all of this insight. I learned a lot as is often the case with podcast. So thank you. Thank you for having me.

=== FILE: A Complete Guide to Skin Treatments ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [ojwIjJ_x0Sg].txt ===

We can't get out of this podcast without me understanding the difference between lasers, micro abrogens, micro needleing, chemical peels. I can't understand any of these things, but you mentioned resurfacing, you mentioned my skin sucks. So clearly before I go on the path of my rejuvenating anti-aging protocol, IMight as well do something to fix the situation we have going on here. And so tell me about sure I think we can do a crash course. I know this podcast is running long, but it's just a massive subject to cover. The start with lasers. Yeah. IMean, could we take one step back, maybe? Please. And talk about the difference between a blade of a non-ablative and maybe talk about peels. So maybe the way to go is there are various technologies that will that will in a controlled manner injure the skin to harness the body's natural healing cascade, which then will produce the aesthetic benefits we're looking for, which is more college and production. Smoother skin, less pigment issues. And that's the goal, right? And so the bottom line is there's a relationship with how aggressive the treatment is and how much of an aesthetic improvement should going to get. But the more aggressive it is, the more downtime there is. So that's always the kind of balancing act. And that's why there's such a confusing array of options that exist because there's a huge spectrum going from the least invasive, which has least result to the most aggressive with the best result. And so I guess to generalize, there are treatments that are not truly a blade of meaning. They're going to penetrate through the skin. And then there are treatments that are, shall I, I think hopefully I set that up for uses and to maybe go from there. So that's the definition. A blade of means it penetrates the skin? No, yes, a blade of yes and non-ablative, not doesn't penetrate the skin. So what are the non-ablative, which are presumably the less severe, which means shorter recovery time, less overall response? So non-ablative things, you can start with even your topical skin care vision, because that is going to be model the skin and set the stage for you to even prime it. So you make more collagen. And then you can do things such as light chemical peels, which are only going to affect the epidermis of the skin. You can do things like non-ablative fractional lasers. And those are going to again, send tiny, fractionated beams of light onto the very surface of the skin. And just damage the upper layers of the epidermis, and that's going to stimulate a cascade of cytokines to build on the collagen and texture, but it's going to be minor. And they might help with some minor pigmentation issues. Those are non-ablative devices for resurfacing. What was the last one? Not a fractional, non-ablative fractional lasers. We also have non-ablative vascular lasers. Those are lasers that are going to penetrate with a beam of light to hit the dilated blood vessels and people who have rosacea. And it's a brand name on one of a non-ablative fractional. Faxle or a clear embrilliant? Okay, that's a bit of a... And it's a bit of a... Yeah, there are different ones. So, Faxle has multiple different ones. Clear embrilliant is just superficial. And then you have non-ablative things like vascular laser that will help treat broken blood vessels, scars, texture change. And that one, even though it's a shadowing some of the dilated blood vessels deep in the skin, it's not leaving an open wound on the surface. So when we say non-ablative, there might be things happening deep down, but the surface of the skin is intact. So there's no raw wound. You might want to pause on that category for one second, just because that is probably one of the most high yield areas for someone to try out as an initial kind of intervention at a, you know, with a physician or provider. Because the downtime's easy. We're talking about non-ablative, you know, like, for example, intense pulse light or broadband light, which is IPL or BBL for short. Those are in the category that Susan just mentioned of non-ablative light treatments. And it's a huge, huge category. There are so many devices in this category that it would be kind of silly to even list them. But they're very effective in that they don't have a lot of downtime and produce improvements that are real for patients. Starting to run. I just thought I was just pause there for one second. Absolutely. And actually the last one. So the boxy is another non-ablative. So I'd have to look and see what the technology on Moxie is. Okay. If it's, if I'm not mistaken, I think that one might be a radio frequency micro-needling. I think that's right. Yes. So that one is a little bit. It depends. It is semi-ablative because you're literally piercing the skin with a bunch of needles. Got it. And delivering radio frequency energy through those needles. And those will seem like college, college-en. So anything that generates heat in the skin to a certain level, to a certain temperature, I should say, will then cause the formation of something called heat shock protein. And that causes a whole cascade of other activity within the dermis of the cells. The dermis of the skin to make you produce collagen, elastic, shrink the overactive sebaceous glands, and reduce some of the dilated blood vessels. So there is a lot of benefit beyond just treating the vasculature that you see. So I tell patients, like for example, if we treat the arosatia and they get improvement after two or three sessions, they should come every year and repeat it. Even if the arosatia is quite, because it really does help with anti-aging. And so from that standpoint, those are non-ablative. And then if we go to a blative, we've got deeper chemical peos. They've got the modified TCA peos. We've got modified phenol peos. And then we have our ablative and... So we don't need to worry about brand names at this point. We're really talking to the practitioner in saying, do we want to move into an ablative peol? I'm going to get a better result, but I'm going to have a greater downtime. And presumably I need to do it less frequently. Yes. And that's exactly what you said is key. I think the big mistake is to come in and say, oh, all my friends are having moxie, I want moxie. Let's talk about what it is. We might have something that does similar results, or maybe even something that does better results. And maybe it's not the right choice for you, even though you're friend. It's a family. It's a family. And so the field is so confusing to consumers. And honestly, even practitioners, because it's a gold rush, right? There's so much money to be made in this area. Every company is getting private equity money and getting an FDA approval for some kind of device because they want a piece of the action. And they're purposefully confusing everybody because it's like snake oil. You know, it really wants to sell their product. And some of the products work well, some don't. Any products you think people should just absolutely avoid? Just based on lack of efficacy. No, but I do caution my younger patients. The ones who are under the age of 40, even up to 45 in some cases, to really avoid doing things such as ultrasound tissue tightening, radio frequency tissue tightening at that young of an age, because there is some fat activity that happens. And I would caution against premature aging their face. Yeah, I agree. IMean, those are the categories that are probably have the most hoop law with the least effect. Yep. Is ultrasound based energy. And look, IMean, there once was a time where that was the only non-surgical option for tightening the neck, but it didn't do a great job in most people of left to by the wayside. I like it though, in addition to a biostimulatory filler. So you inject a little sculpture under the skin, and then you come over it with a... Automatic properties. Can't exist for the devices. And that's what I was going to say is, you know, if you know your physics with all these devices, you can achieve so much with your lasers beyond what the company tries to sell you. How do you then decide? I understand why I understand that fork in the road between a blade of a non-ablative, but let's say once you commit to an ablative therapy, how are you deciding between a chemical peel, a laser, a micronetal? And I vaguely remember my wife telling me something or overhearing her and her friends saying that if you had malasma, you couldn't do this one, but you could do this one. What are some of the do's and don'ts, as you navigate that? So I think there are a lot of nuances this conversation, but to generalize a little bit, chemical peels are generally safe for all skin tones, generally. Laser resurfacing, a blade of laser resurfacing, can be riskier for higher-fizpatric skin types that have more pigmentation. Because the melanin cells are sitting deeper in the skin, and the deeper the laser goes, the more it can create permanent injury and pigment cells and create permanent pigment problems. Whereas the chemical peels you can control that depth a little differently. And so that's one, I would say generalization that's probably worth mentioning. I should not do a laser peel because I'm a... You can have a laser, but you're the kind of person who needs a lot of preparation and caution heading into it. You would need to probably get onto a regimen to control your pigment cells with hydrochlorine. Why would I bother? Like why would I take their risk? Why not just do it? It can be better. I see. So I guess just to complete the conversation about the different categories, the most effective, non-surgical skin interventions are in the category of a blade of lasers and phenol peels because they go the deepest. And TCA, I'm going to have to throw that in there. TCA, sure, TCA. TCA peels are something that should be done by someone who's really not what they're doing. And so going to your point, how do I choose? Sometimes on the same patient, I'll do all three. So on most of their face, IMay do a medium depth TCA peel, especially because I can get the ears, I can get into the brows, I can feather onto the neck, into the hairline, so I don't leave any area unre-surface. And the medium depth peels are going to go just to the level of what's called the papillary dermis, which is the sweet spot for tissue tightening. And peels of that sort. And this is TCA or phenol. TCA. And these peels penetrate in the prickly into pores. So I love peels for large pores. And you'll see the solution sitting in the pores and they'll just go a little bit deeper just in those pores. And as the tissue heals, they'll contract. Then IMay take a patient who has very deep, perioral lines and use my fractionated, oblative CO2 laser on those. And then someone with redundant skin on the lower eyelids will take my phenol peel and apply it there. So in one sitting, the patient might have all three. But I'm going to pick and choose where I do it. In some patients, IMay be depending if they don't want an eye lift. Or I didn't eye lift on them a number of years ago and they're just trying to get redundant skin. IMay just oblate that tissue with either my laser or the phenol peel and get a mini eye lift again. That might buy them with two or three more years. I'm Peter Ratee. The cast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterRateeMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: AI and Longevity： Hypothesizing What Lies Ahead ｜ Mike Israetel [7ctqPdr99e4].txt ===

Now, my head is, you know, how about I just stay off chronic disease as long as possible, stay as healthy as possible. Stay in the game as long as possible so that if it turns out that that was for nothing, we're sitting here. It's 10 years from now. I'm in my early 60s and someone comes along and says, Peter, all that stuff you did was totally unnecessary. You could have been eating Cheetos, drinking Margarita's all day long. I have a pill that's going to make you 20 years old again. I would have no regrets. Yeah, I would be like, I don't care. I am really glad that I did what I did. But I would have regret if I put my eggs in the basket that said, I'm going to drink the Margarita's all day. I'm not going to exercise. I'm going to wait for the exercise pill to come along. And it just doesn't come along. Sure. I also think we just have to, you know, accept, you know, one of my favorite thought experiments. I was talking about this with a friend a couple of weeks ago. So if you just consider modern human history, right? We're just talking about 250,000 years. I don't know. Let's forget everything that came before homosapiens. You go back in time, 250,000 years ago, 200,000 years ago, 150 that you do this in like 50,000 increments until you hit 10,000 years ago and then 5,000 years ago. And then 2,500 years ago and then 1,000 years ago. And you go in and you ask them to predict the future. Letting them see everything that's happened before. Because of course, that would be a difficult thing to do. Most points in time. They don't even know anything beyond there. To like, what's the future? Yeah, I was shit. I went back too far. Yeah. Yeah. And it's sort of like it would be impossible to imagine because the pace of change during that 250,000 years was pretty much nothing. Right. Then, you know, 5,000 years ago, we get agriculture. Then, you know, a couple hundred years ago, we get, you know, the industrial revolution like we really started to first industrial revolution. Yeah. They started to get these two more steps. Step function changes. But even if you go back in time, 100 years. So 100 years were in the roaring 20s. Life couldn't be any better. Nobody knows that there's this depression coming. Nobody knows what technology is coming. You know, all of these things. So we couldn't predict anything. You go back in time 40 years. I don't think anybody could have predicted what we're doing today. Ray Kurtz, while successfully did what did Ray predict almost everything, probably about his 70. If you're conservative 60 to 70% accuracy, which is wild because the baseline accuracy is zero. Yeah. And if you're not conservative and you give him a little bit of a minute, 80%. This was throughout the 80s and 90s, he was able to predict a substantial amount of correct predictions all the way through the 2020s. And he was the almost the only person to predict the arrival of artificial general intelligence as interestingly enough, specifically the year 2029. And now there is a debate of he was probably too conservative and AGI will be here by 2027. In the early 2000s, they did a lot of asking questions of AI experts. People working in the space. But almost all of them said Ray was an insane person. And about half of them said we could never actually create artificial general intelligence. The other was like, oh, and 2100 or 2700 and every five years that you ask this, everyone trens closer and closer to Ray Kurtz, while it's original prediction. And he's not doing magic. So early, he said something kind of interesting. He said, we started 250,000 years ago. Then we went to 125 and 50. So on, as you said, that things get faster. Progress happens exponentially quicker. But if you plot every single event on human and animal history and geological history, it all plots on the same logarithmic scale. Very, very tight clustering. And right around 2045, the line's fucking vertical. And so when IMake predictions, which are not mine, I'm just parading with other smarter people have said of possibly getting traction on almost every kind of disease in the 2030s. This isn't the wishful thinking of a child. Though mentally I'm below the average child. At least in my own heart, this is something that is inevitable based on our incremental understanding and manipulation of the world. It is the most accurate type of prediction that you could make bereft of exact knowledge, because it's the thing that tracks on that exponential progression. If we're pessimistic about it, we're actually estimating that things will somehow progress substantially less than they have been. Computing powers and easy one, that curve of computing power in the early 2020s, people are like that's it, Moore's Law is dead. But then AI picked up the pace. And it's outpacing Moore's Law. It's crazy. They exactly on the trajectory that Ray Kurtz-Wild was the first one probably the best to formalize. So when I'm saying crazy shit, like we're going to Kabosh, aging, we're going to Kabosh, disease, and all this other stuff, it's tantamount to someone in the 1930s peak depression error days to hear that in the 2020s, you can make $16 an hour or work it at McDonald's. And that in the United States the poorest people are the fattest. They'd be like, you're out of your fucking mind. And you're like, no, no, no, it's totally true. Like I'm in the future. It's totally true. And like, so what do you do for a living? I can't imagine a describing a person in 19th. It's what you do for a living. Look, well, social media and they're like, what's that? You're like, oh God, how do we even put this to you? And we're still working the same physical world. We're really the same humans. But anytime we think, oh, Jesus, no way it's going to get this good all disease eradicated in a whole new segment. One's the last time you've treated a patient with cholera. Do we have cholera in the modern Western world anymore? Yeah, I think that this is where I'm less optimistic. I don't know less, no more confident to be clear. So I want to be very clear. They could be wrong about all this by the way. Yeah, but just as a point of discussion, my optimism is less around. Everything you said I agree with in terms of compute velocity, et cetera. It comes down to the manipulation of biology, where I think certain things would need to be true to undo. So I'll give you a silly example, right? Do we believe that in 10 years, we will be able to take a pro, an egg that has been put into a frying pan, fried, the clear part has turned white and make the white part clear again. Like, do we think 10 years will bring the technology to do that? Yeah, how, yeah. But why? Why do we think that we'll be able to unfold proteins again? Because Google's DeepMine Project just mastered protein folding last year. And this earlier this year took the first open contracts with major pharmaceutical companies. I get very to familiar with it, but that's a remarkable problem for which obviously a Nobel Prize was awarded. But a very different problem. Like I'm just not sure that the entropy will allow the reversal, right? So what DeepMine did, again, it's incredible. But they could actually take an amino acid sequence and predict the protein structure in folding. But when the protein has folded, right, which is why the goes from clear to white in the pan, how do we undeneature that? Yeah, through industrially designed enzymes, which we do not have the brain power to design, but for which I'll put this as well as I can. For which in the 2030s AI will be comically overpowered for? Because we think we're very complex and by our own standards, we're insanely complex. But AI is so much smarter than us already in many of the relevant ways and soon to be way smarter than us to a degree that most of us have difficulty conceptualizing. IMean, just a quick analogy. And you're explaining to your dog why the only season inside of your house is a light summer day. Peter doesn't know what seasons are. It's total communicative throughput involves gestures and emotions. It knows its name, it knows it knows a few other things. You can't do it. It's impossible. AI, as predicted by these very simple equations, which have never steered us wrong of how smart it's going to be in pet 10 years, in 10 years, will be like probably several orders of magnitude smarter than us than we are than dogs. So it sounds like wishful thinking and hope. No doubt many of the comments in this will be like this guy's an idiot lunatic, fair play. I don't necessarily think that. They might be like, I think that's something that they might be listening to. Me and say Peter, you are so pessimistic. How can you be so pessimistic? Or it's not that I'm pessimistic. How can you not be more optimistic? But nevertheless, sure. The solutions to the problems that we're seeking to systems that intelligence should they choose to solve them can be a factor better term pedestrian in nature. And they're going to be dealing with problems that are much more complex than the reengineering of human biology. So for me, when the raw compute and the raw understanding of how to manipulate matter and energy to get kind of any kind of shape you want at a given energy input, when that's there, the only question is like, are we going to try to do it or not? And that's where it come back to the incentives and constrents problem. The biggest hurdle to the development of advanced pharmacology in genetic engineering and so on to do this kind of thing is going to be regulatory nature hands down, FDA, everything is off by five or ten years and it sucks. But once AI has enough time to cook on these problems, the candidate drugs released will run through trials with just an unreal record. But why? Because if you have very not so good at things, AI, it's decent. But AI is going to do a great job at the first step of the process, which is what's the molecule? Right. Right now, it's trial and error. It's brute force. It's super painful. Yeah. Exactly. Alpha full changes that. Yeah. How is AI going to streamline the phase one trial where we have to prove? Once we have the IND. Oh, yeah. No, no. It doesn't streamline it at all. It just flies through it like it knocks out phase one, knocks out phase two, knocks out phase three, market. So you can say, right, but we get the phase two to phase three, it's still going to take a decade. Totally. But at the end of that decade, we have super drugs hitting the market all at the same time as opposed to the incremental process. The impriments are all handled up front by the AI and that last decade is just like, we just got to do this. Yeah. So your example would be, it's like coming up with Reddit true tied in 2014 when we had Lira Glutide as the first generation, GLP-1 that sucked. Yep. We already knew how to build or touch or tie it back then and we could have just done it no one cared because the money wasn't there slash. There's lots of other candidates, drugs, you can work on. That's interesting. Yeah. I really thought of that. If the AI is powerful enough, it'll just give you candidates that are just killers right off hand. It's like, but how will it know that? Because again, this is such a silly philosophical discussion. Sure. But like, didn't we kind of need to see that, okay, semi-glutide was better than Lira Glutide. But we had to see, I don't know if this was predictable. You had to actually see the experience to then go from semi-glutide to Tersepatide and realize that, oh, like, maybe it's the GIP as well as the GLP that's really good. Yes, now when we look at the pipeline, it's different. So I do wonder, IMean, again, it's a, it's a very tantalizing proposition. But I wonder how much of it can be figured out through simulation, which is what would be necessary. Eventually all of it. But I'll give you the second wrong of what's starting to happen now. The second wrong, the first wrong is, I just candid at drugs based on protein structure alone. And will that protein structure fold into the receptor, or targeting well enough to give us some activity? The second phase is this sounds funny to say, but it's computationally going to be tractablEQuite soon, simulating every single protein in the human body and seeing how that can't get a drug interacts with every single other protein. And then they just optimize the selection criteria for the dial-up of the effect. Good go down to the target. How do you familiar with Jeperone, aka Exua, a new major depressive disorder medication? So Jeperone, the trade name is Exua, is class. Targeting against the SSRI, I think. And it only targets the serotonin receptors in specific parts of the brain as opposed to just like, you're going to get it all. And so it has seemingly no more probability to reduce sex drive or ultra-consumption of food patterns than a placebo. That's not even developed with AI. This is just a more selective target. We can get almost 100 to 0 ratio targeting with that phase to approach. Now you just want muscle growth and skeletal muscles only. You got it. Entirely I driven. And when the first phase one participant takes that first pill, there's an almost 100% chance. Holy crap. What else do you feel? How's your blood work? Everything's totally normal because we've tested it on every single other receptor in the human body. There are definitely bumps on the road with that. It's not quite just that simple. But it's on the way there. And the last thing that we'll let everyone do is to think, oh, AI's, every night again, you hear like, oh, AI's overrated. It's overhyped. In my view, there is no overhyping AI. Sure, it's magical. And it's going to be here tomorrow and we'll never die. Fine, OK, it's a few years to off-center. But the power of computing all of this and then using that computation to test it in the human body and getting irritative loops on that is to me not to be understated. And if somehow biology is somehow magically intractable for older folks or whatever, I think that scanning of the human brain and brain machine interface and mind uploading is going to happen by the 2040s anyway. And then it doesn't matter what the hell your body's like you live in the cloud. Yeah, I've thought about that a bunch. Sure, I like it.

=== FILE: AMA #3： supplements, women’s health, patient care, and more (EP.26) ｜ The Peter Attia Drive [kzs7GgxR_FQ].txt ===

All right, I guess this is gonna be the beginning. Okay, and three two one. Am I you welcoming people? We're gonna be full. Peter. All right, welcome to you. Welcome. I'm at your place. All right. Someone said, which is good. You remind me of who Bob is. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, so now we're starting. No, I'm starting. All right. Hey, Bob. Peter. Welcome back to New York. Thank you. Thanks for having me. It's a huge sacrifice to have you. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to our third slash second AMA. I guess technically our second when you consider that the nothing burger one was very specific to the fast. Again, we're still thinking that this might be a quarterly thing. We've got these. We've got an AMA page up on the blog. So now folks are asking questions and voting up and down. And that sort of making it much easier for Bob Kaplan here, who's my, I don't know, my right hand, my main man, my side kid. Yeah, I've heard whatever to aggregate before that. He was doing it through Twitter, which was super painful. Let's see. Today we have a lot of questions. I haven't looked at them yet, but I like seeing on your screen how many there are. It's stressing me out a little bit. Yeah, I'm suspecting it's impossible to get through all of them. So maybe we'll just kind of try to draw a hard stop in a couple of hours and see how far we get. Also, for those of you watching this, this is the first time we're going to record one of these in video. So I have no idea if that's going to prove to be of any value or not, maybe it won't. But nevertheless, for those who like to be able to watch a couple of knock-o-heads drink their topo-cheekos, as opposed to just listen to the bubbles, welcome to my little apartment. All right, I'm going to let you take it with you. It's good started. So one of the features on the AMA page is a vote up, vote down feature. So we can see it which ones are more popular than others. So we'll buy us some of thosEQuestions towards this. And so one of the most popular questions was curious what other reference ranges Peter considers to soft. Okay, so this is sort of on the heels of the last podcast for the last AMA where I talked about my blood values before during and after the fast. So because I don't remember what I actually talked about, I'll just probably just start from scratch and there might be some repetition here. So as I just sort of think about going through the labs from start to finish when it comes to the lipids, I generally take a harder line on triglycerides than is typically given. So the typical reference range on triglyceride is less than 150 milligrams per deciliter. Apologize, I don't know what that is, in millimolar for people who are outside of the United States. I generally like to see triglycerides below 100. And if we're really gonna get fancy, I'd like to see triglycerides lower than HGL cholesterol when both are measured in milligrams per deciliter. So again, that's probably a bit more of a stringent, sort of level that I would put on things but that's sort of the first place I think about it. Secondly, looking at the LDL particle number, which is measured in animal per liter, just morally and philosophically, I feel like that number ought to be below 1,000 animal per liter, which is about the 20th percentile of the population. And the reason I feel that way is, you know, heart disease and atheroscler disease are the most ubiquitous causes of death. So to be average on the disease that is the most common strikes me as just backwards mathematics. So you really do need some alpha when it comes to a metric like that. And I know that there's gonna be some people watching this that are saying, oh my God, LDL, all this controversy, I don't know when this podcast is gonna come out in relation to the discussion that I had with Dave Feldman about this and the discussion of Tom Dayspring. So either by the time you're listening to this, hopefully that point will have been long addressed and if not, I assure you it will be addressed. So it might make sense to define what reference ranges are because I think people might get confused with what is average and what is optimal. And so people might look at, I don't know, that two thirds of the country is overweight and or... Great point. And so when you look at the average, it's gonna be different from what is actually either normal or healthy. So thanks for bringing that up. So reference ranges are usually given around a population distribution, but it evolves over time. So if you went and looked at a laboratory test from 25 years ago and you looked at in the same units for the same variable, for example, ALT or AST, the trensaminesis, you would see different numbers. And all that's telling you is every few years, the labs have to kind of update their reference range on what they're seeing in the population. So for some things like hormones, you're often going to see between X and Y. And any lab will tell you upon asking they usually don't print this on the lab, but we go back and usually ask them what do your reference range is represent? And it's usually either 10th to 20th percentile to 80th to 90th percentile or two standard deviations below the mean to two standard deviations above the mean. And again, that's usually something they could only say if the data approximates a normal distribution, which many of these things do. Just like height, for example. So you could report height as the average height or the interquartile range. So the 25th to 75th percentile of height I'm making this up for a male in the United States, would be, I don't know, five foot, eight to five foot, 11 and a half. But of course, if you're asking a separatEQuestion, which is if you're trying to optimize to be a rower, a heavyweight rower, someone who rose crew, you'd obviously want to be probably between six foot two and six fooT4. Again, I'm making that up. But the point is showing you that you would pick a range that's completely outside of this statistical norm because you're optimizing for something very particular in that case, rowing. So I basically just disregard all the reference ranges when I look at labs. And I kind of have my own set of standards that are based on my belief system around what should and shouldn't be the case physiologically. So again, going down that list after the LDL, I'd like to see the small LDLP below 500 nanomol per liter, which is represented by the 50th percentile pardon me. I like to see the oxidized LDL below 40. That's a very stringent criteria, because most labs will acknowledge that anything below 60 is reasonable. I like to see that even lower. I like to see C-rective protein below one, even though most labs consider anything below two reasonable. Kind of just kind of mentally scrolling through this. I like to see Europe acid below 5.0. Again, most labs consider anything below six to be normal. Some labs even consider anything below seven to be normal. And again, I think in part, that's because they're optimizing around the prevention of gout. And it's very unlikely you're going to have a gout attack with a Europe acid of 6.2. However, I think there are a number of other health consequences to that. Let's see. Did you give LDNAS? No, so LDNST as of now on the lab that I use, the upper limit of ALT is 44, maybe 42, and AST is about 40. I think both of those are unnecessarily high. And we typically like to see patients below 20 on both of those. Oral glucose tolerance test. Do you mention this? I think maybe in another AMA, we talked about the one hour or two hour both insulin and glucose actually you gave those. So again, I can't remember what the reference ranges are on our lab, but I know that they're geared primarily towards a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. There was a day when you would use the OTT to diagnose type 2 diabetes and not what we do today, which is rely on hemoglobin A1C. I think the use of an OTT is a better test. And I think the hemoglobin A1C is not a particularly helpful test. So yeah, I generally like to see the fasting glucose below 90 milligrams per desolator that fasting insulin below six. And at one hour following a 75 gram glucose challenge. So this is a liquid glucose challenge. Again, if you change the way that you do the test, you have to come up with a whole new set of reference ranges. At one hour for a reasonably muscular male, I'd like to see the glucose below 120, or maybe at a max 130 milligrams per desolator in the insulin below 20 or 30. And a less muscular individual, or an a woman who is just smaller, I will tolerate slightly higher levels. And at two hours, I'd like to see the glucose back down to below 100 milligrams per desolator in the insulin ideally below 20, or potentially even only two X, what the one hour glucose was. So if the glucose at one hour was eight to see it at 16 or less, at two hours would be great. You know, on the hormone front, boy, it's complicated there because you're dealing with so many other issues, which include symptoms that go far and beyond just the numbers. But if someone TSH is between about 0.5 and 2.0, and their free T3 is above 3.0. And their reverse T3 is below 12, I find it very hard to see how they could have hypothiroidism. Regardless of the symptoms they have, and if they do have symptoms that sound and smell and feel like hypothiroidism, I'm generally searching much harder for another cause, which again is not to say you can't be fooled. I think you always can be. But that would be what I would consider sort of biochemically optimal for thyroid. And then of course, I think it's probably too nuanced to get into a discussion of what happens when one or more of those is out of whack. How do you begin to make the diagnosis? And I've probably talked about this in the past, but the TSH is really only telling you about what the pituitary gland is seeing in terms of T3, T4 to T4, T4, T3 conversion. So that's telling you about the diode nace and the brain that's making that distinction. The free T3 is telling you how much peripheral T4 is being converted to T3, and then a reverse T3 is telling you how much peripheral T4 is being converted to reverse T3, which opposes T3. So the reverse T3 opposes T3, and each of those is a completely different sort of cause. So again, probably a little more complicated, and maybe we'll save that for another AMA. That's a great conversation with a whiteboard. Yes, that's a whiteboard discussion because I'm going to screw it up if I try to explain it without being able to show D1, D2, D3 as the diode naces and all the hormones. Probably another whiteboard discussion then would be the male and female sex hormones. That's an even more complicated pathway. There are about nine things that we measure. They're beginning with DHA, FSHLH, all the way to dihydrotist host or NERDHT. Again, these are hormones that are sometimes we're looking to keep things below a certain level, or above a certain level, sometimes we're looking to keep things between a certain level. I think for EPA and DHA, when we look at the red blood cell index of EPA, DHA, I know this is a very messy topic, and it's also something we're going to absolutely talk about on a future podcast. So I don't want to get too far down that rabbit hole. I definitely want to have Bill Harris on the podcast to discuss that. But I do like to see the EPA, DHA, and DHA, and X above about 8.5%, I used to sort of think anything above 8% was ideal. Frankly, now I let patients up to 10 and even sometimes 12% if they're not having any issues like nosebleeds or something like that. But again, it's more complicated because that's just showing the total EPA, DHA, and in some patients, you really want to see that DHA preferentially higher versus the EPA. And it does depend quite a bit on what which access were most worried about, whether it be the neurodegenerative access, in which case the DHA might be a little more important, or the atheroscerotic access in which the EPA might be more important. And of course, it all comes without saying, the source of that EPA and DHA is heavily dependent on what you care about and what you're worried about. A lot of the other ranges are kind of complicated. I've talked about it before, so I'll bring it up again. Does master all is a very important sterile that we measure. So we measure markers of cholesterol synthesis, which there are mainly two that can be measured commercially, and measures of cholesterol absorption, in addition to stand-all production. So steriles and stand-alls are slightly different. They have a slightly different chemical composition. I don't particularly have an interest in how high or low the stand-alls are or the phytosterols. But I use that very much so when making therapeutic interventions with lipids. But I do care about the dysmosterol. And I do all things equal if given the choice like to see that above 0.5. And the reason for that is potentially obscure. But I do have some concern about overly suppressing cholesterol synthesis, which is typically an issue in patients who are taking statins. If you oversuppress cholesterol synthesis, I think in aggregate, there's a meaning at the population level. This does not seem to pose a problem, but at the individual level, I would exercise some caution. And so the dysmosterol becomes a guide post. Of course, that's all complicated because there are some medications that interfere with the enzyme that converts dysmosterol into cholesterol and so the whole thing becomes a bit challenging. And you can't really interpret the level in that context. Let's see. Did I forget anything? IGF? Oh, yeah, that's a good one. IGF, boy, this is one where I've really changed my tune a lot over time. I used to be in the camp that said, low IGF is best. And in an ideal world, everybody should be at or below the 50th percentile. And that's one where it's not even worth explaining what the numbers are because it varies so much by age that you just have to look at the table that gives you the IGF breakdown by age. But I actually no longer think that's the case. I really think that IGF should be psychalled between high and low. And for example, like when I did my fast, after seven days, my IGF was probably at the fifth to tenth percentile. And it might rebound to the 80th percentile when I'm not fasting. And so I think it's, I think epidemiology mostly sucks, especially epidemiology that is involving an intervention. Like people who do X get Y. I think that epidemiology is absolutely the worst. The next layer of epidemiology that's less shitty is looking at IGF levels and contrasting it with disease, because at least there you've simplified a variable. You're not trying to figure out, like, did those people eat more eggs or less eggs? That comes a separatEQuestion. And I think based on the epidemiology, there's a huge shape, mortality curve with IGF, except it's very skewed. So it's not even a perfect view. And I'm having a hard time being convinced by anyone, including proponents of very low IGF, that an IGF outside of the range of about the 60th to 80th percentile is anything but optimal. So there, I've really switched my tune and become a little more liberal in what I like to see. Obviously, the two things that say three things that impact IGF, the most are amino acid intake. And there are some amino acids like methionine that seem particularly potent. insulin levels indirectly through the binding proteins. So therefore, which is large determined by dietary carbohydrate. And then of course, exogenous hormones, like growth hormone, which is obviously very popular in the longevity slash whatever he circles. But growth hormone, which is an analog, it's the exact analog of the human growth hormone is a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland. It tells the liver to make more insulin micro-factor. So if a doctor is using IGF, I hope to hell they are monitoring IGF levels. If they're using GH, I'm sorry, I'm a suspect. If they're using GH, I hope they're monitoring IGF levels. And so when you're looking at IGF, a blood test, you're looking at a snapshot, whereas you're living your life as a more of a movie. And for example, I think if we vault her long ago is probably people think of him as a proponent of low IGF. One of the things that he points out in his FMDs and the studies is that you get the shrinking of tissues and organs in the low IGF. And then there's the regeneration, which sort of looks like rejuvenation. I suspect when those tissues and organs are rejuvenating or regenerating, IGF levels aren't necessarily at the floor. That's your rebound. That's where you're actually looking at synthesis and the other thing. So you're looking at an average when you really should be looking at the cycling. That's right. And I think Longa was influenced by his mentor by the negative effects he saw in his mentor. And fell to. Yeah, yeah, it felt like maybe this having low IGF all the time is in such a good thing either. Again, don't want to speak for somebody else's views. I don't know exactly where Longa falls out on that. But you're right. Luckily, IGF is much more stable than GH. So people always ask, should we be measuring GH in people? And my view is that's sort of like measuring ACTH, which is another pituitary hormone that is the one that's most responsible for this accretion of cortisol. And unfortunately, the answer is outside of very extreme pathological cases, like acromegally or pituitary cushing's disease, very difficult to infer what the hell is going on from looking at those hormones because they are so pulsatile. You go in a sauna for 20 minutes. That's going to change your growth hormone level significantly. Probably won't change your IGF levels as significantly. So the advantage of looking at very high fidelity, high frequency moving hormones is great. Your closer to the physiology origin. The drawback is the noise can be too much. I'm sure there are a bunch of other things that I care a lot about. You know, I do. But I just, I think, I'm tired of this question. I was going to get into iron and ferretin and TIPC and hematocrit hemoglobin. And white blood cell count. I have points of view on everything. I'm a little probably too opinionated on this topic. We lose through our time limit on that question, man. Let's see what next. This might be a quick one. What aspect of women's health is the least studied slash understood? Is that a high scoring question? It was. You wouldn't be asking it this early in the cast if it was. So ironic that I would be asked that question given that I'm not particularly knowledgeable in this subject. And I hope I don't represent that I am. I do have a number of women patients. I would say a quarter to a third of my patients are female. But when you start to talk about things that are uniquely female, a couple of things come to mind. So I guess what I'm going to do is not answer this question because I don't know the answer, but just go off a little bit and hopefully something I say is a value to the people who answer this question. Obviously, the most important distinction between men and women of the sex hormones. That's an enormous difference. And the other difference that comes along with that is that men experience a much more gradual decline in their sex hormones. And as such, it's often harder to appreciate symptomatic changes in men. You got a guy who's walking around with his testosterone, two standard deviations below the mean. He can actually feel pretty reasonable because just like a frog who's been in water that's been slowly getting warmer, he doesn't actually realize how hot the water is, because he's been in there at the whole time as if you dropped him in that water overnight. It would be pretty stark. Conversely, women experience to completely, you know, again, I'm just completely empathetic to what women go through, which is during their menstrual cycle, or during their reproductive years, they have a menstrual cycle, which even over the course of 30 days or so, 28 to 31 days on average, they're experiencing profound fluctuations in their hormones. And this is another one of my favorite whiteboard topics. And you know, I remember there was this one patient on their forget, I remember sitting down with her in her living room actually drawing this ad for her. And explaining to her why she has PMS, because her chief complaint, actually, which I thought was an odd reason to come to see me, because I don't think like I offer any genius expertise on this. But IMean, mostly it was just to help control her emotional swings during her cycle. And when I actually drew for her the time course of here are the, you know, here's day one, the day your period starts, here's day one of your next cycle. Here's how your FSH, your follicle simulating hormone, your LH, your lootinizing hormone, your estradial, your progesterone, and your testosterone, very throughout that, and let's highlight what's happening on about day 22 to 28, which is when you have this drop in progesterone, and explaining to her that for some women, that central meaning in the brain, that reduction, that withdrawal of progesterone can create emotional liability and other things, and it's like you're not crazy. That's like saying someone who's depressed because they don't have enough serotonin is crazy. No, IMean, it's just everyone has different neurotrensmitters and everyone has a different response to hormones. So it was a very profound thing for her, she's like, oh my God, I've always just thought I was kind of crazy, and I'm just like a moody bitch. And I was like, no, IMean, your mom went through the same thing, your sister goes through the same thing. IMean, this is her retotary, and here are two things that you can do about trying to control this. Again, I don't want to get up on the tangent and go what those two things are that we talked about, but nevertheless, so that's, so that's during a woman's reproductive ears. The second thing that's really profound is, but the time of woman is in her fifth decade typically, all of a sudden that stuff gets shut down. So all of a sudden, she's losing estrogen, she's losing progesterone, and she's losing testosterone. And I include that last one, because most people forget about it. So when you talk about the distinguishing characteristics between men and women, we usually think about testosterone being the male phenotype describing hormone, estrogen and progesterone being the female dominant hormones. And that's true, but what most people don't realize is, when you actually convert the units to the same numbers, so when you go from nanograms per desoliter and peakograms per milliliter, which they're often reported in different units, and you do an apples to apples view. When you look at a woman's highest estrogen level in her life, which, IMean, outside of pregnancy is during her ovulatory cycle. So when she's ovulating, when she has that burst of estrogen, if you take that estrogen level and compare it to her testosterone level on average, which is testosterone varies a little bit by cycle, but not enormously, the testosterone's about 10 times higher than the estrogen. Now the number never looks that way, because testosterone's reported typically in nanograms per desoliter, whereas the estrogen is reported usually in peakograms per milliliter. But if you do the high school calculation of what your chemistry teacher would have you do and put them both in the same units, you'll realize that testosterone is much higher. So even though a woman's testosterone level is much less than a man's testosterone level, a free testosterone for a woman might be one nanogram per desoliter, whereas in a man, the 50th percentile would be about 14 nanograms per desoliter, so called 14, 15 times higher. It is still a very dominant hormone, even relative to estrogen. So when all three of those hormones are basically taken away in a period of two to three years, I don't want to get too far on the soap box, but like definitely top 10 pet peeves, or maybe top five pet peeves, are doctors that completely disregard menopausal perimenopausal and postmenopausal symptoms in women, and who without having ever even read a single study, or tried to understand the limits in the methodologies of the women's health initiative, come to the conclusion, well, no women should ever take hormones, and they should just deal with their postmenopausal hot flashes and perimenopausal symptoms, and eventually let them lose their muscle mass and bone density, because God forbid hormones, cause cancer or some other equally knuckle-headed conclusion. So those are really two huge things. I think a third thing that I've seen, and I gotta be honest, I'm kind of lazy, I don't think I've seen this in the literature, and I haven't probably made a strong enough effort to look at it, but empirically it is so overwhelming that I would be surprised if it's not described in the literature is there's something about multiple pregnancies and the HPA axis in women. So I usually don't see it after women has had two kids, but usually if a woman has had three or four kids, the likelihood that her thyroid bounces back to normal seems not that high. And so I have a couple of patients who came into the practice again, interested in longevity, but their proximate issue of concern was, you know, ever since two years ago, when I had my third child or my fourth child, I have not been able to get back to the same level of energy that I once had. And you look at them and they have a normal TSH typically, but usually their peripheral metabolism of T4 is very altered. And these are, I think in some ways, like kind of the easiest saves, like you, in a very short period of time, you can make a patient feel a hell of a lot better. And they sort of fall through the cracks. And again, I think it might come down to just a failure to appreciate some of the subtle differences between men and women. And again, men are giving birth, fortunately, are species would have died, and we wouldn't have a species if, even a high-responsible for pro creation. Trying to think what else are fundamental differences. IMean, there are many others. I'll part of that question is least studied or understood. I think it was a free economics podcast. They talked about this a little bit where there was a, the fillet of my issue. And I believe that there were, I think they were maybe doing studies, or something where women were involved and obviously birth defects and horrible things happen. And they sort of took women virtually off the table in terms of studying. And so there's a long period of time where it was, I think men were predominantly being studied and were... The subjects of, yeah. Yeah, we would just sort of assume that's whatever we see in the men, we might see in the women. But I think there's been, as far as epidemiology goes, there's been a research in women's studies. And things like that. But I do think that there's, overall they've been understood just in that regard as well. Just looking at the female body versus the male body, instead of just assuming, you know, they're the same. Yep. That's a great example. I remember that, I remember hearing that and thinking, yeah, that's, IMean, everybody knows this story about the letter and the idea, you can't get through med school without it. But it's the ramifications of that. It's that what happened as a result that that's a very interesting point. You know, another difference between men and women, I don't know how well it's been studied, but IMean, most epidemiologic assessments would make a clear case that women all things equal, tend to get less cardiovascular disease. Now, I don't know how eloquently these studies have been done. And I don't know if they've been normalized for APOB and I just know LDLC, my guess is they may not have been. But nevertheless, if you were to make the assumption that once that analysis is done, if all things equal inclusive of APOB inflammation, all of the things insulin sensitivity, even if you want it to be really rigorous, women still get less heart disease than men. And after you've normalized for blood pressure, smoking, and really all of the major factors, you'd have to look at iron levels as a next, interesting concept, right? So there's pretty interesting data in men that the more metabolically deranged they are, the better they do with therapeutic phlobotomy, whereas the less metabolically deranged they are, the less of an effect they have by giving blood, reducing the oxidative stress of iron. So it might be the case that somewhere buried within there is this idea that because, for a great number of years of a woman's life, she is going to have less iron than a man due to her menstrual cycle, that may actually offer protective benefit against heart disease. Again, something I would be interested to know if that's, certainly people have speculated that, but again, I don't know how rigorously it's been documented. And we have another thing out there that's lingering, and you're talking to Richard Isaacs and very soon actually, he'll probably have more insight into this, which is if you look at Alzheimer's disease and you look at the prevalence, I think it's two out of every three cases are women. And so two out of every three cases of Alzheimer's are women, and you could probably say that age is a factor longevity may be a factor in things like that, but I think that that needs to be studied more too. Yeah, because I have a hard time believing that that is purely an age issue. I don't think that the increase in longevity of a woman can affect that much of a gap in, and again, I would be a great discussion with Richard, you're right because you want to make sure that you're not being fooled by a diagnostic distinction and things like that as well. So piggybacking on the women's health a little bit, what are your thoughts on fasting and ketosis for females? Well, you know, again, it's a real tough question because I find all questions of nutrition to be so individual that it's hard to answer them, sort of, in a one-size-fits-all sort of one-stop shop, approach, that said, I think there are a couple of things women need to be thoughtful about. If any woman is having an issue with fertility, I really would not, I just, I couldn't make a case. I can't make a very compelling case for nutritional ketosis if a woman is trying to get pregnant. And I'm sure this is just going to piss off a lot of the keto herd, but because of course, if you're in the keto cult, you believe that ketosis is the optimal state for everything, including, you know, global warming. But the reality is if you look at the FGF levels, and also if you just think about it from an ancestral standpoint, the higher the level of ketone during our evolution, the more likely we were separated from food. And the more likely you're separated from food, the less genetic pressure you should have to be reproducing at that point in time. And this concept is so well preserved in biology. IMean, we had a great discussion with David Sinclair recently to talk about this. And it's even true in the case of the Sertuens, which would be one of the more important regulators of sort of our aging and our and including, you know, our reproductive stress. So I think when you look at the FGF 21 data and the ketosis data, there's a very, and I don't wanna bastardize this because I wish I'd known that I was gonna be asked this question. I would have looked up the paper. It's from a researcher in Texas. I think he's at, he might get UT Southwestern, but he's, if you search, you know, and his name's First Name's David, I'm blanking on his last name, being with an M though, but if you mangled mangled door. Yes, yes, that's him. I saw him presented a meeting once, and it was remarkable data that looked at the differences in a male and female brain in the presence of changing FGF 21 levels. And it was so cool to see this difference the pituitary gland is one of the very few pieces of tissue in the body that has what's called portal circulation, the liver being the other one. So the pituitary has a direct connection, the other pituitary stock to the hypothalamus. The long and short of it is in a collerie restricted state, when ketones are elevated, it suppresses FSH and LH and women, but not in men. This is super interesting to me. And it has a profound evolutionary, IMean, again, maybe I'm just making up a story to fit this, but if we're gonna subscribe to any of Ockham's razor, this would be a great application. In a period of famine, you would want women to stop reproducing. You would want to shut off FSH and LH. You would want men to have no impairment on their testosterone level. That's all the more time that they should be out there and able to get food. So again, I've always been kind of a little bit careful of suggesting that a woman who's trying to get pregnant, be in ketosis. Now look, I know what's gonna happen, everyone's gonna say, well, I got pregnant. When I was in ketosis, yeah, obviously it's possible. IMean, I'm not suggesting it's not, but we're talking about optimization. The second thing, of course, is should a woman be in ketosis during pregnancy. And the answer is, I simply don't know the answer. Clearly we evolved with mothers being in ketosis and having children, IMean, it's be impossible for our species to be here. If mothers were not in ketosis during pregnancy, IMean, we didn't have buffets. But that said, is it optimal? Again, just because something happened in sort of our evolutionary time history, does that mean it's optimal? No, almost not at all. So, is it general rule, and again, I don't like to make general rules when it comes to nutrition? I'm not convinced, it's necessarily the best strategy. Just like I don't think it's the best strategy for kids unless they have seizures or something else, for example. So, you know, a far better strategy is just like don't eat junk food, you know? Don't eat sugar, don't eat highly refined carbohydrates, but you know, should one restrict carbohydrates to the point where they're in ketosis, as a very deliberate act, I'm not convinced that's the case. And of course, when you start to look at things like maternal diabetes or gestational diabetes rather, that's where it gets a little tougher, because ketosis can be a very effective tool for treating type 2 diabetes. And gestational diabetes is not type 2 diabetes, but it has some of its features. So, again, I really, I hope there are some obstetricians out there who spend a lot of time on this problem because it is a huge problem. There are many women who go through this. My sister, I probably have talked about this in the past, and I don't think she'd mind me talking about it. And if she does, I'm in trouble, but, you know, my sister had an operation, when she was quite young, that took out two-thirds of her pancreas. So, during her first pregnancy, she got gestational diabetes, which was to be expected because she had, like, a third of the insulin-producing capacity, and then it happened again during the second pregnancy, and then after that second pregnancy, she actually got type 2 diabetes. Over the course of a year, going on a ketogenic diet, actually working with a company called Vera To Health, that I'm an advisor to an investor in, although that is unrelated to the fact that my sister was getting care from them. She'd lost 50 pounds. Her hemoglobin A1C went somewhere in the 12s to in the 5s in the course of a year, and then she got pregnant again. Well, she decided to go off the ketogenic diet, but still be much more diligent and strict, and despite that, she still requires insulin during this third pregnancy. I suspect she'll have a much easier time recovering, following this pregnancy, but one of the things that's been frustrating, which maybe goes back to this question prior to this is, her obstetricians, like, they have no insight. Like, they have not a thing to offer her, as far as how she should be thinking about managing her blood sugars other than just chronic cram or insulin into her exogenous insulin. So, now, and this is why context matters, and there's no bumper sticker. You could have, you know, thEQuestion thoughts on fasting and ketosis for females. You could have somebody with the constellation of abnormalities that is metabolic syndrome, insulin resistant, type 2 diabetic, and maybe for that person, their fertility might be an issue, and going on a ketogenic diet, may get them in a healthier state. Yeah, exactly. It might actually improve their fertility because of the inflammation and all the other stuff that could be happening as a result of what you just mentioned. So, yeah, I, yeah, well said, you should just answer thEQuestions from now. You do better job than me. I probably have way too many bumper stickers there that lack context that need it. What advice would you give to medical students and residents? It's pretty broad. With regard to what? If you don't do it, do it. Yeah, definitely try your spreads every day. Yeah, how do I, probably, how do I, I don't know. I'm, I'm inferring stuff from this, but probably, how do I get through it too? All the way from how do I get through this thing to how do I optimize my time in medical school? And maybe you can sort of look back on your hair. What's there? Maybe I'll start even broader. So, I definitely really enjoy talking to kids in high school and college who want to go into medicine. And I think in part, I think the most important piece of information, and most important, you know, piece of advice I would offer these folks, which is probably somewhat biased by my own experience. So I explain that as a caveat and I say, look, here's my bias. Is don't study premed in college. And for a lot of them, they're like, wait, why? But I know I want to do medicine. Like, why wouldn't I study premed? And I'm like, that's exactly why. Like, all that stuff you learn in premed is like the JV version of what you're going to learn in med school. Like, yeah, you're going to learn a little bit of anatomy and some biochemistry and, you know, physiology and a whole bunch of things. And you'll learn them at like, you know, some sort of superficial level of depth. And then you're going to go to medical school and learn it all in real depth. Okay, great. You just wasted four years. What you really ought to do in college is study first, something that you freaking love. Like, in the end, you want to study something where you don't care about the grades. You're going to do well because you are absolutely obsessed with mastering this subject. And that look, that could be going, you know, an inch wide and a mild deep on something. Like, you know, I want to really study genetics or biochemistry or molecular biology or something. Alternative, it could be, you know what? I want to study philosophy and history or I want to study engineering or whatever. And, you know, but the point is what you, the absolute last thing you want to do is try to cobble together an education that is geared towards asing the MCAT. Like, I can think of no sadder thing to do than to do that. So that's sort of my advice on the people going to medical school. Once you're there, you know, IMean, this sounds kind of touchy-feely, but I remember there were some days in medical school where I was super unhappy. A large part of it was, it was the first time in my life I realized you just had to memorize certain shit. And I had prided myself up until that point in life of never memorizing things. Like, I, you know, I could remember the dates of boxing matches and that was it. Couldn't remember a birthday to save my life. Like, didn't want to memorize anything. And then you get to medical school and you just can't get through one first principles. You didn't. You just, there's just certain things you have to generate a certain base of knowledge before you can even participate in a thoughtful discussion. And, and so that took me like a year to just accept. And there were times when I was super pissed off when I was sitting there studying, thinking like, I'm getting so dumb. Like, I'm not solving problems. There are no differential equations. You know, I don't even get to use vector calculus anymore. One of the things that was very helpful. And I don't remember where this advice came from, but it was very wise advice, which is at any point in life where you're sitting somewhere in your inner situation. And you think it sucks. Go and find someone who would give their left not to be in your situation and go and help them out. So I, I remember having this thought and thinking, you know what, I'm sitting here at, you know, med school at Stanford. I've got a whole bunch of undergrads at Stanford who are among the smartest undergrads in the country. And, you know, half these kids wanted to not have, you know, some percentage of these kids want to get into medical school. And they might not, right? So I remember actually going and just, you know, putting up my name on a billboard in the, I forgot even the name of the God, it's been so, I don't remember the name of thEQuad, like what the main quad at Stanford was called, but putting up a thing like, hey, anyone who needs help setting for M.C. like, I'm going to be in this room at this time and I'm just going to answer questions. And a bunch of kids showed up and I, you know, I in charge of anything. I was more, it was actually I was doing it for me, right? I was doing it to see what their level of enthusiasm was and could I catch some of that infection again? And it works, you know, it's really a powerful tool. And I did it again in residency. So in residency, there were days when I was like, this fucking socks. Like, I haven't slept in two days. I haven't eaten a proper meal in a week. I haven't even changed my underwear in two days. Like, I just hate my life. I haven't exercised in three days. And then I thought, wait a minute, you are so privileged to be sitting here, right? Like, you know, you are one of six residents that's chosen to be in this categorical program. Look at all of these medical students and Hopkins that would give anything to be here. Do the same thing. Grab two of them, sit down and walk them through something, help teach them something. And you'll see, like, they'd give anything to be where you are. And so, I guess that's, IMean, you could apply that to life, I suppose. But it's particularly helpful in sort of this trensition from college to medical school to residency and beyond. One other advice could I give. IMean, I think a lot of the advice I have is so glib and so cliche that, IMean, I feel a bit embarrassing. It, you know, you, hearing it come out of my mouth makes me cringe, but you do have to maintain a balance. In other words, you'd be surprised. Like, let's just say you think there's like a hundred hours of work you need to do to prepare for a certain exam. You're probably better off putting 85 hours into it and spending 15 hours doing something else that is, you know, sort of replenishing you in another way and for some people, that's pleasure reading, like, you know, reading fiction. For others, like me, that was always going to be exercise. For others, it's just sort of blowing off steam and going to get, you know, drunk. Again, not advocating necessarily, but the point is, it is important to get out of that, you know, get out of those books for a while. I did not do that in college. So when I went to college, I just decided, I just wanted to know everything that was noable and that meant studying every minute of every day. IMean, I did exercise, but I didn't socialize at all in college very, very little, actually. Probably drank twice in all of college. And they were both incredibly epic nights, actually. That's another story. I feel like Chevy Chase, like, there's like a fletch moment here, reflecting on that. Bubble, go back to playing basketball on the lakers? Yeah, yeah, with the fro at six inches. But in medical school, I definitely spent way more time having fun. And part of it was like being in such a, this is my first time living in California, it was like, oh my god, like, you can ride your bike outside every day. You know, you can swim, you can do other things. So I think that is important. I think the other thing in medical school, not to lose sight of is why you're doing it. Like, you really, the more frequently you can interact with patients in medical school, the better. Not for the reasons that I think the consortium would say, which is the problem-based learning. There may be some truth to that. Meaning when you take what's called a problem-based learning approach, which was something that I think Harvard borrowed, actually McMaster University was the first to do it, and then Harvard and two or three other prominent schools started doing it, which is basically this idea of kids weren't going to sit in class anymore and do the traditional stuff. They were going to go straight into the words from day one, and then encounter a patient, encounter a problem, and then go back and learn what they needed to learn to do that. You know, whether that approach is right or wrong, actually, have no insight. But what I think you do get out of seeing patients, whether it's in a traditional path like they had at Stanford where you spent the first two years grinding through class and not, was it's really exciting. You start to, IMean, again, now, I think at my stage, it's very easy to take that for granted and be like, my patients are calling me, and I'm trying to enjoy my weekend, and I'm stuck answering 27 emails or calling the lab or doing nothing. But boy, when you're starting out, it is just amazing to realize that you have this bizarre privilege. People are going to tell you shit that they would never tell anybody else. You're going to see people at a very vulnerable state. And that's, I guess it's good to figure out early if that's appealing or not. Because if it's not, if you're not odd by that, you probably don't belong in medicine. Because there's enough things that'll beat that out of you in medicine that if that initially doesn't all you, you know, there's an issue. This is totally unrelated, but Tim Ferris had a podcast once about how to say no elegantly. And I forget who he credits this to, but there's someone who has this criteria, which is if someone asks you to do something, if the answer isn't hell yes, don't do it. Because it's all downhill from there. If Bob, if you call me up and you're like, I've got this great idea. We're going to do blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. If I think, hmm, okay, I'll do it bad idea. I have to think that's the greatest idea I've ever heard. And so similarly, like, if as a college student or as a medical student, you aren't bold over by the beauty of this interaction with the patient, it's worth questioning why you're doing this because it, you will slowly have that sort of, the forces that be will do everything in their power to beat that out of you. That makes sense. It sounds touchy feeling, but it is. Yeah, it's touchy feeling. It's begin with the end in mind. You really have to know what your goal is because more or less you turn the have to use and to get to. So, you know, like, oh, I have to get up early in the morning. I have to be on call. I have to, you know, whatever it is. Even like a profound thing is like for a mother saying, like, I have to change these dirty diapers or something like, I get to change these dirty diapers because I have a kid that I love and we are able to, you know, make this baby together and things like that. And I think when you go through something like medical school, how rigorous and how tough it is, you need, you know. And you, regardless, you're going to have to remind yourself at times because it's going to be tough. Yeah. Yeah. That's, again, well set on the way I'm answering thesEQuestions. You always say it better. We'll see. You wrote on Twitter that you are considering different avenues to monetize the podcast in order to make it sustainable. What do you think is the best way to do it? So, this is something that, so, so, we're recording this today on September 11th, I'm not sure when this podcast will actually come out probably later this month or October. But it will have been abouT3 months. We started this in July. So, first of all, the whole thing was started as an experiment. Have we officially put every podcast out that was in that first trial balloon? Yeah. Okay. Cool. So, as of yesterday, with lustig's coming out, that is the experiment. Yeah. We might have squeezed one more in. I think it was, we're going to do 12. And he's episode 14, maybe. And there's also this sneak couple A and maybe this deep dive. So, I guess I would say now having completed the experiment, I have enjoyed the hell out of this way more than I thought I would. And I know which, you know, you and Nixon over there, you guys are both rolling your eyes at me, because you were saying this forever. And so, was Tim and so, was Kevin and Jaco and Onohod and Patrick. And like everybody had been telling me, you got to do this. You got to do this. And honestly, this was one of those things where all I thought of was I have to. Like, I have to do that. I have to do that. And now I look at it like, I get to do this. Like, I get to go and interview people who know more about a subject than I do and pick their brain. And the only thing I have to do is set up a bunch of goofy recording equipment in front of us. IMean, it's, it's really amazing. And I don't actually have to do any of the heavy lifting after. Like, you guys do it. Travis does it. Right? There's like basically three people, four people who do a whole bunch of work after I do a recording. And I never think about it again. I've never listened to one of the podcasts after the fact. So I'm hoping they're turning out okay. But basically, I just get to walk around having spending, you know, abouT3 hours a week, having a cool discussion. So that said, it still is a highly expensive proposition by my back of the envelope calculation. It costs about $2,500 to make each podcast, not including my time, which wouldn't necessarily want to put a price tag on. Because I don't know how to value it. But if I just include the priceless, my time is priceless. Maybe that takes up to $2,550. So, you know, and it, you know, so whatever. So you're going to spend 10 grand a month making a podcast. That's great. But the reality of it is we do need to, we do need to remunerate this for two reasons. One, it's not cool to flush 120 grand on the toilet every year. And, and two, there are a lot of things that I want to be able to do that upon further inspection, if the podcast can not only pay for itself, but pay for some of the research that we want to do. That would be great. We just hired our sixth analyst this month. So we have a team of analysts that basically I would like to be as large as could be as we could afford to manage, which means you manage. You can tell I don't do a lot around here. I sort of take care of patients and that's, well, but right now our research team is basically subsidized by our clinical practice. So everything is under an umbrella called a T a medical and the patients are basically subsidizing our research. And that's fine because the patient's benefit the most from the research. But I would like to figure out a way for the podcast to cover the cost of our research. And if I'm really going to be wishful, not just cover the cost of our analysts, but generate an additional pool of capital to invest in the types of research we want to do at certain universities. So there are a number of investigators around the country who are doing really interesting work, who I think could be doing way more interesting work if they had unrestricted funding to do certain stuff. For example, people have heard me talk about my obsession with wanting to understand if there are biomarkers or things that could delineate a metabolic signature for a toffee. This is the type of project that by my estimation could be done for a relatively low sum of money. Meaning this is not a billion dollar project. This is a project that a few people could get together and solve. I would like to contribute heavily to that. Have a pretty good sense of who the people are that would need to be involved in that project. If we can get IRB approval to do some of the experiments that I think would need to be done, I think those are elegant. So all of those things are things that I would like to see partially and maybe in a dream state completely funded by the podcast. Here's what I have figured out. I probably don't want to do. I don't think I want to sell ads. A couple months ago, I put out somEQuestions on Twitter about, so we can fully talk about the fact that we're drinking top of Chico because we're just advertising for free. We're not getting paid to do this. That's refreshing. I was actually very touched by the feedback that we got on Twitter when we put that question out about, hey, what do you guys think about me, Chuck and ads? Because I almost don't remember a single person saying no, bad idea. Everyone was like, look, you've got to make money to. You've been putting out free content since 2011. You literally have never charged us for anything. You don't have a single ad on your website, blah, blah, blah, blah, by all means sell ads. And so I think I thought, I thought at the time, okay, well let's do it. And here's the way we'll do it. We're only going to sell ads for things that we love and care about and blah, blah, blah, blah. But to be honest with you, then I don't want to close the door to this, but I'm having a hard time seeing how I could make it work because there just aren't that many things that I love. And frankly, I have no idea if Topo Chico would want to sponsor this podcast. They might not care. So at this point, like, I guess there's another deeper point, which is at some point, you will probably have to take an advertising dollar from someone who is incoming versus outbound. So today, if we were going to start advertising, I would just say Nick, by the way, Nick is behind the camera. So at some point, Nick, you should just walk through. So people can see who Nick is, but I would say Nick, can you please go and reach out to these 12 companies? And we've already made a list of like, these are the companies that I love the most. And I use their products religiously. And I pay to use their products, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, let's go out to them and have them sponsor the podcast. And who knows, maybe like a subset of them would do it. Invariably, you're going to have to, you're going to exhaust those avenues and you're going to need to take inbound. My fear is, even though I do, I think I have, you know, very high integrity, at some point, I'm concerned, like what if I just start deciding subconsciously that a certain product is better than another product because it's going to pay a lot more than another product would? I don't know. I'd like to think that's not the case. I'd like to think that I'm impervious to that kind of influence. But I don't know if I am. And if I could prevent having to go down that path, I would like to do so. So I think I don't want to do ads. So I think that basically leaves two options. The first option is to do what my really good friend Sam Harris does and Sam has been beyond generous in his time that he has spent with me walking me through what is involved in a listener support model, which is what Sam does, an entirely listener support model. Sam, also, if anyone hasn't listened to his podcast, he also does a great job explaining his rationale for it and he does it far more eloquently than I could reproduce it here. So if you're interested in why Sam feels strongly about that, it's worth doing. Ron DePatric is also entirely through a listener support model, though it's a different model than Sam's. So I think that is one really good model. Again, I don't think it's going to be as lucrative as ads. IMean, if we're going to be honest, it's probably not as lucrative as ads. But I think in the long run, it actually could be better. The second model is something that I would only be a participant in and it would be, there are lots of people out there talking about a model like Netflix, where there's a number of people would be part of a podcast network, where you only get to listen to their podcasts if you are a member of the Netflix equivalent. That is something that has only been put on my radar over the last two or three weeks. So it's a little hard for me to sort of quantify and understand the economics of that. IMean, I understand the economics of it, but really press your test them. But that could also be advantageous because again, it has the luxury of being it frees you from the constrents of ads. It has its drawbacks. Frankly, IMean, you're going to lose listeners if you do that. Even if you make more money, you still lose listeners. It will reach fewer people because the probability that everybody who's listening to a podcast for free will go and join a service for that. I think is relatively low. So I know it's not a great answer because I haven't given the answer, but I would like to believe that by 2019, we are absolutely monetizing this podcast and I suspect that it will be one of the latter two approaches and not an advertising approach. I will say this if we do go down that, and if we end up going down those paths, I would still like to talk about products that I like because one of the pieces of feedback we did get from that sort of very informal pull we put out was people want to know what things we like and to be able to actually shock the products we like when we're not getting paid to shock them, tells you we're really just shock them because we like them. So, I like this ring, I like this ambulance siren, I like this bottle of water, whatever it is, we can just talk about it openly and I think that there's benefit to people in that because then they'll know like, okay, wow, that's the way. That's an ideal way to get an ad. Okay. Given anything to say to make what I just said better, like you did with every other question. What is it about Buffett and Munger? They did the annual meetings? Yeah. A lot of times they just I forget like what he said basically. I thought that was well said. What he said. That's like, I'm not going to add. I think that's what it is. We'll say you go to Charlie Munger after Buffett does like a dissertation, you know, an economics. I have nothing to add. That's what I'm going to strive for. Next question, what exactly are you looking to achieve and monitor with your blood glucose monitor? Your CGM, your G6, which you another product, you probably love. I love the G6 and I'll talk about it all day long and without advertising it without receiving advertising dollars to talk about it. You know, it's funny, the G6 along with the or a ring, which I've talked a lot about, are these, and I've worn every wearable that there is. But they're the only two that seems sticky enough that I can't stop wearing them. Like if I like a month ago, I went to charge my or a ring and I forgot to put it back on my finger when I went to bed. So I slept without it and I woke up the next morning and realized I didn't have an idea of the data. Like it made any goddamn difference in my life. I was so pissed. The horror. I was like, God, how could you forget to put your ring on my um there's probably a whole separate issue with that. But um and the same thing with like the continuous glucose monitor, I just it's hard for me to imagine I used to not know my glucose in real time. So there are a couple things from it, right? The first is it's a great way for me to control my behavior. And I know it's tempting to want to believe that I'm somehow impervious to the forces of bad food. But the reality is a reality of it is I am not. There was a day I think when I you know had a remarkable resilience and willpower and I could do anything. You know eat this, don't eat that exercise like this, exercise, yeah. I could I was a robot for so much of my life until three years ago and something just happened in 2015 and I just fell off the rails and I've never got back on. I simply do not possess the intestinal fortitude to be a robot anymore. And I I could speculate on several of the reasons for that, which I don't want to get into. But the long and short of it is here I am. I am in an environment where like you know yesterday I was on a plane and they were handing out shit cookies and bullshit. I really wanted a cookie. I think the only reason I didn't eat that cookie that was bigger than my head is because I knew I'd have to look at my CGM data after. IMean so there is no more powerful behavioral tool for me than my CGM. Because in the end I'm kind of a competitive person internally. Much more competitive internally than externally by the way. And I just can't stand to see spikes of glucose. It just drives me nuts. And so which is not to say I don't go off the rails sometimes. I absolutely do. We were in the Fenway Park through the day and I had fries. Now luckily I had fasted all day and worked out. So I didn't actually experience a spike of glucose from the fries. So I got to have the fries without the badness. But I was sort of ready for it. I was kind of bracing myself like, oh you might get a little testy seeing this thing. But that actually gets to the second point which is it has allowed me to very eloquently calibrate how to tether activity levels, nutrient deprivation, the consumption of treats, and minimize the damage. I don't know that I could drive a race car very well without seeing my RPM tack. Like if you plugged my ears so that I couldn't actually hear the rev of the engine and you took away my RPM tack and said drive. Could I still drive the car? Yes. Could I drive it half as well as I can drive it when I know exactly where I'm shifting at every moment where I need to shift? No. There's simply no way. Like we don't, we're feedback machines. We need feedback. So yeah, IMean I'm a huge CV at CGM advocate and really looking forward to what the next few years will bring when these things can become a lot more affordable and a lot more accessible. And thEQuestion is, can that be done without them remaining as medical devices? So the one I wear now is that that's gone G6 is a medical device. It's an FDA approved device and it gives you a number that is in this case incredibly accurate. It's probably plus or minus two or three percent specifically for the purpose of someone with diabetes being able to dose their insulin. The FDA will very likely not allow such a device into a consumer market because the concern would be that such a device could be used outside of a prescriptive relationship with a physician to dose insulin. So they're in lies a whole bunch of issues that would basically the way it would happen today is the FDA would basically have to neuter the device such that the information couldn't be used for treatment purposes, which means they either take away the real time nature of it, which is what makes it so valuable, or give you a bunch of ranges and the loot the accuracy. Those are basically the two levers with which you could neuter one of these devices, deliberately which sounds crazy right like it's like the backwards step. Okay, I know you have a zip-o lighter. We're going to start using sticks instead. We're going to rub them together. So, but all that said, hopefully, in an ideal world, the medical device becomes cheap enough that if you want that level of precision, fidelity, and real-time feedback, you'll just look, doctors write prescriptions for way crazier things than CGMs. You got docs out there writing prescriptions for pain meds all day long, and every hormone under the sun. I don't think it's a big stretch to say doc. I need a CGM. And I think you might have mentioned this too, in terms of what you're looking to achieve in monitor with your blood glucose. You might have said that it's a proxy for your insulin, and maybe you could explain why there isn't a continuous insulin monitor alongside your glucose monitor, because that would be a good tool. Yeah, and I looked into this real lot in 2011 and 2012, I've even met with the engineer. He's actually, I don't know if he's still there, but I don't remember his name now, unfortunately, but he was, he might have been an emeritus professor of engineering at UCSD, but he was actually the first guy to figure out actually how to do these real-time glucose monitors. What are called a point of care device? I actually took him out to lunch one day to pick his brain on, well, why don't we just do this for insulin, and he was like, would that be interesting? And it was just funny to talk to him, because he's an engineer, like, well, why would he know that insulin would be as interesting as glucose or more interesting? And so we actually dug into this a lot, and basically the short of it is, if you can't measure the assay using an antibody or enzymatic reaction that very quickly, without any washing yields and answer, you can't do it at a point of care device, and insulin is pretty hard to measure. So it was initially measured using something called a radioimmune assay. I believe today they're usually done with something called Eliza's, which are these enzyme linked, you know, and I won't rattle off what Eliza stands for, but it's it's a chemical reaction where you have to, you know, put an enzyme on something rinse it off, put another one on rinse it off, etc. So in other words, it can't be done in a moment. So absent that, I don't really see any direct way to measure insulin in real time. Now, I've had discussions with some companies who are interested in using CGM data to impute changes in insulin, and I think that could be done, but I think it's a lot harder than people realize and you would need a lot of data to do it, meaning you wouldn't just be able to do it off the CGM. You'd have to do the CGM coupled with a lot of blood draws where you actually could, you know, basically build a regression curve off insulin and glucose to predict for future insulin. There in May lie and answer down the line. So absent that, a good proxy for having a low level of insulin is going to be a low level of glucose and a low level of glucose variability. And the CGM spits out those reports. So you go into it, I have mine here, I'm making noise with my stupid Mike, but you know, you go into, it low glucose variability, one might, yeah, I don't know if people can see this, but I didn't infer that the A1C might be telling you that. Although the A1C is not telling you anything about the variability, but I don't know, let's talk about A1C in a moment, but you can see that I can spit out at any point in time of 90 day, 30 day, 14 day, or seven day report, and that report gives me average glucose and glucose standard deviation. That's the variability. So why is that relevant? Well, the, you could have an average glucose of 85, 95, whatever, with the standard deviation of 10, which is very low variability, or you could have the same glucose level with the standard deviation of 30, and those are very different insulin profiles. So you want to keep, you want to keep that balance closer. I've largely discounted hemoglobin A1C in an absolute sense as a meaningful number. I think it's, you know, it's directionally tolerable, but mostly shit. And I know that because now I've used CGM in so many patients with calibration and compared it to A1C, and you realize that the A1C is really at the mercy of its most important assumption, which is a red blood cell lives for 90 to 120 days. Anything that takes it outside of that range leads to an over or under estimation of the A1C, and therefore an over or under estimation of the average glucose. And you can, with the A1C theoretically, you can say, I have an A1C of 5.4, and you can compute what your average glucose levels were. Theoretically. Yeah. So the way the A1C works is you measure the A1C and you impute the average glucose. The way the CGM works is you measure the average glucose, which is actually all that matters, but you can impute the A1C. My A1C runs very high because I have this condition called beta thalosemia trait. So I have a bunch of these, I think I talked about this in the podcast. And one of the shit for blood is, yeah, yeah, the fact that I'm trying to make Matt a used to call me shite for blood. Always in a Scottish accent. Yeah, shite for blood. So my little shite blood cells live a long, long, long time. They, I don't have no idea, but it's clearly longer than 120 days. So my A1C is very high. The lowest A1C I've ever seen in myself is 5.6 and the highest is 6.0. I'm basically just on A1C, I'm a pre-diabatic, pretty much all the time. On CGM, when you take a highly calibrated rigorous, you know, look, my average blood glucose imputes that I would have in A1C between 4.5 and 5. That's sort of the range that I would live in. So that's a material difference. And again, I've seen that difference in both directions with patients using CGM. So my hope is that in 10 years, maybe that's ambitious, I would hope that the Hemicloven A1C can't even be ordered on a lab. And everyone just has a CGM, you know, and it's like a trivial little, you know, thing that, you know, even if you're getting a life insurance exam, you just wear the CGM for two months. And the data comes from that as opposed to actually measuring this non-sensical number. Is it just me or other way more like sirens today? Yeah, 9-11 in New York City, I don't know if that's... Yeah, it's interesting. I feel like it's been non-stop sirens today, which is, I'm sorry for the listener, but I think they get the heads up that you're doing a podcast and just want to buzz the tower. So that works. Surprise, I haven't been drag racing anymore. That 14's going by. I didn't get the permission for a fly by there. Negative ghost rider. The pattern is full. Lithium or Lithium supplementation. Can you share your thoughts slash experiences? Yeah, so I think the evidence that groundwater containing higher levels of lithium, rather than lower levels of lithium contributing to better mental health is, you know, as good as any such data can be, which is to say not great. I call it like tier two epidemiology. So the worst epidemiology in the world is people who exercise this way have this much life or people who eat this way have this much, you know, disease or whatever. Like that's the worst epidemiology because you're measuring, you're trying to accurately assess inputs and outputs. So that's like that epidemiology I just think we should stop doing that. For the most part, it's epidemiology. This hypothesis generating and this is an interesting observation more or less. It's an interesting hypothesis. But the reason I'm calling this tier two epidemiology is like one of those variables is fixed. Like the groundwater lithium concentration doesn't require you. Yeah, there's no health that you use or bias in who's doing that. The only thing you're measuring is the mental health on the other side. So in other words, that's a better type of epi. Just like the IGF one I alluded to earlier. But it's actually not subtle, right? So if you look at those data, it's actually not that subtle. When you overlay the US map of groundwater of lithium and mental health, it's a very nice association. Now, there is no doubt in my mind that you could think of other explanations for that. And that's the beauty of trying to be thoughtful about these things as well. Maybe the lithium in the groundwater is a proxy for something else. Maybe it's a proxy for education for socioeconomic status, for weather. Like you could think of 10 other things that could be that. So all of that said, at the first order, it doesn't appear that there's an obvious proxy. But there still may well be. But at the other end of the spectrum, what's the cost of the intervention of trying it out? And so I decided several years ago that I wanted to try taking some lithium to see if it could help stabilize my mood. But that's sort of a crazy thing to do. So I did a ton of homework. And luckily one of my best friends, Paul Conti, who I've interviewed and will hopefully be on the podcast shortly, maybe even by the time this has come out. Well, that's that true. Do you know the order of those, Nick? Oh, sweet. All right. So you'll have already met Paul Conti by the time this comes out. You know, Paul has an unbelievable experience with lithium because he is one of the few psychiatrists out there remaining who is still very comfortable using lithium in monotherapy for high risk by polar patients. So usually a patient with bipolar disorder is treated with several drugs. But in some cases, some of the drugs, either the patients don't respond. They're recalcitrent to the drug or they produce such negative side effects. They can drive up, you know, suicidal ideation, things like that, that you basically have to resort to just lithium. And now that's our really scary. That's about as scary a case as a psychiatrist can be in because you basically have to put enough lithium in that patient to take them almost to a toxic dose without pushing them over. So I wanted to learn everything about lithium toxicity from talking with Paul. And this is going to sound a little crazy. But when I first started taking lithium, I actually took it at a very high dose. Not the dose that someone who was taking monotherapy for bipolar would take, but I was taking about half that amount. So I was taking about 600 milligrams a day. And again, I'm hesitant to talk about this because I know some knucklehead is going to go and take 600 milligrams of lithium a day. Let me be crystal fucking clear. If you were not under the care of a physician who is super dialed in on how to measure lithium levels when to measure lithium levels, which lithium's you take because it comes in a bunch of forms. Doing this is tantamount to, you know, suicide. IMean, it's complete stupidity. So with all of that said, under the most careful, closely monitored conditions that one could have, including getting lithium levels checked constantly, I spent about a year taking 600 milligrams of lithium a day. In two doses, two different types of lithium a slow release a fast release. I did it as an interesting experiment and I didn't tell anyone I was doing it because I wanted to know if anybody else would appreciate because I'm an emotionally volatile crazy guy. So it was like, there should be a noticeable difference. And interestingly, the first person to notice it was my wife, which is abouT4 months in when she was like, something's different in you. What is it? Again, I have no idea because of course, by me knowing I was taking the lithium, maybe that altered my behavior. In the end, I decided I did not want to take mega doses of lithium because I did notice I could actually have side effects. The first side effects of too much lithium or nausea. Now, even when you're nauseous on lithium, you still don't reach the blood level that approaches the toxic levels, which makes me wonder how those poor patients who are constantly taking 900 to 1200 milligrams a day of lithium are tolerating it. But I noticed whenever I traveled through different time zones, if I took the lithium at different times because it was being compressed. If I was stacking time zones, flying east, I would start to get nauseous when I took it. I was like, what the hell is that? From when I realized, oh my God, you probably just effectively took 900 milligrams. So I was like, you know what, this is the way this is, I don't think there's enough upside. I feel a bit better on this, but I don't feel that much better that it's worth this hassle. So I just stopped it for a couple of years. And then recently, like about two years ago, I decided, I went back and looked at the data and I was like, look, if those groundwater data are correct, you don't need to be taking that much lithium to reproduce the levels. It's we're not contended 20 milligrams. And that's actually an over-the-counter dose. So that's why I take it. Again, you could put this in, I have certain things that I take that I put in the category of probably not harmful, not sure how much value I'm getting out of it. This would be one of those things. The penny in front of a bulldozer. Yeah, this is the two by two, right? So the reward is, are you getting a penny or are you getting a Bitcoin? The risk is, are you picking this up in front, is it like picking that thing up in front of a tricycle or a tren? This to me is trying to pick up a penny, call it a dollar. Inflation. It's picking up a dollar in front of a tricycle. At the end of the day, hey, it's a dollar. It's a dollar more than I had before. And if I'm wrong, a tricycle hitting me is not a lot of work. What you never really want to do is pick up dollars in front of trens. If you are going to step in front of a tren, it better be to get a, you know, basket of things. Yes, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if you said this, but when your wife said, there's something different. She noticed something different. Did she say what it is? Or do you know what was that difference? Yes, she said you're less of an asshole. Interesting. It wasn't subtle. She said, I don't know how to put my finger on it. It's something about your as holadness is gone down. Decreased. Okay. And then when you supplement it on, you said maybe like 10 milligrams versus 600, where you do you think you're achieving the same effect? Now it's impossible to know because the very first time I did all this stuff was before IMeditated and apparently before I paid attention to any of this stuff, I think I can be just as much of an asshole today as I used to be. I think the difference is I'm now so much more aware of it that I can correct my assholeness quicker, like I can be an asshole, but then I'll snap out of it in like 20 minutes as opposed to two days. So I think now there are so many confounders that it would be impossible for me to say as lithium made any difference in my mental health. Truthfully. Okay. Insights about burbering. So burbering is a plant derived extract that has two properties. One of which it gets a lot of attention for. One of which it might not be as well known. The first is that it is a week AMP kinase activator. And for those of you that have shown an interest in what metformin does, that's probably the secret sauce of metformin is it's AMPK activation. So burbering when taken at recommended OTC doses, which I remember the dose is any more I think it's like a, it might be actually a comparable dose to metformin. It might be like either 500 twice a day or a thousand twice a day. Does have some of that week AMPK activation. And what that, the net effective that is it decreases hepatic glucose output. So it's a burglating AMPK is telling the liver hey you can make less glucose. So send less glucose out of the body. And so in that sense it's a poor man's version of metformin. I don't find that that interesting. I prefer to just use metformin. If we're going to you know, for going to go down that path, like let's do it pharmacologically with, you know, potent drugs that we understand that are consistent from batch to batch that have a much higher sort of oversight of regulation and that kind of stuff. The other thing about burbering, and this is that this is when I still do use it in clinical practice, is it is also a week inhibitor of the enzyme PCSK9, which any listener this podcast is going to be very well on to speed on what PCSK9 is. The word on the street is it probably only works in a subset of people who over express PCSK9. So PCSK9 is a protein that degrades LDL receptors. So if you over express this enzyme, you're going to really degrade LDL receptors. You're going to have a higher LDL particle number and probably a higher LDL cholesterol. If you take that subset of patients, they seem to respond quite nicely to burbering. Now thEQuestion is, how do you know that? I don't think there's a test anymore to measure that. Athera tech, which I think might have got absorbed into vapour, something like that. I think you used to have a test, but in the end I was like, why am I going to do some tests on somebody to see if they over express PCSK9 before I give them burbering? I'll just give them burbering, make no other change, and see if there's not a significant enough difference in their LDL. I don't care. And everyone's in a while, you just look like a rock star. You get this patient whose LDL is really high and you check your boxes, like they don't have their triglycerides, aren't that high, their fight of steriles, aren't that high, their stannels, aren't that high, their dysmosphalis, aren't that high. Hey, they clearly have defective LDL clearance, maybe they over express PCSK9, which would be one of a thousand reasons you could have, like literally there are two thousand genetic mutations that can lead to an inability to clear LDLs that would go to this is like one of them, but this one amounts to about 5% of them. And so in that patient you hit them with burbering and all of a sudden like everything's fixed. Do you see that with an that form in it all? No, no, I don't think that the form in possesses that that piece of what burbering has. Okay, what is your reasoning for taking baby aspirin? And what does the science say? Well, interesting timing. So the science has changed on this as of about a month ago. So my thinking on this has actually changed in the past month. Historically, I took baby aspirin just because I come from a family where heart disease is rampant and that's sort of, you know, if, you know, in the spirit of our good friend Charlie Munger, you brought up a moment ago, you know, show me where I'm going to die and I'll try to not be there. So, you know, the crystal ball says I'm probably going to die of heart disease. So let's do everything in our power to mitigate it. Let's keep the lipids as low as possible. Information as low as possible. Don't do anything that's going to exacerbate endothelial dysfunction. Take the baby aspirin, which probably acts primary, you know, somewhat through it probably has some effect on inflammation, but probably the majority of its effect is obviously on platelets. And therefore reducing thrombotic events, which are the final, you know, like that's what pushes you off the cliff when you have an MI. I would have said that prior to a month ago, my view on baby aspirin was, if your aspirin works test as positive. So the aspirin works test as a test we do in urine that measures metabolites of platelets and basically tries to predict which patients will and won't respond to baby aspirin. If that level is high, my practice used to be to put patients on a baby aspirin. If there was at least one other reason to do so. So, if they had an elevated LPPA-L-A2, if they had an elevated LP-L-A, if they had a significant enough risk of heart disease, that I would feel that that those two things, and I fit in that category, right? So I have a normal LP-L-A normal LP-L-A2, but my family history for heart disease is high and my aspirin works was high. So that's why I take a baby aspirin. And then you have to weigh that against the consequence of a baby aspirin, which is look, you're going to have a little more easy bruising. You have the run a small risk, almost unmeasurable of having an ulcer nowadays, we're using, you know, because using a baby aspirin, it's interrically coded. You know, this is a far lower risk than say taking ibutamoren or something like that. The coding helps it get in, was it in the small intestine rather than the stomach? Yeah, basically prevents it from, you know, sort of destroying the gastric mucosa. Now that said, there was a study that came out, probably abouT3 weeks ago, we could link to it, that looked at healthy. So low risk populations, and it found that the risk of taking a baby aspirin was very small, which we always knew, but the benefit was also very, very small. Such that it was pretty much a wash. And I would say that, you know, that's the nature of clinical medicine. As more and more data become available, you start to revise your criteria. How will this change the way I practice? I will likely be just a little bit less interested in giving baby aspirin to a patient who is otherwise low risk. And then certainly patients that had it didn't have an elevated aspirin work, so I would rarely use it anyway, unless there was some other overwhelming reason. Will I keep taking it? You know, as I look to streamline the list, you know, I'm always kind of tweaking what I'm taking. You know, one thing that's interesting about baby aspirin, it's not a great this is a great example of like what our research team is capable of, right? I used to also think baby aspirin was a reasonable thing to take on a flight. You know, if you're fly, if you're on a long flight, you don't want to minimize your risk of a blood clot, take a baby aspirin, especially if you have another risk factor. So any patient I had that had an elevated LP little A which is increases your risk of blood clotting probably by two X, although that's still debatable. Pay those are great, you know, those are patients that should take two baby aspirin on a flight kind of thing. Then we had the team look into this right? I think Dan looked into all this stuff and wrote it really nice white paper on it and it turned out that the data didn't support it at all, actually. You know, so you were basically in the camp of either taking flight tabs or low molecular weight happen, which I've taken low molecular weight happen, but it's injectable. I've taken it on really long flights and in the end I'm like, it's just not worth the frickin hassle. I'd rather just get up and walk around as much as possible. So, but yeah, and just a great example of how a lot of times things that are intuitive might turn out to be not necessarily standing up to the rigor of a clinical trial. And these are the things that are easy to study in clinical trials. You know, a lot of times clinical trials don't answer questions that we care about, but this is the kind of stuff where they can give you a pretty good answer. Okay. This is switching gears a little bit. How do you use heart rate variability as a metric in your practice and or in your own personal use? Sleep pre post exercise, pre post eating, every morning readiness? Yeah, IMean, so when I started getting into heart rate variability, it was long before there were commercial, you know, like rings and wearables that were making it easy to track. And so, um, got on blanking on the guy's name, got me into it. His name is Will Eden. Works for Peter Teal. And I don't know how IMet Will. But, you know, we had a bunch of friends in common and somehow we met and, um, suppose for like six years ago. And I went up and spent the day in Peter's office and, um, he was showing me like the raw data on their heart math. So heart math was a company that was running the algorithm on chest straps. So you have chest strap that was gathering a data and then heart math was the algorithm you're doing it. And I was really impressed by the data. It roughly speaking, what is heart rate variability? I guess it's worth defining this. This would be another great whiteboard discussion. But, um, why don't we get a little, like, we should have had like a little post it, like, a little, white, little flip chart here. Okay. We could just draw on the walls too. Sure kids. Do it sometime. Going to hear a funny story about this. Yeah. So I got in really late last night. And, uh, but it was still early enough that somehow my race was up. But I, like, as I landed, he's just getting ready to go to bed and I'm like, oh, I just, I want to, like, face time. I'm right. So we have this thing where I tell him stories every night. And I don't know where this came from, but like, I just decided the name of the character was regionaled. I just love the name, Reginald, right? So I'm like, Reginald is a four year old boy who has a younger brother and an older sister. And it's like, everything is about re-success. It's not about rease. It's regional. And rease is obsessed with trash cans, but regionals obsessed with helicopters. So we're into a sweet, regional story. And you can see my wife is sitting next to him and she's like, kind of rolling your eyes, like, come and get on with that. I'm like, I got to get this kid to bed. And I'm like, so I was like, I got to make it a quick story. So I'm like, one day, Reginald wanted to draw a picture, but he couldn't find any paper. So he grabbed his markers and he drew a big helicopter on the wall. And rease like sits up and he goes, he did what? And I hear my wife go, good story, Dad. And I'm like, oh, IMean, but after he drew the helicopter on the wall, he was grounded for a month and never allowed to draw again. And he did like, walked myself back. It's a good save. I think Dad's just do that. Like, I think we just give kids bad ideas and we don't realize it because we fling foot in mouth disease. I think it's term. Yeah, I think so. Even like today, I heard I heard about it again. She's like, he's still talking about regional drawing on the wall. Like, just so you know when that happens, you're the one painting it. It's like, fine. Sorry. Just trying to tell a story. What was I talking about? Dr. H RV. Oh, HRV. Right. So when you look at this old, so people listening to this, I'm sorry. This won't make much sense, but if you're watching this hopefully you'll see this. So when you look at an EKG, which you probably appreciate is there's like this little P wave, which is the A-Trial and then there's the little down tick of thEQ, the R and the S wave and that's the ventricular contraction and then there's the T wave, which is the repolarization. And so that is like one heartbeat. P, dip Q, spike R, S, T. Can people see that? I think what I'm doing on that part. I bet I can figure out the technology that it like makes when you're doing that, we can make the sign-up wave. That would be very wrong to put it. Ronda would do that. That's that's that's Ronda would take it to that level. We might be too lazy. Okay, so let's say somebody's heart rate is beating 60 times per minute. They're at rest. The length of time between those R waves, because the spike of the R wave is the most obvious place to measure the beat to beat time, would be one second. Right. 60 beats per minute. If you're beating 120 beats per minute, it would be half a second or 500 milliseconds. So what heart rate variability is doing is asking thEQuestion, how much variability is there between those beats? And you might think, well, if you're just sitting there at rest, how much variability can there be? And the answer is it depends on what time scale you're using to measure it. If you're just measuring it in seconds, not much at all. But if you're measuring it in 1000s of a second or milliseconds, there could bEQuite a bit. So somebody who's EKG or heart rate measurement looks like it's chugging along at 60 beats per minute. It might still be, you know, 970 milliseconds, 1,030 milliseconds, 1,000, 5 milliseconds, 970 milliseconds, et cetera. There's a mathematical algorithm that you apply, that you apply to that called the root mean square of the standard deviation that basically RMSSD that basically turns that number. It's a trensformation. So it's in mathematics, we call these things trensformations. Where you basically compress these numbers and you can then now measure how much variability is going on. Okay. I don't want to get much more into the math on that in large part because actually don't, I'm not, you know, like I'm not an expert on this topic. There's a little bit of this on the the lestic part. That's right. Yeah, I'll talk about the high frequency versus the lest frequency that's right. And we included that in the shown us. So that's what we're looking at the difference between the RR intervals, something like that. Well, the RR interval is the raw data. Like so, so I'll back up for a moment. So when I got really into this, there were basically two companies that were doing the analysis, heart math and first beat. I chose to work with first beat, even though I would say at the time, both of the algorithms were excellent. But the first beat was a, you actually, it came with its own little EKG thing. So it came with a, you would put a sticker here and you'd put a sticker here. And basically you hung this little battery packed wire across your chest. Like a couple of leads, I knew. You had a couple of leads. Yeah. And it was actually funny because the, the, the, the stickiness of their leads was so profound. I have like leather skin, like nothing can hurt me. I was like completely tore my skin off. I was like for a year, two years after, I started using it. I was depigmented where I had those leads. It's like, so we ended up like realizing, well, this is going to be really hard to do with patience. So they came out with like a less sticky lead and we got to wait a bit. But it would capture the data. Then you would actually have to send the device, you know, you have to plug the device in your computer and it would sort of do the analysis. Before I get to what I do today, the more important point is what did that data tell us, what were we looking for. So we were looking for several things. So the device could measure heart rate, heart rate variability and respiratory rate. Obviously, it has the, it's, it has the sensitivity to measure the thoracic movement. It would use an algorithm. First beat had an algorithm and I'm sure heart math has its own algorithm and they're both proprietary to impute from that whether they believed that the user was in a more parasympathetic or sympathetic state or under a period of profound stress like exercise. So if heart rate variability became very low and heart rate and respiratory rate were high, it would basically impute that to be you are exercising and it would graphically represent that one way. If heart rate were low, heart rate variability were high, it would interpret that as low sympathetic tone, low fight or flight tone, high parasympathetic tone, it would represent that a certain way and you can extrapolate from there. So the advantage of this is you could get really cool data and you would typically have the patient wear this for three days, taking it off only to shower. So they would exercise with it, they would sleep with it, they would change the lead once a day. It became a really helpful way for us to try to look at sleep patterns. The problem is the compliance was very low, most patients didn't want to do it and it took so long to get the data. If a patient was in New York doing this, they'd have to mail the thing back to Mary and San Diego and it was just kind of a pain in the ass. So the products like aura ring or there's others like whoop tries to do this motive tries to do this. I can't speak to their technology as well, but nevertheless now we can basically get those data every day when we wake up, just looking at the data from our wearable. So as a general rule, you want to see higher heart rate variability because that's a marker of more parasympathetic flow, provided again, it's being measured correctly. So the things that I've observed, so when you look at the recovery index on the aura ring, which is one of its menus, what it's basically doing is using a lot of data, but one of them is the parasympathetic, the heart rate variability. So as you over tren your heart rate variability, we'll go down, your resting heart rate will go up. I think I've talked about this in the past, but IMean, alcohol and shitty food close to bed time will absolutely tank my resting heart rate, meaning it will drive it way up and will drive my heart rate variability down. And it's not subtle. It's not like, well, that's on the edge, no, no, like it's because you see the tracing of the data overnight. It's only reporting the average in the max, but you can just look at the raw data and it's pretty clear that, you know, those things, you know, really diminish those parameters and by extension and your recovery and your sleep quality. So heart rate variability then becomes one of the parameters along with temperature, movement, et cetera, that then feeds into the algorithms that predicts sleep quality and recovery. Again, I've kind of forgot thEQuestion, but I know it had to do with heart rate variability. Yeah. How you use it in the practice and personally, you know, wondering, like, do you, is it actionable? IMean, you've talked about doing deadlifts and saying, I forget the number, but it's, it's not small. Where you say you're doing deadlifts, you'll warm up, you're, you're going to be warming up to a heavy. And then you actually you walk away because you're not feeling at that day. Is there anything that you look at it with the HRB, you've already necessarily things like that and say, I'm, I'm feeling great, but this thing is telling me, I absolutely, I, so there's two things that are really valuable. The first is this gets to the point we made with the CGM, which is real time feedback is awesome. Take away real time feedback. It's hard to do anything. IMean, everybody's heard the famous experiments when you put on a headphone that delays your voice, you hearing your voice by a few seconds. You can't carry on for more than a sentence. Oh, yeah, right? I've experienced that. Yeah, so that's actually that's horrible. That's like negative feedback. That's not just taking away the feedback. That's like actually inserting negative feedback, which is incredibly destructive. So the first thing is when I wake up in the morning and I see that my HRV or my heart rate or my temperature or my respiratory rate is off. And again, I have my parameters. I know what I want to be. I immediately can say, what did you do different? IMean, that's how I sort of figured out what my tolerance for alcohol was. You can have one drink, don't have two. And by the way, one's not even good. Like one gives you slight hit to is a brick over the head. And probably what time are you drinking that? Yeah, like when are you drinking that? And then like, that's how I've certainly figured out like meal timing. Like, oh, boy, you're eating a little too close to bed. Like, that's not good. Room temperature. Like all of, you know, all of the crap that I do is largely based on this empirical iterative tinkering approach, which allows me to have data. And then, of course, by giving patients these devices, you can figure out what's true for a patient because it might necessarily be true for me. So in many ways, I'm trying to help a patient understand how they can do the tinkering so that they can figure out their optimal state. IMean, for example, I like a room to be as cold as is humanly possible. IMean, if it's like, if I don't get under the covers and feel incredibly uncomfortable, I'm going to be too hot, by by my standards. But that, you know, that might be not at all your standard, right? So, so that's that. And then to your point, yeah, the readiness score for me, especially when I'm starting to feel a little sick, sometimes that readiness score becomes the hard danger of that. And, you know, I like to see, and also it also gives me some inclination. You'll often see it dip after you've had two consecutive days of really hard workouts. Now, I will say this. I don't think it's as sensitive to lifting workouts. So it doesn't seem to possess the ability to distinguish between like you did deadlifts until you puked versus you, you know, you're at the hotel gym and you did leg press. Like it can't, it but what it sure is how knows is like you went out and, you know, expanded 1500 kilo joules, yesterday on a bike, or, you know, 1000 kilo joules in a run where you ran at, you know, seven minute miles. Like it knows that. And you stack a couple of those days on top of each other and it says, wow, that's that's serious almost. I'd love to see the data on, you know, because I think a couple of teams in the Twitter fronce were the aura ring this year, I'd love to see what those data were like, their recovery score is must have been the lowest numbers imaginable because of the physiologic stress thrown. So, yeah, despite the fact that they're so fit and like, you know, the most remarkable physical specimens, you know, I've been just like at the sort of the tren over the course of the three weeks. Yeah, and see the dip. Yeah, yeah, I'm really interesting. I need to make a note to, because I, I'd like to follow up and see if if anyone's ever been willing to share those data. And you mentioned, you may have mentioned this before, but when you, when you fasted, you did a week long fast. You said your sleep was remarkable. Yes. Did the aura ring, did that, did it corroborate it in any way? When you looked at the, the data from the aura ring that it tells you anything? Really deep sleep. Yeah, the biggest doubt, the deep sleep is what went up the most. So, the deep sleep went up the most, the light sleep went down the least. I went down the most. So, so, so Sage 1 and 2 went down, Sage 3 and 4 went up. Rem was about unchanged. HRV was higher. Um, resting heart rate was, was like, what you would, it was, resting heart rate was on par with what it is if you're not eating and drinking before bed. Um, trying to think what else, I have to go back and look, I think respiratory rate went down. Which I think is a VCO2 thing. I think that the shittier and more carbie, a meal is before bed, the higher your VCO2, you're really trying to blow off more of that CO2. Yeah. We know that your respiratory quotient is higher. So, unless your VCO2 is going up your VCO2 has to be the thing that's going up more, that wouldn't surprise me to see respiratory rate go up a little bit. And anecdotally, that's at least what I think I'm seeing. Interesting. So, do we halfway through this yet? What do we have? We're at an hour 45. We have God damn. I freaking talk too much, man. I have a question. Yeah. Yeah. We could get through morEQuestions if we, if we do a gimmick. IMean, you love gimmicks. You love, you love, you know, I love gimmicks. Bumper sticker. Bumper sticker. Bumper sticker. Woll paper your cars with bumper stickers. I was thinking we could do like a speed round or I used to watch pardon the interruption. Where I was, I think they had different segments, but probably like 90 seconds, Nick doesn't have a bell that he can ring with the 90 seconds, but maybe he can, he's got a timer. It's got a speed master professional as what he's got. I'm not wearing my my cow's, Cassio calculator watch, but I'm pretty sure it's better than the speed master. I could be wrong. I don't know the moon watch, man. It's maybe the single most special watch ever made. So do you want to give this a shot? I basically, well, yeah, one minute to answer a question. Yeah, 60 seconds to 90 seconds. All right. So why don't we just say 90 seconds? Nick will bludgeon you with a club if you don't, if you go over. Yeah, 90 seconds. So here we go. With the emergence of the coconut oil, is it? Does he start timing after you finish this question? I was thinking about that as I was reading. Yeah, after thEQuestion. After thEQuestion, 90 seconds. I was reading out every five seconds. I'm much time you have left because I know that that would really be. That'll help. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That'll be good. With the emergence of the coconut oil is pure poison article. Can you shed some light on saturated fat in the literature and the types of studies done specifically on coconut oil? It's a great question for 90 seconds. And go. I'm going to time it on your two just so I can keep you honest. 85 seconds. I think that that whole coconut oil literature stuff is sort of ridiculous because I don't even want to get started on nutritional epidemiology. I've already alluded to it a bunch of times. I think it is the lowest form of humaninference imaginable, which is not to say it provides zero benefit. But it's at the hazard ratios that these things typically come up coupled with the reliance on food frequency questionnaires, something I've even filled out myself just to prove how ridiculously useless there. Like ask me what I ate two days ago. Not a chance. I'm going to be able to give you anything within an order of magnitude of reality. All that said, I actually think the case for saturated fat may be overstated. Meaning I think that the view that saturated fat is never harmful and we should be able to ingest it at the tune of 90 percent of our calories. I think we have to accept the reality. That can't be healthy for everyone. Certainly clinically I don't see that to be the case. I know I've only got 24 seconds left. What I would say is rather than rely on some knucklehead study, put out by some bottom feeding group of information providers, learn to understand what the biomarkers are that changes a result of it. Both inflammatory, like the protein lipid was, time, go, done. Would you discuss the recent meta studies that claim moderate carbohydrate intake may be best for health? You might be able to cite your previous questionnaires. So citing my previous answer, yeah that study that in particular you're referring to, I'm sure we'll link to it. I don't even remember you must have come out of the Harvard School of Public Health, right? Yes. Okay. Will it were on the same page? So the bottom line is like it suffers from all of the usual problems of epidemiology. And this by the way, Zoe Harcom actually put a great piece on this. She will just point people to that because I think she did a better job explaining this. All the usual epi nonsense, then on top of that layer in the nutritional epi nonsense, which is again nutritional epi is like its own brand of really bad epi, which is in and of itself a horrible brand of science. And then on top of that there were some really systemic issues. She points out that they didn't correct for alcohol consumption. They had some other really odd confounders in there. The hazard ratios were themselves quite low and they again this is more of a reporting issue than it was an issue of the actual survey. But again all of these risks always seem to be discussed in absolute, in relative terms, when in absolute terms they're not. IMean people have heard me rail on the women's health initiative for the same reason. In terms of the hormone replacement therapy component of that, you know, talking about a 24% increase in breast cancer in a relative sense when the absolute increase was 0.1%. These things to me are in a bombination. And I'm going to just time out at a minute 26. Yeah. And I think anytime you look at relative risk, it doesn't really tell you anything unless you also know they tell you what absolute risk is too. You should always look at those two things together. Yes. You have to know, look at notice, I'm using a little bonus time here. We're outside of the time and he's asking me a question. So I'm just going to take it. That's right. You have to know absolute risk. You have to know relative risk and you have to know the period over time under which the condition was studied relative to the natural course of the illness. It's that third-party point that doesn't get enough attention. Anyway, off the soapbox. Yeah. What is the number one recommendation habit you would suggest every person add to their daily regimen besides physical activity and parentheses for wholesome health? Okay. That's exactly the kind of question. Like I never want to talk. Yeah. Um, I don't know. IMean, I think again, you can't answer this question without sounding glib. Like get a lot of sleep. Be through something physical everyday. Don't eat for a long period of time. When you do eat, don't eat crap. Meditate. I'm going to leave it at that number one. Was there number one? The number one? You know, I know, you could probably work it in somehow to say like the number one. The number one habit. No, no, no. So here's the one habit that you could get into is to it's something like finance first principle. You could say that like don't just don't take someone's number one. We'll look the recommendation. Yeah. So that would be the elegant thing to say. The one thing I would say on this that's important to understand is probably sleep is the one we are going to be most sensitive to. In other words, if I said to you, don't eat for this many days or don't eat well for this many days. IMean, you could get away with that for a long time. You could not eat. I think an average person could probably go 30 days without eating. Um, they could go years without eating well and still make a recovery. How long could you go without sleeping before you're completely off the rails? IMean, it's days. So in many ways, you know, we say sleep might be the single most important, but that's probably not accurate information. That's probably not the correct way to say. The right way to say is probably sleep is the one that you will suffer from thEQuickest. Yeah. I was close. I was like one 29. What does it mean if your body has a harder time getting into ketosis via fasting than it used to? Testing using a precision extra. Ooh, that's an interesting question. So the implication is that at one point this person was fasting getting into nutritional ketosis or getting into starvation ketosis presumably. Is this Philip, Philip ushering right now? Is this the time we're going? Yeah. I think it would be similar to like people talking like I went on an act instead and I, you know, the the weight melted off and then 10 years later I went on an act instead and I was like I could my weight wasn't really talking about. If I infer that from thEQuestion, to me they're talking about the new miracle values of the BHB level. Yeah. Well, yes. Yeah. So it's definitely a different interpretation. So so those are two entirely different questions. So we should just pick one and answer it. If we if thEQuestion is I don't get to the same levels of BHB using a precision extra because they went out of their way to explain how they were measuring it. I think that's what they're asking. It could be a number of things. It could be that they are more efficiently utilizing their ketones now. So you're accumulating fewer of them because you are drawing them off. You are utilizing them more. They have become a more preferred substrate. It could be that they're actually just producing less of them. In other words, they're doing something different that they didn't realize they were doing in the past. Maybe they've changed their composition of fatty acids. Maybe they're eating more protein. Maybe they have more carbohydrate in their diet. Things like that. Hard to know without knowing a lot more detail. But those would be the directionally the two things I would explore. Yeah. The first one being impossible to really demonstrate outside of a laboratory. Yeah. I think it's a great point. Some of the P strips is another way to look at ketones. Is it a acetoacetate? Is that them? When they're looking at that, you think, well, my ketones are through the roof because I'm peeing out tons of ketones. Is that necessarily optimal to be a diet? Yeah. It might anecdotally it seems to go down over time. The more adapted a person gets because their body realizes, hey, look, IMean, I'm not going to waste this fuel here. I'm going to utilize it. Yeah. Can you give a 90 second reasoning for why you are a why you are taking Zedia and lipitor? Are you mitigating risk based on your APOE4? Or is there something else going on? So actually, I'm not taking them anymore, which speaks to my point of, I'm always changing meds and flux. But why I was taking lipitor and Zedia at the time, and will always continue to vacillate into and out of lipid lowering medications is I'm trying to live as long as I can. And for me, that means delaying the onset of a throeschlorotic disease is greatly as possible. So why you wouldn't want to take and all hands on decapproach to that, which is reducing the burden of light-prepotene maximally inflammation into the health insulin. All these things, we want them to be all as low as possible. As for the choices of those two agents, lipitor, it's all empirically derived. So through trial and error, I have figured out that I synthesized a reasonable amount of cholesterol and taking 10 of lipitor three times a week was actually able to, when coupled with Zedia Mideb, which is a works via different mechanism, but I could measure my fight of cereals. They werEQuite high. Anyway, it'd be a pretty strong respond or two. So the 10 plus 10 stack of those two was a minimum effective dose that produced very good results in me, meaning it got me to below the 20th percentile, typically to the 10th or 15th percentile. So 30 milligrams of a torvistatin a week is almost a placebo dose when you consider what the drug can be given at 80 milligrams daily. But today I'm doing something different. Time. Okay. You mentioned a few times on your podcast that you are currently working on writing a book, what will the book be about, and what is the expected release date? So the book will be about my experience as a shepherd. What a lot of people don't know about me is prior to the stuff I do now, I was a shepherd. And I think there's not a lot of pop culture references to shepherds. We don't, and there aren't really sitcoms about shepherds. IMean, most people just don't know much about what the day and in day out life of a shepherd is like. And so I thought that would be a good story to tell to just talk about my experiences doing that. And so, you know, it's been a tough book to write because obviously I have to go back through all of my shepherd journals, which are all bound in leather, sheepskin bindings, they're beautiful. And I hope to have the manuscript completed by the end of this year, which would mean probably a release date in early 2020. Now, the drawback of having an early 2020 release is I suspect virtually everyone in this country will be hyper fixated on politics at that time, as we'll be spinning up to an election cycle. And if your choice is trying to understand if someone's going to challenge the incumbent president from his own party and who the opposition will be versus the life and times of a shepherd, I think it's going to be an uphill slog to try to get the attention of the masses. But, you know, I think one of the other drawbacks of the 2020 release date is people are probably dying for that book to be released and they have to wait a couple of years. That's right. Yeah, I think we're talking about something that you can do to expedite this process. We don't be grateful. Believe me, I wish I could. I wish I could. I wish I could get to this quicker. What are your thoughts on Nicotinamide, riboside supplementation for longevity? Oh boy, there's no freaking way I get to do this in 90 seconds. Well, first of all, the good news is I just had an awesome discussion with David Sinclair about this week ago. So in the next two months or whatever that I get. I keep saying that like I know when this is going to come out. Sometimes in October, November, the interview with David will come out. Actually, since that interview, a really interesting paper has come to my attention written by one of my medical school classmates, Josh Rabinoids. So I actually read both of these papers in the plane yesterday. They're freaking phenomenal. And emailed Josh a whole bunch of questions to which he responded. I would say the long and short of it is this and this is not going to make me very popular with anybody. I am completely unconvinced that taking supplemental NR or even NMN by mouth is doing anything other than enriching the companies that make those things. Let me repeat that. NAD, which you need in the cell, you could argue having more NAD in a cell is a better thing. That's a second order question. I'm asking for an exemption to my 90 second rule. This is such an important question. Nick is nodding by the way. Just so you guys know, I'm getting the OK. So you could say like a heavy set, a heavy set, Judge, all out. But then you just find out David Sinclair is going up on November 5th. So you'll we'll go into much more detail around certificates in NAD. But nevertheless, that was comic stands to the bottom. Yeah, what the hell was that shitty ass font? I did. Calibri. Calibri. No, no, we shouldn't. That you shouldn't be allowed to have that on your computer. Avenue times, lots of options, but not Calibri, please. That's not acceptable. I think he did that on purpose. There's no way. Passive aggressive. I'm a glyphics. So cells cannot take up NAD. So cell has to be able to make its own NAD. So the idea of giving precursors has become obviously the most interesting idea. Now what we're bending with is paper showed and we should link to this. So this was in Selma Tabalism. It just came out like if in the last few weeks. It's a 32 page paper. It's it was it took me a while to get through. But basically Josh, who was like I said, it was one of my med school classmates and is still pissed off at me that I didn't invite him to Easter Island two years ago to which I feel horrible. And I it's only and since it's a terrible omission and he has already received an invitation to our next trip to Easter Island next year. He developed his lab developed a tracer to track all of the intermediaries of NAD and all the precursors. So you can give NAR, NMN. And these things can be taken into a cell and then convert it into NAD and the cyiplasm and it appears that according to another paper of Josh is that we could link to it. People are interested. It appears that NAD is formed entirely in the cyiplasm and then imported wholly as NAD into the mitochondria where in theory you would want to have that higher concentration. Here's what the study should. When you gave oral NAR or NMN, the two popular precursors, only the liver could make could take them up and make NAD using cryptophan. No other cell in the body could take it up. So that would suggest to me that if you're taking oral NAD, apart from the oral NAR or NMN, you're pretty much just giving it to your liver, which is not exactly the place you want it to be. This would not be changed by using terrorist still being. I wouldn't impact it at all. Similarly, all those clinics that are out there giving NAD infusions, which is very popular, that's always struck me as cracker. And it just seems even more cracker read today because none of those cells are able to take up NAD. So it would seem to me and I actually emailed Josh about this last night and he emailed me back today and agreed with my assessment. Based on all of these data, it would seem that the only way to increase cellular NAD would be to use intravenous doses of NAR or NMN. Unfortunately, I just hadn't seen that paper because I would have loved to have had that discussion with David because he might have a counterpoint to it. He might be unaware of it. I'm not really sure, but that to me is very important. And I've actually already spoken with a number of our patients who take supplemental NAD and I've, or take supplemental NAR and I've already said to them, you know, look, I think you're sort of flushing money down the toilet. Again, I don't think it's harmful. This isn't like a four-alarm fire, but I think based on these data, I would have a hard time recommending that anybody take those products. I really went over on that one. I've heard four hours and four minutes and forty-eight. I think David Asprey mentioned IVNR. He had Charles Werner on his podcast. Charles Werner, I think is involved with, I think it's Nijin, Chromeodex, that company, and then there's the other company that we'll see in the next phase. It's a very, very few. Yeah, but I think they talked about it, but I think Charles was making the argument that. You got to take NAR or NNAD? Or all, I think it's just NAR for Nijin and then basis is NAR PT, Tertis Albeen, which is like a methylated risk-varrage role, more bio-available supposedly than though as we learned from David, very, very fat soluble. So if you're not taking it with a boatload of bile, probably not doing a hell of a lot. Yeah. Okay. What's the next one? Which brand of supplements have you found effective? Well, IMean, the problem is the whole supplement world's kind of a shit show. So unregulated. So at some point maybe we can talk about brands, chain amino acids, because I know that there, I use them, you know, many of my patients use them, and I've learned that most brands out there are not doing anything. So, but if you talk about kind of the go-to supplement, the companies that I rely on and rely on their products are basically JRO, JAR, RROW, Puring capsulations. I'm not going to spell that because I can't. I'm like dyslexic when it comes to spelling. Like I can't spell the save my life. Oh, we got spell check. Yeah, I know. But like as at the spelling B, I was always the kid that got out first. Okay, spell the TE-H-T. No, so, ATIA. So Puring capsulations, JRO, are probably the two companies that I would be my go-to for virtually anything. I'm sure there are a couple of other companies that we will intermittently use depending on the product. Yeah, but the DHA or EPA, Carlson's are Nordic natural's. Yeah, and Nordic natural's in Carlson's, I like for EPA, DHA, if not going down the pharmaceutical route, those are also available pharmaceuticals. And you alluded to this point with Medformin versus Burberryin that there's different regulation going on for those two products, and that's partly why you would go to Medformin. If Burberryin was a pharmacological agent, I know it's you know, big pharma. Yes. But the scrutiny that they're under is a lot more than I think for Burberryin when we do suggest patients take it. I think we use Thorn as the brand that we recommend. I know we went a little over their neck. I could see you flailing, but I figured I spent, I wasted part of my time explaining how poorly my spelling was. Are you currently accepting new patients? No, not probably not for the remainder of this year. And I don't manage that. So, Marry runs sort of the operations of the practice manages the flow of patients, and she gave me an ear full a couple of days ago that we are not accepting any new patients. Just based on how overworked the team is at the moment. And the follow-up question probably as unsatisfying as the answer may be is, like how do I find a Peter at Tia clone in my area? Other than maybe your brother? Yeah, my brother is probably the best Peter at Tia clone. Although it's funny. I don't really think we look that much alike, but everybody says we look so much alike. IMean, he's so much bigger than me. Like, you know, we just don't know like, did I send you guys the video of him in the grocery store pretending to be borret? Yes, yeah. You said that was me? You're just saying that because of the point I'm making. No, that was Paul. All right, I guess the point is yeah, we look we look a lot alike. So, so you could, so my brother lives in Toronto. I'm a Rello. Got a Tom Rello. Have him give you medical advice. That's right. So, Tom Rello or, and who, I guess I'm guessing he lives in LA. I don't have no idea where Tom would live. Or my brother lives in Toronto. So, that would probably be the best way to get a clone of me. And then otherwise, I think it would be a great thing. If there would be some way that you could endorse other doctors, but it's not something that it is something we talked about actually when we started nerds of Farrey and I don't, IMean, I think it is something that would be an awesome service is to create kind of like a, what's going to say, Tumblr? And then I was going to say grinder to connect doctors and patients, but I'm like, I'm going to make the joke. But like a matchmaking service between doctors and patients where you could sort of say, look, without providing an endorsement, because I don't think I can be in the business of endorsing people. I know there are a ton of docs who think the way I think. And if there are patients out there who want those docs, I don't know why we can't have a forum where they can sort of coexist because, you know, the first hurdle is just the geography of it, right? It's like, if you live in Kansas City, you're not going to want to see some doctor in New York, even if even if I had the room in the practice, it just wouldn't be practical. So we just have too many things on our plate right now. And if you're kind of bad, because we've talked about doing that and we haven't done anything about it yet. But maybe at some point, you know, we can, because this is probably one of thEQuestions we get asked consistently more than anything else. So I just really feel like I get a lot of that over Twitter. And it would be a great thing to do is to be able to say, if you're a doctor who adheres to a certain set of principles, I just don't know how to do it without being kind of hokey and cheesy because like, I don't know what we're advocating. I don't know what, when people say they want a clone of Peter, what do they mean? Like a bald guy? Like I don't know what they actually want of me. I think that my experience from the people that I know and from, you know, the stuff on the interwebs, the Twitter sphere in a racebook. But like the honest response, I think that I that resonates with me the most is that they hear, they'll read what you wrote. They'll hear what you have to say. You'll talk about your strategy with a patient, the objective, the strategy, the tactics, the things that you're doing, the things that you're thinking about. And then they think to themselves, why the fuck is my doctor not doing any of that and I benefit I asked my doctor. They wouldn't know. They would barely even know or they would say either like it's not important or I haven't heard of it or whatever the case is. But I think it's like the level of deliberate care that you put into each patient, at least is my personal experience, like being a part of this. And so I think that it's almost like they're frustrated and they think there's a lot of money. So you can be this comprehensive and deliberate and thoughtful. So what we should do is just have patients come up with a maybe we could figure out a way to have patients generate kind of a questionnaire of things that they want in a doc. And we could we could be like a central clearinghouse of that where you know the patients would input and vote on questions that they want asked. And then doctors basically would post their answers to thosEQuestions along with where they are if they're taking patients, do they take insurance if so which ones like are you Medicare? There's like 10 things you'd want to know. And again I don't want to make more work for us because I can see Nick giving me the eyes right now. It's like shut the fuck up. But that sort of puts the onus I think on the patients and the physicians who are willing to do the work. I'm sure because I know there are docs out there who are doing the type of work I'm doing. And this would give them an opportunity to sort of explain what they're doing and say yeah and like you know I'm in San Diego or I'm in Kansas City or I'm wherever so maybe let's put that on the list for our call later today when we talk with Andrew we can figure that out. And my personal experience too if I don't get emotional about it but thank you my dad was in the ICU for like 30 days I think it was like 30 days at MGH Lazarus. Yeah like a phoenix rising from the ashes. He was in rough shape and I would I would report back to Peter and some other people and my family and so I think Peter probably appreciated more than my family that we're getting a bunch of numbers spit back and not you know you know how he was doing otherwise although I was reporting that too but you know IMean I learned a few things learned how much you know about this stuff obviously and that MGH they I think they like validate your parking after 30 days so they booted him into the respiratory unit the thing is so he went down there for a little while but one of the things I learned to as well is that I would I would bring back the stuff and the the vitals and whatever and Peter would say this is you know this is sort of what I'm thinking and then at MGH I would be doing the rounds with the with the team over there and everything and being a flying the wall and adding my two cents and some of the notes that I'd taken and things like that they're like they were they were damn good at there at the MGH and I also thought that that what a learning experience like I didn't go to medical school I know that was that my advice would be like if you want to be immersed in medicine and just the real deal where people are dying and just fast forward your learning holy shit those those people like the the I see the I see the I see the 30 people yeah yeah yeah and and we joked about it at the time um which was you basically did an I see you mini fellowship because by the end of those 30 days we'd have our call every morning and you would you would you know we would review in systems because then I see you review everything by systems you start with the neurosystem you go to the respiratory system cardiovascular system renal system boom boom boom and you know it only took like a week for you to learn how to gather data and then you know how to report it and I'm convinced that if you had one year of sitting in there you would know you know 80% of what a criticALCARe doc knows IMean it's just reps you know it's just that kind of exposure yeah and you're right it is again it speaks to this point of feedback that week this theme keeps coming up today like how it keeps coming up the reason I think criticALCARe is so interesting and at the same time so teachable is the cycle time between intervention and feedback is so short you want to know what happens to the pH on the blood and the vco2 and the bicarb when you change the ventilator rate you're going to find out in about 12 minutes do it yeah right you want to find out what happens when you tweak this amount of nor up an effort and this much of vasopressman is much of this and the ivy fluids and boom boom look at the swan gans catheter like you're going to see it in a minute um and you know the very few things in life offer you the the amount of feedback you get in a criticALCARe unit it's definitely a cool field of medicine and that that would yeah the few patients that you have I would say that what you do in a sense is criticALCARe that the level of care that they're providing at the end of the ICU and then I see what you do in your practices I see similarities that you're the you're involved in it with the patient well IMean I'm IMean IMean I so IMight I don't want my head to swell too much I want to be but I want to point something out which is it's really what the patients don't see is what's more impressive the patients generally just interact with me but but they don't see is you know Ralph and Nicole and Mary and Heather like they don't see the whole team I don't see the research team so and I was talking about this with Ralph this morning so so we saw a patient and you know spend 90 minutes with him and it was awesome and he had come in and looked at everything and his labs so we finished reviewing all of his labs and he goes oh by the way I noticed you checked my ESR level and it was really low and I was like that is so funny like yeah I checked his ESR because his CRP was 6.6 last time and I just wanted to make sure he didn't have something stupid going on and his ESR came back low and his CRP was like so after he left I was like Ralph that how awesome was that like that patient had read every single one of the 87 numbers that we checked and was it was asked about the one that I forgot to bring up when we were talking and I was like I love that you know I wish every patient could be that obsessed with their numbers because those are the patients that get the most out of us that extract the most value from us I find the patients who are least probably engaged with us or the ones that are also getting the least out of us and probably frankly don't appreciate the potential I think that we have as a team to kind of to you know move the needle you're asking I think you're asking a lot of your patients like the beer on advocate it's really the it's the patient that has the most control over their destiny in many ways yes you you have to put as much effort and emphasis into this as you would any other thing that you care deeply about so if you want if you want to take your golf seriously like you can't just think about iT3 you know 30 minutes four times a year if you really really want to be a thoughtful investor like yes you will have professionals help you invest but you still have to interact with those advocates constantly okay that was a little over ninety seconds yeah did that how how much over ninety was that name okay are we done I think we this has been way too long right I think we we we we we've exhausted at a couple morEQuestions or do you tend with the short oh my god I can't do any more do yeah one morEQuestion onEQuestion okay let's see can make this one short so Bob and Peter you too are awesome and I'm learning so I'm learning a lot from the AMA so thanks tell us more about the latest invest on Abo E4 because you can you can plant this all that's a pure punt baby tomorrow evening same bat time different bat channel because we're not going to record it unfortunately I'm going to sit right at this table and interview my really good friend Richard Isaacson DJ Rush that's right is he going to spend anything is he bringing the techniques twelve hundreds I'm I've met him a few times and every time IMet him he was he's been yeah he's been so so Richard Isaacson is a neurologist at Cornell just a few feet from here and he runs the largest preventative clinic for Alzheimer's disease or also prevention clinic in the country we have collaborated for several years now and we are going to have a deep dive nerd on about all things pertaining to Alzheimer's inclusive of Abo E so I suspect this podcast will be released before that podcast but please do look for it Richard Isaacson cool so on that note is there anything else you'd like to say Bob before we disband I have nothing to add Nick do you have anything to add behind the camera laughing at us very well thanks everyone I hope people think this was fun and worthwhile and we'll continue our upvote downvote to take a question in AMA style bye bye

=== FILE: Advance Directives： Why You Shouldn't Wait ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [oC61hLsXSqo].txt ===

How far into this relationship or you broaching medical decision-making power of attorney, things like that? IMean, these are, and are those difficult discussions in that they require sort of a cognitive acceptance like I'm actually now putting medical decision-making into someone in his hands who are not my own because in the future, I'm going to lose the capacity to make those decisions. IMean, how difficult the discussion is that? I think it really depends on the person, right? And how, you know, have they really truly managed all of those decisions by themselves or they're used to some back and forth or they have a different model that's quite intertwined. So for some people, that's really hard to imagine. I think in my experience, like in the neurologic illness space so often, if a patient has someone which not all do, that person's coming to visits, right? Because they've been showing signs where they're not remembering or, you know, they couldn't get to the doctor's office on their own or get the Zoom up by themselves, et cetera. So they're often presenting with somebody else and there's immediately another person to engage with their experience. What are somEQuestions you're going to ask that patient as their cognition is declining? And things that you need clarity on from them, their wishes. What do you want to understand? Well, you brought up advanced directives and advanced care planning. And so let's just spend a moment on that. That's, we should all, if you're 18 in this country, you should have an advanced directive. And my guess is, virtually nobody who's young and healthy has one. That's true. Hey, virtually anyone who's older and isn't healthy has one. Exactly. You know, we ask thesEQuestions in studies and also just casually, if you give a talk. Yeah, how many people have an advanced directive? Maybe 20% of people raise their hand. How many people think advanced directive is really important? Like most people raise their hand. So there's none of us, many of us are not doing the thing we know we're supposed to do. We just, it's just deferrable thing like life insurance. Uh, you know, anyway. So one sort of public service announcement here is advanced directive is very important. You can download a form online. Yes. Like this is a freak that you don't need a lawyer to do. You do not need a lawyer to do this. So, um, and the most important thing to come out of an advanced directive, if you have to pick some of thEQuestions that gets asked, it's probably the proxy. If God forbid you all the sudden, you know, an accident or something happens and we can't ask you Peter, what kind of care is important to you? Who do you want speaking on your behalf in such a moment as that? And that's probably the most important question to get clear on. And you know, why would a young, a young, healthy person think about that? So my first advanced directive, I was in my late 20s when I actually finally did it, even though I have been in these conversations for a long time. And I, I one day was imagining, you know, something unexpected happening, not being able to participate in a conversation lying in a hustle of it. I was imagining my parents who do not speak to each other, trying to make decisions over their child. And my, you know, casual partner at the time, you know, mostly casual partner at the time, kind of sitting there trying to figure out how they belonged in the scene. And I was like, I don't want that for them. Regardless of what happens to me and my body, or you know, what they actually choose, like to actually put myself in the position of the people that those choices would default to. Yeah. I didn't want that for them. I didn't, you know, if I was at all sentient, I definitely didn't want to hear it. But I didn't want them in throes of totally unexpected grief to be trying to negotiate that, really, surely. It's an awesome responsibility. I, I'm very honored to say the number of people that have asked me to be the decision maker for them. I can't imagine how many have asked you this BJ, but IMean, there are more than a dozen friends who have asked me this. And I say the same thing to all of them, which is it's an honor to do it, but we have to sit and talk. Yes. Like, it's not, you can't hand me that stick and just sign my name on there, because I, like, we're going to have dinner. We're going to have a bottle of wine. Yeah. We are going to talk in this through. I need to know how to do this job. You need to know how to do this job. You need to understand what you want and don't want. Yeah. Good on you. Because a lot of people don't do that. And again, the job is not for you to emphasize. It's not my will. Yeah, exactly. The job is for you to honor the other persons, which is speak on their behalf. So to do that well, you have to know the person's wishes. And that's not a couple of questions. That's a big old conversation. And just as you do with the bottle of wine and dinner, like that's what we're doing with patients. You're setting a table that's comfortable, often you're sitting, you're asking intimatEQuestions. As providers, you may be sharing intimate details, too, as part of a relational set a table for intimate things to happen. So I just want to borrow your table setting there. That's what we do, too. It's a important piece of getting to this level of detail. So and it's also true, like you don't have those conversations once. Then when a bridge is saying a lot of really important things, I want to double click on another thing. Like that the advanced rective, the conceit is problematic right out of the shoots. You're asking someone to put themselves in this future-oriented position where they're in a situation that they can't imagine, where they can't speak, and so what will they want then? It's a problem that's as best as we have, but it's a problematic tool. And as people move through life with illness or disability, their realization of what they can or might like to live with shifts. We have data around this. You ask a bunch of healthcare providers. If you were to broaden your own emerging department, quadruplegic from an accident, would you want your colleagues to save your life? Most providers say, hell no, I could never live like that. No, go ask most people who live with quadruplegia. If they're happy to be alive and say, yeah, I couldn't have imagined. But you know, same with me, I, okay, you're going to lock three limbs off. You could cool that? Like no, no. But then you know, as it goes in this life, we are adaptive. We have capacities that we don't know until something comes long to pull them out of us. So part of this mind-bendervative-estructive is to allow room for that for a person's sense of themselves and their capacity to change in any direction. So with all of that, as a preamble to say, you have these conversations over time, multiple times, and let the person change over time. I think it's also like this is one of those places where you want to focus on the things that are important to you, the experiences that are central to good days, to meaningful time because, you know, having counseled a lot of people actually in the acute moments of having to make these decisions, being able to reorient them towards like, you know what I've heard you say is that your dad was always in his garden. He wanted to be at home. Like if he could hear your voice, that's what was important to you, blah, blah, blah. Like the ventilator doesn't get us there. Right. That, the, what are we moving towards is, uh, is much more motivating than not doing X, Y, and Z, not into bathing, not resuscitating, because those things for most people, like exist from scenes from TV shows, and are still pretty far away. But we can really, but it is easier for people to choose, like the scene that we're going towards, that they can square against how they knew their person. Um, so I, I sort of, IMean, there's, there are people who are very clear about A, B, and C interventions being something that they would never want. And, and I certainly honor that maybe I hold it with a little bit of grain of salt, but I honor it, but I'm more interested in what I have been asked to be in that role to understand, you know, what, what makes this person's life, not because it's going to perfectly trenslate like, if I can't dance under the full moon in Bali, like my life is not enough, and you're like, okay, but what if you get like to see the full moon from your bed, like, is that, you know, like, we, we, I don't know. That's, that's a really important point where did I never thought of it that way? I, I probably have just always had a bias towards, okay, what are the things we don't want to do? What are the things we don't want to do, right? We talk, like, think about medical link, oh, DNR, DNR, no chess pounding, no intubation, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but I like this framing better of, okay, like, what are the minimum set of requirements you need to have to be really to distill hold some delight in life, and, you know, what do we need to get you there? That, those are the, those are the steps we'll take. There's some language around that Peter, by the way, there's a movement to change DNR to A&D, allow natural debt, to get away from the things we're not doing, and the things that we're are doing, just to make that point in it. Interesting, because that, because that, has that taken hold yet? I don't know that it's taken hold, but there's an effort to, dry. I like that. Yeah. I think you're going to, your point is in really, if we have a single rolling, even if we have to be very flexible and allow our mind to change on route, that's just a much more viable, it's much more, it's a much more deliberate path, and it's also very helpful for those around us to know what to do versus just not to do. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Advice for parents trying to find and evaluate care for children with autism, ADHD, or anxiety [OIpSa7GEVpg].txt ===

So what do you say to parents who's listening to us, who's kind of trying to navigate this for their child and they don't live in the Bay Area so they don't get to come and see you? What questions are they asking? What are they trying to do to find the best care for their kids regardless of where they lie on these spectrums of anxiety, ADHD, or the various levels of ASD? Yeah. So what my advice would be for them would be, so start with your pediatrician. Your hope is with the pediatrician that they are able to connect you to resources and the network because you really need to find a team. How likely is that? IMean, it's hard. Yeah, if you don't. I don't know how hard live in Boston or San Francisco or major cities. I'm guessing that this multidisciplinary approach does not exist. No, it's not easy to find. So what are the options then? What's the next best thing? Yeah, you try to create your team. But the thing is, I talk to families all the time. This is so stressful for a parent who is in a situation like this because they don't know anything about this. They would educate. They could be highly educated. And then we're type of families who actually, if you speak a different language and don't have higher education, this is a disaster. But even for families who are well educated, trying to understand and quarterback this, basically you need a quarterback to help you decide, like, is this ABA helpful or not? Should I be focused on speech a language therapy or ABA therapy right now? What should I be advocating for at my IEP meetings? You really need someone to help you with that roadmap. So we need to help families more with that. I think of myself as a sure person sometimes. Guiding people along this journey. And it's the roadmap of like, you know, every every year we pivot and turn, like, okay, where should we spend more time? Is it in social skill groups? Is it speech therapy? What should we be asking for? And so your question is like, yeah, this is it's hard to find. And so if you can't find it, you're looking for somebody, whether it's a therapy, it may not be a doctor. It might end up being a really good, you know, ABA therapist or a psychologist in your community who can help connect you. There are state programs. What is a parent asking when they meet a provider to figure out is this going to be a good fit? IMean, obviously one option is just ask nothing and wait and see how it pans out and in six months, ask yourself thEQuestion, hey, is my, is my kid doing better today than they were six months ago. But if you, if you, as a parent had the chance to meet several providers. So the, hey, look, I happen to be like the 11th of city. There's three ABA providers here. I'm going to go and interact with each of them. What could I as a parent do to understand where should I go first? Which is, which of these three should I pick? Yeah. What are the clues that tell me this person is going to have a higher probability of success? Yeah. The one thing is that you make sure that they have the philosophy that one size does not fit all. So that is key is that this person needs to understand personalized care and that they don't just give the same treatment recommendation, same thing to every single child. It's not black and white. You need to make sure that that provider is flexible in their thinking and their treatment approach so that they can provide individualized care as one. Two would be that they would be proactive in helping you create some sort of team. So it may not be a team like I have under one roof, but they're open to the idea of collaboration meetings with the child, speech therapist or teacher. So someone who is open to it, but will also be proactive in arranging collaboration meetings, maybe once a season. Three, I think someone who has skills in parent, IMentioned the parent trening piece. I think that's a really important piece. It's not just parent education. It actually is parent trening because I've seen that really make a difference. I think that's a great list. I think, you know, again, I'm thinking about this through the lens of how do you scale kind of what you're doing. There's two ways to do it. One is you just keep replicating a model that looks just like yours. So really big multidisciplinary model, but that can only be supported in a certain geography. Right? To have a team at the size of yours, you're not going to be able to put that in every town. And yet, I think it seems unlikely that this is a condition that discriminates by geography and therefore there's gotta be half the kids in this country that have any of these conditions are going to be in areas where they're never going to have large turn key multidisciplinary offerings at their disposal. So their parents are going to have to do sort of the heavy lifting. Yeah. And unlike cancer, right? So if a child gets cancer, a parent and family can go to another city for treatment. So if you happen to live in Austin, Texas, when your kid gets a certain type of cancer, but Boston Children's Hospital or, you know, pick your favorite city that has the greatest center for that, you know, it's not an unreasonable thing to potentially go there for treatment. But this is not something you're going to go and do in another city, right? This is, this has to be an integration into your life where you are. For sure. Yeah, because this is long. This is the journey. It's not, there isn't. This isn't a quick thing. This is, this is years. This is a journey. And the whole point is to have it integrated and generalized in the child's life. We were just talking how, you know, ABA at some like structured clinic is that's not, that's, you know, that's not our goal. For it's, the goal is to have a child being showing us these skills in real life, in their real life, in their classroom.

=== FILE: Aging Prevention： How to Stay Ahead of Facial Aging ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [0UigeHnCEoU].txt ===

Maybe we can start the discussion through the lens of preventive care. The only thing I know is wearing sunscreen is a net positive. I understand enough to say that UV damage is skin. Is it damaging a last-in? Is it damaging collagen? Or is it purely just these sun spots that it creates? What is it that sun is doing that is damaging? Quite a bit. So I'm glad you mentioned sunscreen because the FN1 is going to come in and say, What's the absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin every day? It would be sunscreen. In fact, there was a four-year study out of Australia that followed people for four years. Either they wore sunscreen or they didn't. And the ones that did aged better. Was it randomized? It was randomized. So aged better. They aged better. Fewer lines, fewer wrinkles. And that's in a country that has a lot of sun. So that shows you the power of using sunscreen. Now I'll take it a step further. I tell my patients they have to use mineral sunsreens as opposed to chemical sunsreens. Because I'm not convinced of the safety of able-bens on oxy-bens on as hormone disruptors. I do think there are some scientific studies that suggest maybe they play a role in fertility. You can measure them in the bloodstream. Especially if you're putting them over the entire body. The skin is a great portal for chemicals and the bloodstream if it's the right size chemical. So there have been already studies and I show a huge spike in the amount of these in your bloodstream after application. After saying this for 15 years, I think the FDA just a couple weeks ago finally told the companies they must do animal safety studies. It's about time. It's very late. Yeah, it's very late. And also the I'm starting to rub. I'm so on board with you about the problems with chemical sunscreens because the other problem it creates is that patients think they're covered. And then the chemicals that are actually protecting against the UV damage become inactivated over time. And you don't know because you still have the film on you. You just film on you. And you don't know at what time of day you no longer have any solar protection. What's within an hour? It's within an hour. You put a sunscreen SPF 70 on, go outside. And it's going to be if it's strong sun. Yep. It's going to be deactivated within an hour. People will burn on SPF 70, SPF 100. There should be nothing above the SPF 50 mineral because you can't get it into a moment. What is the use case for the chemical sunscreen? Are they less expensive? Like what are they watered? Like what was the rationale for it? They blend in very easily. So the people love it because there's no white film when they put it on. A mineral sunscreen takes a little bit more work to blend it in. Or it's going to cost more because you're going to have to get a micronized or Micronized formula of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide. So my LTMD 30 to 50, I think I have one of each. I'm pretty sure that's a mineral sunscreen. It's you have to work to put it in, right? Yes. And some of them, LTMD makes some mineral and some chemical wine. So just double check. Got it. And they make a confusing on purpose, by the way. So you have to go out of your way to actually find formulas that are primarily mineral because the companies want to sell you both products. And they know that customer satisfaction is higher with chemical. And you know, this doesn't have to do this conversation specifically. But Susan has created skincare and so if I created skincare. So we've really dived into this world of skincare. And the marketing of skincare can really mislead consumers. And companies that are creating skincare are motivated by sales. They want people to be happy with their SPF. When it's a chemical sunscreen, they're going to be happier with it because it doesn't have that white paste the effect. But it's just not as effective. Got it. And the other thing that happens, if you look at the amount of skincare in the US, it's increasing, including melanoma. So why do we have generations now of people from the late 90s on up who say they use sunscreen all of them and our skincare cancer rates are going up? I think it's too fold. I think it's because A, like you said to know the sunscreen is degraded very quickly when they put on a chemical sunscreen. And I'm going to take a one step further. When those chemical sunscreen absorb those harmful rays, whether it's UVB or UVA, the cells, the chemicals absorb them and they neutralize those rays, but they cause reactive oxygen species. And those reactive oxygen species damage the DNA of the cells, which then accentuates the damage that you're getting from whatever other UVA gets through the sunscreen. So you're really causing more damage and probably causing these cells to become more atypical over time. By the way, you know that there's a group of people who argue that, and I don't agree with this at all, that argue that sun and UV rays have no causal role in melanoma. And the argument they put forth is sunscreen use has been increasing, and yet we see a significant increase in the incidence of melanoma. So they're pointing at the same observation. They're offering a different argument. I find you're argument far more compelling. Yeah, I think everyone should be using a mineral sunscreen. So that's number one. Okay. To your point, we could spend the rest of the podcast on it. We won't. We've established the fact that step one, the no regret move protect your skin in the sun. What's the next level thing that one can do for prevention? So we may be on the same line. It might be a little bit different. I would say step two would be a retinoid of some sort. And it could be in your brain. I was worried you were going to say that. I know. I've wanted to say that. But I have to apply. Well, here's what they tell patients. Because you said you don't wash your face tonight, right? Do you guys see a pressure teeth at night? I do. I'm going to be a little bit... Okay. Glosser and teeth. Right next to your toothbrush, put your little tube of red. That's why I tell my patients. The few times I'd tried to use this. Like, I couldn't do it every day. It just got me too red. Did that mean I was on too high, I should have gone back to the aldehyde. I was too young. I probably tried this ten years ago and never did it again. So I have, I take a different approach and even also my colleagues. I tell people if they're trying to achieve a goal whether streaming the last month, sun damage, or they're getting ready for a child's wedding or we have to do a procedure. I would tell them to tough it out because if you use that red note, gas it every single day, your body acclimates to it very quickly. It may take six weeks, seven weeks. Eight weeks, but you get your skin used to it and then you reap all the benefits. But some patients are always going to quit. So from that standpoint, then... Yeah. So we would give you five days a week, right now the high, two days a week, right now I get acid. And tell you to start that way and then maybe as your skin acclimates to it, you can change that proportion. Okay. And by the way, do you become more light sensitive when you take this to you? Does it make you, does it make it even more important that you're wearing sunscreen in the sun? So those studies came out very early on, which is why people start to say, oh, I stopped my red noise in the summer and that's the last thing you should do. Because initially when you start a red noise, you will get exfoliation at the level of the dead layer of the skin, the student cornea. But after you've been on the red noise for a long time, that builds back up. So you become less light sensitive. You might always still be a little bit, but you're a lot less light sensitive than when you first start a red noise. But you should always have a sunscreen on and a hat. And red noise have been shown that even if you get sun exposure, they have the ability to repair some of that DNA damage early on. So you really want to be on a red noise all the time. That was going to also add, you know, when people are thinking about the core aspects of what should to be using on their skin, now that they're starting to notice some changes in their 20s or 30s, in addition to sunscreen and red noise, I think that vitamin C is a really important molecule to get onto the skin also. Try that too. Let me tell you why I stopped. It was mixed with like ferric acid. For like acid. Yes, yes. And it's stuck. I just hated the smell of it. And the reason for that is because vitamin C is a notoriously complicated, easily reduced molecule. And when manufacturers are formulating their vitamin C serums, it might be a year from when it leaves the factory and gets onto your skin. If for lucky. And in that year, all of the relatively inexpensive vitamin C serums are going to degrade and not actually have any bioavailability when that vitamin C is applied to the skin. And so the relatively more expensive formulations are being produced by manufacturers that are doing all sorts of manufacturing flips and tricks to try and stabilize that vitamin C. The product you're talking about, which I think I can try guess, is that they use the feroic acid to stabilize the vitamin C so that it maintains its bioavailability. Other formulations of vitamin C will use an oil-based formula. It's not achvious because then the vitamin C is much less likely to be reduced in that kind of formulation. But those products tend to be petroleum, oil-based and also have all sorts of negatives associated with it. And then there are some products that will micro encapsulate or find other creative ways of making sure that the vitamin C is actually bioavailable when it hits your skin. So that product may have not worked for you, but there are other options to find a stable vitamin C. And this is one of those products where again, we have our own custom formulas. But I'll tell people who are price sensitive, go to Walgreens, buy a retinoid, buy a sunscreen, you don't need to spend more than $10 or $15 on effective products. But vitamin C is something where you have to spend the money on it. But actually, what retinoid can you buy at WalMart? Retinole? And some retinole. I see. You can't get retinoic acid on that prescription. Right. Got it. And is there any downside of using retinolid? You just need a lot more of it to make sure you get. The problem is if you try to push that enzymatic chain reaction, you'll get dermatitis. Are you putting this on like all over your face like this even over my beard and stuff? So I always saw them hold up your finger and it should be from the tip of your index finger to your DIP joint. Oh my god. And that's a finger tip unit. And if you can do a finger tip unit of retinoid every night, that's a great way to measure the beginning and not find. And how you can see your face. You can see I'm getting a triponin league right now. Just thinking about applying that much stuff. Yeah. And I have them put it on their face, including the under eye area. Because that's a thinned skin. Yep. And that's the skin that's going to wrinkle in aged first. So most people are afraid to go around their eyes. And I tell them just don't get it in your eyes. Go around, but make sure you're getting that under eye area. Once a week maybe on the upper eyelid. And then once or twice a week on the neck. Because again, this is a thinned skin. We've got to keep the skin building collagen and elastin. Okay. The vitamin C and for like acid, would you put that on after? First. So you always put the liquid before the thickest stuff. So you're going to finish the thickest. Okay. And you may be it's worth also mentioned because we haven't done this yet. You know, why is vitamin C so important? I assume it has to be pro-line and collagen. That's one aspect. So vitamin C is sort of like a wonder molecule when it comes to facial aesthetics. Because yes, it is a precursor for the collagen synthesis pathway in the Prolene synthesis pathway. But it also is a powerful antioxidant. And so antioxidant application to the skin not only has the power to Remove injury, oxidative injury that has happened during the day. But it also has the ability to reverse some existing damage that's in place. Vitamin C also regulates the tyrosine kinase pathway, which is sort of a scientific way of saying, that complexion, which people talk about wanting to have good complexion. What does that mean? Complexion is something that across societies, no matter what your physpatriarch scale is, people like to have a good complexion. And that means having an even skin tone, which is even distribution of melanin. It doesn't matter if you're black or white or brown. You want to have people desire to have their skin look even without Splatchy areas of pigmentation or nearby areas of relative depigmentation. And so regulating the tyrosine kind of pathway so that there's an even production of melanin throughout the skin. It's something that is valuable, very valuable and an aesthetic sense. And that's something that vitamin C does as well. And then it sounds like the last thing you said we want to do is as a moisturizer. Yes, that's fair. Yeah, I would say the cheapest trick in skin care, which actually is is really true, is that deep moisturization locks down the skin barrier function and allows the skin trigger of the skin, dermis, epithelium to thicken just by having that a close of barrier. So you can go to Walgreens and spend six dollars on aquifer, which is basically petroleum jelly and put it on your face nightly. And your skin will look better in 30 days guaranteed because your skin will thicken and a lot of the fine lines and crinkles will actually start to disappear because your skin is being more hydrated. That's hydration. That's hydration. That's hydration. Yeah, what if I don't want to grease up my pale. Yeah, I'm not saying that as sort of like tongue and cheek. I've got it. I'm not telling people to do that. But if you actually did a double line of study, you would see that there are things real. Real results in 30 days. But the reason IMentioned that is that good deep hydration can be performed with an inexpensive product that you're using regularly and it'll make a real difference because the moisturization, especially overnight while you're sleeping, is a powerful tool for aesthetics. And you know, I don't, I like I wouldn't give you though, I'm moisturizer. So you can just tell I'm a grease ball to begin with. And how would you have young thicker skin? So again, just like women aged 20 years faster than guys in terms of the bone, we modeling and fat, atrophy the skin as well. So you say my routine would be done after the retinoic acid from my standpoint. At this point. And then we might revisit that in a few years. Okay. So just to go through this, because I'm, you can tell not the sharpest tool in the shed. My AM routine is going to be wash. Okay. Let's assume I just came out of the shower. Okay. So you're serious. And then by the way, the shower don't use your body soap on your face because he's going to strip the oils out of your face. So again, you need a separate facial clenser. Oh, God. What do I need? The same glycerol based thing. Well, it depends on your skin type too. Like, I tend to be maybe a little bit more picky about the skin. IMean, you can also saw the crap that I, like, I'm, I've got like a 299 bottle body wash from Target that I scrub head to toe. Like, I am the lowest com, like, put it this way. When my wife met me in the hospital, the first thing she noticed was how disgusting I was in that I used to take alcohol pads and clen my face. Like, just like, that was my shower in the hospital. That part doesn't bad. It was a little harsh. But I don't even know if I'm going to do it like this. So we're going to do, we're going to do so. Yeah. And then we're going to do sunscreen. Yes. That's the morning routine. And some people might in there need, depending on if they have clogged pores or your skin, they might need it. I'll, I'll find drugs. Yeah, so they're probably hydroxy as they before their sunscreen. But you've nailed it right there. That's a very simple regimen you can follow. Okay. And then the PM is soap serum. We prefer if you call it a clenser, right? Yes. I've kind of did some other things. Yeah. Yeah. Of course wrong. And now the difference is, you know, I do have lots of patients like you Peter who are minimalist. So again, it's trying to get them to use whatever they can to protect their skin. And hopefully start to improve the aging process. All right. IMight, IMight just to do the experiment for 90 days. Try to commit to clenser serum sunscreen in the morning. clenser serum retinoc acid in the evening. Okay. We agree that would be. Yes. Okay. By the way, in the show notes, we'll get from you products that you guys like including your own. I just want to let people kind of look through this and decide. And, you know, obviously you guys disclose your own products. Great. But let people see the full breadth of things. Yeah. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm sorry. And then one of the things to ask about those, especially when they're very into their nutrition and eating healthy. They say, well, why do I need to apply an anti-oxidant if I'm eating a lot of anti-oxidant? And the skin being the largest organ in your body is very unique. It's very good at keeping things out or from the inside coming out as well. So outside things like water pollution, it tries to protect that from getting in. And does a good job at keeping kind of homeyostasis. So they have shown that the level of vitamin C that you can achieve in the skin by topical application. Far exceeds what you can do by ingesting it. The amount you would have to ingest to get the right amount in the skin. You'd have GI issues. That would definitely make you quit. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com. Forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: Anabolic steroids： effects, risks, and insights ｜ Mike Israetel & Peter Attia [6yXG2_amqb4].txt ===

We've now twice sort of broached the topic of anabolic as another tool, because a couple of times you've made the point, which is look, this is going to be about the limit. Your genes are going to start to become your limit. So I guess my question is, well, let's let you know, you you've spoken very openly about anabolic steroids. I've had several podcasts where I covered this in detail, but again, let's let's kind of tell people what we're talking about. For reasons that are maybe a little bit elusive. There's some confusion about his testosterone and anabolic steroid. And of course, the answer is absolutely yes it is. And so let's talk about anabolic steroid use in the context of non-medical use. So let's take testosterone replacement therapy where testosterone in a hypogonatal man is restored to typically the upper limit of a normal physiologic range. Nice that they do the upper limit, right? Yes, everyone good genetics. And then we'll just sort of take the off the table for a moment, park it in the context of what is what is anabolic anogenic steroid use look like in the physique bodybuilding community. Let's talk about the different drugs. Let's talk about your experience with it. Let's talk about how much it can unleash. And let's frankly talk about what the pros and cons are because, you know, I personally have no experience with this. You know, we just that's not our patient population, right? We don't have patients that are coming in saying, my goal is to be jacked, right? And I want some debaul. And you know, so there's this not something we just have any understanding of. Yeah. So anabolic anogenic steroids are all derivatives of the testosterone molecule, manipulated and various ways to accentuate some characteristics and deemphasize other characteristics. They're typically taken by athletes, the competitive sphere, bodybuilders physique athletes and gym people who want a superficial logical level of muscle mass. And sometimes a superficial logically low levels of body fat can comment with them. And so they'll take anywhere between high-end testosterone replacement therapy dose to 10 or 20 times that amount per week. And they will do let me just pause there for a moment and just give some people some doses because we've talked about TRT before in the podcast. So we typically dose patients twice a week to try to get a smoother level as opposed to once a week. So if the ideal dose for a given individual to get them in the right spot is 100 milligrams of testosterone sapinate weekly, we would always prefer the patient take 50 milligrams in termuscularly twice a week or sub-game. I will tell you, Mike, I don't think we have ever given a patient more than 70 milligrams twice a week or 140 milligrams a week, probably median dose for physiologic replacement is 40 milligrams twice a week or 80 milligrams a week. So are you saying that there are people out there that would routinely take 800 to 1600 milligrams of testosterone in a week? Oh yeah. And sometimes that's not all testosterone, it's other steroids and combination. Usually people take at least that replacement level of testosterone often more. Because testosterone doesn't really good things for health and general function. It tends to romanticize into estrogen quite readily which is good because estrogen's cardiovascular protective, neuroprotective increases your strength. It's actually... It tons, sex drive, it actually increases your anaballism in the presence of antigenic steroids and testosterone. So estrogen by itself, not very in a ball like estrogen in the presence of testosterone, more in a ballic than if you had all the testosterone in the world but we're unable to romanticize to estrogen. And so baseline molotostastroin is often taken at somewhere between 250 milligrams a week and all the way up to a thousand milligrams a week depending on how you're handling the side effects of that excess estrogen production at the higher levels. And that's usually taken as a sippianate. Anantate sippianate, some people prefer appropriate. If they inject every day, anantate and sippianate are by far the most commonly used seemingly. Oftentimes people inject differently but once daily injections seem to provide this smoothest curve. If you put in half a week's worth of superficial logical testosterone at one time, you're moved for the next several hours as curious. It's not fun. IMean, yeah, help me understand what that even feels like. So let's just say you're taking 700 milligrams a week, 100 milligrams a day. So 7x physiologic. Do you feel something different? Most people feel something but it's probably a normally distributed population of experiences where some people just can't tell. Some people feel something for sure that they can describe and some people have panic attacks and will never use again or they are driven to extreme violent thoughts and extreme sexual thoughts and actions. And those folks arEQuite rare but they do happen. So there's a large distribution about which people can have experiences but I'd say the median experience is you take everything that easiest way to understand the average effect of a high degree of metabolic steroids and for simplicity testosterone. The psychology is to imagine that what is the average psychological preclivity of a female? What is the average psychological preclivity of a male different in many regards? And then you move the needle over one notch into a magical encounter called enhanced male. And you just typically exhibit more male like patterns of thought and behavior than even males do. But males compare to females as the best way to figure that one out because you're like just know what a male pattern of behavior is like because you're a male. You're like what the hell is it like to be more like me? So everything about me or it's not everything. We actually just had a recent video on the RP Strength channel. I think it's called Royad Rage's Real. We talk about like that steroids don't accentuate every quality you have just the more masculinEQualities. So what are the most masculinEQualities? Again, this hits everyone a little bit differently but on average, you becomEQuieter, men typically are not as expressive as women. You become to show you come to show fewer facial expressions of emotion. You don't process other people's emotions as well. You can't fine tune what they feel as much and you don't care as much. So less empathy. Way less empathy, all the way to similar levels of empathy but an average definitely less. And you become more likely to be irritable. You become more likely to have anger and aggressive sorts of thoughts. You become more attuned to the dominance hierarchy in general and you become more you become someone who thinks more about where you stack up with a dominance hierarchy in a way that you take a front since slights more poorly than otherwise. So if someone on social media says you're a bad person, if you're not of a lot of testosterone, you're like, just having a bad day. It's okay. We all have that day. We need to rage on someone. There are a lot of testosterone. You're more likely to be like, I wonder if he'd say that to my face. I wonder if he would be real quiet around me because he would know that I'm not someone to be messed with. Weird. Weird thoughts like that. Women almost never have thoughts like that. Men have regular thoughts like that in the right context. People on steroids have more thoughts like that in almost every context than off on average they would like to have. Another one is you become linguistically less expressive and your fluidity of communication falls. So a lot of times when someone is using high levels of antibiotics there is in a relationship and that person happens to be male, the degree of communicative throughput falls substantially. That's just generally not good for most relationships. Another one is sex drive. Was difficult for women to appreciate what the male sex drive is like on a quantitative and qualitative level. Both of those tend to magnify especially if you're not bringing your estrogen down. You bring estrogen low enough. You don't even remember what the hell sex is for. Why people are even in that sort of thing. But if you have a lot of antigens, a lot of estrogen, the hunger, the thirst becomes very annoying. Now at that level of testosterone are you taking on a romanticin inhibitor or you literally letting the estridile get, IMean I can't imagine how high the estridile level becomes at that size you want. So so you're not so so typically, you know, estridile would be over a hundred at that point. That's left alone. It depends. So it depends on a few things. One is different people respond differently both physique and psychology to high levels of estrogen. High levels of estrogen for some people are like swimming in an pool of magical clouds and they love it and their physique looks great. They get nice and watery. They're too much feel amazing. Their recovery is awesome. Their sleep is awesome. Sex drives awesome. They make a great for some other people. They get a lot of estrogen and actually prevents them from getting good sleep at higher levels. Their water buffalo bloated. They can't even see their abs anymore. Even though they're eight percent body fat and they get mood swings, all crazy stuff. And so it really is very individually dependent. It's actually quite amazing and this is not entirely unlike women, right? Women will, if they're undergoing hormone replacement therapy in Perry menopause, it's not a one size fits all. They can have tremendous variability in their response to estrogen and of course progesterone. Yes, huge, huge, huge. The other thing is what we're learning in evidence-based approach to antibiotics derogatolization and performance and anti-drugatolization. It's called the Safe Reuse model. Probably the biggest promulgator of it is a gentleman named Joe Jeffree in the United Kingdom, super, super expert, exceptional bodybuilding coach, great bodybuilders on right? And just read literature all day long. And folks like him tend to espouse that probably the best way to manage estrogen is to use some combination of exogenous drugs that are handling themselves to get the estrogen level you have the best notable metrics at how you feel how you look how your blood work is health, et cetera. So here's an example. You take a thousand milligrams of testosterone. I'm still wrapping my head around this mic, but it actually goes into your thigh and needle. You don't have to wrap your head around. So it's intense. It's a lot. And you take a thousand milligrams of testosterone and that comes with a concomitant aromatization. So you have a lot estrogen. Some people they feel totally great. For some people it's too much. For those who it's too much estrogen, they might be able to take 500 milligrams of testosterone and then 500 milligrams of premobone. Primovalin is a synthetic antigenic steroid developed in, I think, the 60s and 70s. And it's designed not really to convert into estrogen hardly at all. Other steroids like it are masteron. They not only don't convert an estrogen, but they actually antagonize estrogen conversion for the testosterone you're shooting into some extent. And so if someone is like way too much estrogen for them, they can do a 50, 50 split of testosterone in premobone. So that now they get all the good estrogen from testosterone, but not too much of it. But they get most of that antabolic drive from the rest of the premobone, but without any more estrogen in addition. It could be 250 testosterone and 750 milligrams of premobone. It can be 750 test. It can be 250 premobone. Anything between. And you kind of experiment that and a lot of bodybuilding coaches. What they're really good at is starting you on a certain cycle that they have the wisdom to know works for most people. And then leveling up one drug leveling down another to get among other things kind of that testosterone that antigen to estrogen ratio to be something that you have your best performance at best health so on and so forth. But for the the sex drive component, especially if you have a lot of estrogen going on, qualitatively it can change, quantitatively it can change. Now huge variation. Me personally, I never got like enormous sex drive. A regulation from I did get some, but nothing crazy. I've been up to as much as just north of 2,000 milligrams per week. And I'm currently on only 250 milligrams per week. But my sex drive is more or less the same. Which to me makes me wonder, is there any difference in an origin receptor expression that you're able to appreciate between 250 and 2000? Are you so saturated in your androgen receptors already that like do we actually know if there's a benefit to all the additional testosterone that you could have been on at almost 10x your current dose 8x? You won't know until you try. Did you appreciate a difference in positive effects? I don't doubt that there could be a difference in negative effects. But if the positive effects are accrued through testosterone binding to the androgen receptor that complex leading to more nuclear trenscription, wouldn't wouldn't what you said suggest that you may have already hit maximum benefit of 250? There are some reasons to believe that your androgen receptor density escalates up when exposed to more androgens and not down in some cases. And so that means the more gear you take the more benefit you have rather linearly. My experience next to the most people you talk to it's again, slow news reel, same asymptotic curvilinear relationship. For me personally and this is something I didn't discover until quite recently I would say, unfortunately so, I get probably almost the same gains at 1000 milligrams that I do at 2000. Anything north for me a 50 hundred just drives me insane, like mentally insane and seems to not really affect my physique hardly at all. How much water retention do you get at these doses? Considerable, although if you manage your estrogen well, it's not as much as you would think. And you manage estrogen with aromatase inhibitors? Oh yes, that's right. I sorry. I had a point there. The back then. Aromatase inhibitors in many cases are incredibly toxic drugs and you generally want to avoid taking them if you can. Sometimes you have to get really dry for a contest, but that's only a few weeks out from the show. And so the modern wisdom, so to speak with the evidence-based crowd, the safer-used crowd, is to manage your estrogen with differential amounts of testosterone and non-estrogetically converting compounds like pre-mobile and mastron versus taking just as much as testosterone as you ever would, but taking an aromatase inhibitor on top of that, because aromatase inhibitors in unbelievable range of circumstances. Fuck you up. They're neurotoxic. They're cardiovascular toxic. It's bad bad news. These are compounds you use. We have breast cancer and they're like, you're going to die if you don't take these. They are gigantic hammers for a very small nail. If you want to see who's done the worst to their health across the body of your industry, it's whoever runs the most AIs as we call them aromatase inhibitors. And they're very, very pharmaceutical ways to control estrogen, probably the best way for health and effect is only used as much estrogenically converting drugs, nanderlone derivatives, and testosterone. As you need to get whatever estrogen you feel best at, and the rest of the anabolic load should come from things like pre-mobile and a mastron that don't really do much stress during at all, but increase your adrogen and anabolism so on and so forth. How do you differentiate between when you're using testosterone versus nanderlone? Mostly by experience. Nanderlone has some really cool positive effects. Kind of exaggerated versions of testosterone. Some people are naturally very dry. And so if they don't take an antroloin for their very hard trening cycles, they will have insufficient body and joint water hydration. And they're like joints will creak and they'll get herd a lot and this just really bad recovery. But you put them on nanderlone for variant. And all of a sudden they have enough intramuscular and intra joint water to where they feel great everything's working. Other people will get on nanderlones and have so many of the side effects that they're like, this is way too much estrogen conversion from me. I'm a giant water buffalo. I just take testosterone and plant dehydrates on any of that. And nanderlones also have the curious side effect. It's colloquially turned to deca dick because nanderlone to canoate does the substance called deca. It is erectile dysfunction, approximately caused by the presence of nanderlones. And it's curious because nanderlones typically with her estrogenic effects elevate sex drive. Kind of the more estrogen you have to appoint the more sex drive you have. If you have a few of that. And so you're horny but then like little little Billy down there doesn't work as well as he used to or at all. And so if you're in that boat you're like, well, look like it's just trade off. How much of a benefit do I get in trening versus how much is my wife or girlfriend going to hate me or hook up culture doesn't work for me anymore. So on and so forth. So lots of considerations there. Nothing generally better than to start out with a solid plan that makes sense with a coach that knows what they're doing and very low doses of everything. And slowly play with compounds and scale up the very notable highly note your beneficial effects and highly note your deleterious effects or downsides and see where you can strike a balance that's acceptable to you and considers long-term consequences, et cetera et cetera et cetera.

=== FILE: Antibiotics： overuse, effects on gut health, antibiotic resistant infections, and more [TG9U5JTuHtk].txt ===

Let's shift gears a little bit and talk about antibiotic use. So this is something that probably doesn't get that much attention. I know Marty, when I was in the hospital, we did talk a lot about this. In particular, we talked a lot about it in the ICU, which was the idea of antibiotic resistance being a real problem. But as a person who lives outside of hospital now, I don't hear much about it. So that makes me think one of a couple scenarios. Scenario one is it was greatly exaggerated in the early 2000s when I was a resident because it hasn't materialized resistance. Resistance, yeah. It was real and it's still real, but more and more drugs are being developed to keep the bacteria a bay. So you know, you could walk through several other machinations. But give us a sense of what this means, what the implications are and what can be done about it. So about a hundred thousand people in the US die a year roughly from resistant bacteria that are resistant to the antibiotics we've had. The time period it took for bacteria to develop resistance through their natural evolution was about 23 years when antibiotics were first mass produced in the 1950s and 60s. Then it shrunk down to 14 years and now it's about one year within a year and bacteria will mutate around an antibiotic and it'll be a blank, say, methasellin resistant staff lacoccus. We're now seeing C-Diff, one of those common bacteria, take the life of somebody, you know, every other month or so in the hospital and most hospitals. It's you tend to pick it up in the hospital. Sadly, you look back and you say, oh, yeah, they took an anceph for this tiny little thing. They didn't need to take the anceph antibiotic for. The about 60% of our patient antibiotics are unnecessary according to several studies. And in patient antibiotics, I'm not sure it's much better. I personally have given thousands of unnecessary antibiotics because I've been forced to, well, I say, I give them. It's the operations that I do. There's this protocol that you give every single operative patient antibiotic before the incision. Yeah, Marty, I don't think I ever cut a person's skin in my life without an antibiotic being unbored except for a certain trauma case where you're literally putting a knife on them the second they walk in the door because they're going to die. But, yes, we would, I don't know, we used to give anceph. I don't know if that's the case, right? That's the one I'm on here. So, and then, again, the reason was, um, there are bacteria on the skin. And even though we scrub the skin, you can't get every bacteria out. So, we're going to give you an antibiotic that has to be in your system. It's going to be given to you intravenously and usually the anesthesiologist will does it in pre-oper before you cut skin so that by the time that incision goes through, whatever bacteria are on the edge of that skin aren't going to potentially get in. And so, again, makes a lot of sense. I never questioned it. Where there, and there must have been studies that demonstrated lower incidence of wound infections, right? I can't imagine something that prevalent was implemented without an RCT. Was it? There were studies and there were RCTs in major abdominal operations that were done open. There were most surgeries done minimally invasive now. And people have inappropriately extrapolated those findings to minimally invasive surgery. IMean, have you ever heard of an infection after a laparoscopic in Gurohernia? Maybe like a case report. I've never seen it. But isn't that because we're giving them antibiotics potentially? I don't think so, but if because you would see at least some, I don't think it would be 100% effective. You don't see that with abdominal surgery. IMean, it reduces the incidence of infections a little bit. I just don't think there's any mechanism in some of these procedures. I don't think it works, and only it gets this. Well, for whatever reason, with no data, the research from open abdominal GIC has got extrapolated broadly. And I remember asking, I was actually in practice a little bit before the broad recommendation. I remember asking, uh, this guy patched DeLinger who was involved in these recommendations, it's called like the antibiotic society of America. You don't want to these, there's no niche meetings. We have the pancreas club, you know, it's like all these meetings. It's more fun than the spleen society, by the way, they're they're boring. And so I remember asking them, why is it that antibiotic recommendation at the time of incision for every operation? I've never seen or heard of an infection for these minor procedures. And he said, well, you know, we thought a lot about that on our committee, and we decided making it easy to remember to do it for every operation would ensure that the big operations get it. And I thought, well, we may have a blind spot in American medicine. Now it's very obvious to me, based on some research I've been seeing out there that not only could we be breeding resistance, but what is, what are these antibiotics doing to the gut microbiome? And it turns out that a new theory, which has emerged out of the University of Chicago, is suggesting that surgical infections don't come from the skin bacteria crawling in. It comes from the gut. Some sort of weakness in the gut, and there may be a trensposition of some bacteria. And they've actually done studies now in mice where they, they alter their gut microbiome prior to surgery, and they have found that there's some reduction in infection. So there may be sort of probiotics preoperatively that may reduce the risk. This is a big area of ongoing research. There's nothing definitive. We've learned the people should chug a gatorade three to four hours before surgery is mostly for the glucose, but what's it doing to the gut? Are the patient coming in into starvation state and is that doing something to the microbiome? We've had all this dog in the operating room. You've got to wear your hats, like you, you have a cover your shoes, some places, don't cover your shoes. And then you go overseas as you may have as well. You go to Africa and you realize they're not wearing anything, not even wearing masks when they're doing surgery. And their infection rate is no different. Really? Yeah. Yeah. And this is, it's, that's surprising to me. Yeah. And you think, well, what is the mask doing? Is it preventing sweat from dripping in? Is it preventing the airborne particles? Because the airborne particles just come out of the side of your mask, right? So they're still, so there's this University of Chicago research is challenging a lot of deeply held assumptions in operating room protocol. But one of the things I feel bad about and I don't do it anymore now is going in for a minor laparoscopic procedure anesthesiologist says you want me to give antsaf and I say, no, you can hold off. The average 10-year-old in America has taken 11 courses of antibiotics. And the average three-year-old has taken two and a half courses of antibiotics. We think that zero to three age group is the most, the microbiome is the most sensitive to antibiotics. But antibiotics are like carpet bombing your microbiome, you know, these millions of bacteria that live in harmony. And this study, I don't know if it's I can mention this, but this Mayo Clinic study, this is how I've told you before. I was dying to tell you about this study. Incredible study out of the Mayo Clinic that came out. I think maybe the most significant study of the modern era in that it's shattering our deeply held assumptions about chronic diseases. In the Mayo Clinic researchers took the 14,000 children that live in Ongstead County the area of Rochester, Minnesota. And they looked at kids who took an antibiotic course in the first two years of life and tracked whether or not they developed asthma, learning disabilities, overweight, obesity, later in childhood. And what they found were these incredible correlations are about 10,000 kids who had taken an antibiotic course and 4,000 who had not and they matched them to the best of their ability statistically. A 20% increase no beastly among kids who had taken an antibiotic in the first two years of life. 21% increase in learning disabilities. These were all the statistically significant findings. 32% increase in attention deficit disorder. A 90% increase in asthma and a 280, 9% increase in celiac. Other studies have shown a correlation between antibiotics early in childhood and ulcerative cladis and Crohn's disease. Makes sense for changing the microbiome. We may be carpet bombing the microbiome with the dogma that there are no downsides to antibiotic. She got some sniffles. Probably won't help you, but it won't hurt you. Not true. How do we know in this study, Marty, that the 4,000 kids who were in the control arm that didn't get antibiotics weren't healthier kids, which is why they never needed the antibiotic. And that it wasn't some other factor about the 10,000 who did get the antibiotics. Either they were just naturally less healthy kids. There was something about them that was less robust. There were other factors that couldn't be corrected for that actually explains those differences. I love it. That's how a scientific mind should think because there could be confounding variables. For example, maybe it's the infection that they were treating that is that glad to the you. Right. So those are all good questions. Now, my first while we cannot make conclusions from this study, but this study is an incredible signal that I think we should pay attention to for two reasons. Number one, it's been repeated in a Danish study of about a million children. Number two, there was a dose-dependent relationship. The more courses of antibiotics the child took, the more significant the more significant the higher the so again, worth maybe pausing and explaining to folks how you can increase the probability of a finding being real in an epidemiologic study. So again, it always comes back to this what's the probability what you just said is causal. Cusality is the single most important force in science. Yes. I'm convinced of that. If you don't have causality, you have nothing. It's what makes the universe what it is in my view. So you stayed in a correlation. It's only interesting to us if there's causality. And now thEQuestion is how probable is the causality. And various factors defined by a statistician named Austin Bradford Hill speak to the strength of the association and the probability or likelihood that that association is causal. And you've outlined a couple, right? So one of them is what's the strength of the association period. So if I knew nothing else, the was the asthma, the 289 percent celiac celiac. So the fact that that had such a strong hazard ratio, that's a hazard ratio of 2.9 versus the others that are like 1.2, you would say, well, just on the basis of strength of association, that one's more likely to be causal. You then stated another factor, which was reproducibility. There's another study that's done the same analysis and it's coming up with the same answers. So that makes it a little more likely to be causal. And then you talked about the dose effect. Even within the association, like for example, all of this was sort of figured out during the kind of smoking, cholera epidemics when people were trying to understand causality. And then you'd say, well, if smoking is causally related to lung cancer, then theoretically, my correlations should get stronger and stronger. The more cigarettes you smoked. If that's not the case, it becomes very hard to make the case that smoking is causing lung cancer. So you're saying that there was a dose effect. The more antibiotics you took, the more strongly you were having these associations. Yeah, and this is the first formal study I've seen like this on an epidemiologic basis that fits a hypothesis that to me makes sense. The cephalosporins had a higher correlation. They're generally considered to be a little more damaging to the microbiome than the ant sefs and petticellins. Is that because they target gram negatives more or anerobic more or what's the, I'm so far out of my life on anybody. I don't even remember why that would be the case. I don't know, but this is these are, there are other observational data. For example, farmers have used antibiotics to fatten animals for food production for decades. And the world expert on the microbiome, Marty Blazer, who is the chief of medicine at NYU, his daughter developed chronic abdominal diseases. And obesity, they feel terrible because they gave her a bunch of antibiotics in childhood. And they thought there was an association. He started, he's a laboratory scientist. He started doing all these mice experiments. If antibiotics are making animals, more obese, what are they doing to humans? By the way, is another one of the Bradford Hill criteria? Do you have experimental evidence that also supports this, which of course, in the case of human epidemiology, you would look at animals? So of course, someone listening to this might say, well, okay, Marty, but there's got to be some bad luck involved here. IMean, you had, let's go back to the Rochester Minnesota study. You got 4,000 kids who never took an antibiotic. 10,000 kids who did at least a quarter or two. Well, IMean, those 10,000 kids weren't just given antibiotics for no reason. They must have had ear infections. They must have had tonsillitis. They must have had appendicitis. They must have had something. What were we supposed to do? How do we make that? How do we draw the line between what was medically necessary? Because as unfortunate as those consequences are, they pale and comparison to a life-threatening infection that could have killed a kid. So how do we decide what the minimum effective dose is? What's absolutely medically necessary versus what is superfluous and potentially just exposing a kid to this complications later in life? Antibiotics save lives. You've seen it and I've seen it right in front of our eyes. They're amazing medications. They ushered in the white coat era of modern medicine. And as I wrote in my book, Marty, it's what took us from medicine. One point out of medicine. Two point out. Yes. We died like dogs. Yes. But 250,000 years of human existence. We died like dogs. Yes. And you got an infection. What life expectancy was 38. Mother's in shock. Again, it's not the only thing that made the difference. But it was arguably the single most important difference with sanitation and antimicrobial therapy in the trensition from medicine. One point at two point. That's right. So we don't want to throw the baby out with the bath water. This is the nuance which if people want just sort of a simple dumb message and all or nothing, which is where are echo chambers of media and politics take us in life? And social media, right? You want this all or nothing absolute toism. Antibiotics save lives. But they are also massively abused and overdosed at least 60% in all the studies. And we've seen it. We see it. Meaning 40% of antibiotic uses justified. Yeah. And I even question that number because they would say that I should be giving antibiotics before my minor procedures. And you know, but there's also epidemiologic data over time that look at all these chronic diseases. I know their multifactorial, especially obesity. But look at all the increases we've seen in these exact diseases that they've seen increase in the antibiotic group after the broad administration of antibiotics in the 1940s and 50s. The 60s, you know, it just went up even further. The discoverer of antibiotics. Alexander Fleming in 1922, he had warned after he got the Nobel Prize about the massive overuse of antibiotics. He had written in his diary that I found in my research that these mass factories producing penicillin at bloom away. This was a mold that blew into his lab when he left the window open. We don't know if his hammer is lab tech. He says it's unknown. But somebody left the window open into his lab where he was growing staff in an auger gel. And some of that mold landed and formed a circle around the mold where all the bacteria were killed. And he had discovered what's considered to be the greatest discovery of modern medicine. And so you're right. It took us from being surgeon barbers where we had a lance it and an axe to do amputations and maybe dejoxin, which didn't help many people. And that was it. And doctors weren't disrespected, but they were respected like a priest or a barber or and then went the mass administration, the mass production of antibiotics. Now we had the power and controlled a substance where only we could give you a magic pill. Doctors began to wear white coats. They had an unquestioned authority. We kept people in the hospital to a little disappointed. You're not wearing a white coat today, Marty. I'm not a white coat kind of guy.

=== FILE: Are All Processed Foods Really Bad for You？ ｜ David Allison, Ph.D. [37J_q_8_Zgg].txt ===

Let's give folks a couple of examples of processed versus ultra-process. So like dried fruit is processed, virtually everything we use processed. Yeah, almost everything you use processed. But then how do you draw the, how do you then cross the chasm to ultra-processed? Yeah, again, I don't know that there, even if you say there's a single definition like Nova, I can't recite for you the exact criteria. But it's the number of steps, it's the degrees of steps, it's the types of steps. But most things that come in a package are now viewed as ultra-processed. That's right. It's there more than 10 ingredients. And number of greens, number of steps. But you're right, dried fruit, even fruit that's cut up is processed. Why is processed? Jesus processed, milk is homogenized, sometimes it's pasteurized, hopefully, you know, almost everything we just processed. Now let's talk about the state of the evidence. Because again, a good story goes a long way. Right? IMean, our ancestors, and to be clear, I, my view on this is that this story is much more nuanced than the one I'm about to lay out. But the one I'm about to lay out makes sense and I get it. We didn't evolve eating ultra-processed foods, let alone processed foods. And ultra-processed foods are engineered to be highly palatable. And part of that engineering process also makes them calorie debts, because part of making things hyper palatable is putting in a lot of sugar and a lot of fat. So it's not that the food companies who make these things are trying to make us fat. They're not trying to hurt us. IMean, Mar-Bros not trying to hurt you with cigarettes. They just want you to smoke them forever. So, so, it's an unfortunate consequence of the product, right? So, they really want to create something that tastes remarkable that you just want to keep buying over and over again. And the problem is you're going to end up eating more of it in terms of calories because of the very nature of the product they're trying to sell you. So, clearly, this is a problem, right? It's, we can't have these foods around because we can't eat them in moderation. We're going to overeat them. And I don't think any, but this is one thing we can agree on, right, is over consumption of calories always leads to bad things relative to what your needs are, right? So, again, that number is variable by individual, but for any given individual, eating more than they require leads to physiologic harm. So, by that logic, why are we having this discussion? Why don't we just get rid of ultra-processed foods? There's not a right, there's not a correct definition of ultra-processed. You can define it anywhere you want. The words mean what they say, we say they mean. Once you've defined it clearly, then we can say, what's its value? What is it? How can we use it? What's its utility? Second thing I would say is, as with any category, if it permits a lot of variability in that category, which ultra-process certainly does, it starts to get a little silly to talk about the overall category because you say, so wait a minute, you want me to consider a meal replacement shake and the same category as I consider a big goal in a 7-eleven. In the same category, consider a chocolate bar. In the same category, I consider a TPN nutrition. These are all arguably ultra-processed in very different things. And I think we want to talk about the things. The next thing I want to bring up is what are we trying to do with it? And this is probably intellectually most important. If you say to me, David, what I am looking for is a heuristic. And this looks back to something I said we did rest later, or earlier IMentioned I said we'd come back to it. The distinction between how much protein do I think somebody ought to eat for a certain goal versus how would I tell them to eat it or what would I tell them about it? Those are two different things. If you said, David, I just want something I can tell people. So that when I tell them this, it has a beneficial effect. Does telling them not to eat ultra-processed foods or to eat as few of them as possible defining ultra-processing this way? Help. The answer is might help a lot. Pans on how you might have very little bit depending on how you said it. We need more studies. We need to figure out my guesses as with everything else that won't last long, right? So you could tell them not to drink sugar sweetened beverages. You could tell them not to eat, fed a chini Alfredo because it's a heart attack on a plate. All these things have a small effect for a while and usually not so much for a long term. But might help. We need to study that. Okay? That says nothing. However, about the effects of a food per se. If you said no David, my goal is to tell people about the foods they should eat. If they actually ate them, what the effects would be or my goal is to determine the effects of foods, then I would go back to a statement from a wonderful book called A Fly in the Oaman by someone named Joe Schwartz. And Dr Schwartz, who's a food scientist, says something like, there is a model, repeat after me, the effect of substances in the body depends on their molecular structure, not their ancestry. So if you give me this molecule or a concoction of them, do eat and you extracted that molecule from some berry and it's natural, or you synthesize that molecule in a laboratory. But in the end, it's the same molecule. We agree, IMean, you could try to synthesize them out of some slight difference. But let's assume it's literally the same molecule. And it's the same structure. You give it to me, and liquid form, and liquid form, or gas is form, or it is. If you say these are going to have different effects because of where they came from, seems to me we're in homeyopathy now. This makes no sense. Yeah, and my favorite example of this is natural sugar versus processed sugar, which is I don't know if the people who say this are ignorant of what fructose and glucose are, or if it's deliberate sort of marketing shenanigans. I think it's a mixture of deliberate marketing shenanigans, but it's also the marketing of ideas, not just food products, by people with particular philosophical and other bends who are anywhere from, you know, it just makes themselves famous to push a philosophical thing to push an anti-industry thing, whatever it is. But yes, I agree with that. Or, you know, there's so many others. Natural vanilla versus synthetic vanilla. If it's still vanilla and it's vanilla, and there's a wonderful book by Alan Levinev, that's called natural, in which you will blow away every common conception of what natural is, and what its value is. And he talks about the idea of, you know, lots of people want the natural vanilla and natural vanilla. Most of the vanilla flavoring we get in this country is not so called natural from the vanilla plant, but if it was, it would probably have a much worse environmental impact than the other sources. So it's not always so simple. In any case, I think Schwartz is right. It's not the ancestry. So whether you give me the molecule and it was locally grown or not locally grown, organic or not organic, ultra-processed or not ultra-processed, it's the molecules and their structure, that matter. Conditional upon the molecules and the structure doesn't matter where it came from. But in defense of the argument that ultra-processed foods must be worse, if you look at the ingredient list, David, the sheer number of molecules there would suggest were playing Russian roulette here. I don't recognize half the names of the things on the bag of Doritos. Like I don't know what they are making that up. I haven't looked at a bag of Doritos in a while, but you could certainly find an ultra-processed food of the grocery store in which you cannot comprehend 50% of what's in it. That's right. And you don't really know the dose either, because the only thing that the FDA requires is that you list them in order of abundance. But it could be that the first one represents 99% of it and the other 12 represent 1% of it. And even amongst that, there's an uneven distribution, et cetera, et cetera. And it could be that these are just preservatives and color additives and they have no physical bear. But you just don't know. But the point is, when I eat an apple, or even if I eat a processed apple, in the sense that it's been pre-cut up, or it's just a dried apple that's dried apple chips, where I can look at the ingredient list and it says apples, I gotta be safer than if I'm eating. Come on, 20 things of which I can't pronounce 13 of them. If that's the logic of your thinking, you have a great product I'd like to sell you. It's gluten-free, it's seed oil-free, it's not ultra-processed, it's free of any harmful thing. It's chemical-free, it has no chemicals in it. I call it vacuum. And I would like to sell you this vacuum and basically IMean nothing because we are chemicals. As my friend for a Clydesdale who is the former head of the nutrition food science department that UMass Amherst used to say, a whole purpose of eating is to get chemicals in the body to replace the chemicals the body loses through the process of living. All food is chemicals, we are chemicals. When you eat that apple and you say, I understand it, that's apple. Unless you have a lot of chemical mileage, I don't have, and most people don't have, you don't understand that any better than you understand something else that says Benzoate, phosphate, or what have you. And you just think you do because you think you understand what an apple is at a chemical level. You understand what is a fruit level, maybe. But not at a chemical level. There are many chemicals, I should say, there are many chemicals in an apple and an orange that you or I couldn't pronounce and that if someone wrote out what the chemicals are, we would say, what is that scary sounding thing? And we also know that things that we think of as natural can be just as harmful, right? Foxclove, hemlock, right? And so that's what the secretes kill by being forced to drink all natural hemlock. It was all natural, very harmful. So poisons, drugs often come from natural things. There's also a misperception that what we think of as natural as somehow has been around for thousands of years. And in some cases, it's true. In many cases, it's not. So the oranges and the apples and the grains that you're eating today were largely not around years ago. They've been bred, even if it's not trensgenic, they've been bred by ordinary breeding things. The cows, the chickens, the pigs, have been bred to be different. They are not indigenous species. All the chicken, all the cow, all the pig, that we eat in this country, the soybeans, none of that's indigenous. They're all invasive species, right? Turkey. That's indigenous to North America. Peacons and black walnuts, but not the other walnuts that they love so much in the Mediterranean diet or the other. They're not American. So I think this is all silliness. The only thing that's artificial here is our creation of these categories. And we should just recognize that. We create the categories. Let's make the meaningful and useful.

=== FILE: Assessing the pros and cons of medicating children for ADHD, anxiety, & other psychiatric disorders [_Lv02u9vNYg].txt ===

I have to believe there are a lot of people listening to us, maybe not so much because I don't think my audience is quite where I'm going, but they're going to be people who understandably come at this and are really judgmental. And their narrative is going to be the following. These goddamn preschools trying to tell me a kid has, you know, ADHD, maybe it's because the preschools just overcrowded and the people who work at the preschool are too lazy to actually let these kids play. Let kids be kids, you know, there's nothing wrong with a kid that's hyperactive. You just got to give him more to do. This is sacrilege that we would ever give a child medication just because they're hyperactive. So that's a narrative. Yeah, for sure. Now, again, I don't think a lot of people if they're sophisticated, subscribe to that because I think a person who's sophisticated would hopefully not make a judgment like that without understanding the fact base a little bit more. Would you agree that the best argument against that logic, which is not an argument that says every kid should be on medication. It's an argument that says you have to weigh the pros and the cons of being unmedicated and what the impact on your education is going to be. And the long term success you're going to have is an adult as a well-adjusted adult versus the the acceptive risks of any medication and the potential upside it has towards allowing that child to learn because again, I always like this framework you have, which is you bring it back to what is the adaptation of the condition? What is the adaptation of the phenotype? Yeah. If it is disruptive, if this is a difference in a child's education, if this is the difference between a kid going to college and not, if we believe that matters anymore, or being successful in their career or not, or having, you know, pros social relationships versus not, then maybe we accept the risks of medication. So maybe you can articulate that more eloquently if you have a different view, but that's kind of how I like to think about things that seem at the surface absurd. Yeah, no, I love all the points you brought out because it is a risk benefit, you know, ratio that you have to consider. You have to consider there's risks and everything we do. There's risks in all medications, there's risks in everything. So you have to consider both risks and benefits. When I'm working with a family, I talk to them about the research, and we actually have a lot of research around safety and long-term outcome, and the outcome of individuals with ADHD who are left untreated. But actually more importantly, I get to know their child though. So this thing, I share, like, as I get to know them, I share with them the research, the safety research, all sorts of information about the medication, but what's really important. This is the idea about me going and watching the child in class, me talking to the teachers. Getting to know that family more really understanding, like, they come to see me for a reason. If things were great, they wouldn't come to see me. They've come to see me for a reason. And even though, the school, you know, maybe initially it was the school who said, like, your little guy is way too busy, and you need to see a doctor about this. But when I get to know the family, I find out, well, actually dinner is really stressful, and bedtime routines really stressful, and like, there's often, everyone's in tears in the morning. And so I get to know them, and it's actually that personal part that helps them understand their child in a combat to self-esteem. And it's a person that is not a statistic to you. Yes, that's exactly it. And that's how, and sometimes we don't use medication. I am the first to say, if your child doesn't need it, we're not going to use it. Although we know that medication can make a really big difference. It's what the, so I've discussed this on some previous podcast. So, is violence still used? Is riddle in still used? Is focal in used? IMean, what are, what's in your tool kit? Yeah, yeah. In that world. Yeah. So ADHD medicines were talking stimulants and non-stimulants. First line treatment considered is stimulants. Within stimulants, we have two different medications. We have one called methyl pheninate and one called methamphetamine. Methyl pheninate. We have many brands. That's the riddlein, which is, you know, been around. So, I believe, like the 1950s. We've got ridlin. We've got focalin. We've got concerta. We have lots of different methyl phenedates. They all have different ways of, what was the other one after focalin? Concerta. Yeah, I've been. Concerta. And there's many more brands. They're all different brands. They all have different ways. How do they differ? They differing in pharmacokinetics and half-life, like what separates those three drugs for example? How the medications released? Okay. So it's just a timing of release and how we're gonna release and the literally the same molecule. Yeah, it's the same active ingredient, methyl phenedate. But it's interesting. Kids respond differently to the different medications, the brands, because the release mechanism are different. So some kids are sensitive. Some kids are sensitive. So in other words, if a kid comes in and you try one of these and you don't get the response you want, you don't necessarily abort the entire molecule. You might switch to a different formulation. And I only say this because I can't tell you the number of parents I have spoken with who have said, my kid was on Riddlein. It was a disaster. When I switched to focalin, it got so much better. Yeah. Is that that's exactly right. And so and there's no science, unfortunately, to tell us which one is going to work for your child. Yeah. So you have to basically try a few. Okay. And then the other one you said was just straight in fedamine. In fedamine. So that's Adderall. It's been around since the 1930s. And then there's you mentioned vans, five ants, doxidrin. So there's medications in that group. Again, same deal. It's literally the difference between vans and Adderall is release and kinetics. Yeah. Yeah. Vans is actually called a pro drug. It's actually just got a little molecule attached to it that needs to be cleaved in order for it to work. But they're all. Yeah. The same. Again, it's very counterintuitive to people. Why you take a hyperactive kid and give them a stimulant. Do you want to just give the brief overview of why that works? Yeah. So the way these medications work is they increase dopamine and no repeneffering in the synapses between the brain cells in the parts of our brain that are important for executive functioning, attention, inhibiting impulses. So the part of the brain, the prefrontal labs where that all the executive function attention happens. We have our brain cells have to communicate in order to see that behavior attention. These medications, although they're called stimulants, what they do is they they increase the levels of dopamine and no repeneffering in these synapses, the gap between the neurons. And they improve the electrical activity and communication between brain cells. What are the most common side effects you caught in parents about with these drugs? Yeah. So the side effects can be annoying, but they're not life threatening. The most common one is decrease appetite at lunchtime. If you're taking a medication that lasts the whole day. So there's medications that lasts three or four hours, which we used to use a lot a couple of decades ago when I first started doing this. But about 20 years ago we started using extended release a lot more. And so extended release is that it lasts like, you know, eight hours or 10 hours for the day or 12 hours a day. And so those medications impact your appetite at lunch, breakfast and dinner usually fine. There's this chance that it impacts sleep onset, which is really important because sleep is super important kids. But it can impact sleep onset. And if that's a problem, we, you know, we adjust the timing of the of the medication in the morning. But these are generally single administration first thing in the morning drug exercise. Yeah. So it's really, they're really easy to use because you you take it in the morning. They start to work. The like they extended release will start to work within an hour. And then they're working for the majority of the day. Then they come out of your system at the end of the day. And so tomorrow, unless you give the medication to your child again, it's like they've never been on it. It's like they've never been on it. What are the differences then between the riddle and class and the atterall class? Do you have any suspicion one way or the other as to which is going to be more effective if you were to prescribe local versus violence? Yeah. So when I first meet a young child, I generally start with methyl phenodate. And that's what most clinicians do with little kids. And the reason for that is that the meta-analysi show that kids tolerate methyl phenodate at tiny bit better than in fedamine. Although in fedamine is a little bit more bang for your buck when you're treating the symptoms. That being said, no kid is a statistic. Like every kid's different. So I have just as many kids on that aroulas I have on riddle and so. Interesting. Yeah. So I use every single brand out there. And but I start with methyl phenodate because it's shown to be tolerated better. You mentioned a second ago that if your kid's been on this drug every day for a year and experienced all these benefits and then they come off the drug. It's like they were never on the drug. Does that suggest that in the in the I hate to use the description this way, but I think you want to explain me in the drug state. Yeah. You don't get to do behavioral therapies that also have a positive impact independent of the drug such that if the drug comes off, the phenotype is changing. Is that not to be expected? So I want kids to be actually practicing skills when they're on the medication. Yeah. In theory they should be able to do a better job. It should be easier for them to practice the skills on the medication. Yes. So let me say a couple of things. So in theory when they're on the medication, they should be it's easier for them to practice pain attention. Control in your impulses, control in your hyperactivity. In addition to that, this is where the behavioral parent trening part comes in which is actually now a recommendation that every family should have. Should be doing trening specifically for family, not just child. Yes. Amazing how powerful parents can be in modifying the behavior of their child. So parents undergo the trening and the child might undergo some sort of therapy regulation group when they're older, they undergo executive functioning coaching to learn organization of planning. So what it is is you are trying to develop these skills. So when we practice something over and over and over again, not only be developed new like behavioral strategies, behavioral patterns, new habits, we actually positively impact the developing brain. That's the neuroplasticity, which is one of my also, my passions is neuroplasticity. But we impact the brain through experience and our behaviors. So when a child has ADHD, it is a wonderful time to practice new skills and you actually impact neural networks. So does that mean that you're telling parents or at least holding out a hope that hey, you know, your kid is seven or eight years old, we're going to put them on Riddlein. This might not be a lifetime thing. Is it, do you have, do you give them that hope or do you not commit to anything one way or the other? I don't commit. I get asked that question all a time for the types of medications I put patients on. Right? If I put patients on a lipid lowering medication, generally their first question, once you get through the why should I be on this and one of the side effects, et cetera, is am I going to be on this for life? Yeah. So what I tell families, so I have no crystal ball. I can't commit. But I do have many, many patients who do eventually come off medication. Some of them maybe they shouldn't have come off medication. They actually should stay on their medication, but I have many patients who come off and do really well. Is it naive to think that because ADHD primarily impacts the prefrontal cortex that you would see at least a subset of people when they reach their late teens as girls and mid-20s as boys when they reach maturation of that part of the brain, at least a subset of them, should be able to develop potentially the skills to overcome the genetic component of this or is that not necessarily correlated? No, I see a lot of kids who do find ways strategies to compensate and who do no longer need their medication as teenagers or young adults. I have a lot of kids who are like that. But I think it's really important that they start early developing strategies and new behaviors. I think that is really important strengthening those neural networks. So what about the non-stimulant class of drugs here? Yeah. There are non-stimulants that we use. There are one is called Stratera, which also acts on neuropinephrine and increasing the neuropinephrine levels in the synapses. Then there is a couple of old blood pressure medications we use. One's called Guafasine, the other one's clonidine. Those are alpha 2 agonists. So they act in a different way with closing channels in the post-symnaptic neuron. So it's a different mechanism. But all of those medications also help with the communication between neurons in the attention center and the brain. The difference is the non-stimulants have to be taken every day unlike the stimulants in order to for them to work. So meaning they're taken every day and you need a steady state in your body. Do you ever mix these two or is it one or the other? Oh, you mix them often. You do. And so often they do not have the side effects with the poor appetite. And sometimes they can be really good with kids who have some emotional dysregulation and pulse of emotions. So we'll often use them with a child who has a little bit of that irritability, emotional dysregulation. And sometimes we're using both the stimulant and the non-stimulant of the same time.

=== FILE: Back Surgery or Not？ How to Decide  ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [oiACeZfKXKw].txt ===

Let's talk about the cases where you think surgery is really the best course of action. And again, I think it should always be stated that surgery without understanding how you got there and then making sure you correct it post surgically is not what we're talking about. So it should always be assumed that you want to understand what got you there. But what are the indications in your mind for where a patient is better off getting a surgical procedure and we could talk about the different, you know, whether you, you know, what do you think are the best indications for a disconnect to me, fusion, et cetera versus when you think where would you take a contrarian approach where many people would say yes surgery and you would say let's push a little bit harder before. Wow, a lot of elements there. So I'll just start at the beginning and hope I can create a logic story. I did mention the follow-up that we did where 95% of people who were told they needed surgery in fact avoided it. And what we did there was I am knowing to them and said there is your virtual surgery. This worked really well on people who I'll paint to picture of let's take a stay at home long with two young kids. Every day has to go to the gym and ride the ellipticals for 20 minutes do something else. As a stress reliever, otherwise you're going to murder us. But you've heard that story before. And I'll say good, go get your surgery. Are you going to do that tomorrow? No, you are going to lay in bed. You're going to behave like a post-surgical person. You're going to get out of bed and go for a P3 times. That is your total workload tomorrow. And slowly you're going to build yourself back in other words, surgery may work for you because it's forced rest. Now I'm going to give you a tool that will mimic the forced rest. It's called virtual surgery. Tomorrow here's the plan. Here's how you're going to behave. We are going to decensatize strategically. The pain mechanism as we've measured it and we're going to retune your body with strategic mobility and stability plus movement skill. So we don't replicate the stress concentrations that caused your problem in the first place. Let's see how you are. Now if they can do that, 95% poll avoid surgery. So there's my first little story for people in that category. Just to be clear, what are the patients who you would not offer that virtual surgery to? Give me an indication where you would say, you know what, we this is too pressing. Obviously red flags, which before we see a patient, we don't take patients off the street. Never, they always come through position referral. So I'm hoping they've been checked for red flags. Do you know how many have not even though we state in the referral directions to the referring medic? We've had cases of aortic aneurysm, lung embolism, cancerous tumors, metastasized, all sorts of things that somehow these poor people got through the system. We were the ones that found it and saved their lives. So I wish that wasn't the case, but all of those, obviously, are surgery cases and they should never, I'm doing some of the first place. So obvious red flags is number one. Number two is when the pattern doesn't fit. So I was smiling when you were telling your original story only because it was such a familiar spot on pattern consistency. You fit the pattern. I knew exactly what it was. When the pattern doesn't fit, I'll say no, something's not right. I need you to go back to your dog and here's the reason why there is, you know, a turgiveness under your liver, we're not able to move that pain by moving stress concentrations around your spine. So it's not a nerve. It's nothing for a tea broil or a fissette. The pattern doesn't fit. It's something else. So there is a person where we refer back and say something needs further investigation. But now the last part of your question was about the need or when we would say for a person, you're not our person, you need to see a surgeon. Surgeons and by the way, we see far too many post-surgical patients who they went through maybe the surgery was botched. When I see a horrible scar on the outside of the skin, I think, man, if that's the pride that the surgeon took on the outside, what carnage has gone on the inside. Or sometimes it's a shit happens story. The nerve started in and adhered. Oh, that's that's rough. Or the post rehab was terrible. Here's a person who went to a fabulous surgeon and the surgeon says, oh, go do PT. That's your rehab. And the PT goes and gives them toe touches or something. And they just had a micro-disc surgery and guess what, they're re-earnated again. And now we're seeing them. But when would we say, no, you're not for us here. The surgeons are at their best in cases of a real heavy stenosis. So there's not much room in the in your all canal. The facet joints are thick in behind. So you've got encroachment from behind. You've got a calcified disc bulge coming from the front. So a, you know, a couple level aminectomy to give the nerve some space. That really is when the surgeons are at their best. Some of the spawned along my lapathes that will see in the neck. You know, I think of a lead a lawyer in the courtrooms. And the judges would ask him, sir, are you drunk? And he said to us, well, when I, I, I stand, I start my presentation. I'm fine. He says, but after two or three minutes, I'm losing my balance and falling over in the judges' them. He's, he's drunk. And then we found it. It was the cervical's fondle of my lapathes. That was also a total presenting with back pain. But no one had figured this out. So that was a surgery case, obviously. So it's either post trauma. And then that one's obvious. They've got the need a little bit of hardware to stabilize their spine. But it may also be spawned along with the list of the, or the sheer trenslation is just choking off the caught a quina or another nerve. It's best to, and now we recommend surgeons who we have really good luck with. What about what about nerves pain? What about patients who are either having weakness, such as a foot drop or significant pain like the pain I had, where we have been in the very first case where it was, yeah, okay. So yeah, take that away. Yeah, we have them all the time Peter. If I can get the nerve pain to move on the assessment, please don't have surgery. Let us have a try at it. Most of it, they will be pleased. Wow. And what you're basically doing is right with certain rules. And give me an example of some of those. So let's say your assessment comes out that this person who's having intermittent sciatic pain. And you do an assessment and you say, look, there is no doubt that you have eruptured anulus here. You've got a protruding segment of disc and it is clearly at times, depending on your activity, getting nearer to the nerve root. It's driving that sciatic pain. But during your assessment, I assume what you're getting at is through some of those positional things such as laying the person on their front manipulating the legs, getting the the herniation to retreat into the anulus. So you're saying, if you can demonstrate resolution under a changing movement pattern, that gives you enough confidence that this is, this doesn't need to be removed surgically. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Biological Age vs. Real Age： Which Matters More？ ｜ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [GqooAZ48TIM].txt ===

Let's go back to the epigenetic clock situation. So do you think that there could be value in this as a tool? Right. And let me hold the bar as high as I think it would need to be to justify their use. So right now we have this thing called chronologic age. Um, I can look at your birth certificate. I can know how old you are. And based on that, I can make an estimate of how much longer you will live. So if I look at a person who's 40 years old and I know nothing else about them. And then I see another person who is 65 years old and I know nothing else about them. I can say with a high degree of confidence that the 65 year old person will live, you know, I'm making this up because I'm not an actuary. But somewhere between 20 and 30 more years and the 40 year old person, I can say with a pretty high degree of confidence will live, you know, whatever somewhere between, call it, you know, 30 to 50 more years or something like that. Now, to me that's a pretty good test. Right. I know, I know, I know a, I know a noable measurable thing about them. It's measurable by knowing their birth date. Right. And it predicts future life. So do you think biological clocks will ever serve a purpose like that where I could take 250 year olds and one of them has a biological gauge of 40 and one of them has a biological gauge of 60 according to the clock and that those numbers will actually be better at predicting future life than their chronological gauge of 50. Or do you put yourself in the camp that says no, Peter, that's a ridiculous standard that no biological clock could ever come to. But it might tell me about their health. It might be yet another biomarker that says, hey, the guy at 40 is just healthier than the guy at 60. And somehow, by the way, it's picking that signal out of a data field that I can't pick out anywhere else. Because they otherwise look identical. We measured this recently because we collaborators of mine at the in US and beyond Gruber and function and I had this small role in this project. They decided the functions of a geriatrician. He sees people all the time frustrated, you know, what can the geriatricians have limited things they can do. They're seeing people that already have multIMorbidity and, you know, the clocks are not that useful. And so he's wanted to like, how do we create a reliable clock that a doctor can understand? And so we for what purpose for biological gauge. I'll tell you what I think the purpose is for a minute. And this build this. So their first generation and second generation clocks, the first generation clocks try to predict your chronological gauge and the second one's predict some outcome. So thEQuestion is, we want a predict mortality. We know when a predict your chronological gauge. So intrinsically if it works it's going to do better than the chronological gauge for the second generation clocks. So he took in Haynes, you know, dated, collected around 1999, 2000 mortality data for 200 months. And we just, and these parameters are nice because you can actually do a consumer test of HBA one-see, you know, there are many labs that do that. It's reproducible to a large extent, much better than DNA methylation. And doctors use all these parameters. So the things that are in in Haynes like LDL, you know, all the things in your book and I'm a Tory Markers, you know, medical tests, you know, some cognitive self reported stuff. So he's took everything as a feature and used AI, linear model to try to predict mortality. And they're on the second generation of this clock now. And it predicts mortality better than any other parameter in Haynes is way better than ASCVD, the cardiovascular disease measurement. And so recently the methylation data came out on in Haynes. And so we could go back and compare the mortality prediction for methylation clocks. Some of the first generation clocks are worse than chronological gauge. Your passport is better than they are predicting mortality, which to me means that they're not useful. Because, you know, even if they're not designed to predict mortality, if they don't capture some element of that, what are they measuring? You know, the second generation clocks like Grim age and Fino age, they do better jobs than chronological gauge for sure. At predicting mortality. Yeah. And it's just to be clear, we've captured that out of the En Haynes database. That's from In Haynes. That's the only thing we've looked at right now. Okay, let me make sure I understand that. By death, you had 200 months of forward-looking data. So anyway, you've got 18 years of data and you're saying, if we know the methylation of somebody at that time in the cohort, 1999 to 2000, we could predict their date of death better than the actuarial data of the age. Yeah. Okay, I wasn't aware of that. Well, it's just, I don't think it's even, it's been accepted for public education. Okay, I'm not sure it's online yet. Okay. It's not your fault. That's very interesting. Okay, yeah, that's because that, so that basically answers a question that I've never seen answer. Yeah. But our clinical chemistry clock does better than those. Okay. And what is included in that clinical clock? What they're about 50 parameters that we measure now, but complete blood count gives you about 30 of those parameters. So it's not as elaborate as you think it would. Yeah, yeah, I know. And then, you know, it's a lot of standard markers that you are measuring. So you're probably measuring all of that. I guess that was going to be my question. Yeah. It's about $300 in Singapore if you did it all to know of it, but anybody going to a doctor's office has most of those parameters measured anyway. And if they're going to, you know, a wellness-lajewity centered all of them are probably. Of course. Yeah. And so thEQuestion I suppose is this, if you're met life, you already, like, you are better at predicting mortality than anybody on the planet. I don't know if it's met life by the way, but pick the best life insurance company. Yeah. Like this is their business. Yeah. They're so good at predicting mortality. It's frightening. Yeah. So yeah, I don't know how they're doing that. So I can't come in. Well, and nobody does, right? Yeah. My point is they're looking at age. Yeah. They're looking at a whole bunch of things in your medical history. Yeah. They're looking at a whole bunch of blood tests, your blood pressure, your weight, your waist, your circumference, all those things. And they're coming up with an exceptional prediction of remaining years on life. The real question is, do you believe that they will incorporate a second generation, uh, a genetic clock or do you believe that they've already got that captured in their data set? They may, I don't know. That's an unsurbful question. I, but again, I were focusing on the clinical chemistry anyway. We're not doing any methylation. Yeah. So, um, and what we're finding is hospitals want to use this now. Big clinical chemistry or methylation? The clinical chemistry. And I think it's because it resonates, you know, when you, when you show them the list of parameters, yeah, a doctor doesn't have to be an expert in epigenetics to figure out what's going on. And the other thing is that all actionable. So we have principal components that we can break it down in and we can see smoking in one component. And we can see metabolic disease in another one in obesity and another one. And we find cases, we find, so if you conclusions from this are really interesting, one is we find cases where nothing's out of the reference range. Okay. So a doctor that's looking at things, especially if they have a few minutes to look at, they're not going to prescribe anything for this person. Yeah. But these four parameters in this principal component are increasing, you know, they're, they're biologic age by four years, which means it's increasing there. It's 50% increase in mortality risk. So, that's, these are actionable things. You know, you can treat LDL. You can treat high blood pressure. You can treat these markers, right? And so clinicians are actually willing to then be a little bit more aggressive and try to prescribe something or lifestyle modification or something to treat these markers. So yeah, as actionable. Yeah, exactly. That makes sense. The reason that you prefer this is it doesn't just give you an answer. It gives you a solution. If we, if we just took a population, a middle aged healthy individuals. Yeah. And we we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm, the metformin arm, the rapomycin arm, the STL-T2 inhibitor arm, and the GLP1 agonist arm. What is your prediction in length of life? Or additional years of life given in that the six arm study or whatever it is? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Breaking & Building Habits： Timelines, Difficulties & Solutions ｜ Charles Duhigg [raf1BdMWlPA].txt ===

What do we know about the length of time or the amount of friction it takes to create a habit and the difficulty in breaking it? So maybe that doesn't make sense. I'll try to come up with an example. If it takes a long time to really create a habit around exercise or meditation. Let's pick something new. Okay. So, you know, not a not an easy thing to do, right? But let's say over years and years and years you take a lot of time to build that memory that muscle memory up. I assume that's creating some sort of physiologic headroom that makes it much harder for you to erode that down. Yes, absolutely. So what's happening when you're meditating is that as we mentioned there's these neural neural synapses neural pathways that connect the synapses associated with the cue and the routine in the reward They're becoming thicker and thicker and thicker over time. What's interesting is they almost never become significantly thinner. So if you develop a meditation habit and then you stop meditating your life changes the cues when you come back to meditation you will fall back into it much morEQuickly than the average person. So we know that creating habits about good and bad creates this neural pathway that we need to be conscious of. But your question of how long does it take? The answer is we actually don't know. There's this myth for this old wives tale that you know takes 21 days to build a habit and it takes 30 days to break a habit. What the research tells us is that there is no number because different people have different thresholds and different kinds of habits have different timelines associated with them. If you want to create a habit of eating chocolate you can probably do it in a couple of days, right? Like it's an immediate it's an immediate positive response. If you like chocolate it's something you enjoy the cues or plenty of old read you just Chocolate bars in your house. But if you want to build an exercise habit it's going to take a little bit longer. Yeah. But here's the important thing. Is that regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit? Every day you do it it will get a little bit easier. And you might not feel that increase in ease the first couple of days, right? But what's going to happen is I'm going to push myself to exercise day one, day two, day three I'm going to relapse on day four I'm going to not do it. Then set a beating up on myself I'm going to look for the science to what what wouldn't wrong here. What's my plan for next time? And then I get to day 12 where I get to do it day 20 or I get to day 365 and it occurs to me. Actually exercising is really easy for me now. Like I hardly even think about it. It just happens almost all kind of automatically. Now what about the negatives? Right. So if you take two individuals one who has been smoking for a year, a pack a day for a year and one who has been smoking a pack a day for 20 years, is it necessarily the case that the latter is going to have a much more difficult timEQuitting? Probably because it's a much more ingrained behavior. But this is where individual differences come into play significantly. Because if that first person, if they're an athlete, if they've worked on other habits in their life, if they've, if they've strengthened that muscle around habit change, they might be able to rely on that to give up smoking. Whereas the 20 20 year smoker doesn't. But but yes, in general, the longer and more consistent of behavior becomes, the more reinforced it becomes in our brain. And does that mean that let's just assume both of these individuals are able to quit smoking? Yeah. It's five years later, both of them are at a bar and they both light up a cigarette. Are they both equally susceptible to relapse or is the 20 year person more susceptible because his neural connections are more hardwired? Well, there's a lot of compounding factors there, right? So when the 20 year smoker lights up his cigarette, we're focusing on the habit loop associated with nicotine use. But there's probably other habit loops that he has developed over time, which is he might feel much more intense sense of shame over smoking than the one year smoker. He might have emphysema developing health problems. And those are creating mental habits for him that are countervailing the positive reinforcement of the nicotine. So the answer to your question is, it's really hard to say universally. What we do know is that the more consistent a reward, whether it's a reward that rewards a positive behavior or a negative behavior, the more consistent that reward and the more consistent that cue, the faster the habit will take hold in the stronger the grip it'll have on us. But when we're trying to change it or create a new habit, there's so many other variables that we don't, we can't predict how long it's going to take, but we do know that any habit can be changed. Is there a rule of thumb that says on average it is more or less difficult to break habits than to create habits? Well, so the science doesn't sort of address that question. What we do know is that it takes a different technique to build a new habit than to change an old habit. Right? So if I want to build a new habit, if I want to start running, what I need to do is I need to sit down, just come up with a cue, come up with a reward. Okay, my cue is, and by the way, I'll cue you's falling to one of five categories. It's a time of day, a particular place or environment. It's a certain emotion you feel. It's the presence of certain other people or it's a preceding behavior that's become ritualized. So tomorrow I want to start running. I've never run before. I'm going to take advantage of as many of those as I can, right? So my plan is set my alarm for seven o'clock. I want to be out the door by seven thirty running. And I'm going to put my running shoes, I'm running clothes on my floor next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up. It's super easy to put them on. I know what I'm going to wear. I'm going to ask my friend, Jim, to meet me on the corner. We're going to run together. I'm creating as many cues as I can. If you can tap into all five of your, your, your in the morning, some of them are going to stick. Yep. And then when I get home, I've already decided what reward I'm going to give myself. I'm going to have a nice long shower. I'm going to drink a smoothie. I'm going to take 15 minutes to check social media or whatever else sort of delights me. So that's how we build a new habit. Is we choose a cue and we choose a reward and we link it to a behavior we want to encourage. But for a bad habit, habit that we want to extinguish, our nomenclature is incorrect. We often talk about breaking a bad habit. But because that neural pathway exists in our brain, I've smoked for 20 years. I can't just extinguish that those neural connections. What I need to do is instead of thinking about breaking a bad habit or extinguishing it, I have to think about changing that habit. And in that case, what I do is I identify the cue that prompts this behavior I want to change. I identify the reward that that behavior is giving me. And I'm going to simply insert a new behavior that corresponds to that old cue that delivers something similar to that old reward. And I'm going to let my brain eventually shift. Keep the habit loop inside my head, but change the behavior the routine. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Breakthroughs in Belief： How to Transform Your Mindset for Success ｜ Jeff English [10rLYio583E].txt ===

There tend to be these moments along this journey where I assume I'm not unique in this, where people have really significant breakthroughs in beliefs. And it's mostly that a belief gets shattered. Yeah. I, again, this is, I think one of the real um, joys of having a journal is you can kind of go back and read what that was like and, and, and, and read. You know, on this day like through this exercise, this really profound thing happened. I'm a wrote about two of them in, in, in that last chapter of my book, I wrote about one at the bridge and one about PCS that were undoubtedly the two biggest breakthroughs and beliefs I've ever had in my life. They've had a far greater impact on anything in my world. And they both happened in an instant, right? Like they both, they were huge step function changes in a radical belief system. And what I find interesting about it is how much easier it became to make any change after the fact. I never want to represent that I'm, I'm better. We're all in recovery here, but when I think about the December 2017, April of 2020, or maybe it was by this point May of 2020, those particular days when those things happened. IMean, literally within an instant, some, I don't understand, I don't understand the neurobiology of how it happens, but something really switches. And I never look at the world the same way I did before. There's an immediate acceptance of something typically. That's, that's the shattering of the belief system is the acceptance of something that is more, more honest. And, and more genuine to the, to the more, more close to the, in a child that, that we all were. Is that common? First of all, that people have these major, major sort of life-changing appreciations of something. And then secondly, is that, is that by itself sufficient sometimes to drive change? I'd be careful with the common word, but it happens a lot. And I typically hear about it kind of the way you described it. Months, even sometimes years later, right? Like, it hit me one day, or this thing was happening. And I was incredibly compelled to do it the old way, and I heard something so and so said in my ear, you know, or something against that belief system. And that's what's so tricky about that process at the bridge, or if you want to talk about experiential journey, six years in experiential therapies, IMean, just going to a process, a group therapy process, residential, is an experiential intervention, right? And so to be able to put my finger on, well, what was it, you know, what exactly was it, you know, and cannot prove that that was the thing. It's so hard. It's interesting. For me, in both cases, it came down to a therapist pushing very hard, but very kindly against a set of assumptions. It was me saying something, offering it up the same answer, and the person saying, what about this? What about this? What about the, you know, and and and just maybe describe it as a loving confrontation. That that when fully backed into a corner in an unthreatening way, collapsed the scaffolding of a mental model. Yeah, and thank God, IMean, that's you when you tell that about putting your finger on that, like, I've got so much gratitude sitting here, you know, IMean, obviously, I know the moments, you know, I don't several of the moments, and you know, it is common. I think the spirit of you in this example is putting yourself in a position for it to happen. And there being a process to get this guarded version of self out of the way enough to allow something like that to happen. Right, and there's a lot going on to create that or to cultivate that possibility. Yeah, I think that's absolutely the, maybe the lesson I would want somebody to learn from this is in science. There's an expression that I think it was Louis Pasteur that said that, you know, chance favors the prepared mind. And the idea is that great scientific breakthroughs don't just happen. They happen to people who are toiling in the lab, failing, failing, failing, trying again, trying again, constantly thinking about the problem. And yes, usually something lucky happens that trips them in the direction of a discovery. It's often very, very much an accident. But that accident can't happen if you're not on the field. Yeah, so it doesn't happen if you're in the stands. Absolutely. And maybe that's the take away I would want somebody to have here, which is you're very unlikely to have that your recum moment. If you're not mired in the trenches of going through the painful work of figuring out your story, understanding, trying to create the map of what's happening. It's unlikely to happen when you're continuing the distractions or the numbing behaviors. Right, absolutely. And to speak to just, you know, sometimes I guess the frustration with, even the individual one-on-one therapeutic dynamic would be, you know, I've heard a lot of therapists who, many of the therapists who would ask thEQuestion, why would somebody go to a residential program that wasn't an addict or alcoholic. Like, to talk about the frustrations of like the goals not being able to put the knowing and the acting. Like, yes, see this person we have four steps forward. We have this great 55 minute session, right? And then six days later, they come back and I'm like, who the hell is this? What happened to them, right? Well, what happened to them is more than likely they went back and lived underneath the same roof with their biggest trener. Right? And so, you know, in your experience and many others having the ability to get that, you know, that separation, if you will, you know, it's season of separation to make that possible. Not the only way to make that possible, because again, we paint ourselves in a whole little where, you mean if I can't go to a residential program, I can't heal. Right? We certainly don't want to paint that, because then we've got a lot of folks without hope. Right? But one of the ways, absolutely. And do you do, do you view your work today? The work you do just with individual clients is something that you prefer to only do with people once they're coming out of a residential program.

=== FILE: Building Good Habits in Children  ｜ Charles Duhigg [ZsYv0iaRpCo].txt ===

your child is misbehaving. Bedtime routine is a disaster. They don't want to brush their teeth or whatever it is. There's a punishment that you could allocate for that behavior you could say, look, you know, Johnny, if you, if you don't go to bed now, you do not get to play Xbox tomorrow. Right. That's a punishment. There's a reward which is if you do this thing, I'm going to give you an extra 15 minutes of playing Xbox tomorrow. Yeah. Based on what you just said, is it safe to say that offering 15 minutes of extra Xbox is significantly more likely to produce a desired outcome? Absolutely. And I think as parents, we know this, any parent listening knows this right? Your children, we're talking here about permanent behavior change, right? We don't want them just to brush their teeth tonight. We want them to brush their teeth every night. A positive reward, a positive reinforcement is going to be much more powerful at ingraining that habit in their life. What do those of us with young kids need to do to enable our kids to become the type of adults who can make behavior changes and create better habits? So the single most powerful thing we can do is we can teach them how will power works and to build will power habits, because a will power habit actually doesn't tax the metaphor of the muscle of the will power muscle that exists inside our head. And so Angelad Duckworth, who probably many of you listeners are familiar with because of grit, she's done a lot of research on this. One of the things that's really powerful is to explain and demonstrate to kids how to diagnose thEQ routine in reward. So that they can begin editing their own habits. So I have a 14 year old in a 17 year old. And one of the things that I do is I'm very ostentatious in how I reward myself for hard behavior. Right, and this is actually kind of counterintuitive because we're dads, we're supposed to be stoic, right? We go out and we run a half marathon and like it's no big deal. We don't, we don't, so what I do is exactly the opposite. I go out and I run not even half marathon and just go and I run four or five miles. I come home and it's like, oh man, that was a hard run, but I push through it. Now you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to have this really yummy smoothie I've been looking forward to. For the next 15 or 20 minutes, I'm just going to lay on the couch and enjoy myself because I feel so good right now. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to model for them, giving yourself a reward, focusing on that reward is a powerful way to re-enforce or change your own behavior. And I'll do the same thing with Qs. Often times some of thEQs that I use for exercise or for other things aren't visible to my children because I'm, you know, putting my running shoes next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up in the morning and they don't understand the significance of that. Or I'm doing engaged in a sort of ritual before I start writing that they don't see. So what I'll do is I'll be very explicit with them and say, you know what? I need to start writing a 15 minutes. Here's what I'm going to do for the next 15 minutes to get ready for that. I'm teaching them, think about thEQs in your life, think about the rewards in your life. If you focus on those two things, you can create almost any routine any behavior that you want or change any behavior that you want. So let's go back to childhood. Sure. Because I think this is such an interesting place, right? Where IMean, maybe I'm in correct, but I'm assuming that again a lot of these seeds are sewn in how we're raised. And in the case of your kids, they're getting actually kind of like a masterclass because they've got, you know, a parent who's one of the world's experts in it. But they would also, they would not say it was a masterclass. I think I'm a little heavy handed, but thank you for that. But you're being deliberate in how you're coaching. Yeah. So again, for those of us who who want to kind of take a bit of that, because I, you know, I really think like people always ask me like, what do you want for your kids? And that's an interesting question, right? Like, I certainly don't, I don't have any aspiration for what I want them to be professionally. Like it's not like, oh, I want this kid to be that and this kid to be that. IMean, you want your kids to be well adjusted and happy. Yeah. But it's hard to imagine them doing that if they don't have some command and control over themselves. So that you could argue that this is one of the most important things that we want our kids to have. Yeah. And yet I don't feel like we have any adequacy in the trening for it. Well, I think you're right. I think that this is something, if this was more of a curriculum in schools, if it was something we taught parents. And that's one of the reasons I wrote the power of habit is I wanted to, I wanted to empower parents to teach their own kids, the stuff recognized things in their own life. I think that a number of us understand intuitively some aspect of this, right? So a lot has been written about the growth mindset, Carol de Wex work out of Stanford. You know, one of the things that she emphasizes is teaching children a sense of agency. That instead of saying, when you bring home an A and your pork cartons and saying, oh, you're so smart, which is something you don't have control over. To say, oh, you must have worked really, really hard because that's something you do have control over. I'm reinforcing your sense of agency. When we do that intuitively or deliberately, one of the things that we're doing is we're teaching our children that they have control over their habits, right? You went and you worked really hard to get that A. You developed a habit of studying, you used your willpower. I'm going to positively reinforce up by recognizing it. Whereas if I say, you must be really smart, you got that A. I'm not positively reinforcing your belief that you can change your behavior. So in addition to explaining to kids and being ostentatious, showing off the cues and rewards in our own life and how we change our own habits, the way that we give rewards to our children, also reinforces for them, whether they believe that they are in control of their willpower or not. And I suppose the other side of that is, how do we handle our own failures in front of them? Absolutely. Do we even admit our own failures? There's a model of fatherhood from the 1950s that you don't burden your family with your ups and downs. Dad's a steady rock. But all the research tells us one of the best things you can do is if you screwed up and I tried to do this all the time. I come home and I'm like, oh man, I called this guy today and I just completely screwed up this interview. Because I want them to know. And then I say, but the thing I realized from it is that next time I call, I need to have something to eat before I call. That's going to help me. I'm modeling for them. A failure is not a failure. A failure is a data point. And I'm a scientist about my own life. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: Bunions & Hammer Toes： Causes, Symptoms, & Solutions ｜ Courtney Conley, D.C. [_ddXXvJwi_g].txt ===

Yeah, what exactly is a bunion? Everybody's heard of them. So, and a lot of people have them. Mm-hmm. Um, it's a trensverse instability, not where you see the bunion. Here. At the meditarsal medial Q&A form, when someone can't control motion at the foot. Sort of the junction between the midfoot and the forefoot. Correct. Then they will start to have this instability. This bone, all a bunion, is by the way, is this bone, basically shifting to the outside. Yeah, so anybody who's seen it, will, what you notice is you're looking down at a person's foot, and you'll see this huge outpouching in what's otherwise the widest part of the foot, looks like it just got a whole bunch wider and it's pointing out. But when you see the skeleton, it's much easier to understand why that's happening. Yeah, so it's this guy going that way. A lot of people have these surgically repaired. Yes. What are they doing surgically to repair that? We could talk about this for a long time. Just some facts first with those surgeries. Okay. Um, a lot of them are not successful. And I'm not here to, you know, there is a time in a place. There is a time in a place, but I would be very cautious about getting foot surgeries, right, for symptoms. So what they'll do is they can either shave part of the bone down and then realign the toe. Mm-hmm. And oftentimes they will pin the metatarsal to thEQ&A form. So they stabilize where most people have that instability. Once you start pinning things together, you might take care of alignment. Or I could you've done nothing to strengthen the muscle that allowed this to correct. Cut there. And, you know, the conversation of my mom has a bunion. My grandma has a bunion. And my response to that is you don't come out of the womb with a bunion. You might inherit connective tissue laxity for example, or there might be hypermobility issues. But if we know that, just like we talked about with the kids earlier, the earlier interventions, right? You get them in the right foot, footwear. You make sure they're in shoes, right? That have a toe box where the toes can actually display, especially if you know that your mother has a bunion. Mm-hmm. I think what's fascinating about the big toes, if you look at your nail bed. Some people that have bunions, the nail bed will be flat, and it'll just look like it's adducting. All right, so the here's the bunion? Oh, I see what you mean. Yep. Right? But the nail bed is flat. When you see that, it's typically from footwear. When you see the nail bed, and it's actually rotated, because you see some of those people right where the nail bed's kind of turned in, and that's like it's a rotational issue. Yep. You know for certain they can't control rotation. Which is cool, because now you're like, okay, let's, IMean, I have one of the reasons I got into all of this was, I have bilateral bunions on both of my feet due to the fact that I was constantly in point shoes, and then my solution to that was I'm just going to start bracing my feet because they hurt. So they just got weaker and weaker, and then I was like, this is not right. So we started strengthening them, getting us in the right shoes, and it's different, different ballgame. And what's a hammer toe? Well, we're at the topic of common empathy. Yeah, so bunion very common. Hammer toes are basically when the toes start to hammer the ground. All of them are just two through five. Two through five. Okay. The big toe can't hammer, it's just not as common as two through five. And this is why when you look at hammer toes, so this would be the top of my foot. We have extensors, short toe extensors, but we also have long toe extensors. So on the top of the foot, the short toe extensors are doing a lot of work. And the long toe extensors are not. Yeah, this is one of those things where if you're listening to us, this is very difficult to understand. It's it's why watching what you're saying makes a lot of sense. And and again, just so folks understand, the extensors would be pulling back the flexors would curl forward. And so it seems counterintuitive to say, how can a hammer toe be in part driven by this extensor phenomenon? Well, if the short extensors, the ones that attach with a shorter moment arm are fired up. Yes. And the long ones are relaxed. It actually looks like a hyperflection. Yes. And for people who have pain along the bottom of their foot, so along their meditarsals, if you take out your insert of your shoe, and you see a lot of wear underneath, like the second or third meditarsal, you know, you're probably walking around with too much pressure going through there. Hmm. So on the bottom of the foot, it's the exact opposite. I have my short flexors that aren't doing anything. And my long flexors who are. So hammer toe is a, it's a muscle imbalance due to a weakness in the foot. And what do you attribute the root of that to? If the bunion seems predisposed, not putting aside genetics and other things like that, but just environmentally, if the predisposing feature of a bunion is shoes that are pushing the big toe in, what is the environmental trigger that is most commonly driving a hammer toe? I think it's the same thing. I think that we have not been paying attention to our feet for a very long period of time. And if you think about, if you were to walk around with your hands and mittens, yeah. For 20 years, you shouldn't be surprised when your hands don't function. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: CBT-I Explained： The Proven Method to Cure Insomnia Without Medication  ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [Yxlh7xLMGwE].txt ===

and tell me a little bit about the history of CBTI, specifically, when did the idea come to, you know, existence in a way that's been packaged more or less the way it is today? Yeah, so cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is actually old news. IMean, we can go back to the 1970s. I remember when I was learning cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, one of the most fun studies to read about was the study of, I believe it was, college-aged men who were not doing well academically. And the intervention that they did with them was one of the two pillars of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, which is called stimulus control. And what they did with these young men is they told them, all right, you're going to be assigned a Carol in the library. And in this Carol is the only place you can study. You can't study in your dorm, you can't study outside, you can't study anywhere else, just this Carol, right? And only this amount of time can use study each day. Even if you're on a roll, we don't care, you have to stop. If you're miserable, we don't care, you just have to keep on like doing whatever portion of the studying over and over again that you're stuck on, right? So they trened peep these young men to just study in that one place. And it succeeded in helping these men. And these men were struggling with anxiety or actual uncertainty. They were, they were, they were just, this is just, this is just stimulus control. Yeah, where we learn to associate a place with a behavior, right? And fast forward a little bit, one of, it was actually, it was called the Bootsin Method at one point for Dick Bootsin, but one of the hallmarks of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is your bed is only for sleep. There are two things you're allowed to do in bed. I always tell my patients, your two things that you can do in bed are sex and sleep. If you're not sure of something counts, message me and I'll clarify it for you real quick, whether it counts in one of those two buckets. But we really want to just associate the bed with sleep. And the states even further back. And to be clear, just going back to this study was, was there a belief or were some of these guys studying in bed? They were studying in their dorms in their beds and everywhere else. And everywhere. So this wasn't specifically a study focused on sleep per se. It was just focused on this associate of pattern that became the bedrock of this treatment. And we can go back even further and we can look at Pavlovian conditioning, right? The dog and the bell and the food. And we don't need to go over that whole thing was again right now. But the point just is that the dog came to associate the bell with getting food, right? And a lot of times when people are struggling with sleep, you know what they're doing in their bed, they're reading, they're scrolling, they're watching TV, they're listening to podcasts. They're doing like everything. A lot of people by the time they get to me, they're camping out in their bed, just in case they're able to sleep. Oh, I'm going to go over snacking bed because if I'm sleepy enough, I'll roll over and take a nap and I'll get some extra z's. Right? So people have moved so much of their lives into their beds that it's completely dissociated from sleep. So that's a major, that's one of the the bedrocks, right? And then another bedrock is what we now call time and bed restriction. This used to be called sleep restriction. But I think, I don't know where along the way in the last number of years it went from being called sleep restriction to time and bed restriction. But whoever made the change, I'm still not sure who made that change. I'm thankful to them for it because the other key component of CBTI is that we restrict the amount of time that a patient is in bed to match how much time their body can actually produce of sleeping. A lot of times people with insomnia will say, okay, I need to be in bed for at least 12 hours. If I want to get seven hours of sleep, right? I know it's hard to believe, but it's true. And we just obliterate that notion. And this is another core and very old part of CBTI that dates back what? 7, 1970s, 80s. But when you take those two parts, then you start to add in some of the cognitive components that have been around also for decades, the cognitive therapies part, the air and back stuff with cognitive restructuring, which is where we take a thought. It's never heard that phrase. Don't believe everything you think. Yeah. So you take a thought. And on the classic thought record tool, you'll have patients write down the thought right down how they feel, write their feelings for say 0 to 90%. And then we have them write down, what's the evidence for this thought? Like if you had to go to court right now, and there was a judge jury and what have you. And you had to present evidence for your thought. What would you be able to present? Evidence for a thought is not another thought. It's not a belief. Evidence. Last time I slept six hours. I got a worse grade on the test or something. Right. That would be evidence. You go worse grade and death. But then we, we look at all the evidence for a thought. We look at all the evidence against a thought. Like, oh, last time you didn't sleep so well, you didn't get fired. You still did find in school, whatever the thing. And then we create a balanced thought, which is okay, even though I'm not going to be as well rested, I'll still get through this day. Right. Then we have people re-rate their emotions, re-rate how much they believe this new thought, this whole song and dance. Right. This is the cognitive component. And that's kind of the bedrock of so much of cognitive therapy. And so of course, people have so many negative thoughts about sleep and dysfunctional thoughts about sleep that aren't true or that are catathyprising and whatnot. That it's also blended into the treatment. And then we have relaxation techniques, which are things like progressive muscle relaxation that came along as well. And those are part of the treatment. And that progressive muscle relaxation will be like, where you squeeze your hands and let go and squeeze your hands and let go and then squeeze your arms and let them go and kind of move through your whole body to get out of your head and into your body. And I don't know what order those actually were packaged into CBTI. But I can tell you the first to the stimulus control and the time and bed restriction. Those were among the earliest earliest parts of CBTI. And what we know from dismantling studies is when you take either of those out of the treatment, paradise.

=== FILE: Can AI Learning Outcompete TikTok for Kids’ Attention？ ｜ Joe Liemandt [5jFvIEXA_pk].txt ===

So make sure I'm putting this in perspective. So my eight year old, who is that kid who loves baseball. And all he does is talk baseball stats. He's a literal, he is a walking baseball statistic. Do you know so and so hit 326, that this many homeruns and you know, he was able to hit 477 feet above a. So he will be able to get to know his AI tutor. They will figure out in short order that the way to his heart is baseball. And anything that you can teach in baseball terms, he's fixated exactly. And AI will be able to give him a lesson to pursue mastery. But under the guhaz of baseball. Under baseball. Right. And it's just and we all know this, which is you're always, that's what teachers are always trying to do is, how do I get with the kids like and associate with it. But at scale, you don't have 30 kids who like all the same thing. Yeah, you know, et cetera. So here's an example of what you can actually do today. There's if you, we have a, so static, you know, you have hallucinations. And so you don't, you don't want to release those yet. But we have a dynamic reading generation. It's called Teach Tales. And the goal of this is to get kids to love to read. So if you take a third grade boy, it's like, I hate books, right? I hate books. I'm not a book guy. And you're like, which are favorite movie? The Avengers? Who are your soccer buddies? Okay. And you create the AI generates a choose your own adventure where you're saving the world with your soccer buddies. And you know, they have to keep the age B and a vendor. And each B1 and literally in the Lexiile level, right, the difficulty goes up it knows, right? So it's keeping you in the zone of proximal development within 10% of, you know, what you know, your Lexiile level, the kids will sit there and click for an hour. Right? Just totally engage. Non-stop reading. Non-stop. And just all of a sudden, you know, because we do have a reading problem in this country, people don't read books and all the things, this is the kind of thing where Gen AI is gonna be able to suck kids in, right? And, you know, our competition is Fortnite and TikTok, right? And we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids. That's related to what they care about. That also teaches, okay? I got to teach you for actions, but we're doing this baseball thing, so you're fine, right? You love that. You know, there's a whole program that a lot of people on finance where, you know, and there's actually a program where they have a mother-daughter thing back to a different way to try to solve it without an AI tutor, where there's all these finance moms who teach their daughters poker in middle school. And they're like, I'm gonna get them into poker to teach all these skills and the math skills and all the things that aren't being taught in my school. But with us, we can get that engagement level where the kids are interested in it. And to give you a couple of examples and I'll use some of our high school kids. So, you know, when you trensfer into, you know, alpha high, your knowledge of history is very limited, which is if it's in the musical Hamilton, you know it occurred, and if it didn't occur, you know, it's not in a song in Hamilton, you don't know it. You know, because we don't teach history very much anymore. And but all the kids know Hamilton, they all sing songs. So our US history, AP World history, they literally used AI, they did this on their own, that was on our stuff. They used AI to generate, here's all the facts. You know, there's nine units in US history, for each unit they created a song. And they said, give me all the facts that I need to know for this unit. And they pumped into sumo, which is an available, you know, song generator. And they got, they created just their own album of songs. And they all would just sit around and sing the songs and you know, learn the facts that way. And do it in a way they all were very interested in, right? And they all got five on their AP, because you can do it to mastery. And so Jenny AI is gonna allow us to create this awesome dynamic content that's relatable, you know, and focused on what, or applicable to what kids want. The other part is, you know, there's a learning science concept, also bells of an framework. So, you know, the fastest way to learn is basically analogy. And so do you have a knowledge graph, right? This is the A in the ABC. So Dean Schwartz's book, which I guess, we're gonna link to that in the show notes, goes through A to Z, everything that learning science has come up with. Exactly. So he has, so Dean Schwartz from Stanford, right? He got a school education, one of the leaders in the field, right? His written a book, and he's like, here it is, you know, and every letter has a different one. But this one A is analogous and other ones are a member. And analogies, right? Where that's the fastest way to learn. And so if you know what a kid knows, like part of, we have a content team when I talk about those 100 facts, ideas and concepts for our, what they're using as reference is they're using TikTok memes, as cause kids know TikTok, right? And they know what's on TikTok. You know, like, well, let's take what we're trying to teach them and use something they already know, and that's actually the fastest way to have kids learn concepts. And so those are all coming, then even when you talk even further, the part we don't have in yet, but you know, our team's working on it is, we also take into account, we will be taking into account, the cognitive load, right? Of the brain, which is, we know we're going to be able to create a lesson that where we know how many working memory slots you have. We know what you know to fluency and what you don't. And we're not going to give you a question that's going to overload your working memory. Or we also know how many reps you need, right? And GT kids need fewer reps. And so we're not going to bore you by giving you too many reps to memorize it. Conversely, we're going to make sure you have enough reps if you need them. And so this personalized learning where you're generating the content dynamically, is going to be just this crazy unlock for these kids. And five years from now, I was going to look back and be like, okay, obviously, kids can learn 10 times faster. You know, we wake up every day and they're just like, it's like Neo in the Matrix, right? Where that's a physical upload, ours is, right? Using learning science concepts, kids can learn 10 times faster. And when you think about that, you have 12 years, right? You've 12 years to fill your kids head with cool stuff, knowledge, right? Because they have to hang out in that, right, in their brain for the rest of their life. And we've allocated 12 years to fill it up. We just need two hours a day, a 10 times faster. And all the kids can have more stuff and more cool stuff about stuff they like in their heads, two mastery level. Levels none of us as parents could ever imagine. And still give the kids their time back for the rest of the day to do all other things. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Can Humans Become Physically Immortal？ ｜ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [bNC0dVf52QI].txt ===

Do you think that immortality is impossible? Unless we define it through kind of like AI copying your brain. Let's put the, IMean, physical immortality. Do you believe that that is, that is impossible? Well, I like to tell people that I'm immortal, because I think the mindset that it gives me is a very healthy mindset for me. We can come to, you know, you talk a lot about the emotional aspects of aging in your book. I love that chapter. We can come to that later. But that's, I don't really believe it's true. I think the odds that you could achieve that level of change in aging is non-zero, but close. So I'm skeptical that that can be done. I think it's fair to say, but I wouldn't rule out the possibility. Of course, nobody's ultimately going to be immortal, because you're going to get hit by a boss sooner or later. But what you're really talking about is being immortal in terms of dying from aging. Yeah, what I guess what I'm really saying is, can one ever get to the point where resilience is high enough that you cannot die from disease. I have seen nothing so far that suggests that's possible. Okay, but that doesn't mean it isn't possible. Yeah. And then that gets even to physical frailty and so our opinion and things like that, where even when we see centenarians and super centenarians, their frailty is still pretty remarkable. Meaning. Meaning like they still look pretty feeble in frail. Like, IMean, the age adjusted their grade. Yeah. But at the end of the day, like when they're 110, they still look like someone who's in the final years of their life, just as someone would if they were 84, 85. IMean, I had two grandmothers that lived to almost 100. One died at 99 and the other 101. And the one at 101, I would say that at 90, she was driving at 95. I think shEQuit driving. She bought a 238 game at 93. She was like a 93. Yeah. But so that's my point. She's like a 70 something girl. Exactly. My point is she just had a phase shift of 20 years. But it didn't undo the inevitability of that. Behind. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that. I think that. But I'm getting us to 100. So a good goal. I think. I agree completely. Do you think that, again, we're spending too much time. We're worrying about finding immortality, escape velocity, understanding the core of aging. When maybe we should be spending more time on how do we preserve health span in the last decade of life? Why is it that most people in the final decade of their life are physically too frail to enjoy life are cognitively just, you know, even absent Alzheimer's disease. They're just not cognitively sharp enough. They're in pain. They're fracturing their hips. They're not doing what, you know, what gave them joy through most of their life. Yeah. I think that we should fund aging somewhere closer to the level we're funding cancer and answer both of thosEQuestions at the same time. I think one of them is a trenslational question about how do we slow aging as much as we can right now and improve the health of the population as much as possible. And the other one is a basic sciencEQuestion. Can we stop aging? Can we reverse aging? No one can. But anybody has the answer to that. They're lying to you or they're lying to themselves. Okay. We don't know. And I think that, but it's maybe the most important question in biology and we should be throwing money at it. So we've seen all this money going to like the private sector side by tech companies, supplement companies, longevity clinics, and on and on. And I think that's great, by the way. And I've spent a lot of my time working with those groups because I think it's important. But we're not seeing the academic funding that's going into the basic science of aging and longevity. And the big question still, that you just raised, they're still not answered. And so I'm not, I'm changing your question to a plea for more funding. And unfortunately, the kind of funding that supports that is usually government funding, foundation funding, and that's under major threat right now. So I'm really worried that we're not going to answer thosEQuestions. Well, it's funny. This was a discussion that came up on a longevity roundtable. I think most people, myself included, were really surprised to hear how disparate the funding differences are and how if you could put, I don't know, if you could reallocate 10% of funding from the disease-specific pools to the age pools, it could have an enormous difference. Based on how it's a little bit of a statement. Yeah. So when you think about the big chronic diseases, cardiovascular disease, cancer, demented diseases and metabolic diseases, right? Those would be the big four. I've often maintained that the least inevitable of them is ironically the one that is the most deadly today, which is cardiovascular disease. Yeah. The atherosclerotic disease is so cerebral and cardiovascular, ironically, the most preventable. I think because we have the best understanding of what causes them and we couple that with the most tools to prevent them, whether it be tools to combat hypertension, disability, me, et cetera. And they're responsible to a responsive to the lifestyle of case. Yeah. Which of those major diseases of the other three, demented, cancer, metabolic? Do you believe is the most inevitable to our species? I wouldn't put metabolic. I agree. Yeah. Sure. Because I see that more like cardiovascular. I agree. So of the other two, cancer and demented or neurodegenerative diseases, which one is just seemingly inevitable. We don't know enough about dementia to answer, but I will say that cancer is a little bit different than these other diseases, I think. It's not a, and it may be less modifiable by longevity interventions. Dimension, we just don't know. My guess is it's highly modifiable too, but there's not enough data to be sure of that. Like there is for metabolic and cardiovascular disease. But cancer is, is, is, is an accumulation of mutation. So it's a more defined event that's happening. It's also a impact on the immune system that's different a little bit than normal aging. So it may be less approachable from a longevity viewpoint point. Yeah. That's exactly my view that cancer is the most inevitable of these diseases. Do you think that the inevitability or the age-related component stems more from the accumulation of mutations or the weakening of the immune system? It's probably both. IMean, you don't get to cancer without the right mutations happening. But I think we're learning more and more that the immune system is playing a major role in it. We can see that very clearly from the interventions that improve immune function and they're having a big role in certain types of tumors. But I think that's going to be true for Alzheimer's and the dementia as well. We've completely underestimated the role of inflammation in the immune system and those diseases as well. And they may be the primary drivers. You know, I kind of, I'm very frustrated by some of these fields. One of them is Alzheimer's. You know, the, I kind of feel like, you know, one of these Alzheimer's researchers are going to die at some point of 90 and on their, on their two stone, it's going to be like, you know, major accomplishment was the completely remove plaques from the brain died of Alzheimer's at 94. You know, it's, it's, it's, it's, there's been so much focus on one or two mechanisms of disease that we spent 30 years not studying the others, which may be more important. Why do you think that? IMean, I write about it in the book, but I'm really curious as to why you think that's happened. And because that's not it. Unfortunately, that's not an isolated incident in science. So why do you think it's happening in a field where the results are otherwise so dismal? What's the, what's the same? That scientific progress happens one field of fear to the time. Yeah. I think that's part of it. You know, you get people that have successful research programs and their postdocs get hired and all the jobs. And so when you take a field and it grows from a small field to a bigger field, you everybody can draw their lineage back to four or five different PI's and so whatever models. And those PI's get really focused on those models and they see that as their ticket to prizes and things like that. And so then you, you focus on a subset of the disease mechanisms that the exclusion of all others. And I, I don't want to single Alzheimer's out. And I think a lot of diseases meet that category. But it's unfortunate because what we're realizing is that, you know, there's a lot of factors that contribute to any disease. And I think longevity may be an interesting way of looking at it. Like I think it's better. Like I'll take it take a mouse. Okay. We've tried to make Alzheimer's models in mice and they, they don't prove that informative. Why, you're creating a disease a mouse doesn't get genetically in a young mouse. And comparing that to a natural disease and an old human. I think you learn more about Alzheimer's. If you look at the brain, neurodegenerative changes that happen in the mouse normally with aging. The, the downstream things are different. But the drivers may be the very similar to the ones that are driving Alzheimer's Alzheimer's. And that may be a better model of Alzheimer's than trying to artificially create something that a mouse doesn't get. So that's what I think aging is helping change that perspective that, you know, the drivers of aging, I think are very similar between a mouse and a human. The downstream events can be different. But the drivers are what we care about, right? So. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days. You'll get a lot of updates of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: Can Stem Cells Regenerate the Injured Brain？ ｜ Edward Chang, M.D. [gwFP8sVgfDM].txt ===

So many people suffer brain injuries and if you could wave a magic wand you would just hope for some regeneration of the injured portion of her brain and my guess is in the case of and the actual total volume of cells that are damaged just quite small it could be this you know half the size of your thumb right IMean it's a relatively small, but it just happened to be in the most precious part of real estate in her entire body so Do we know or do you have any point of view on the potential future of stem cell like interventions for the purpose of Regeneration specifically in the CNS? Yeah, IMean this is an area that I think got a lot of focus and attention maybe about 10 or 15 years ago and I would say it largely the results were pretty modest. Yeah, but yeah, it best It's coming back now because of a lot of cell-based therapies or granowates Building miniature models of brains on cell culture is basically I think the first things that we're gonna see and where I am seeing some promise is Very focal delivery in replacing cells that have been lost in small targets of the brain So back to Parkinson's disease where you've got the generation of dopaminergic neurons and the substantiate nigra the goal is can you replace and basically trensplant some stem cells into that part of the brain? And remind me why the cells in the substantiate nigra go is it an auto a meat like what do we know what's killing them? I think there's a lot of a lot of It could be multiple fault it's parliogenic There are certain genes. I produce both situation there. They're certain environmental toxins That can cause the disgeneration and then there's like a huge bucket like we still don't know you know what's causing that But if end of the day, there is a disgeneration of those very specialized cells most of the treatments are around dopamine replacement Yeah, medications and how close do you think we are towards? trensplant Well, it's already been done Actually like 20 30 years ago. Oh really I was using a fetal graphs and they just didn't take some of them took in in fact Patients some patients got benefit from it the side effects were also fairly severe They were a variety of different reasons kind of side effects like if you have too much dopamine You can actually get disconeys shows so hyper movement so Parkinson's one of the card symptoms of Parkinson's hypomovement Yeah, yeah, Brady cannesia Specifically where you have slow movements slow to initiate movements as well But if you have cells that are just pumping out dopamine They can also be putting out too much and you get the opposite effect So it's not as simple as just putting them in there. They actually have to be tuned Yeah, in the right way to put out the right levels and so there's a new generation of new therapies that were really interested in traveling UCSF that are much better cell models much better control of dopamine that's involved. We have much better delivery systems to make sure that the different distribution and and IMean could you imagine that could you imagine engineering your way out of Parkinson's disease? We're working on it What about synthetic cells where you completely get to control it, right? So again, you have the substrate problem, but if it's truly a synthetic cell then presumably it can make dopamine as well IMean, that's supposed to an implantable sort of slow leaked dopamine that you come up with some slick weight or refill but What do you think is more likely kind of the more pure engineering approach or the more biological trensplant approach where you just try to tune it The near term of course is taking some cell cultures. They are not like purely synthesized That's still I think it's a huge goal outside of just brain like can you generate a cell to know, though? Without some what without some origin does that require immune Modulation so it's a full trensplant yeah, so a lot of these patients initially will be on a You know suppression for that, but that's also improved a lot Yeah, right that's just a immune of suppressive as if they had a kidney trensplant or a liver heart trensplant Yes, wow, yeah, but I think that's primarily right now the level of precaution You know and there is progress being made and try to make these things As least immunogenic is possible and That's where a lot of the engineering actually is focused on is just making Like the least immunogenic to avoid a rejection scenario So I am excited about that and that's some of the biological engineering that I've talked about like biotechnology or the future of technology We really coming back to the biology moving a little bit away from the Electrical engineering What do you think the world looks like in 2040 Which major problems that stand in front of you today do you expect to fall and what will be the implications? I'm Peter at here this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers? I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member You'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive Every topic every study every resource from each episode carefully curated for you You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and Much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone We can take these steps towards a better longer life together become a premium member today a Peter at MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

=== FILE: Can We Objectively Measure Pain？  ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [yRTR8976fBA].txt ===

There's no objective way to measure pain, correct? Oh, the last 15 years of my career has been spent on doing that very thing. And where do you think we are in that regard? Much further along than I ever would have predicted. So a large chunk of my research early on. My early research was in neuroimaging a pain. It was opening up windows into the brain to see where people were thinking, processing, perceiving, magnifying pain. And I spent much of that publishing work to understand the mechanisms of that. And we haven't yet actually finished our story of pain going up to the brain and what's going on. We'll get there. Yeah. Over the years, IMigrated into the space of developing objective biomarkers of pain. And it's one of those things where this is why I love working with young, smart people. I bet against it. I had some young grad students and others who said that they thought they could do this. I told them how you would do it. And I said it won't work. And I'm going to pay you. I'm going to give you money to go scan people and you're going to learn how it doesn't work because failure is a great lesson in life. And they came back and they showed they could do it. And it was all through developing patterns in the brain and using machine learning models to then take that pattern, that signature and be able to predict in other people whether they were experiencing pain. I didn't think we could do that because of the hugely individual nature of pain. It's so different from person to person. And it turns out that there are core patterns in the brain that represent that experience of pain. And so now we've others. And so you're capturing these through what modality, the functional magnetic resonance imaging. It is a standard MRI that people go into. But we do some fancy pulse sequences. We play some physics tricks where we can see where nerves the brain's being activated. And we've taken this. We and others have taken this from being able to determine whether somebody is in a state of pain, to predicting their long-term trajectory. And we're working right now. Big grant that I have is to actually create composite multimodal biomarkers to predict their future state. We're getting there. So let's just start with standard understanding. If you put me into an FMRIMachine and I said to you, hey guys, I'm not feeling any pain right now. I feel great. And then you scan me and then someone came out and took a hammer to my thumb. Yeah. And I went through the classic response that you described earlier. What would my FMRI show? Yeah. You would see rather dramatic increases in activity in brain regions such as the thalamus, the posterior and solar cortex, the anterior singular cortex, through the door, salantere, singular cortex. And a number of other distributed, a number of other areas. And to be clear, this is distinct from the part of my cortex that is the humongolous for my thumb. You would also see it in S1. You right. And indeed, what we've learned through this, that there's no one single pain region in the brain. That's another mistake that was made along the way. We all thought we were going to find a brain region. Yeah. Then we can knock it out. Right. Just go cut it out. And it turns out that didn't work. And it's not one brain region that generates the experience of pain. It is a distributed network. It's all of these regions coming together and working in harmony. Doing what? Right in the experience of pain and then generating a typically a response to that. And let me be very clear because there was a lot of controversy when we and others initially published our papers. We are not trying to take away the autonomy of the patient in the self-report. I don't need an FMI to see a patient and know if they are a pain. I can just ask them. And I can use self-report measures to get it. And I do that's another part of the research. Where we're working to build these objective markers, the subjectifying pain is not to see what they're in now. But can it give us useful information to predict treatment to a particular therapy? Can we use it to predict their future state? Can we use it to predict their vulnerability to an injury or surgery? Those are things that just asking a patient right now, probably not going to get there.

=== FILE: Can You Recover Fertility After Taking Testosterone？ ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [Wgwc1bOpT6I].txt ===

Question one, if a guy is taking exogenous testosterone and let's just say he's been on it now for a few months Is he able to create sperm? Not 95% chance he's not. Wow. While he's on it. Yep. Understeady can he create it once he stops and we'll and we'll definitely address that But just to be clear even a couple of months on Exogenous testosterone in any form injection, topical, oral, whatever You basically have shut off the ability to make sperm because your testies themselves have shut down Right no signals. Yep. Okay. No gas to the engine now there are some ex- it's nuanced. Okay So there's there are formulations that are topical that are less potent that way Less inhibitory than injectables So there are variations in the spectrum of exogenous testosterone that will maintain some of your fertility There are formulations at least the I don't want to go so far as to call it the marketing material but for lack of a better term the marketing material is Suggestive that the more frequently delivered variants so for example the intrenasal variant which is delivered three times a day the oral variant Delivered twice a day have a less of a negative impact because they're producing far lower Surges than if you did a weekly injection is that what you're referring to? Yeah, so they do more physiologic. Yep. They're in the normal range more what gives you side effects from testosterone Including sterility is the spice too much. Yeah, so in your experience has that born out So men you've seen men taking the testo three times a day doing a nasal keeping their sperm count keeping their sperm counts Okay, that's interesting to note. What about the oral testosterone the twice a day? Love it so and it's testosterone neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and no eight and It was not Available in America for 50 years was available in Europe and a couple of researchers. You say a as been wife team beautiful Decide what happened was we were worried when we took oral to the liver right to the Military system and go to liver cause liver cancer so was always verboten All right, so now let's talk about the guy who comes to see you. He's been on exogenous testosterone for three years So he was given poor advice three years ago. He went to some shady You know back alley website and they just you know He was 27 years old at the time He just wanted to IMean this is tragically a very common story by the right so this guy's been on 200 milligrams A testosterone a week for the pasT3 years. He's now 30 years old. He's met the love of his life and Loan behold they can't seem to get pregnant So he's in your office during the history you find out pretty quickly. He's been on 200 milligrams a testosterone for three years Tell me what his sperm analysis looks like you see there knows there presumably there are no sperm. I would bet 95% Confidence that he would be no have no sperm in a salmon. Okay. I'm 200 milligrams a week So what are you telling him now? How are you gonna solve this problem? So it's funny because a lot of guys come in and They're they look good and And I want to examine. I'll say are you taking anything? Are you taking because they never put it on the medication? Right? You never write it out on the history you always have to get it out of it if they look if they're super jacked But then they have tripled testes. Yeah, and they're zero and they're wondering what you know right? So I will look them in the eye. It's a you taking testosterone And I'll look them in the eye until they answer and if they look down and And they don't say anything. I know they're on it if they look me the eye and say no, then I know they're not but they'll always look away Because it's this verboten thing so This is the same by the way as I'm sure you experienced as a Resident and the ER the people that come in with foreign rectal bodies and a barminal pain That's the one thing they emit from their history, right? It's like they tell you you know this the last time I ate this is this this is this But then you get the x-ray back and there's like a candlestick in their colon and then you say What about this candle? Yeah, what about this candle stick and they're like oh I totally forgot to mention that. Yes. Yes. That was lit. What I went in. Yeah. Yeah So typically I'll say so my there is about this is if he's Why is he taking it so if he's taking a franabolic? You know he probably has a pretty good idea and I want that send you it's give you a little research We're doing on the lifespan of anabolic storage users So remind me at the end of the story it's to give you a little brief on about what what I know about that but So I so when you take so how he takes it matters So if he's been in constant use injectables. Yep. That's the most suppressive of fertility and If you turn a gland like a testicle off long enough, it's off So I gave a lecture to the Antiquity on covering men from hypergonism and young men and I asked them a question at the end Because I this is IMy whole Procedure comes from steroid users. I I take notes when the anabolic guys come see me because they're really smart And they know a lot about reactions biology That's incredible everything. Yeah, but there's a science some of them are PhDs I took notes for years and it came up my approach Along with what I know right so it's very much in concern with concert with them So everything I say is sort of built on a large experience And it's called getting off the juice block and I have people read that blog do it and say get about 80% of the way and then call me and say and need help here Now I'm here. Yeah, we'll link to this in the show. No, it's for sure getting off the juice and there's a PowerPoint in it so the Recovery is usually possible in young men, but it depends on how much they took how long they took it and how they took it If they do it like a cycling effort that's the best right? So if you cycle steroids you recover the betueteria you get back to normal and then you hit it again That's actually quite smart. Constant use is not Constant use for longevity or whatever is not a good idea for fertility So that's gonna be much more suppressive injections are worse than orals or any gels Mm-hmm So the next thing is how long so I asked the under-consciety since I answered all their questions I said have a question for you. Can you turn a testicle off like an a thyroid or a adrenal gland if you suppress it enough Can you turn it off for good and they said yeah, that's a bad questianavars We can do that and I said because we believe it's always reversible in the field of infertility and men And so that got me a little worried and so now I kind of worry about five to ten years of use after five or ten years of use You may not get it back either the ability to make sperm or the ability to make testosterone native so we typically tell men in our practice Don't you know two years would be the absolute ceiling maybe are we too conservative? Maybe okay Depends on dose again everything right if they're two and a 50 a week though IMean in our practice it would be 50 twice a week. Yeah, okay. I did a study Published a study on the fellow and Houston of a guy who took it for 25 years and We drove at him with genetic tropans as HCG and FSH and we didn't get anything but he had testiculate No, we got us a low number of sperm back and I just had a guy from Louisiana and I come in 25 years of chronic use I did a mapping procedure to find sperm and it's testicone and he's gonna be having a kid But he made a couple of sperm after and that was correct But you pump him full of HCG and synthetic air and get nothing and then you have to look in a Testicle because production can be low enough to be there, but not coming up But this is the rescue protocol. It's LHFSH Basically, there's three ways to do one is never stop the testosterone suddenly Hmm interesting because men all hit the dogms like a poop and they'll flop over like they have the flu They'll feel like shit and they'll get right back on it. They're feel terrible Because they have nothing going on if you take the testosterone away Their persistence turned off. They're not making their own it takes time to get the system to reactivate So that's the hardest. So I always taper testosterone over over what period of time six weeks Typically you have the dose for two have the dose for two and then offer two and then you measure and That's like getting out of the white water into the green the green wall a little bit So that's a little smoother So taper and then I offer them two options one opposite taper alone taper with chroma during chroma theme Which is a littlEQuicker getting the pituitary to turn back on So that will that will soften the blow of the feeling of feeling completely fatigued or more aggressively HCG and and and chroma Okay That's interesting. I guess there's no at about six weeks or and there's no so it's it's interesting If you give Clome the pituitary will make FSH and LH It doesn't shut off. It takes a lot. Well, that's a way more cost effective approach than giving since synthetic FSH is pricey Yes, couple thousand a month. Yeah, America. Yeah, so is there any reason to do that over the chroma Prochers it just that it's faster. I think you might gain a couple of weeks of time. Okay, so for most people that's not self-priced with that taper over a month or two I usually check their T levels at around two weeks off of the last testosterone and that's the lowest they'll be and if they're in a good range There that didn't you you can use that as a predictor of their response and there would be good If they're in the normal range. Oh really. Okay, so you we we want within a couple months to see them back to 600 300 would be okay. Okay, okay, okay, all right, but then to get them to where they want to be depends on their symptoms and what they're happy with I'm you know, I'm not sure I'm not you you won't know so you wait longer to see how how high you can get them that's the lowest they'll be But you'll be off of testosterone and if they go along that taper and they're not tolering I try to tell them don't go back just stay there because time will help you yeah And you're not gonna feel maybe that great but try to do this because if you don't you if you go back Then we have start over but if you just maintain it for a while you'll feel better and some of them dip a little bit But remarkably most men do really well with that taper I'm Peter at you this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers? I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member You'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive every topic every study every Resource from each episode carefully curated for you You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone We can take these steps towards a better longer life together Become a premium member today a Peter at tmd.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

=== FILE: Can a Semen Analysis Predict Fertility？ ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [w_eeeV1tPUU].txt ===

You're looking for obviously the count and the motility, what else do you look for? So in the steam analysis, there's several features I consider it sort of a poker hand. There's a volume, how much of the steam volume? There's a count concentration of sperm that's numbers per mill. And then there's motility which is percent motion. You do a forward progression. So how good is thEQuality of motion? And typically, some measure of shape called morphology. There's three liquid issues. Liquid faction, a glute nation, in viscosity. And then you look for other cells that aren't sperm. They're called round cells. And you're going to be pus cells or immature germ cells that are early ejaculated early. And presumably you want to see fewer of those. Right. There's a number like less than a million normal. Okay. So if you ask me, well, how do I look at a steam analysis? That's a little different. I look at it as a poker hand with each card as I'm meaning, but they have a look. So if you said, what do you mean by that? So if the volume is low, that's one of five things. You're always going to find something. It's at the collection error. I call it first samples and drone. Guys not go to that. Right. You know, it's like, okay, I got to put it in the cup. And I got to stop doing what I'm doing. Okay. You know, so you do a second sample. And then there's low testosterone can cause it. There's an apps and vast difference, which means you have an apps in some of us. So go, there's a jack toy, a jack toy. And by the way, do you ever have that on one side and not the other? Or is that always okay? Yeah, that was very, very, but segmental. Yep. And so there's five real issues. So when I see a low volume semen as a surgeon and as a dot, IMean, I'm going to find something. So that's really good. Other than that, the semen analysis, I think I've been published as saying it's a blunt instrument for fertility. Unless it's zero, you can't really say much about their fertility. Because people can see that all levels. And people are there. Are there, you know, obviously you rattled off a whole bunch of parameters that you can access there. But are there certain null states that don't exist where everything is amazing, but this one thing is horrible. Like do you see scenarios where everything is remarkable? Perfect, motility, but bad morphology or specific morphology. I see it isolated things. You do see isolated things. Right. So one of them is called, I call it syndromic sperm shape problem. So you can have a perfectly normal semen analysis, count motility volume progression. And the sperm looked terrible. And so there are rare conditions, one in 5,000, where you might have global, so sperm, or two tailed sperm, or pinheads sperm. So if you look at shape, 4% should look normal, just terrible. You know, all discussion about why 4% of human sperm being normal is normal when 99% of animal species in the wild have normal looking sperm. But it's all a construct. Right. It's all a construct of who someone decided what normal is. But in men who have large abnormal forms, like 4% normal, if they're 1% normal. And you look at the abnormalities. I'm sorry. I'm still confused on that point. Are you saying that in a, you would consider it perfectly normal if only 4% of the sperm are more phologically perfect and 96% or not? And that means the 96% that are not could be pinhead, could be double tail, a more festive tapering end. Going back to the original. That's a, that's a math and petition. That's not a great number. Is it? No. And if you look at marine species, 99, 9, look perfect. If in the wild. Yeah. And presumably that's because they're environment is so much more hostile. Like they're doing this all in the ocean. I don't know, but it's, it's amazing that we're that good with the sperm. But again, it's a construct. It's like putting stars ordering stars in the universe, Cassiopeia. Someone named Kruger said, this is what a normal sperm looks like. And, but we know that two tailed sperm have double tailed. IMean, it might be the two tail might not be the worst thing in the world. It's just extra rockabusters. But what about the pinhead? What is the pinhead? And it means there's no nucleus. It's a tail. So that's a true problem. You a girl. Yeah. It's like a little tiny head and moving along. So if you, if you, if you rule out, if you, if you give somebody credit for their two tails, what's, what is your normal go up to from 4%. Oh, it depends, but maybe 20. Okay. So there's still 80%. But we'll fill our, we're going to be a more fiss, the head's a little rounder, the heads a little narrower. Those are called stress patterns. Some things like hot baths and varicocials and smoking will do that. Which is that bad. All right. So in the case of 1% normal, you've got to look at the 99% because that's not the story. The stories and the other, the other chunk. Yeah. And if they're all looking the same, then it's in drumic. And then you have a problem. I see. So the more homogenous the, have an ameliores are the more likely if you have a queer ideology. And that's hard to fix. IMean, they'll fail with sex. They'll fail with insimination. They'll fail with IVF. They'll fail with IVF and XC. And sometimes with global subspermia where they're called Lali Pop sperm, they just have a big round head with no acrosome. And there's all nucleus and there's some of the components. They'll just bounce off an egg. They'll never work. Right. They'll never do work naturally. And to get them to work with IVF, you have to single sperm inject them into the egg. And then shock the egg with calcium to a calcium or pizioelectrics to get it to sort to, to actually fertilize. Because it also introduces the sperm is important with fertilization. Not only has the bind, but the calcium channels are regulated by sperm. And what shuts to doors the polyspermia in an egg is calcium activation. This is the reason why even if you launch a hundred sperm at an egg, it's only one that can get in because the first guy that breaches sets off the calcium channel that shuts the, IMean, the star wars space and allergies here are just phenomenal. Right. Million years. Yeah. A million years. No more breaches in the hole. So there's so more biology can matter a lot, but it's very rare. So I'd say twice a year in my practice, I'll see this. Because everything's failing and everything looks normal and they ask me what's going on. And I'll look at it really closely and say, you have this issue and there's not much we can do to treat it. Now we're going to try sperm swarming technologies which are out in the market, microfluidics and things like that. And I've been throwing that at them. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. And is that something that we know the genetic underpinning of? We're getting their PLZZ aid at deficiencies. One of them recently discovered that that runs the calcium channel, which tends to be associated with certain look like locals of sperm. Yeah. So it's coming around. Think about that for a second from an evolutionary perspective. That's positive. That is the single least desirable genetic mutation you could acquire. Yeah, unless you're not making sperm. Yeah, but this is a dead end to the genome. Right. So does that mean it is only an unacquired mutation never inherited? IMean, it can't be inherited presumably unless it's homozygous, but even still. That's one of the 50 we throw off in each generation, 50 mutations. That's just incredible. I think what I would like to emphasize in this podcast is how fluid evolution actually is. And it's sperm driven and it's trensgenerational. So if you ask me, what's the theme for today? It's a sperm matter a lot. A lot a lot more than we've given them credit for. All right. So let's talk about, so basically just rounding out the choices, physical, and analysis on the cemen analysis, what if motility is the problem? So I look at in my poker analogy of the hand, if you have everything looks good, but the motility is low, I think of short-term toxins. So not severe severity. So things like exposures, so medications, I think about habits, pot, smoking, hot baths, I think about behaviors, lifestyle, I think about, so I look for an exposure in that individual. Basically picked up on the history. Varicocials and exposure, things like that. And if the count down and the motilities down, it's I think of a longer severe exposure. So there's rural fashes and there's four for kindness, two of a kind. So I would think of more of, so my goal when I see that cemen analysis, see that patient is to figure out if he's not normal, why? And by the way, do you get that analysis the day he's in the clinic with you, or is that something you follow upon an appointment with? Pretty much have it in my hand when I see them. Either they give it to me or I get one, I want that there because that's when I look at them, I'd like to have that in front of me to say, what kind of poker hand are you playing? And this is something that's standardized and automated through my microfluidics. How is the, how is the assay actually done? So the guy ejaculates and it takes it to a lab. Oh, IMean, so it used to be done manually. Okay. And now it's done with the hematotometers and like, it's done with machines. Okay. The cuter assisted cemen analysis does most of them in IVF groups. So it's realized. Standardized. Oh yeah. Okay. I like the, you know, I like the bespoke suit. So I like the hand made seem so when I have mine repeated, I usually have someone do it by hand because there's observations I like, which is, hey, you know what, 1% morphology, but all the others look like this. Mm-hmm. Those comments are incredibly valuable that you don't really get from a computer assisted cemen analysis. Yeah. But it's faster and you don't have a lot of human effort involved with the computer. And are they using AI for this yet? Yeah. IMean, some people are for sperm selection a little bit. But yeah, there's a lot of stuff to help out. And now it will be really helpful for morphology to standardize it because one man named Kruger and South Africa correlated bad sperm shape with IVF outcomes and didn't not find that they were good when the sperm look bad. That's what the 4% came from. But it's really hard to do that every time and do it well because it's so hard to do. Hoping AI, machine learning can help standardize the look. Because sperm, you know, it's just, it's hard. Yeah, given how good AI is at image recognition. This should be, this should be like, this should be, to one foot, put. Yeah. I'm Peter Ratea. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter RateaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy： A Beginner’s Guide ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [cGZmIW106mc].txt ===

What constitutes cognitive behavioral therapy before we even get into cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia? So we've had a podcast where we talked about dialectical behavioral therapy DBT, but we haven't covered CBT. Okay. Can you give us a little bit of the tapestry of what defines it and why it of course then has this additional subset of treatment for insomnia? Yeah, I should have done that first. That's a great question. So cognitive behavioral therapy, my favorite way to think about this is in a triangle. We have thoughts, we have feelings, and we have behaviors. And you can think about this triangle as having these three pieces that are all connected. And cognitive and behavioral therapies or cognitive behavioral therapies generally will focus on one intervening on this process between thoughts, feelings and behavior. And one of these, the sides of the triangle, right? So let me just spell out a quick example process, right? So let's say we have a patient with type 2 diabetes who has the thought, I'm never going to be able to get my blood sugar under control. I'm never going to be able to manage this and not be able to do this. When a person has those thoughts, how do they feel? Crumming, feel bad about themselves. When people feel bad about themselves, what do they do? Eat some chocolate cake. Eat some chocolate cake. What does that do? That reinforces the thought, I'm never going to be able to do this, right? So we've got this pattern of thoughts, feelings, behavior, right? On repeat, right? And cognitive behavioral therapies will choose where to intervene on a process in that triangle. So we might intervene. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, for example, is really focused on the area between thoughts and feelings in many ways, because people will have a lot of thoughts. I can't sleep. I'm never going to be a good sleeper. If I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job, whatever. And then the big emotions that follow from that. We work on questioning a lot of those thoughts to then recalibrate the feelings that follow. Like, oh, if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I won't feel great tomorrow, but I'll probably be okay at work, right? The feeling is much smaller than if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job tomorrow, right? There's noticeably different. In terms of depression, an example that I like might be someone saying, oh, you know, I'm really depressed now, but when I feel better, I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. I'm going to take them to the zoo. I'm going to do all these things. So as a therapist, what IMight do is I have the patient right, all of this huge, long list of stuff they're going to do when they feel better. And then you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to get out there calendar with them. And I'm going to say, all right, I don't care how you feel. We're scheduling all of these things. So we're intervening on that behavior to thoughts line, right? So we're going to make them take the kids to the zoo. We're going to make them take the kids to the movies. And then the kids are going to have a great time. And the patient's going to come back and say, oh, you know, I'm a pretty kick ass growl. Kids at a great time. This was pretty great. So we're intervening on the behavior to change the thoughts about the self, right? Like, oh, I'm going to do these things when I'm better, right? So a major feature of cognitive behavioral therapies is intervening on behavior to change thoughts, but also intervening on thoughts to change feelings. And there's just many, many applications for this. Cognitive behavioral therapies been adapted for a whole host of disorders for eating disorders, for insomnia, specifically for anxiety. That's going to be more in the thoughts and feelings realm too. And it's a lot of fun. So it is that kind of running the triangle in the other direction. So you change behavior to change thought, you change thought to change feeling. Yeah. So you can you can change thought to change feeling. You can change behavior to change thought. You can operate on any any way of those with different techniques that have been just repackaged into different therapies.

=== FILE: Diets： how to evaluate any diet including keto, carnivore, vegan & Mediterranean (AMA 75 sneak peek) [DOcHTUXM6QM].txt ===

I guess I would just encourage people to not be so political, religious, and dogmatic about this. So we got a lot of diet talk today. We'll cover four of the diets, keto, carnivore, vegan, and Mediterranean. We're going to evaluate each diet through a framework which is what are strengths. If you do keto with real-hole food, I think you're going to find the pounds just pour off. I think almost without exception people that go on a carnivore diet experience a dramatic improvement in blood sugar. I think one of the big advantages here is that plant foods are generally less calorie-dense than animal foods. I think it's very difficult not to point to some version of a Mediterranean diet because it's simply the one for which we have the best data. And then we'll look at its weaknesses. One of the ones that most people don't appreciate is protein adequacies. I think you can be deficient in a number of micro nutrients that it requires being very deliberate. And then of course we have that whole other issue with the APOB issue. To do it in a way that doesn't really talk about everyone should follow this diet or this diet or this diet. But instead understand the pros, cons, how to think about diets and put it into their own life. And we'll close with practical takeaways. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another ask me anything. How are you feeling? I'm just honored to be back. Thank you for having me. Do you ever think about just sleeping in the podcast studio so you can just be ready at any given moment if we need you to record something? I think there are times when my wife would like that. We should just on the other side of the table in the studio just put a tent and every now and then you and the boys just camp in the studio. Could work. I could work. Speaking of the boys, quick, quick, chess update. We had a little chest tournament in-house chest tournament this weekend. And IMade it to the finals with the youngest, my youngest boy. And I was playing kind of a bananas game like really kind of playing lights out chess. And again, this is the one that loves to trash talk. So it was awesome. And then IMade this idiotic blunder and in a second the game changed. And five moves later, it's checkmate against me. And I was like, God, this is why I love and hate this game so much. I do love that you started this by bragging about making it to the finals of an in-house chest tournament, which composed of three people. No, no, no, there were a few others. There were some other people kind of turned out. I thought it was you and the two boys both under 11. And I was like, it's kind of audacious to brag about making it to the finals of three person chest tournament, two of which can't even drive yet. But all of you, okay. That's good to hear. There was more people involved. The bigger question is, when you lost that game, did any pieces go flying through the air? It happened one time, Nick. One time. I'll never live it down. One time in during this chest. No, no, no, it's not only happening that one time. I am not a chest piece through her ordinarily. That's because Mama Tia put her foot down. That's true. I do like have you gotten a gel to start playing chest yet? Zero chance, Jill will ever play chess. I don't know. IMean, never say never. You know, you, you sometimes do things that you said you never were going to do in the past. So you can't have never know. IMean, much like this AMA, which is all on not only your favorite, metatopic, but your favorite micro topic, which is not only is this nutrition focus, but it's diet, specific focused, which anyone who's listened to this for a while knows maybe not your favorite topic cover, but I think it's going to be really good. Here's why. We get a ton of question on diets. And I think it's because there's so much information in the ether on diets. And so what we did is we gathered thosEQuestions. We went to the audience, asked for questions, combined them all, organized them. And we're going to structure them in this way, which is, and goal here is to not be a nutrition AMA, which we've done before, which we can link. It's much more to focus on diets. And to do it in a way that doesn't really talk about everyone should follow this diet or this diet or this diet and not to kind of join the tribal battles that people see. But instead, really just take a pragmatic listen and really identify how can anyone listen to this? Understand the pros, cons, how to think about diets and put it into their own life. And so in it, we want to give people a framework to evaluate a dietary approach, whether you follow the same one now that you did years ago or you change in the future. To do that, we'll start by laying out the five non-negotiables that you think any diet must address. So no matter if it's vegan or carnivore, what are the approaches that they all should follow? And then we're going to evaluate each diet through a framework, which is what are the core requirements for that diet to work? What are strengths, including who is the best suited for? Because oftentimes we've talked as sometimes there's going to be different diets that are better for different people. So what is that and why is that? And then we'll look at its weaknesses, which is if someone's going to follow a diet, what are some of the pitfalls and how can they be addressed and how can they avoid those? And then with that framework, we'll cover four of the diets that are asked about us the most seem to be talked about the most and paint the broadest picture, which is keto, carnivore, vegan, and Mediterranean, and we'll close with practical takeaways. So we got a lot of diet talk today anything you want to add before we roll into it. Yeah, now I think that's a good setup. I'll add to unrelated comments. The first is yeah, you pointed out how much I just generally don't enjoy this subject matter. And the reason for it is it tends to very quickly degrade into sort of tribal religious discussions as opposed to sort of scientific discussions. And there tends to be almost a morality that comes out of this, which I just frankly don't think belongs in the space. But at the convincing of many listeners and our team sort of have reluctantly decided that it's worth doing. And I think that sort of feeds into the second point, which is I came into this sort of kicking and screaming, not wanting to do it. But I think Josh Roche on our team did a great job of pointing out Peter, you're not doing this for the extremes, right? You're not doing this for the extremists on each of these camps. Like you're not, you're not doing this for someone who is so hardcore in a dietary camp that they believe that they're diet is the one true diet. And anyone who doesn't eat that way is an awful human being. And like you're not trying to talk that person off that perch. You're doing this for frankly the 87% of people who are confused, who are in the middle, who don't quite know what to do, who have tried this and they're not sure if it makes sense. But they're, you know, so I think that was a very helpful framing for me because it's very easy for me to focus on the fanatics. And the fanatics across all lenses really turn me off. But as long as I just keep in my mind that I'm not talking to those people, I'm here for virtually everybody else, which fortunately is the majority of people who just kind of want some common sense frameworks for how to evaluate these dietary strategies. So with that said, I feel a little bit better about it. That's great. How imagine you'd feel even better if you want that in the house chest tournament. But it's probably all good to have it. I'm not having a rematch and don't think I am not going to put a world of hurt on that little seven year old. In chess. Just a clarify. By the way, he spent the rest of the weekend walking around the house, telling everybody how he smoked my bags. I do this. IMean, you couldn't help it laugh. You have to. Yeah, especially because it sounds like he did. He did like he just put you in his pocket. He's just. Yep, we could talk about that all day. We'll save that for the seven year old round table. We still need to set up. All right. So maybe before we start, we've kind of mentioned quickly. We did a nutrition AMA. Some are recently. We'll link to it. Do you just kind of want to walk through how you think about nutrition and diets a little differently? Yeah. So the nutrition AMA, which was released, God, like I think it was December of last year, it covered the big picturEQuestions. Is there a best diet? How does nutrition compare to exercise for health outcomes? How much protein do you actually need for maintenance versus muscle growth? But it didn't really delve into I think the way most people think about it, which is individual dietary approaches. Now in the past, I've said, look, people should pick a diet that they can stick to and that meets a certain list of non-negotiable physiologic states and needs. But how to exactly go about doing that? We haven't talked about that, frankly. And you know, frankly, what should people watch out for? How do you make a decision to know if it's the right choice for you? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an ask me anything episode of the drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com forward slash subscribe.

=== FILE: Do Longevity Drugs Have Additive Benefits？ ｜ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [BTMFjyh9v_o].txt ===

If we just took a population, a middle-aged, healthy individuals, and we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm, the metformin arm, the rapomycin arm, the SGLT2 inhibitor arm, and the GLP1 agonist arm, what is your prediction in length of life? Or additional years of life given in that six arm study or whatever it is? I think the lasT3 would be comparable metformin arm skeptical of. So, Rappa SGLT2 GLP1? Yeah, I just, I don't, and we don't have data in healthy people that much with SGLT2 and GLP1. IMean, so mechanism of action is what? If the GLP1 group and the SGLT2 group are metabolically healthy, they don't have glucose excursions that are high, they're, you know, they're immune sensitive. What do you believe is the mechanism of action? I guess, you know, I guess I'm going by a different statement, which is most people were calling healthy or not totally metabolically healthy. And so, in those cases, I think there would be a benefit. But then I guess I know, I know, in the perfectly optimized person, whether there'd be a benefit. And I, every time I talk to a doctor, I ask them, are you losing more lean muscle mass with these drugs than you are just by fasting or lifestyle? And if I ask 10 doctors, I get 10 answers. I don't know what the answer to that question is. But I think the reason that at least as a thought experiment, it's an interesting question is, because if the GLP1 Agnes and SGLT2 inhibitors only work, if you have some degree of glucose irregularity, then it begs thEQuestion. Well, it says, look, glucose homeostasis is one of the most important features of living. Great. But if you could correct that with diet, sleep, and exercise, which you can, yeah, I agree. You can. It's hard. But it could be done. Yeah. Then those things aren't going after fundamental pillars of aging, because people who eat well, who exercise well and sleep well, still age. Yeah, it's going, it's answering, you know, Matt and I debate this all the time about and we did it, we published the study in mice recently, where we analyzed all the data that's out there in mice. And we tried to determine, you know, where's reality on interventions that extend lifespan in mice? Because if the short live, if the control mice are really short lived, which happens a lot, why is that? It's just really hard to control. IMean, if you look at the ITP data, the control mice are all over the board, and they're very well controlled, best scientists doing the experiment. We see a lot of variation too. I just think there are some cases they're bad by variants, and that make causes of problem. But even in good by variants, I don't know. It's true in every organism in yeast and worms. One cohort of worms will all live a little bit shorter, one cohort of worms will live a little bit longer. It's cohort dependent, but I don't know why. But anyway, if the mice are short lived, if your extension is there, all you can say is it's longevity normalizing. You don't know that it's slowly aging. It's only when the controls are really long lived and you're getting extension that you can really make the argument, it's longevity extending. And so that gets to your question. The real answer, though, is dependent on how many people you believe that are optimized right now, because it's very few of the study. Yeah, no, of course. It is a normalizing work in this population, trust me. At least for helping people healthy. But whether it's really slowing aging, is it open question? I think the best case would be rappa mice in there. Yeah. And then, of course, it begs thEQuestion, which could these effects be additive? Right. So would there be a benefit to a person who is on balancEQuite healthy? But let's say their average glute. Let's say their hemoglobin A1C if it is indeed an accurate representation of their average glucose is 5.4%. So I don't know exactly what that trenslates to. It probably trenslates to an average blood glucose of 110 or so milligrams per deciliter. But the data, the data that show based on hemoglobin A1C that lower is always better. So 5.0 is better than 5.4, even though 5.4 is deemed completely healthy. And that's all cause mortality data. So we're saying we take a person who's at 5.4. They're not even prediabetic. They can barely see where prediabetic starts. Let alone diabetic. But we give them an SGLT2 inhibitor. They come from at 5.4. Can I can volunteer for this? There you go. So you go from 5.4 down to 5.1 just on the basis of that drug. Yeah. We throw a GLP1 agonist on top of that value at 4.9. Yep. Then we give you rappa mice and which really doesn't impact your glucose. But we think it's going to do something a little bit different. You would say in that situation, you might believe that there's some actual general protection that's not adding that formula. I don't want to lose muscle mass though. And which of those drugs would you be most afraid of? The GLP1 agonist or Rappa? See, I hope he won't agonist. Okay. I think lean muscle mass is like super important. It's probably better to have high lean muscle mass and be a little bit more fat than it is to be low on both as my best guess. Combining interventions. First of all, I will say two things before I say what I'm going to say. One is that I believe we need to empower people to make decisions on their own health. And so I support hackers. If they want to educate themselves and try different things and they know what the benefits and risk might be and what we know and we don't know more power to them. I feel like part of the reasons we get such low compliance and medications is that we don't empower people. We don't give them choices. They don't know why they're doing things. We just tell them what to do and people don't respond well to that. So, having said that, I can't pick three interventions that work well together. I know in a mouse, and we do these studies all the time. They're more likely to cancel each other out than to have additive effects. And so if you're mixing 20 colors of, are taking 20 pills. It's like mixing 20 colors of paint together. You're going to get some ugly gray outcome. Or at best, you're going to get an unknown outcome that we can't predict. So, I'm really cautious and want to tell people that, there are a lot of people out there promoting doing a million different things at the same time. I try one or two things at the same time. And I try to see how my body responds. IMeasure things, measure even simple measures are useful. And I think that if you're doing 10 things, you don't have any idea what's working and what's not working and whether things might be impairing each other. I really think that's a scary path to go down. Now, what do you make of the data that I talk about all the time, which look at the hazard ratios for mortality based on high VO2 max and high muscle mass and high strength? And how those three things stand out so far above anything else. Meaning, like when you look at hazard ratios associated with smoking type 2 diabetes, even cancer, they are not as lethal as being incredibly weak, incredibly low in muscle mass and incredibly low in fitness. And how much causality do you think is there versus how much of that is just those are just such good markers of health? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Do We Really Use Only 10% of Our Brain？ ｜ Edward Chang, M.D. [e6wWw2B3Dz0].txt ===

I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just lock off there? And obviously this speaks to what you're talking about from a functional standpoint. But a lot of times you're not doing that, right? So if a patient has a meningoma or some other tumor, how do you bracket that trade off? So do you just sort of say look, there are places where you never want to have a tumor. For example, right above my left ear, that would be a really difficult place to have to respect because the real estate is so precious and that's where we're going to probably recommend doing an open awake procedure to help guide us. Is that kind of how you're using that? That's exactly right. And so the real estate is critical, that's an understanding. But that being said, there are some really expensive real estate in there and there's also some cheaper real estate. But that's I guess that's my point, Ed. That's sort of like telling me about Manhattan. Yeah. There's no cheap real estate in Manhattan. They're having to be areas that are $10,000 a square foot. But there's probably nothing less than $4,000 a square foot. So there's this popular idea that we only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you've heard this. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. So that might mean to stay alive. Okay. To respire, you might only need 10% of your brain. So what it really means is that there is maybe about 10 or 15% that is very critical for our basic functions. Our ability to move, to talk, you know, to see, et cetera. It's actually a lot more than that. It's also referring to this point that there are parts of our brain actually that are extremely redundant with other parts of the brain. So the frontal lobes, for example. We do surgeries there routinely and oftentimes people really have no effect. Even in terms of judgment, even in terms of, absolutely. Yeah. Because we always think of the frontal lobe as where we have sort of executive function and where we have the ability. We always joke when my friends in med school, we said, yeah, no frontal lobe. Exactly. He just could stop saying the most inappropriate thing. And don't get me wrong. The frontal lobe actually has a lot of critical function for executive decision-making, you know, impulse control, et cetera. But my point is that it's redundant, meaning that different parts of the frontal lobe actually have similar purposes and similar role. And so for the most part, a lot of our patients can accommodate a fairly large surgery. Sometimes even removing the entire frontal lobe. Both sides? No, not both sides. Really? Use these pathologies or only at one side. And so if you took the entire frontal lobe from the left or right side, would there be a substantial difference? I've done that many times just so you know. And it really depends on the case in scenario. If someone's been having something that's slower growing there and there's been time for the brain to reorganize, what would the call-plasticity? A lot of those functions will essentially no longer be in that right frontal lobe. They've moved to the left side. Wow. And people can tolerate- What is the mechanism for which that happens? Well, time and function, meaning like these things don't happen overnight. They take, you know, sometimes weeks and years. But basically what happens is some neurons get lost over time and then others will compensate in terms of that function. But how does that actually happen? So let's posit that we have a slow growing lesion in the left frontal lobe. What is the left frontal lobe doing to communicate with the right frontal lobe? To say, hey, these neurons are being compromised. Their function is deteriorating. You guys need to pick up the slack. How is that message being trensmitted? Well, part of it is that both parts of the frontal lobe for people most people are both doing the function most of the time. It's not like it's just trensferring the information. It's the both sides. We're originally involved in those functions. And then once I get weaker and the other one has to pick up that slack. At a cellular level, this is what we call synaptic plasticity. The weight that essentially make up who we are. These are just the weights that neurons use to communicate with one another. All of our learning is towards shaping that weighting of synapses that occur. We're neurons touch each other. And that can happen. That can change throughout our life. Every time we learn a new word, those are new synapses that have formed that were never there, new connections. Precisely from the left to the right side, there is this structure that we call the corpus colosum. It's an information highway that connects the left part of our brain from the right side. There was a Nobel Prize, Roger Sparrow who done a really incredible early experiments, describing patients who had surgeries, where you split that in certain instances. You have this phenomena where people essentially have two functioning brains, but they're not communicating to each other. So it does require that there is this connection between the two areas where they're being reorganized. Outside of epilepsy, why else would the corpus be severed? That's really the main one that we use it for. Can you describe how patients that undergo that procedure behave? It's very fascinating. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Does Creatine have Cognitive Benefits？ ｜ Rhonda Patrick, Ph.D. [EoYRAlpop5c].txt ===

I think one of the advantages of studying the effects of creatine on physical performance is we have really good objective measurements that you can demonstrate in a short period of time. You can do a 12 week study and in just 12 weeks you could objectively unambiguously determine if there was hypertrophy and if there was an increase in performance. Right. How do we do that on the cognitive side? What are the data that you've been looking at that have given you an increasing level of confidence? Okay. Well first let's talk about dose because that's important and I think that that was where initially when researchers were looking into like the effects of creatine on the brain, the five grams a day didn't seem to be doing anything in terms of like getting creatine into the brain instead of thEQuestion. So creatine is crossing the blood brain barrier that's established? It is. However, the muscles are greedy as hell. I believe greedy muscles. Yeah, the greedy muscles and so when you're taking in up to about five grams of creatine, they're consuming it. They're taking their share. Especially if you're trening. If you're trening it's like yeah exactly. But even if you're not trening it's still going to muscle but yes especially if you're trening. Does that mean that you're going to get mixed results if you look at the cognition literature because you're going to have some studies that were underdosed and if you have a study that was done at five and it shows no effect, you're going to come to the wrong conclusion potentially. Be in go. Just like with any supplement and or drug right dose does matters. So yes that is that is the case but also it's important to point out just like with muscle. You have to be stressing your muscle for creatine to work. You're basically putting in the work and you're able to put in more work. Right and that's why you can increase muscle mass and you can increase strength. With the brain it works in the background of stress and what IMean by stress is sleep deprivation. Psychological stress like you have an exam, marital IMean whatever psychological stress emotional stress, sleep deprivation is a big one, neurodegenerative disease or anything that's compromising brain function right. That's where creatine really shines in terms of cognitive function and we're going to measure. But I think that's important to point out and you might this is my argument. I feel like I'm constantly under stress. I think most people are constantly under stress. First of all anybody listening if you're not under stress I'd like to hear from you. I want to know what you're doing. Same. Same. But yeah so IMean like even just like diving into the scientific literature like what we do every day learning that is the stress right that's very the brain consumes a lot of energy as well right it's 20% of our total power intake goes to an organ that weighs less than 2% of your body weight. It is the most insane statistic of the human body. Totally which is why it makes sense that giving your brain extra creatine which can recycle that energy quicker would help particularly in the background of when you're using more of that energy right like if energy is being triaged to whatever stress in the hormones and whatever whatever is going on fill in the blank. And so the studies that typically are looking at the effects of creatine on cognitive function are looking at like processing speed. They're looking at a battery of tests that are you know typical of any you know fill in the blank supplement or treatment that is either going to improve cognitive function memory being another one right processing speeds a big one too. I would say that that creatine's been shown to improve but again really it's in the background of stress whether that's stress being aging so older adults so aging is kind of a stress right brain aging so older adults seem to benefit from taking exogenous creatine or supplemental creatine. Dom digocene is named written all over right. That's a really good point totally. We got to talk about him and do any of those. I'm so there was like a pilot study that came out and I don't these are researchers that I don't know necessarily and some of them are pretty junior but there there was one that came out with people with Alzheimer's disease and they were given 20 grams of creatine and it improved cognitive functions in these patients with Alzheimer's disease I think there was also a placebo control as well and then they took those same patients and then had them exercise and improved strength and improved you know lean body mass. See I'm just going to be skeptical that that I still think that the name of the game is prevention right like where I'm most interested and of course that's the hardest thing to study but you know when we think about the energy crisis that is happening in a brain with Alzheimer's disease and while there I think you and I would agree there are probably many paths towards AD right there are inflammatory paths there are lipid mediated and vascular paths and then there are there are sort of these more metabolic paths but when you take that individual who is most susceptible to the metabolic path towards dementia and 10 years earlier or 20 years earlier you're giving them a substrate that is augmenting ATP creation. Yeah I get it that's the hardest thing to study that's also the single most important question in my mind. Totally IMean prevention is the name of the game for sure 100% unfortunately there's a lot of people's parents out there that have it right now because they miss the boat on prevention right but and so and those people are you know obviously like their kids are willing to do anything to help them it's terrible right but IMean I think the reality here and the point I want to make is I think that creatine for the brain is the most interesting aspect of this area of research right now that at least for me I certainly think that there's really no downside to doing 10 grams a day now in some cases sleep deprivation like I just got back from China about five days ago I've been like doing 20 grams a day 15 to 20 and are you having any I was I remember as a kid I never had the GI side effects with even 30 a day but is is for some people is is 10 to 20 in one in one dose it would probably affect a lot of people's GI I do five gram doses and you'll just put the five grams into water and just put the five grams into water or like tea and then I just take it like that and you know I do it mostly before noon so I like to take it and then we're because for you know like I said I don't know if this is placebo but I don't get sleepy in the afternoon anymore if IMiss if I if I only get five grams I get this like Venus and again it could be complete like bias and who cares if it's not like if the placebo's work or you take it exactly because it's because it's physiologic right IMean it's it's a biological mechanism that's working for me and if you listen to this episode and it works for you that's great because there's really no downside in fact I think we're going to get more and more evidence out there that it's going to be beneficial and 10 grams is going to be the new the new bass line yeah it's going to be the new bass line if we have a little bit more time I want to talk something about a topic that is near and dear to both of our hearts which is temperature

=== FILE: Does type 2 diabetes increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease？ ｜ Peter Attia and Rhonda Patrick [kgdB3Ba5vsw].txt ===

A very subtle point you may that might not be picked up on everybody is you mentioned the glute 1 trensporter as opposed to the glute 4 trensporter and if my memory serves correctly the brain has glute 1s as opposed to glute 4s and glute 1s are insulin independent is that correct? Yeah, for the most part. IMean, they're they're insulin independent. IMean, that's that's my understanding and why that's interesting is because it seems a bit counterintuitive that a condition that leads to insulin resistance of course type 2 diabetes is the essence of insulin resistance. It seems counterintuitive that that would produce a hypometabolic state in an organ whose gluteose trensporters are insulin dependent except when you explain it the way you did which is it's not the insulin resistance of the glute 1 trensporter That's the problem the way it is for the glute 4 trensporter in the muscle instead It's the actual mechanical disruption if I'm understanding you correctly of that trensporter because of the way it's no longer presumably held in place by the barrier itself that allows gluteose to get across is that did I that I understand that correctly? 100% correctly and then this is you know This isn't like dogma like this is like this is definitely known It's definitely where I'm heading it's my opinion, but there is evidence of it and I think I think it's time to explore this evidence a little closer a little deeper because Yeah, type 2 diabetes and it you know you hear that the term type 3 diabetes and I think people think about it in the way of the brain being insulin Resistant and you know maybe there's something to that, but I you know I don't know if that's exactly what's going on. I think the type 2 diabetes is disrupting the blood brain barrier through a variety of mechanisms including you know the advanced location end products and the vascular IMean the vascular church or disruption in type 2 diabetes is well known. IMean they've all sorts of You know problems right Retinopathy that you know the neuropathy like all this. IMean they are they They are disrupting their vascular church Including these tiny tiny little blood vessels that are like smaller in size than are like the diameter of a hair Those things are like Disrupted at the blood brain barrier and when you disrupt them you're their blood flows decrease and the trensporters are going down You IMean there's ulcerate to problems and so I think You know fixing the diabetes obviously would be like You know downstream thing to do but like it's kind of a new mechanism right it's kind of a new wave understanding it and You know so It explains the observation so there's an observation that is unmistakable which is type 2 diabetes I don't know the number but I think it approximately doubles your risk of Alzheimer's disease So in other words even if you're sitting there walking around with two copies of the apoe 3 allele Having type 2 diabetes means you might as well have a copy of an e4 allele from a risk perspective and what this is saying is Well It's not entirely clear at the surface why Type 2 diabetes would impact the brain through the lens of Traditional thinking of glute for trensporters which are insulin dependent in other words It isn't just an insulin resistance problem but I think these two other things matter right this What you said about the micro vascular Again, what what I think a lot of people don't realize is how destructive type 2 diabetes is to the kidneys Right because those tiny tiny blood vessels right people are familiar with amputations and things that occur in digits Because of that impotence right all of these things where blood vessel is essential in small blood vessels and so there's that Which feeds into the vascular path that you've discussed? But it's this also this disruption of glute core glucose trensport directly across that trensporter So I think it's actually a very compelling thesis for how type 2 diabetes could be acting via those two prongs To to ultimately result in hypomotabolism I do too yeah and and then of course the cascade of inflammation that happens after that so You know The other thing that's also very interesting is and again this so we're talking about type 2 diabetes and very big Implications there for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease right? IMean There's a lot you can do as you've talked about you know to prevent and even you know treat in it with diet at my stuff right type 2 diabetes

=== FILE: Efficiency Vs. Productivity ｜ Charles Duhigg [bkVSzEwpBPI].txt ===

My brother, it's his superpower, is making stillness time. Interesting. He's very disciplined about this. He is very disciplined about time to think. Tell me how he does that. Like tell me a little bit more. Like, what if I was watching him, what would it look like? Well, you would actually think at the surface, it's quite selfish. Right? He'll say, for the next two hours, I don't, you know, he'll tell his wife and his kids like I need to be left completely alone. Yeah. And I need to go for a walk with no phone, with no anything. And I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to walk in the fields, you know, he lives on a farm. And he's like, and I'm going to just be with my thoughts and with nothing else. And then I can come back and do my best work. Yeah. But he forces that in. And I think I, I am convinced that all of us could do better work if we did that. And yet I struggle to do it. There's a bit of a trap that I fall into, which is, yeah, but think about how much more I can get done in those two hours. Yeah. I don't have the two hours to be still. Right. So, um, Cal Newport has done a lot of work on this. Yep. And one of the things, one of the things that we make and this is just a cognitive heuristically we fall into is that we look at some types of activities as being unproductive, because they don't have yield immediate dividends. Right. This actually is part of the whole habit system. Absolutely. Yeah. It absolutely is. It's about building those habits to recognize deep productivity, deep work, right? Yep. And so one of the things that I'm sure it happens to me, I'm sure it happens to you is that I say, if I could take a walk in the woods for two hours, like, what do I have to show for it? Right. There's like, where as if I sit down and I pound through these emails for two hours, suddenly I like my inbox is half the size it used to be. That's right. It feels like a accomplishment. Now, of course, all that does is create more emails for me. And it turns out half of those I could have ignored. But so what I need to do is I need to tren my brain. And my brain oftentimes doesn't believe me. Right. I know intellectually taking that walk in the woods, look is going to yield dividends that I'm going to be able to do better work. But my brain, there's a part of my brain that looks at my stated preferences, what I believe and want to be true, and another part of my brain that looks at revealed preferences. How do I actually behave? And that revealed part of my brain is saying, you never take walks. Like you always sit down and do your email. You must think that doing email is more valuable than taking a walk. So I have to convince myself, convince that revealed preferences part of my brain. Now the walk is really good. Like if I take this walk, I'm going to get more work done. I'm going to be able to get through those emails faster, because I'm going to hit delete on more of them. This actually is a productivity enhancer. We don't, we have to hack our own brains sometimes. We have to remind ourselves of a reward. Oftentimes, the salience of a reward increases simply because we tell ourselves it is a reward. And we have to take advantage of that to try and sometimes play with our own brain, because we'll act in our, sometimes in, in not our best interests. And so what do you think is the relationship then between productivity and habit, how implicit and how explicit is it? So I think it's huge. I think it's huge, but let me be very clear how IMean that, because oftentimes the things that we do out of habit are not the productive things, but our habits can set us up to be productive. As IMentioned before, the, the most important element of productivity is deep thought. Right? Because making the right choice, making the right decision, spending my time on the right task right now, yields many more dividends than simply getting something done. It's a difference between productivity and business. So thEQuestion is, how do I set myself up to make better choices? Well, the way that I do that is I build habits that give me not only the time and space to make a choice, but the prompt to make a choice. Because there's a lot of times that I'm going to avoid making a choice if I can. My brain doesn't like making choices. It's energy, it costs energy, it feels like it's depleting me. So my brain is going to say, oh, you walked in the cafeteria, like, don't get the salad, just get the sandwich you get every single time. You know it's going to, you're going to like it. Right? So how do I build a habit that allows me the space to make that choice? And the prompt to make that choice. That's why habits are so important is not because they make us productive. It's because they allow us to be productive. Same more about the decision fatigue. Because I think that's something that many people listening to us right now can relate to. I have become much more aware of it in myself recently. And I don't think it's age-related. I think it's just complexity-related. So the more things you're juggling, the more I find myself unable to make simple decisions. And it's like, I can't tell you how internally frustrated I get sometimes when I'm asked to make decisions. So there's two things happening there and you're exactly right that decision fatigue is real. Right? We've seen it in done actually at this point hundreds of studies that the more decisions you have to make in a day, the more fatigue you get, but there's some elements of play into this. The first is structuring decision design. So President Obama, in one interview he said the most important habit that he developed when he was president, is he bought 12 of the same suits and shirts. So every morning when he woke up, he knew exactly what's going to put on. It's the same, there's no other options in his closet. He just has to grab one of them. Yeah. And he said the reason why is because the day was so exhausting with decisions and each of the decisions he made was so important that he had to preserve his ability to make decisions. So in a void that fatigue, so the first thing is how do we design our decisions so that we're only having to make the important ones and we're making the less important ones automatic. Things that we don't have to make a choice. Right? The second thing that happens there is that decisions are harder to make in a hot state than they are in a cold state. So if you're hungry and you go into the cafeteria, it's going to be a lot harder for you to choose that really healthy salad over that really tasty sandwich. Because you're in a hot state. Now in a cold state, that morning when you just had breakfast, if you say my implementation intention is I'm going to eat a salad today, when I walk in, that's I'm in a no-one salad, I'm going to get it's a lot easier to make that decision. So here's what I think is happening when your wife says that to you. Two things. Number one, you don't have a mental heuristic in place to say, I'm going to I'm going to curate the decisions I have to make. Because if you had that and you probably do now, but like the first time it comes up, you don't have the heuristic. And the heuristic is when my wife asked me where to go to dinner, I'm just going to choose one of them. I'm not even going to like think about which one is the best one. I'm just going to choose one. Right? So I'm going to create a design structure for myself that allows me to focus on the most important decisions and ignore the smaller ones. Secondly, I'm going to ask her not to ask me to make that decision at the end of the day when I'm exhausted and I've been making choices all day long. I'm going to say look, I'm going to hot state right now. I can't think about where to go to dinner. I'm thinking about other stuff. But if you ask me two hours from now, after I've had a beer and I've started watching TV, I think I'll be ready to answer that question. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Extending Fertility With Egg Freezing： Age, Cost & Success ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [I7bC7ELb2Ek].txt ===

What's on the horizon medically for extending fertility? Yeah, so there's a lot of interest in extending fertility, right? Like up until 100 years ago, women were basically dying at 50s. Yeah, average age of menopause. So it's a kind of a recent phenomenon that we're actually living a third of our lives, you know, postmenopause. But infertility starts to decline way before you go through menopause. So there's a lot of interest in trying to extend fertility. Now, of course, egg freezing, which we haven't talked about yet, is one of the ways you can extend fertility. And it works pretty well as long as you're young when you freeze your eggs. But again, it's a relatively recent phenomenon, not usually covered by insurance. And it's expensive, et cetera. So it's not the answer. Because you're paying basically half the IVF cycle to harvest, and then you're paying to freeze. Yeah, exactly. What's the cost of freezing? About a thousand dollars is equal. Well, $10,000 for the cycle. And then about a thousand dollars a year for storage. And you're recommending that women, if a woman came to you at 20, and said, you know, I'm going to, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y, and z. I think I want to have kids, at least want the optionality. When should I freeze by? Are you going to just say, do it now? Because no. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't recommend all women in their 20s freeze their eggs, because most of those eggs will never be used. So you'd be doing it for nothing, because most of those women probably not need IVF and get pregnant spontaneously, right? Got it. This weak spot we think is like early to mid 30s. That's where it makes the most sense. Because you're about to kind of get to the problem that you've been clueless, where it starts to really decline. Okay. And if it doesn't, if you think you might want to have kids, but you're not in a place in your life where you think that's going to happen in the next few years, then doing it early to mid 30s. It's probably the time where it's most cost effective. Very high likelihood that you will use them if you have for the first kid, maybe for the second kid. And you know, it might be worth spending $10,000 and $1,000. $1,000 for you. Right. And do you freeze them? You freeze every egg you retrieve? Only then I'm a short one. Okay. Yeah. And what's the for a typical 30 year old? Um, you're going to get what we talked about earlier. Probably 10 to 15 per second. Sometimes more, but that's not how many do you recommend a 30 year old do? Yeah. So there's some calculators online. So the younger you are, the fewer as you need, because more of them are going to be normal. So someone 30, you know, I think 10 to 20 would give you decent chances success, no guarantees or it's never any guarantees. But even, you know, studies show that even if people use those eggs and they're not successful, the fact that they did something proactively, there's some psychological benefit in doing that. So even if, you know, ultimately doesn't work out or you don't end up using them. But at that age, maybe 10 to 20, obviously if you're, you know, as you get closer to 40, you might need 20 to 40 or 50, which is not practical for most people, right? Because you can't do that many cycles and it's expensive and there's risks and bulbs. So I think egg freezing is a great option for women. I also think as a society, which should try to make it easier, obviously, for women to have kids during their peak reproductive years or 20s and 30s. So the whole different question, but I think having options is a good thing. Coming with the freezing process is like. So the freezing process, these days is one called vitrification is called in, and it's like this special kind of freezing that doesn't result in ice crystals. So how do you do that? There's a process that happens in the lab, there's a machine that lowers the temperature and so the rate at which they lower the temperature. Right, it's rapid. Okay, so it's like a nitrogen-dryte-basic. Right, right, as opposed to all days when we did slow freezing. So it becomes like a glass-like state with the crystals, but it works really well and the survival is really high. And then you store them at what temp, like liquid nitrogen temp? Yep, so it's not like in your freezer. No, and then how long's it take typically to get the genetic results back? Typically within a week or two. Okay. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here? Are you doing whole genome sequence or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah, good question. So it's evolved over time, and I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? IMean, we do it a lot, and the data definitely shows that if you trensfer a normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting, but the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing, but the genetic testing is flat. So hopefully the genetic testing is really easy to identify and your ploy-d. It's a chromosomal analysis. It's geared up to do that, right? Okay. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is, you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting targeted. Yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosomal abnormalities, unless you know that the couples that carry for some genetic mutation that you also want to screen for. Yes. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Facing Your Fears： Exposure Therapy  ｜ Josh Spitalnick, Ph.D.y [hckXRo_yoRg].txt ===

You're not going to come to my clinic and be seen by an anxiety specialist, no matter what their degree, credential years of service are, and not get some version of exposure therapy. In all exposure therapy is an intervention that helps someone approximate their fear facing it head on in a safe, ethical, compassionate way without putting them in any ethical, legal, or medical risk. Some people might think it puts them at risk, and some people might think they can't handle it. But exposure therapy, which goes back to the 60s, is the leading intervention for things like PTSD, phobias, social anxiety, OCD, and helping anxiety. But to get someone to get there means you have to get them across this process of readiness for change. This model of pre-contemplation to contemplation, to ready to take action. And for a wife is like, I do a good idea that you use cognitive behavioral therapy to bridge the gap until they're ready for exposure therapy. Sometimes, sometimes if someone's so pre-contemplation or so wedded in their rituals, and we see people who are literally scrubbing walls with lice on bleach, where the walls are down to the studs. That's more for things that contamination based OCD. People are doing behaviors that require almost hospital level care. Some of them are not ready for exposure based therapy. In that case, I'd probably recommend someone if they're not a medication, probably can be seriously considered medication. But exposure therapy is the first line treatment for almost everything to do with OCD and health anxiety. Once you get them ready for the exposure. You can say that once you get them ready, but I'm never walking into a client with those of your health things I'm not thinking, I'm not going to do exposure therapy. They're going to be getting it somewhere. So if I came to you and said, I'm an exposure therapist. Okay, so I don't know if this is a realistic enough example, so I'm going to, so if it's not just a Peter, that's not how these people present. So let's say I said, Josh, I travel a lot for work, but I got to tell you with all this news around air traffic controllers going, losing sight of airplanes, I don't know if I can fly anymore. This is now actually posed a real risk to my career. My career depends on me being able to get on a plane every week to go and meet my clients or whatever it is I do. This is a real world scenario, by the way, there are people that are having increases in aerophobia or fear of flying way more than we had in the last few years. Sure, because of stuff that's going on. This is real stuff. So yeah, so the environmental trigger is, yep, there has been a rash of airplane crashes coupled with objective data that say air traffic controllers are overworked and the system is failing. Yes. And something bad is going to happen. And unfortunately, my job necessitates that I'm on the road, you know, all the time. And I can't take buses. It's too far. I can't take trens. Basically, I'm going to lose my job if I'm not willing to get on a plane every Monday and come back every Thursday. And I can't seem, I just don't know how to do it. And I've got two, I got two weeks of PTO. I'm going to do a little bit of medical leave, but I'm running out of options. What is the exposure therapy for that specifically? So let's step back exposure therapy again is one of usually four techniques. One of them is called in vivo exposure. And that is Latin for in life. IMean, you're actually doing real things with real objects. If I had a fear of podcasting on public speaking, coming in here would be a great in vivo exposure. There's something called a marginal exposure. A marginal exposure is actually writing a narrative down or a story, which sometimes we do it with trauma. Sometimes we do it with a marginal situations that have never happened. So there's two different kinds of a marginal exposure. But you're essentially coming up with a story that you're going to write down and record and listen to. So this is just the first part of exposure therapy, as I'm describing. There's a second part that's even more important to me. The third kind of exposure is in torroceptive exposure. And that's commonly used for people who have health anxiety, physical symptoms or panic disorder. And in this case, we're actually inducing real, low grade physical symptoms like ibleriness, rapid breathing, sweating, tummy aches, armsourness. If I unice here and do a two minute plank, my arms are going to be wobbly. So I'm inducing things that people experience in the real world that IMerely make them freak out. I think they're having a panic attack. But I think you're saying if somebody is worried about ibleriness, you're going to put eyedrops in their eye. I'm not going to put eyedrops in eyes. We're probably going to look at an iPad that has these sort of cool visuals that's going to make their eyes. There's all these optical illusions. What about the tummy aches? How do you induce that? You have someone spin in a chair? You have someone. You have someone sort of do some cardiovascular exercise in the office. Like sitting up and down, sitting up and down very quickly. You have someone spin on a baseball bat, creating nauseous, nauseous, nauseous, nauseousness and queeziness is not hard to induce. We're not having someone eat something or ingest something because that's going, I think, one step further than you need to. But you can create any sort of physical symptom from legsourness to a headache, kind of symptom to a tummy ache, to tight shoulders, to cotton mouth. People who have a fear of swallowing, who are like drying out fear, like something getting clogged in their throat, you can recreate almost any physical, not medical, physical symptom, safely. If you're now going to treadmill and work out, we're going to create 95% of the symptoms that people experience and they have a panic attack. If you go to a really high level of treadmill or an elliptical, I'm going to create all those symptoms. But I'm not going to bring exercise equipment to my office. So I am helping people bring real world physical symptoms to light and the my safe laboratory in a safe place. I'm going to get to the second part of the point of exposure and second, just so they can experience a thing that they're terrified to experience, but they already experienced it out there. Nothing we do in exposure therapy, have they not already experienced? The fourth kind is just called media augmented or virtual rad exposure therapy. And as people who are using either 3D goggles, virtual radicogals, videos, audio clips to use sort of AV audio visual tools, they're kind of mimicking the envivo and imaginal and interoceptive experience. And that can be something as elaborate as real world simulators, virtual radicogals, or even like watching a flight land on YouTube 20 times a row to see what happens when the flight comes down. All those things, we treat people who have audio and tactile things like misophonia, which is a high sensitivity to sounds or people who are afraid of hearing something. So anything that brings that tool into the place, using audio video. That's part one of exposure therapy, which is you and a patient have come up with an elaborate hierarchy ladder, a list of easy, medium and hard scenarios in their mind, that they think that they could some point do. Most people think they can never do the hard ones and they almost always do successfully. And you're coming up with this hierarchy based on what you asked about that first meeting, that first session, that second session. I'm collecting a lot of raw data to figure out what are the things in their life that are triggering them, that I can recreate to help them face their fears, head on, and come up with new learning. And so Peter, back in the 60s and 70s, we thought that habituation, we're just getting used to it, was the creme de la creme of exposure therapy. We found out that that wasn't really solving it. And then we started shifting more towards cognitive models. Not just habituation and being in a distressed moment, but actually now coming up with new meaning about it, which is called inhibitory learning, that was really started a seminal article in 1986 by Michael Cozac, and Edna Foa, and the foe is one of the pioneers of exposure therapy, both in PTSD and OCD, and has done amazing work out of UPN. Her, Marty Franklin, a bunch of people of the UPN, sort of, over the pioneers of exposure therapy. In 86, they pine your nardicle that taught us that habituation or just getting used to symptoms. It helps, but it's not really getting people moving further. And so when you start having these corrective experiences, when you start unlearning what you thought was going to happen, which anxiety is all about anticipating something and being colossally wrong, thank God. We need to get people to experience being wrong in a situation that mimics what they actually experience. So exposure therapy is shifted from just to behavioral, physiological model to a cognitive model. And that cognitive model is helping people process that information after the exposure. So you just did some weird stuff for 20 to 45 minutes, whether you're hopping and puffing, practicing giving a speech to a screen, putting yucky things in your hands if you have OCD, a germ OCD. If you're afraid of bugs and spiders, maybe going to a local pet shop and looking at spiders behind a glass tank, or putting spiders that are in like resin, fakes, spiders that are dead, like on your arms, all sorts of things that start, whatever it is that you can create that sense of fight-flight or freeze. That sense of fear, that sense of dread. So your amygdala starts producing the chemicals that you experience in your own life. And my private safe place, sometimes we've gotten the community, we've got a restaurant and shops, new odd weird things. And so we're doing that to have people experience that stuff, but also not engaging rituals and compulsions. So exposure therapy is a combination of doing things that bring on a sense of safe, predictable, but uncomfortable, emotional, physical feelings, while also not doing the mental and behavioral things that bring it back down. And if you can stay in that state for 30 to 45 minutes, and do that multiple times a week, Peter, you start learning real distressed tolerance, real resiliency skills. You start disproving that the thing that I thought I had to do either to avoid it altogether, or to undo this sense of dread or feeling, if I don't undo that, and I sit with it, maybe just maybe when it happens in the real world, I don't have to pop a pill, I don't have to run home, I don't have to wash my hands, I don't have to wear the mask. And so we're combining inducing a sense of arousal, psychological arousal, cognitive interpretations that are usually faulty, not doing things to bring it down and stay with that, doing a few different interactive things through 30 to 45 minute experiences, and then afterwards, processing those lessons learned. I'm Peter Atia. With this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights, and get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Fasting, well-balanced diets, alcohol, exercise, assessing cardiovascular health (AMA 68 Sneak Peek) [rglGVlBMko8].txt ===

First question, how does someone assess their cardiovascular health? Family history, very important. Another thing that I think it's so overlooked, but it's so important is blood pressure. Anytime we've done anything around alcohol, it seems very polarizing, let's say. Under no dose helpful, under low doses probably not terribly bad, but under escalating doses, it's actually quite negative. Benefits and potential downsides of a low carb or ketogenic diet. It is nothing magical about not eating carbohydrates that's going to be good for you. It all still ultimately comes down to total caloric ingestion. What do you think are the key principles for a quote unquote well balanced, healthy diet? If you ask 10 diet gurus, I think it's safe to say you're going to get 10 different answers. How can they track their fitness level beyond just weight? When it comes to actual fitness, we're not going to get that off the scale. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? Good. Thanks for having me. Always welcome on your own show. So today, what we're going to do is we actually have gathered all thEQuestions over the pasT3 or so years that people have submitted on the AMA portal. For people who don't know, we have an AMA portal on our website where you can submit a question. So if anyone hasn't done it, we'll link to it in the show notes. In that way, there's questions you have that you want to follow up on, whether it's something related to something happening to you, questions on podcasts, newsletters, whatever it may be, you can add them there. And so that's kind of what today's AMA is going to be. Then we'll hit different diseases. We'll hit nutrition. We'll hit exercise. We'll kind of hit a little bit of everything because as people can imagine, questions came through, included a little bit of everything. So I think we'll just jump into it. But with that being said, anything you want to add before we start with the first question. Well, I think the only thing I would add is, you know, we talked about maybe if this format, which is kind of morEQuestions, less depth, more of, you know, how I would sort of answer questions if I were, you know, at a party and people were asking me, if people want more of this, but on a personal level, we've talked about, you know, accommodating that. So maybe we just do, you know, a quarterly episode where I take very specific questions from individuals. If they want to be acknowledged, do so. And, you know, do that. So anyway, I think there's just a lot we can play within this format. So let's just see if folks find this helpful. Yeah, perfect. First question, how does someone assess their cardiovascular health? It's obviously a topic that we've covered in such a variety upon cast. Very important. You often talked about number one cause of death, not only in the US, but in the world. And so kind of in general terms of someone sitting there thinking, okay, I'm curious about where I'm at cardiovascular and as relates cardiovascular disease. How would you talk to them about how they can assess where they're at? So fortunately, if somebody wants to assess their risk of cardiovascular disease, it's we have a lot of tools to do it. Right? We always start with the obvious, which is often neglected, but we should really know our family history. It's not enough to just know, you know, my grandparents lived till such and such an age or my aunt and uncles lived to such and such an age. Whenever possible, you really want to understand how grandparents parents and uncles lived and sometimes it's easier to ask questions like, hey, did they take medication or do they take medication for cholesterol, for blood pressure and understanding those things? Again, some of the patterns that tend to show up here when you see people perishing really young from cardiovascular disease or when you see them requiring procedures, such as revascularization, stance, cabbage, things of that especially at a young age, you have to be thinking about heritable causes of ASCVD. And again, the two most common are going to be LP little A and some form of familial hyperclastrilimey. And now the latter is a lot easier to spot because these people have sky-high cholesterol levels. The former is much more difficult because virtually nobody is getting their LP little A tested. And so that's sometimes the individual who themselves is kind of interested in assessing the run risk is the first to figure it out and then it kind of explains what has happened over generations. So, family history very important. Then you can sort of think about understanding, hey, has there been any damage done to date? And here's where a calcium scan or a cac can be a very helpful test. Now it's full proof test. It has its limitations. But if you think about the process by which damage occurs inside an artery, one of the final stages of that is the calcification of the artery, which actually is a protective mechanism. So the calcification of the artery per se isn't necessarily the thing that's going to kill a person. But it's indicative of very advanced disease. And if you see calcification in one part of an artery, it's quite likely that you have less remodeled plaque elsewhere in the in the coronary artery system. And in fact, those could be the ones there at higher risk. So again, a calcium score in an ideal world is zero, but it's always important to remember that there's about a 15 percent false negative, meaning somebody ends up with a negative CTA, pardon me, CIC, calcium score is zero. But in fact, if you were to put them into a CT angiogram, which uses finer cuts of a CT and uses contrast after it does the initial calcium score, you'll see in 15 percent of those cases that there is indeed some calcification and or some soft plaque. So again, that's one more piece of information. And again, if you want to go to a level above the CIC, then the CTA is valuable. But now you're experiencing more radiation and you also run the risk of requiring intravenous dye or contrast, which again, it's not a major risk, but it's non-zero. The other things I really think a person can do to assess the risk of cardiovascular disease is obviously look at the lipid profile. So the two things we care most about here are apob and LP little A in the reason for that of course is apob is the aggregate marker of all of the atherogenic proteins because LP little A is so disproportionately atherogenic. You have to look at it separately because even an elevated LP little A won't show up elevating an apob. The good news is that you don't have to concern yourselves with LDL cholesterol, non-HL cholesterol, HL cholesterol. None of those things actually matter once you know the apob and the LP little A. In fact, the triglyceride level itself doesn't matter unless it's dramatically elevated sort of north of about 400 milligrams per desoliter, which point you would actually need to manage that as well. Another thing that I think gets so overlooked but is so important is blood pressure and it's just too easy to sort of go to the doctor once every two years, get your blood pressure checked, have it come back slightly elevated, have it be attributed to white coat hypertension, and then just sort of walk away from it. But the truth of the matter is we know pretty unambiguously at this point that having a blood pressure below 120 over 80 is absolutely the lowest risk and is the best way to reduce one's risk and to be clear that means that a blood pressure 130 over 85, which historically would have been considered normal is anything but normal. Now, the challenge with measuring blood pressure in the doctor's office is it's almost rarely done correctly. Correctly there for five minutes doing nothing resting before the blood pressure is checked. It also means having a cuff that fits correctly, having the arm at the level of the right A-trim, so about mid-chest here, not having your legs crossed when it's checked. And I always like to check it and do click it or triple it. And if a person can do that twice a day for a couple of weeks, once a year, again, not a huge inconvenience in my view, then they can have a real assessment of their blood pressure. The other thing, of course, that's worth stating just for completeness, though I think everybody understands it is smoking. If you're a smoker, you're at enormous increased risk of CVD. And, of course, the same is true if you're metabolically unhealthy. This can be anything from hyper in slenemia, all the way to insulin resistance and type two diabetes. So those are really the big ones. There's a couple of things I didn't include there. I don't really look at CIMTs. I don't find them to be helpful enough. And I think the data would agree with that. So I think that's probably 80% of risk assessment for cardiovascular disease is captured in what I just said. Yeah, and if anyone wants to go deeper on any of that, as we said, we have tons of different materials, podcast newsletters. We'll link them in the show notes for people who want to dive deeper on any specific piece of that. But next question, mechanism that gets asked a lot is, how can I use fasting or intermittent fasting to improve my overall metabolic health? And I think a lot of times people use those two terms, fasting, intermittent fasting interchangeably. And I know to you, you kind of think of them a little separately. So it might be helpful to start with how you define those two terms before then getting into how each of them can impact metabolic health. Yeah, I think the terms fasting and intermittent fasting get used interchangeably. I'm not going to represent that I'm the authority on any of this stuff. So I'm just going to tell you that whatever you are talking about, just make sure the semantics are clear so that you can normalize to what other people are saying. I typically don't use the term intermittent fasting. I use the term fasting and I use the term time restricted feeding or time restricted eating to describe what I think most people think of when they say intermittent fasting. But as a general rule, intermittent fasting or time restricted feeding or time restricted eating refers to periods of not eating during the course of a day. So when you hear people say, I do 16, 8 or 18, 6 intermittent fasting. Of course, what they mean is I'll go 16 hours a day without eating eight hours a day of eating or 18 hours without and six hours with fasting is a term I kind of reserve for prolonged fast. Anything that's more than a day. And this will easily be two, three days up to really really long fast, like 7, 10, or even 14 days. Then again, the term fasting implies that it's water only, right? It's none, coloric. So whatever liquids you're getting during that period of time, don't contain any calories. So now let's answer thEQuestion, how can you use fasting or time restricted feeding or intermittent fasting to improve metabolic health? Well, I think the data here are not particularly clear. So I'll start with the least clear of them all, which is the use of daily restrictions or intermittent fasting time restricted feeding. The data here suggests that this type of feeding pattern is no better than straight caloric restriction. In other words, when you normalize a person for the number of calories they consume during a day, whether they consume those calories across the course of the day or whether they consume those calories in kind of a small feeding window doesn't appear to have a material difference. What does matter if a person is interested in improving their metabolic health is that they restrict calories. And if you recall, I kind of talk about this always through the lens of three tools that we have to reduce calories. The first is the direct way that you go about doing it. You literally just go about counting and reducing the number of calories you consume. Again, this is the most precise way to do it. This is why body builders do it. Body builders, you're not going to find a person on this planet that is more attuned to exactly what they put in their body and how that fuel gets partitioned. And so again, if you want an exact science, you go about counting every calorie and macro that goes in and you try to create that offset in that way. Again, for many people, this brings a lot of overhead with it. This brings a huge cognitive tax. And so we have two other techniques that can work quite well indirectly. So the first is what we've just been talking about intermittent fasting or time-restriken feeding, where you just say, look, I don't really want to pay attention to what I eat or even how much I eat. But if I just make the feeding window narrow enough, that has got to reduce the calories. And indeed, it can. Not always. There's always a story of that person who in four hours a day of eating still manages to eat, you know, 3,000 calories. But for the most part, as you restrict your feeding window, you're going to also reduce total calories. And then the third way to go about doing this is called something called dietary restriction, which says, hey, I'm not going to concern myself with necessarily how much I eat. I'm not going to concern myself with when I eat. But I'm going to put in some pretty significant restrictions around what I eat. And again, the more restrictive you are, the more you're going to end up reducing calories. So I think the most important point to remember here is it's the calorie restriction that provides the greatest benefit. How you go about achieving it is really a function of, you know, your style. And I actually recommend people try all of these techniques. And, you know, we've covered them in so much detail elsewhere and the ins and outs of what the pros and cons of each are because there are many pros and cons of each. I think I dedicate a pretty significant section of one of the chapters in outlive to covering this. Next question on the list relates to alcohol. And it seems like any time we've done anything around alcohol, it seems very polarizing, let's say, there's a lot of opinions, strong opinions on each side. And so I think the general question is, how does alcohol affect someone's health or longevity and how do you think about it? IMean, there's no denying that alcohol affects our health. Alcohol is a nutrient like any other, but it comes with some particular issues that are a little bit unique to alcohol in a way that we wouldn't say or unique to carbohydrates, fats and proteins. And that basically is the following. Alcohol in addition to being a dense source of energy. You know, carbohydrates and proteins come with four kilocalories approximately per gram and fats are at about nine kilocalories per gram. Well, alcohol is actually much closer to fats. It's at about seven kilocalories per gram. But when we're really talking about the impact of alcohol on health, we're not even really talking about it from its caloric standpoint. Although I can tell you having done more food logs with more patients than I can count, it is always amazing to see a patient's face when they recognize the 25% of their total calories come from alcohol if they're a moderate to heavy drinker. So you don't want to be dismissive of the calories, but I think for this question, Nick, I'm going to just put aside the caloric load of alcohol. So what we're really talking about is the toxicity that comes from the molecule itself, nominally through its metabolism and in the liver and sort of its metabolic byproducts. Now, we have a bit of a problem when trying to study this, which is we have to rely very, very heavily on epidemiology. And epidemiology is of course, you know, one of many tools we have to understand the impact of environmental, in this case, potentially toxins on health, but it just comes with so much baggage. Now again, when you're talking about an environmental toxin that is really, really toxic like tobacco, epidemiology turns out to be an awesome tool, because the hazard ratios are so big that it's impossible for there to be other explanations. The problem is when you're dealing with alcohol, the hazard ratios arEQuite small. This is basically true of all food. And this is why epidemiology just doesn't serve as a great substitute for randomized control trials when it comes to understanding these things. The problem is we don't really have great RCTs around alcohol. And the ones that we have are very short lived. Now, we did an entire AMA on alcohol. We have an entire premium newsletter on alcohol. So I'm not going to try to rehash all of that. So I just want to kind of give the top level stuff. Right? So when you're doing these studies, one of the things you you quickly come to realize is people who abstain from alcohol for a reason, which is often where people are abstaining from alcohol, they're either former drinkers or they have health reasons that prevent them from drinking. There's often this paradoxical increase in mortality that we see. So if you if you kind of look at some of the larger studies here, and the largest one that I've seen is the recent one that came out in JAMA last year, it included 107 cohorts studies and nearly 5 million lives were studied. And it compared a bunch of different entities to lifelong abstainers. So, you know, usually these are people who often have religious affiliations or other reasons to have never consumed alcohol. Now, when you compare former drinkers, so people who do not drink at all, but who use to drink, they have about a 26% increase in all cause mortality compared to lifetime abstainers. And again, that's kind of in keeping with what I said earlier, right, which is these are people who use to drink. They don't drink now. There's usually a reason for that. Now, interestingly, when you look at, you know, the occasional, the low volume and the medium volume drinkers, they actually didn't have an increase in all cause mortality and just to put some numbers to that, occasional drinkers basically don't drink at all. These are people that are averaging less than a drink a week. The low volume drinkers are going to be up to a drink and a half per day. Well, that's, I wouldn't call that low volume, but that's how they were classified in that study. And then the medium volume drinkers were up to three drinks per day. Again, if that's medium volume, I need to recalibrate. But once you start to get into the high volume drinkers, these are people that are drinking three to four drinks per day. And then the highest volume drinkers are over four drinks per day. These people start to see an uptick in their all cause mortality at 20 and 35 percent respectively relative to the people who abstain. Now, if you look at these data and divide them by sex, you see another thing emerge, which is that across the board, women fare worse with respect to alcohol than men. So, you know, the first and most obvious explanation for this is simply body weight. So, if you sort of said like, you know, women who consume 45 grams of ethanol per day versus men who consume 45 grams of ethanol per day, of course, the women should do worse. And I do think that body weight and in particular lean mask, as remember lean mass is where we see water and that's going to aid with the metabolism of ethanol. That's a part of it. But we also know that women contain less alcohol dehydrogenase, which is an enzyme that's responsible for the metabolism of alcohol. And the thinking at least is that if women have less alcohol dehydrogenase just genetically, then they're going to be more susceptible to the downsides of alcohol. So, again, I think there's a lot more we could say about this. But, you know, the the truth of the matter is when you look across the board, alcohol is associated with at leasT3 disease states. Cardiovascular disease dementia and cancer, in addition to what I just talked about, which is all cause mortality. Now, I want to point out one thing before we put this topic to bed, which is the Mendelian randomizations typically come up with a slightly different answer than the epidemiology. So, the epidemiology usually shows kind of a flat curve for low levels of alcohol. And then a ramp up of mortality as alcohol creeps up. Again, different studies and different cohorts are going to find different places. I generally tell patients that I think conservatively one drink a day is at least according to the epi a minimal increase in risk, whereas, you know, that jam a study found you could get up to two drinks a day, maybe even three, but it was only aT3 when you started to see the uptick. But the Mendelian randomization, which again is a technique where we look at genes that control a trait. So, you might look at genes that control cholesterol or genes that control in this case, alcohol consumption, because again, we know that there are certain genes that make it very difficult for people to drink alcohol. So, if you you believe that possessing those genes can speak to the phenotype of drinking. And I think this is a decent example of where Mendelian randomizations work. There are some where it doesn't. The MRs show that at any increase in the consumption of alcohol, there is indeed an increase in mortality. So, they show an increasing level. So, we say that that means that the first and second derivative are positive. So, any, you know, standard deviation increase in the consumption of alcohol leads to a greater increase in the risk of everything from hypertension to dementia to cardiovascular disease to cancer to all cause mortality. So, how do we reconcile these two things? Well, I think it's kind of tough, right, because neither technique is perfect, but I think we, we sort of have to suggest that the precautionary principle here would be to obviously not consume alcohol at all because it's not an essential nutrient. There's, there's nothing that it's doing that's good for you. And therefore, after that, you just have to be kind of judicious in your use. And you have to ask a question, like, is this being maladaptive for my life in any other way? Does it, for example, impair my sleep with the ubiquity of sleep trackers out there? I think most people will observe that if you drink a little bit too close to bed, your sleep is going to be disrupted. Does it change the way you eat? For example, if you have a drink or two in you are more likely to raid the pantry or the freezer and get ice cream. And then, of course, there's the, you know, much more destructive stuff like driving and things of that nature. So, I think overall, we can say that alcohol is under no dose helpful. Under low doses, probably not terribly bad, but under escalating doses, it's actually quite negative. And how would you respond to a patient who says something in the following, which is what you kind of see a lot, which is I understand that alcohol may not be good for me, but I do get a lot of enjoyment having a drink with some friends like every other week or once in a while. Do you think that the danger of having a little bit of alcohol outweighs the potential enjoyment of being with friends in that environment? No, I think, look, I don't want to dismiss the importance in the benefit of social interaction and the joy that comes from that. I think it just comes down to the dose, truthfully. So, if that person says to me, look, I just, you know, twice a week, you know, sorry twice a month, I like to meet my buddies and we like to play poker or we like to watch football and we have a few drinks. At the surface, there doesn't seem anything wrong with that, but look, if the answer is twice a month, I'm just going to drink 12 beers. Wow, I'm going to say that I have a hard time understanding how the pro social benefit of hanging out with your buddies that day justified having 12 beers. If the answer is, yeah, like, you know, I like this kick back three or four beers a couple times a month, then I would say, yeah, it's probably not that bad. No, moving on to the next set of questions kind of nutrition related. The first one is what do you think are the key principles for a quote unquote well balanced, healthy diet? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of The Drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. In return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this description. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person, and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe requests. Typically, focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics of special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs, this bill you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, thEQuality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight real featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures and the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Female Fertility Cycle： Ovulation to Implantation ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [YCe5j6q3NeY].txt ===

unlike sperm which seem to be an infinite resource, manner constantly generating literally billions of these things. The exact opposite is the case with women. Tell us a bit about that. That's right. First, thanks for having me. Thanks for inviting me. It is true that when an embryo or fetus develops the gonad differentiates into either a testis or an ovary. And the main difference, as you said, is that sperm is produced throughout a man's lifetime, whereas women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually, the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb. As a fetus, then by the time you're born, there's about 2 million or so eggs. And by the time you start menstruating, you're down to maybe 400,000 or so. Wow. So fivefold reduction from birth to say, average age would be maybe 14 when a... Yeah, yeah, 12 to 14. And we don't know why exactly that happens, but most of the eggs in the ovaries actually undergo a process we call a treasha, they basically die. So once a woman goes through puberty or girl goes through puberty every month, if she's not on her monocontrosception, one of those eggs grows. Actually, probably a group of eggs every month starts to grow, but then one kind of takes over. And it's released from the ovary, and usually finds this way into the phlopion tubes. That's the tube connecting the ovary and the uterus. And then normally, if there's not sperm around, the egg just resorts and there's no pregnancy and the lining of the uterus sheds and a girl or woman has a period every month. If there's sperm around, there's a chance that that egg might fertilize, and that fertilization usually happens in the phlopion tube, actually. And then that now, as I go to embryo, travels down the tube into the uterus and some of the time implants into the wall of the uterus or the lining of the uterus and establishes a pregnancy. OK, so let's now talk about a woman in the prime of her reproductive age. She's 20 years old as an example. And let's talk through the cycle of what is happening and the role that hormones are playing. One of the things that to me has always been fascinating about this is the selection. So with males, we don't have to think about that problem. The selection tends to be maybe more metabolic or stochastic. In other words, which sperm is the sperm that makes it isn't really predetermined? How is it that, let's say, from day zero, when a woman begins her menstrual cycle, and all of a sudden everything starts to turn towards the next cycle. She's about 14 days out from ovulation. We start to see the interplay of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, particularly FSH. Walk me through what's happening in that period of time that ultimately leads to one and only one egg being the chosen one. Yeah, yeah. It's a little random in women as well, actually. But it's true that the pituitary hormones namely FSH or follicle stimulating hormone and l-h-luteinizing hormone are what drives growth of the, we call them follicles, the eggs are inside the follicles. And as I said, usually a cohort of eggs starts to grow and then... You tell me what grow means. The follicles start to get bigger and the cells surrounding the eggs start to divide. And what do they look like prior to all of that happening? These are cells that only have 50% of the genetic material. Right? They've already undergone myosis. Yes, it's, they're kind of arrested in myosis. Yeah. Myosis is not completed until they actually ovulate and then in some cases are fertilized. Yes. So we have an arrested cell that has one of each of the mother's chromosomes, including one x chromosome by definition, one of her two sex hormones. And it's kind of this question makes sense. But it's, is it still in its young phenotype? In other words, if the, if the woman is 20 years old and all of the cells in her body are functionally 20 years old is this egg prior to ovulation still basically an infant cell? As far as we know, although there's some data recently to suggest that perhaps the cells surrounding the egg are met about a glee active, the maybe aging. Certainly we do know that thEQuality of the eggs decreases right as women get older. So that affects how the eggs and the chromosomes ultimately divide. Let's part of the reasons harder to get pregnant as you get older. Even though you're ovulating, you may be releasing an egg every month, but that it could be abnormal. And if it's abnormal, it likely won't fertilize. And you kind of don't want it to fertilize if it's abnormal and establish your pregnancy. But you're right. They're pretty much arrested in time. During, certainly, you know, before puberty and then every month a few start to develop. And then one, we don't really know how that one egg is selected. It's definitely hormonal factors play a role, but it's somewhat random, one kind of grows, and then eventually is released. And because as we know that as a woman ages, the probability of successful division goes down. Right. So something changes as a woman ages, but we don't understand exactly. But whatever it is that's going on, makes those chromosome errors much more likely. Back to this process. So it's day zero. So a woman just begins her period. We're just getting ready to embark on her next fertility cycle. The pituitary gland is secreating, loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Walk me through what is happening in the next 14 days that leads to that ovulation. Right. So a group of eggs or follicles are starting to grow. One gets selected. We don't understand. We don't understand why. It's random. Wow. And that follicle that's in a follicle. Follicle is kind of a fluid build, it's just like structure that surrounds each egg. So that continues to grow. And then eventually what's happening hormonally. So those cells surrounding the eggs are producing estrogen. That estrogen is preparing acting on the uterine lining to build up the lining to potentially support a pregnancy. And then what happens just before our ovulation is there's a surge in a hormone called LH, loot-nizing hormone. And that's what we think triggers ovulation or release of an egg. So the all-it has to happen before an egg is released. So it kind of busts out of the ovary, finds its way to the tube. OK. How long, approximately, just give people a sense of how long of the loopy and tube is? Probably a few centimeters, like by pretend. OK. And everyone's probably used to seeing the image of ovaries being these little eggs and philopiantubes having these little fingers that hug up on the eggs. What is actually in between that space? How does the egg get from an ovary into a philopiantube? Is there an actual connection there? There is, actually. Yeah. They're not stuck together, but they're kind of in close proximity. So that those femuria or finger-like projections kind of sweep up the egg once it's released from the ovary. And it's otherwise in direct contact with the periteneum. The ovary and the tube. The space between the space between them. Yeah. Yeah. The picture's always show like the tubes out here, yes, out here, but they're actually everything's closer together in the pelvis. And you mentioned, OK. So egg is now in philopiantub. How long does it take to get through the length of the philopiantub into the uterus? About five or six days. OK. So completely different experience from the sperm, which are racing at rakeneck speed. They uncover that distance in seconds. So what regulates the speed with which the egg travels through the philopiantube and how does that impact fertility? Is there a scenario whereby it happens too quickly and things don't work? I don't know about too quickly, but there are hair-like projections in the tubes, silly, that kind of help with motility of the egg down the philopiantub into the uterus. The abnormalities on the female side have to do more with potential abnormalities, have to do with lexcarring in the tubes or if the tubes are blocked, then it interferes with the egg like encountering the sperm. And what leads to that? A number of different things, infection probably most commonly, but also scarring from previous surgery potentially or condition called endometriosis. So there are a number of things that can affect the tubes as well. And so is the day for it, assuming a woman's cycle is predictable and normal and we would just say day 14 is ovulation? That is the day that the egg leaves the ovary or that is the day that the egg reaches a certain place within the philopiantub. Pretty much the day that the egg is released from the ovary. Yeah. OK. Yeah. And usually encounter sperm in the philopiantub. And that's where fertilization usually happens. And then it takes a few more days for the embryo now or preembrow to travel down the rest of the tube into the uterus and hopefully implant if it's normal. Now, one of the most interesting things here that is worth repeating, even though we talked about it last week in case anybody missed it. How many sperm is the egg encountering at the time of fertilization? Really? Yeah, millions. So why is it? And I know the answer with this question, but it is so cool. Why is it that one and only one sperm out of millions or even less than that? But let's just say it's hundreds of thousands. Why does only one get to trensmit its genetic material into that egg? Well, once an egg is fertilized, there's sort of a chemical reaction if you will that happens to prevent any other sperm from fertilizing eggs. Because that would be bad for you. We want one sperm and one egg to combine. Yeah, it's like an electrical force field that immediately activates around the egg. Exactly. I find this so fast that it is fascinating. Yeah, it is fascinating. Yeah. Okay. So now we have, and by the way, what is the relative size of an egg to a sperm? The egg is actually much bigger than the sperm. I don't know exactly in my grounds how big it is, but I feel like I used to know this answer and it's shocking how disparate they are in size. Like the egg is, I believe the biggest cell on the body potentially. Yeah, I've checked on that, but I believe that's true. All right. So yeah, you have this massive egg that's basically like the sun and like this tiny little sperm which is like the earth and colliding with it. Okay. Fertilization takes place and how long from fertilization, how long from impact until you have that single cell, Zygoth that actually has a lined up pair of chromosomes. Is that a matter of hours? Yeah, within a few hours. See, okay. And then what is the process that occurs for cell division for when that Zygoth goes from one to two to four to eight cells? And so A, how long does that take? And B at what point does it implant into the uterus? Yeah. So most of what we know actually about this is from a vitro fertilization or IVF because we can actually see that happening in the petri dish. So usually the with IVF, an egg is fertilized with sperm by the next day. We can see if it's fertilized. And we know if it's fertilized because it has what we call two pronuclear. So DNA from the sperm and DNA from the egg. And then over the course of the next couple of days, it divides into maybe six to eight cells. So abouT3 days after fertilization, it's six to eight cells and then by five to six days, it's about 60 to 80 cells. And that's kind of the stage where it implants in the uterus. So five, six days after fertilization. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. In the premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Fibromyalgia Explained： Symptoms, Science & Stigma ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [lE0k86SeVSY].txt ===

Okay, there's a condition you've already alluded to today that I am sure everyone has heard of and yet if you asked most people to define it, they wouldn't be able to define it. And so we're going to start with what it is, why someone might have it, what is the prevalence, are there false positives? I'm talking about none other than fiber my algebra. Yeah, yeah, what was historically a garbage bag definition? Fiber my algebra is a condition of widespread bodily pain that impacts people above and below the waste of the diaphragm. It's associated with early morning stiffness fatigue, mental fog, often, you know, some GI problems. It was historically based on American College of Rheumatology definitions based on tender points and a lot of an out of 18 places, but that's been replaced by now criteria which involves multiple body sites affected and a symptom severity score. The key thing when the audience hears, well, first of all, it's fiber my algebra syndrome. And whenever the audience hears syndrome, what they should trenslate that to, the definition of a syndrome is a constellation of signs and symptoms that define a disease, but we don't understand the mechanism. So fiber myology is a syndrome. We do not understand its mechanisms. We know that historically it tended to affect women more than men about 80% ish or so women with a newer definition, we're picking up a lot more men. The cognitive aspects of it are really a problem. It's also associated as I alluded to with sleep disturbances. They get this weird, what we call alpha wave intrusion into their EEG, which means alpha waves are typically in light, awakefulness. So when you're supposed to be in deep sleep or REM sleep, your brain is in light, alert, state instead, and so they're not getting a rustful sleep. This is a syndrome that's caused untold problems, particularly for women. What's the prevalence according to the current definition? I can't tell, I should know how many millions there, Pete. That's a, I should know how many millions I don't. What I can tell you just to give a frame of reference. Chronic pain, we think there's 50 to 100 million Americans with chronic pain. That's a huge range and it depends on the way you ask thEQuestion. If you ask it more stringently, it's 50 million if you ask it more liberally, it's 100. We know that there are about 8% of the population are a little over 20, some on million with something called high impact chronic pain. This is a big one and this is where I spend a lot of my research and policy work on. These are the people that has substantial restrictions to their pain in activities of daily living. These are the really challenging people. Of that 50 to 100 million, the most common chronic pain is low back pain at about 28%. Necupane 16%, headaches around 16%. Societyal burden of chronic pain is terrifying. It's astounding. We spend over half a trillion dollars a year in chronic pain. And the reason why in part, it's not more appreciated, is because we have parceled it out. We've broken it into different categories. With heart disease, we lump it into heart disease, cardiovascular disease, even though it's all these different subcomponents. With pain, instead, we categorize it as it's back pain, it's musculoskeletal pain, it's migraines, it's abdominal pain, and it gets diluted out. But when you put it all together, you're dealing with a half a trillion dollars. More than diabetes, heart disease, and cancer combined. Fibromyalgia, again, I'm escaping the prevalence, many millions of people. Huge societal burden. It is historically a disease of histrionic housewives, is how they were mislabeled tragically. And we're having now a greater appreciation for what it is. What's affected? What we have learned is that there are brain systems that are clearly abnormal in the processing of pain and people with fibromyalgia. We find that for the same pressure stimulus, if you apply something like four kilograms per square centimeter, healthy people will give a range of reporting in certain range. People with fibromyalgia, much, much higher. Here's another interest, I think this is an interesting pain concept to introduce and talk about it. There's something called conditioned pain modulation. In the animal world, we called it diffuse noxious inhibitory controller, Denec. CPM. OK. Think back to when you were a kid. Your arm hurt. You walk up to your buddy. You say, hey man, and he's like, how are you doing? He's like, well, my arm's kind of hurting a lot. And what would he do? Hit you. He would hit you, of course. Hit it in your other arm, he'd stomp on your foot and like, while they held it. But this is a boy-only thing. Like, I can't imagine girls did this, but yes, it's of course this is what little boys do. This is what little boys do. I was guilty of a lot of that. But then you say to your buddy, I don't you feel better. And the truth is you did because pain and another area reduces the primary pain insight. It's called condition pain modulation. We're all wired. It is a network predominantly we think in the brainstem involving some of this periac with Dr. Gray, Rossi of Entryl, Medulary, Regions, LeBars, first described this in the mid-80s, mid-70s in animals. So we all do it. We all have it. It's just endogenous, tonic, inhibitory tone that you can activate when you get caused pain in another site. Unless you have fibromyalgia. If you have fibromyalgia, particularly if you're a woman with fibromyalgia, you have impaired CPM, you don't inhibit. And so what is the management for these patients? Is this a curable syndrome or is it a syndrome that is meant to be managed like HIV? Yes, and no. What do IMean? Well, one we don't know exactly the mechanisms or different prevailing thoughts. One thought again is it's a disruption in your central brain processing of pain through reasons unknown. There are some that believe it is a disease, a condition of small fibreneropathy because you can do punch biopsies, little little skin biopsies here. What they find in some subsets of people with fibromyalgia is those C fibers that there is alterations abnormalities of the C fibers in the skin. And that is synonymous with a small fibreneropathy that neurologist typically see. Now that's caused by what? Yeah, that's the thing. Is this infectious? What do people think is going on? So fibromyalgia is frequently preceded by some event. Something traumatic. That traumatic can be a physical motor vehicle accident, but it could also be some emotional or sexual abuse. It can be an infection, we frequently, you know, also hear that story. So there is some insult that people will frequently identify. Coming back to you question on managing this. We frequently use the same medications that we've described before, but we rely on more of those brain modular tutorials. The TCA's are the big. Another one like the lock's a teen, which is in the class of antidepressants, but it's a little clener, fewer side effects. It's a serotonin or a peniferin re-uptake inhibitor. This is actually a drug that got FDA approval for a pen. And so we go to this a lot.

=== FILE: Finding the Best Radiation Oncologist： What to Look For & Questions to Ask ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [lNQOroUs7LA].txt ===

How can somebody find out if their radiation oncologist is kind of practicing in your philosophy? You know, it's difficult in terms of actual metrics. Very much like even for the surgeons, like Ted has excellent outcomes, but it's not like it's a published series. You just have to tell me that. The best surgeons often are treating the hardest cases. So it's a handicap right there. It's a handicap right there. 100%. It really comes down to finding someone who's got the experience. In my case, because we do so much prostate, I think I've done something close to in the modern era, 7,000 cases, probably 10,000, even include the pre-image guided radiation days. Someone who specializes in the area that the cancer is located. And so someone like me, IMay be extremely experienced in breast and prostate, but maybe for a pediatric malignist here, not going to come to me, you're going to go somewhere or a CNS, or something that's unusual. You have to find the right tool for the job. But you have to just interview your doctor. I think there's anything specific to radiation that's really asking about toxic patients. I think being very open with him is saying, yeah, exactly. And so ideally, maybe you come to someone who knows something. I got a lot of patients who aren't familiar with the field, but they'll have a family member that's a nurse, or a dentist, or a veterinarian, or whatever. It's someone that has some medical background. They can say, OK, let me ask the more specific questions. And these days, with the internet, you can do all kinds of research in terms of, like when I'm talking about matching my volume of the dose distribution to exactly conform to the tumor volume, that's something that's very easy to talk about. But IMean, for an educated patient, they can ask to see the actual computer simulation. So if one of my engineering patients is probably having an easier time than they do. My love for my engineering patients are really the only ones who do this. And I'll be, I usually pull out all the graphs. I show them dose volume, histograms with area under the curve, for each organ, and you can see, OK, the prostate dose, I air into the curve is huge. The dose of the blood and the rectum is super low. You can actually quantify that. But for a lay patient, it's hard. It's not that easy to do that. You really got to go with anything a lot of, but you have to go with your gut, too, in terms of this guy's had a lot of experience. And the initial consultation is where it all comes down. I'll spend an hour with a patient and go through every little nuance of what couldn't happen. And my main, I think my main MO is to sort of over-prepare them and have them be pleasantly surprised. Maybe when the side of effects aren't as bad, rather than the other way around. And it's hard to find the right person. Well, there's a lot of good doctors out there, so.

=== FILE: Five Ways to Reduce Your Microplastic Exposure ｜ Peter Attia [IsmBq0v50k4].txt ===

Hey, so a little while ago we did an AMA and asked me anything on microplastics. And you know, it was, it was a long kind of complex discussion. And at the end, I kind of tried to create a framework to help people make sense of this information. The framework was basically picturing a graph because of course, me being who I am, everything comes down to a graph. And so there on the x-axis you have cost, meaning the actual dollars you would have to spend to mitigate the exposure to microplastics. And within that I also included sort of thing, there are microplastics, but PM and 2.5. So particles that are sub 2.5 microns that we can ingest through our lungs that are potentially harmful in addition to BPAs and phallides and things like that. So the x-axis would be how much money do you have to spend and then the y-axis would be how much mitigation do you actually get? And then you could also think of another way to do this, which is how much effort do I need to do expand and how much mitigation do I get? And you know, just to kind of give you the answer, if you didn't see the AMA, the bottom line is you're never going to get complete mitigation, even with all the effort in the world and all the dollars spent in the world. So for most of us then we have to make a decision about how much energy and how much money am I going to put in to get how much mitigation. And so I just wanted to share with you where I've landed to be clear, this is not necessarily where you should land. I've made a decision, but I wanted to sort of explain it. Okay. So first off, I decided that there are some pretty low hanging fruit things I wanted to do. And by the way, a couple of people, when I voiced questions on the podcast about, hey, I really wish I could find a metal water bottle for my bike or a coffee maker that didn't have hot water ever touching, flashing people werEQuick to send recommendations. So I really appreciate that. Okay. So let's start with the coffee makers. This was a huge source of exposure to me and it was one of the first things I wanted to mitigate. Now, when IMake a French press, it's not a problem because I use this thing. I'd been using this forever. So this is just a pure stainless steel French press. It's steel through and through. There's nothing about this that is going to expose hot water to plastic. However, most of the time, if I'm being honest, if I'm being lazy, I'm just using a drip coffee maker. And the problem is, most drip coffee makers, if not, I'm virtually hollow of them that I was able to get my hands on, they all had some plastic, whether it's plastic in the lid of the coffee pot or plastic where the water is coming through a filter, turns out here is one that does not. So I really, really like this. Now, I'm not going to lie. It ain't cheap. And we're going to link to where you can find all the products that I ultimately ended up going with. But it's wonderful. It filters into a glass, craft, and everything where hot water is touching coming out of this is metal. So I like it. And honestly, despite the cost of it, which is a little bit of noxious, when you consider advertising it over the course of a year or two, it really becomes de minimus. The next thing that people pointed out to me in my request was plastic water bottles, because I'm on my bike all the time. So I'm riding my bike at leasT4 times a week. And I typically use what most cyclists use, which are these sorts of water models, right? So a water bottle that everybody's used to, where you fill it with water. And the truth in the matter is, it's not like we're putting scalding hot water in these things, but let's be honest. If you're out there, especially, you know, in a warm day, that water is getting warmer. And then thEQuestion is, like, hey, how much exposure am I getting? And is there a way to mitigate it? And it turns out, there is. So there are at least these two brands of stainless water bottles. And yeah, they're kind of expensive, right? So I don't even remember the price, but again, we'll link to these so you can see the ones that I've tried. I like them both, by the way, I just want to try both in the mouth. And I found them both to be great. Okay. I found about another area where I had exposure that was easy to minimize. And that was in the sauna where I'd always been using a glass bottle for the obvious reasons. That one struck me as a no-brainer even years ago. I used to always take the lid in the sauna with me. So these are the glass bottles that I've always used in the sauna. And they have these little plastic lids under them, and I would just bring the whole thing in the sauna. And it occurred to me after doing this AMA, put whenever I take a drink in the sauna, this little tip does tend to get pretty hot. And if this thing's getting hot, then the plastic that's sitting on it is also getting hot. So the one simple and silly change IMade was I no longer bring the lid in the sauna. So when I put these things in the fridge, I just sort of do away with the lid and this thing sort of sits there. So not a monumental change, but an obvious one. Okay, so all of those things are relatively low cost and they're one time costs and again, they do servEQuite a bit of mitigation. I shouldn't point out we had already got rid of plastic food containers and things of that nature. So I don't have them here to show you, but if you are using plastic food containers, again, relatively minor cost upgrade to glass, especially if you're going to be putting hot food in and or warming food up in it. Okay, so then bin one in the last one to talk about here. Is air filtration. I think it's important to understand that there's there are different standards of air filtration. And once you rise to the level of what's called heppa filtration, you're referring to such a fine filter that it's I believe heppa cutoff is Merve 18. So you can talk to your HVAC people and say, what is my level of filtration? Most homes are probably about a Merve 13, the higher the Merve number, the greater the amount of filtration. So that was really the last big thing I wanted to do because I work at home so much, meaning I was spending so much time at home. It seemed like a reasonable investment to make. Well what I learned was probably what many of you are going to learn, which is that my residential HVAC units are not powerful enough to push air through a Merve 18 or Merve 19 filter. So what we are going to have to do to make that work is not replace our HVAC, but add units to each of the air conditioning units that basically boosts its power so that we can indeed move to Merve 18 and 19. And again, I've decided to make that decision to make that choice. It's the single biggest expense I'll probably incur on doing all of this. And because obviously the filter changes themselves are not a particularly big deal, but nevertheless that is going to be kind of the last step I take. One other point I will make, I should have mentioned this earlier, but I'm taking it for granted because it's a change IMade a long time ago. Was I did move to reverse osmosis filters for water? So we don't have reverse osmosis flowing through the whole house. We just have a handful of these spigots throughout the house where all the drinking water comes from here. So when I'm filling up water bottles downstairs, I have one of these. When I'm filling up the coffee, it comes out of here. And again, the reverse osmosis does it. So if I were to tell you in order of cost, the most expensive is definitely doing the epiphiltration throughout the house. But again, it's a big fixed cost with small variable costs as you replace filters. The second big cost is putting in these. And believe these are about 2500 or 3000 of pop. So big fixed costs, very trivial cost after that. I think the next biggest cost was upgrading to this bad boy over here. And then probably doing the glass containers for food. And then all the other stuff, you know, relatively minor one time cost. So we might hope that helps. That's basically how far I decided to go on the cost and effort curve to reach what I believe is the right amount of mitigation. Again, I want to be clear and I point this out in the AMA, but for those of you that haven't seen it, I don't think the evidence is overwhelming that microplastics are the cause of all the hills in the world. But I just think that the precautionary principle says there's enough smoke to believe that there might be fire. And as such, we should probably take reasonable precautions to minimize our exposure in an effort to improve our health.

=== FILE: Foot Pain Starts Here： Common Toe Injuries & Solutions ｜ Courtney Conley, D.C. [1JnLQKhNSq0].txt ===

There are a couple other toe injuries that are pretty common. Yes. Let's talk about those. Okay. So, you want to start with Halis's restrict this? Yes. We will see this a lot. And I think a lot of it has to do with poor footwear selections, right? We talked about the chronic ankle sprains and the inability to allow the first metatarsal to drop. But a functional halix limit is we need about 40 to 45 degrees of range emotion at the big toe in order to have an efficient walking gate. Yeah. This is my only superpower. I'm probably like 90 degrees at my halix. And you know, excess range of motion is great as long as you can control it. It means to be seen. So if I wanted to sprint though, I would need 65 degrees. Right. Because you're more on your toes. Yeah. And this is where I've seen a lot of former NFL players who get horrible turf toe. That have what literally looks like 10 degrees. If you can catch these patients before they've had. So there's stages, right? So what will start to happen is you'll get an inflammation on the top of the big toe. Yeah. Okay. And the primary pathology, just the repeated timing of that toe. Right. The instability at the first ray. And then they can't drop the first metatarsal. They start to irritate the top of the joint. It'll be red. It'll be swollen. And these patients suffer. I'm on a Facebook group for halix or agitus. It's a support group. And the reason I'm on it is because I find it like, they're, it's a constant battle for these people for footwear. Because they just need, they're like, I need a shoe that's going to eliminate me using my big toe because it hurts when they try to extend it. Have these patients all experienced trauma? No. If they've had like something fall on their toe, if they've had turf toe, then yes. But a lot of them, this is weakness. This is poor footwear. That's why I think a lot of these diagnoses at the foot can be prevented. This is proactive healthcare. You know, IMean, you want to talk about your eggs in your book. I love that story. Okay. But there's no better way to stop the eggs from being thrown than by taking care of our feet from the ground up. But I digress. So your, is your treatment? Let's assume that the trauma was in the past. They're not, it's not an acute issue. Is the treatment the same where, you know, you have to get mobility backed by strength thing? Yeah, IMean, when I, I always say, earlier intervention is better. Even if there's been trauma, you do not want to immobilize something. We know that. When you immobilize, it starts this cascade where, you know, you start to change the neurological input to the tissue. Mm-hmm. And it just really will create an environment where movement will be altered. So even in those initial stages, we're doing like big toe ranges of motion. IMean, it seems so, I always saw my patients. If I don't get excited about you exercising your big toe, but you have to be. Now, sometimes remember when I had my little toe injury three months ago, which still hurts like not as bad, but it's amazingly sore still. That first weekend when I was, you know, the thing was black and blue, you still had me doing isometrics. I'm still doing them by the way. And they do anytime I'm in pain, five minutes of isometrics actually makes me feel better. Why is that? I'm, I call it isometrics my pain meds for my patients. Yeah, so tell people what I'm doing. Yeah, tell people the exercise you had me do. So I was told. With the big toe, what we'll have if there's an irritation in the joint, per se. And just so people know the injury, I had an injury where I got hit on the front of the toe. So it just jammed the toe back. And I sent you a photo next day. And I've never seen, IMean, you've probably seen this for me, the entire side of the foot was just black and blue. I didn't get anything x-rayed because I didn't think anything was broken. I was going to write it out. And within a few days, I knew nothing was actually broken because I could touch the bone. The pain all seemed to be ligament pain. Yeah. It was, and to this day, it's still very tender to touch the side. And I think when, if someone looks at their foot and they see that they're like, oh, my gosh, I better just do nothing. Do nothing. But yes, right away, what we had you do was put the toe in a position of a little bit of extension or something that was comfortable. And then you're basically just contracting on both sides of the joint. So you're pressing down and then you're trying to lift up. But you're getting some type of movement. Isometrics. The reason I call them my pain meds is I will tell my patients whenever you feel pain. Isometrics are safe for you to do because what they do is they decrease cortical inhibition. So when we have an injury, think of it, we'll go into a race car. We have a cortical accelerator, right? So information coming from our brain and we also have brakes. We want to the accelerator and the brakes to be in balance of one another. When we have an injury, our brains are foots on the brake. So if I'm trying to change my movement or improve my movement pattern, I get a let off the brake. And that's what isometrics do. They decrease that cortical inhibition and to be able to do that right out of the gates is extremely important. Yeah, before the damage sets in and you create a long term pattern of rigidity. Yes. So when you can find these patients that still have, you know, when you're doing a calf race for example, someone who has pain at their big toe, the big I cannot do that. It hurts too much. It's pinching. But I'll have, I'll put a band around their ankle for example and I'll pull it to the outside. Remember, that's where Pernie's longest lives on the outside of the leg. So I'll challenge it a little bit so that they really have to press through their big toe to keep their big toe on the ground. When they do that, they're like, wow, that pinching is better. Because I dropped the head of the first. Yeah, there is something so magical about using bands for lateral and medial tension to produce the necessary engagement of the foot stabilizing muscles when you go and do other things. Yeah, IMean, it's the kinesthetic queuing. I think is so important. So important, especially in those plans. That's why the foot's, IMean, it's this multi-directional like beautiful thing that we can tren so many ways. So what else are you doing for the rigidest patient? So you're obviously isometric's a big part of it. How do you get the range of motion? How do you slowly introduce that range of motion back? If they are in a functional, how exliminus, which means that they can still utilize their big toe based on if I increase strength of Pernie's longest for example. If we work on range of motion at the big toe, all of those things are key. If you don't do it then, it will progress into how ex-rigidists and I don't consider those the same diagnosis. How ex-rigidists, there's been so much arthritic change to the joint that now you may be have five degrees. So the toes basically fuse almost. So rigidest you're associating with the bony arthritic changes, whereas limitless is hey, your bones, you still can anatomically move, you are limited because of the musculature. And you'll see some type on it. IMean, on a film, you may start to see an ex-ostosis or like liping, right? Because there is, you know, wolfslaw. They'll start to have changes within the bone. But it's still a functional joint. And that's when I get excited because I'm like, let's do this. Let's fix this thing because if not, if that progresses too halix-rigidist, it's game over. Now our treatment has completely changed. Meaning that I have to look at putting them in a certain type of shoe that's going to rocker them through their toe because they now have losT4 foot rocker. They cannot rocker through their toe. What percentage of people with how slim it is will progress to that phase of disease? Unfortunately, quite a bit. Because this message isn't quite out there, as much as it needs to be. Because those two diagnoses are often married. People start to see our theoretic change at the toe. They're like, wow, this is how ex-rigidist. I'm like, no, it isn't actually. You still, if I drop your metatarsal down, I can still give you 40, 45 degrees. Hold on a second. Let's tren this thing. But without knowing that, and you start to have pain at your big toe, the initial intervention is a carbon plate under the toe. So they sell these little inserts where you can put in your shoe so that your big toe isn't bending at all. Some type of orthotic or very stiff shoe. These patients would be like, oh, this feels great. And I'm like, yes, because you're not moving it anymore. But if you stay on my path too long, you'll lose the ability forever. Correct. And you want to talk about what happens up the chain. And I see patients walk with Alex's rigidest for example. They can't roll through their foot. So they can't push off at 45 degrees out of their big toe. So now what they have to adopt is this is what their foot looks like. So they have more knee flexion for example. And then their hip has to be. Yeah, that's hip flexion. Right? And it's like, what are you doing? But you know, I always want to instill hope because there's always hope. You have to do that. And even if patients have a fusion in their big toe, even if they have Alex's rigidest, you've lost range at one joint. But you haven't lost range at your ankle. And you haven't lost range at your knee or your hip. Those range of motion, those ranges of motion will be compromised. But let's just tren them. Let's rocker you through the big toe. Let's give you drills to give you knee extension to give you hip extension because we know you're not going to have access to it any longer. So let's just give you things to work on. And that's where I think I want the two worlds to marry. Right? Oftentimes, there is a time in a place for the surgical interventions. But once that's done, there's so much more that can be done so that we don't start seeing sequela of that up the kinetic chain. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. We'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Fueling for Performance： The Products Elite Athletes Use ｜ Olav Aleksander Bu [zErri2ltUrc].txt ===

Talk to me about formulations. The genius part of it is actually not the carbohydrates itself. It's the, it's the, it's the, it's the, it's the genius. Yes, exactly. That's, that's, that's the difference. So if you were consuming 60 grams per hour spare spare the money and buy orange juice or even pull honey inside and drink it. That, that, that, that, that, that, that where it really comes up, where it differs itself is when you are really starting to push the limit of the concentration. But you can even take, you can even tren yourself today. This is something we know. You can even take honey today. And you can mix it in, you can tren yourself to go to higher values than what have previously been published like pure normal products. But if you want to get to 160, this is when you need to, you need the technology. Yes, exactly. And, and note, no fat and no protein. Any amino acids throughout that whole race? No, we, we, we, this is something that was also done research on, but we ended up in the end pure glucose and fructose. And it actually has to do with actually how oxygen is being prioritised in the body. Because we have to limit, we have to consider two things here. It's easy to think that while you're only raising at 80% of your view to max or 70 or 90, whatever percentage it is of your view to max. But that's a little bit of a short circuit. Because what we have to think of is that this oxygen, like more oxygen, is going to contribute to more heat as well. So it's not like you have enough, you can just go, whatever, I'm rising at a solo percentage of your view to max. So I can go whatever and do and in the beginning. Because it all will, it will accumulate towards the end of your race. That means already from the beginning, it's critical how you pace and your efficiency as well. Because every inefficiency you have, here is biochemical or anything like this, it will basically end up towards the end of the race. So this means also that at the moment you start, let's say, putting any other substrates into or nutrients into your mixture that the body have to protect as somehow in the system. That means also that there are going to be less oxygen available for pure propulsion. And in the inefficiency, pure propulsion that really sets the winner apart from the rest of the people there. So you basically want to peel away every absolutely everything that doesn't contribute to forward propulsion, use every milliliter, every mole of oxygen purely for the purpose and nothing else. Because oxygen is one of the limitations. So that's, we come to talk about different kinds of substrates and these kind of things. Which is still also a place where we don't know. We are actually doing quite some interesting research on different kinds of substrates from glucose, fructose. Have you looked at the HP? Yeah, hydroxibular? Yes, so we looked at the BHP as well. And one of the things, because the thing here is that if you pure look at the stoichiometry, there are interesting things here. But the problem is that we cannot only do stoichiometry. We actually need to know the enthalpy and we also need to know the Gibbs free energy that is available and not even the entropy. But not, okay. So the Gibbs free energy if you're making the BHB yourself, much more complicated. But if you take it purely exogenously, and consider it an additional substrate above and beyond glucose, do we have reason to believe that we're going to get more ATP per mole of oxygen? No, because the practical limitation of this is that if we think when you do racing, you could have a, let's say if you think of this more first or the principle again. So if you do racing, and this was actually one of my first questions, because we have been working together with one of the leading brands on, or maybe arguably the leading one. And they are situated here in the US. But one of the limitations that you have to look at is basically when you're racing, this has a certain fuel demand. So there's a certain amount of fuel that needs to go through the system there. Yeah. And that means that in the context, when we talk about glucose and fructose, we are looking at basic trying to replace as much as possible, we said, okay, glucose, fructose, or basic carbide, it seems to be a very, very oxygen efficient fuel source when we, when when you do more men. But that means also that in order not to run out of this, we're trying to replace as much as possible, or this, to be able to race faster. Because if you said, this is the, so this is the fuel source I have available in my body, I'm going to race this fast, obviously I cannot go faster than this. So a certain power number, certain duration will the police, this energy is source, or basic bring me close to the police, not that source. Okay. So that means, okay, instead of then switching to other source, or you're basically always using other sources as well. But trying to get more from that source means basically you have to replace more of the power. So more the power now, we have to create an environment where more power can come from the same source. So that means that, for example, if you are at the round, let's say you were originally around at 80 grams, 190 grams, let's say 80 grams for simplicity, say 80 grams of carbohydrates, and you have about chemical efficiency of 20 per cent, for example, that means basically you're getting out, or if you say 4.2, let's say you can get basic as a one gram, basically would be the equivalent of, let's say 1 joule per signal, 1 watt, more or less like this. So you can get from that one. So if you double is from 80 to 160 now, that means basically, you're going to get double the amount of what's coming from, from carbohydrates here. The problem with with ketons is that you, the strategy is not to basically fuel the amount you are using in a race. You don't fuel with ketons in the same way. Like if you go to 70, 80, or even 100 milliliters of of of of of of of ketons consumption in an hour, you're going to have so high levels of ketons in your body that you will start to feel almost like you are getting diabetic, like you feel like you're, you're, you're, like in this state, let's say if you're in a banking almost. So the thing that is there is more like it's inducing a state in a body rather than you actually fuel using it, because you in order to fuel. So let's say your idea was that you're going to replace what you're losing from your body, because that's driving your body also out of homeostasis as well. So you're going to try to keep homeostasis as much as possible or try to keep the state of the body as unchanged as possible. That would mean that you would need to ingest like so large amount of ketons during a race that it would be crazy!

=== FILE: GLP-1 agonists and the willpower myth [YRErDvfY3DI].txt ===

So I had a discussion yesterday with a patient about her questions were on starting a GLP one agonist and I thought the discussion was actually kind of applicable in ways that went beyond her. So I thought I would kind of share this. So the woman is in her early to mid 40s. Very healthy, very active, and you know, by her estimation probably 15 pounds overweight and has been working really, really hard through both exercise and nutrition, stopped drinking alcohol, really is eating quite little and is really struggling to lose this last 15 pounds. And now I long ago gave up on the idea of trying to solve weight management as a strategy. I've met people who can manipulate their weight quite easily, and I've met people who work just as hard and cannot manipulate their weight at all. And I know that when you're in the camp of people who can do it easily, you always look at those who can't, and you think it's some failure of willpower, and I have pretty strong feelings about that just simply not being the case. So we must accept that there are people with very different body types, and for some people manipulating weight is, you know, as easy as changing your hair length and color, and for others it's as difficult as changing your height. So she sort of asked me a few questions, and I think the take home of this was that look, I don't think it's worth going on one of these drugs if you're not willing to stay on them and the most people are going to regain weight once they stop taking the drug. That's not true across the board, and it might be the case that over time we're going to learn better and better ways for weight maintenance, following the removal of the drug. And I think the best case for that might be an individual who's otherwise not exercising. Another wise doesn't have great eating habits at the outset, but who uses the weight loss as a way to spur those new behaviors. That's an individual who might be able to come off the drug and then maintain a healthier diet and exercise program. But in the case of this one, I was very blunt with her and I said, look, I think given how hard you are working right now, whatever forces, whatever gravity is pulling you in the direction of this excess weight, it's probably going to come back if you stop. So the goal should be to find the minimum effective dose, and then accept the fact that you're probably going to stay there. She had some concerns about safety, and I shared with her the best of our knowledge, which of course I discussed on a recent AMA, which is look for all of the wrong tense and purposes these drugs not only look safe. It's possible that they may end up being even zero-protective. Now that's a very bold statement, and not a reason that I think anyone should take one of these drugs yet. But nevertheless, the skepticism that I had around the safety of these drugs in 2020 and 2021, has based on the number of patients who have taken them for the duration that they have, become more muted. Cost of course is a huge issue, and I think that that's something that everybody has to contend with, and therefore, you know, the hope is that over time, the economics of these drugs on an out-of-pocket basis becomes more manageable. And of course, in the case of this woman, someone who just needs to lose 15 pounds without type 2 diabetes is not going to qualify for any sort of payment. There are of course programs out there that can maybe lessen the burden. But honestly, the biggest issue that she struggled with was, and I found this very both sad but interesting, was she said she felt like a failure. She said, I feel like I'm a failure if I take this drug, because why have I not been able to do this on my own? And so I guess to bring this somewhat rambling discussion to an end, I don't think that's a fair assessment. I shared that with her, and I think that I think that one should not discount the role that genetics play in body habitus. It is one of the most conserved traits, genetically, and as such, an individual who is genetically predisposed to be a certain shape. I think should take comfort in the fact that there is today a class of drugs that can, again, fight the gravitational pull of that. So anyway, for anyone listening, who's thinking about this in the same way, hopefully this framework and ideas a little bit helpful.

=== FILE: GLP-1 agonists in bodybuilding and weight management： moral and philosophical implications [h_6i71Guu_o].txt ===

Are we seeing more body builders now use GLP1 agonists to yes? Yeah, I was about to say right like why wouldn't you it would make it would make the most difficult part of body building easier which is the calorie restriction right? You said that in a way I cannot say any better. There are 3 groups of people in body building today. People that have emphatically adopted the use of GLP1. Group two or people that either use or don't use but don't say much about them either don't care don't know or they're using but they're kind of about it. And then there's another group that is just absolutely viciously opposed to them. For reasons that are almost always wildly irrational but more realistically understandable. Just to be clear, there is a category of body builder who fully endorse the liberal use of antibiotics steroids but oppose the use of GLP1 agonists vehemently. And the moral argument is you have to suffer through the hunger to earn your right to call yourself a competitive body builder. What do you think about that? It could probably steal man. Yeah, IMean look, I think having never done body building I'm probably not a good person to sort of offer a point of view on that. Obviously, you could argue that if the stripes are earned through that type of suffering or let's take a step back. If the stripes are earned through suffering, there's two types of suffering. There's the suffering you do in the gym, the pain of the gym and then there's the pain of the the the the second one the starving the life of the calorie restriction. And if they're saying you have to have both of those to be one of us, then steroids are not a problem. In fact, they allow you to suffer more potentially. They allow you to push yourself much differently true. So maybe in that sense, steroids are an important part of body building. If the suffering is the is the card and the GLP1 agonist is not. So maybe that's the argument. Again, I I probably wouldn't have come to that argument. I probably would have said, well, if we're in the business of using any form of pharmacology to enhance our physique, we should take whatever we can get provided at safe. Yes, I'm in that campus. Well, there are at least two things those folks aren't considering. Thing number one is that if you're going to achieve a certain level of body fat with a chlorocrystriction without GLP1s, when you use any given dose of GLP1s to produce your hunger, you get two things out of that. One is now you can push even more exotically lean levels, which you should be. We're not trying to race to the same point, but destination changes. You can get some think, loot striations, and when a few shows without GLPs, maybe you can get completely stripped out of your mind with them. It's just as hard. You're just as hungry, but just as hungry a 3% body fat is a very different look than just as hungry at 6%. One is GLP enhanced, one is not. That's a big deal to remember. The other thing is you have to deal with side effects of GLPs. IMean like they give you heartburn. There is a certain amount of food focus they don't eliminate. Like watching TV shows and watching people on the meat tasty foods on your own prep is not as difficult because you're not physiologically as hungry, which is still of cravings. And cravings are lower but they're still there. And you still dream about food and the whole gamut. It's not the since not complete combustion of hunger. Now I hope one day very soon will achieve that and that'll be a man. I'm miraculous thing that will save. I don't know. Hundreds of millions of people from the obesity epidemic. Oh, little like footnote and in history, but that'll be cool. And then your job will be like if you want, if you have more bandwidth because shit is easier, just push your conditioning further. Get even leaner. That's a big deal that people seem to forget. The other deal is there is a preposterous amount of assuming that work and diligence are the big variables that separate bodybuilders. Usually that assumption is made by people with elite genetics. And it's just not true. My jiu-jitsu coach, a gentleman named Mr. Will Stark's phenomenal professional MMA athlete. Will needs a very clen diet, very very healthy diet, but he has, you know, tons of freebies, potato chips, pizza here and there and no big deal. He trens from mixed martial arts. He's a pro. He has glute strations. He walks around and lives his life at 7% body fat. That's just how he exists in the world. It would take him one cycle of trening to turn pro. He's drug free. If you look at him in the gym and if you put on some posing trunks and you look at his glutes. You ask some people in gym, what's that all about? The band of men must take a lot of our work bullshit. Took no more no work at all. He trens his ass off in MMA. But I'm in MMA. Guys, do you see what's trying to glutes? It's almost nothing. So you would look at that and be like, let's say he diets for six weeks. And actually starts resistance trening for hypertrophy. For the first time in his life, IMight add in his mid 30s. This is our plan for Will once he's ready. He's going to, he's going to turn drug free pro his first or second show. No problem. And people are going to go mad. IMust have taken a lot of work. You need to be like, huh, well, actually, not really. And so if you have someone on stage against him who takes second place, but they started their diet at 20% body fat. And their diet took 18 weeks, who worked harder. People would tell you the guy was trying to glutes didn't they would be fucking wrong, wrong, wrong. So when you look at people using GLPs, you assume everyone has kind of decent genetics. That's not true. And people who have been fat or before have a much harder time getting leaner for a bunch of different reasons. They're dealing with the same genetics that got them fat and they have excess fat cells that scream, hunger signaling into the ether all the time. So the idea that bodybuilding is about earning your keep and grinding and suffering is true. But we already use enhancement in so many different ways. Why not use enhancement in this other way? I never gotten a clear answer on that because most of the people are spots that your opinions don't have the patience or intellectual capacity to deal with such issues. So just something to scroll by and Instagram and go and note it. Scrolling onto the next thing or turning my phone off and flushing it on the toilet. So Mike, what do you think that tells us about kind of the the morality of GLP1 use much more commonly? Because obviously the majority of people using GLP1 agonists and dual agonists, etc. Our bodybuilders and our professional people who's lively, hoods depends on their physique. It's normal people. Again, let's also take out the category of people with type 2 diabetes or with such significant obesity that it's impacting their health in ways that are direct and measurable through the excess out of capacity. Let's talk about what is probably the majority of people who would use a GLP1 agonist right now, which are people who might actually even be healthy. There might be overweight. Yeah, but still be per- GLP1's right now. Yeah. And so tell me, why do you think that there is a bit of a moral panic about this? Yeah. Most of the people that are morally panicking will tell you why. Most of what they say is that you have to earn your fitness. And if you are lazy and you just take a pill and you lose all the weight, you haven't addressed the root cause of the issue, which is your poor diet. And there's something to say there. But I don't understand much further about their own logic. I would say they're not thinking a lot. They're just having a lot of feelings. If you talk to most people about politics, you'll realize that most people are not geopolitical strategists or concentrations. They just feel a lot. And so this is one of these things where people have a lot of feelings, but if they pulled it back and actually logic through it, they would conclude that like, oh, these modern and erected drugs are tools to accomplish something. And whatever tools you use that make sense for you should be a valid consideration for the goal. But a lot of people use physical fitness, especially external, as a proxy for conscientiousness. The ability to organize your life to delay gratification so on and so forth. And the reality is that probably the two biggest predictors of how will be someone is are your genetic hunger drive and your degree of conscientiousness. So the only thing that the GLPs eliminate as a category of problem is the hunger drive, eliminate it, but they do a great job, they're just substantially. So now we're left with people that are leaner, some of whom just have average conscientiousness, but now low food drive and now they're leaner. And this especially upsets people that have lost weight themselves on their own and they took a certain moral worthiness, a certain gold star on their chest for it. So I was conscientious and willful enough to do this. And to those people, they're absolutely correct, like what they did was monumental and all-term impressive. And they feel sort of ripped off because other people are now doing it, but just like taking a weekly injection. But that belief in yourself, that flexing your conscientious muscle that you did, it's your benefit for yourself to keep. And the other way to think about it is if you just, if you had to lose 20 pounds and really focus yourself to do it and to keep the weight off your focused all the time, what you could do is take an an electric drug GLP1, for example. And now you don't have to try as hard to limit yourself because your food, your natural appetite is like normal. And you can take all of that bandwidth of willpower and effort and conscientiousness and apply it to something else, business, family life. If you have to diet hard enough to lose a bunch of weight, you're bandwidth for your work, you're bandwidth for family, you're bandwidth for enjoying your life, half to go down. Otherwise, you're just not dieting hard enough. And if you now have a solution to the hard-diting problem in which you can actually do much better job with less input, that doesn't mean you're on the couch eating cheetos, though it could if you choose. What it means is now you have more bandwidth that opens up for all of these other wonderful things in which you can express your conscientiousness, build your business better, spend more time with your family. So has that been your experience, which is it hasn't actually changed, what you're eating, it's just given you the privilege of focusing less on the starvation and the management of diet? That's exactly been my experience. My wife was either genetically, epigenetically geared to just get fat. At one point, she was almost 200 pounds aT4 foot 11. And she probably has more willpower than I've ever seen in a single human being. She'll break herself before shEQuits it stuff. And her hunger signaling was so profound that she battled at her whole life. Had lots of victories, lots of defeats. And her introduction to GLP's to OZEMBIC was the kind of thing that porters on the religious experience for the first time ever to be like, oh, this is how normal people live their lives. And now she's whatever bodyweight she wants to be and lives at a category level of body fat. Oh, sorry, I can't a level of life experience. She was unable to access before because especially of females of reproductive age, having 70 pounds extra at a positive how the world sees you, how you see yourself is totally different. She almost failed out of medical school because she was dieting so hard to try to stay to certain body fat their brain just wasn't working. And it's easy for bodybuilders and other folks to say like, we just got to go through like, guy, you don't do anything. Subtutes to parents play playstation and tren with weight, thank God for your supplement contract. There was somebody on social media that she sort of opened up about her journey and this like bodybuilders not even competitive. He's just a guy who lifts weights, he's a personal trener. He said something like like, you base, you failed at life if you needed the ozempick and like my friend, if we start listing off my wife's like accomplishments, it's going to be a 10 to zero against you. Like you're nothing to her. She had every bit more willpower. Whatever it is, you got good at, she could recreationally get good at faster than you better than you just as a joke and then quit and then come back and do it again. But because you have no idea what it's like to want food that much, you're out of touch. I would say it is for me became very easy to connect with my wife on food drive after I had a dieted down to body fat that was a competitive bodybuilding appropriate enough times. You feel what it's like to be absolutely thinking about it's food. All you're thinking about food tastes good to a level if you're like, am I eating drugs? Like what the hell is going on? And you're in pain physically from the expansion of your abdominal tract and you're still eating and your eyes are this wide like a hungry ravenous dog who like he just tortured and not allowed eat for a long time. That's how a lot of people live in the world. And again, there's two variables that come into determining how fat you are primarily. One is food noise, one is conscientious. So if we just end the food noise, some people will still be overweight even if they're on a zempo because they're like, whatever, just Reese's cups and enough Reese's cups can defeat any amount of pharmacology so far. For those people, all those discussions about like, hey, they could be more diligent. You should be planning. Yeah, they're all still valid. But if we can just remove one impediment, amazing. People come at this for morality. You have to earn your keep. Now, I'm in sport competition. Yeah, value it's cheating. Now, I'm not even in competition and I'll test for drugs at all. It's not cheating at all. But people take this morality, this cheating stuff and they put it out in the real world. But do you think it should be, I've talked about this before, in cycling, a sport where they're very clear on what the rules are, no performance enhancing drugs. But to date, all of the performance enhancement has been on the generation of power, right, EPO to testosterone, things like that. But anybody who's ever written a bike knows it's half power, half weight. Cycle has spent a lot of time being hungry. Many of them do. Some of them don't. Uh, you also hear a total calorie expenditure throughout the week of superpastress. Sometimes you cyclists have trouble keeping up their weight. So you see all the whole range. But if there is a drug that solves a very big problem for you that makes you better and you're purporting to be a drug free federation, yes, you should be testing for it and it should be a band substance.

=== FILE: GLP-1s： Safe Dosing, Nutrition & Impact on Longevity ｜ Rhonda Patrick, Ph.D. [Rkr4FnVPlkM].txt ===

I would say 15 to 20% of our patients are on triseptotide. And unlike five years ago, when we started using some agglutide in patients, and we're just watching muscle fall off these people. And frankly, my point of view five years ago was, I don't know about these drugs. I think there's some benefit in some people, but I think there's a lot of downside. I today think that virtually anybody can use these drugs safely, but, and by safely, I don't just mean in the obvious sense of the word. IMean, safely for long-term muscle health as well, right? But it requires a ton of deliberate attention. So I'm glad you brought it up. That's this is exactly the group of people who you want to be using easy to digest protein sources. And if you're on triseptotide, you don't really want to stake. You don't really want to have a big chicken breast. You might not want to even have an omelet. But if we have to make sure you're hitting that 1.6, you might be doing a bunch of liquid shakes. And yeah, we can sit here and poop who processed food and say, how disgusting is it that people have to resort to eating shakes. OK, fine. But if the alternative is they're not getting enough protein and they're on a drug that is making them anorexic, IMean, we know we also know the downside of that. Well, the answer is clear, right? You don't want to be losing muscle mass, for sure. My point is, we do dexib before and after. We're not seeing the type of muscle loss we saw with our V1 approach to this. Right. What kind of dose are they on a higher dose? No, IMean, I think for, for triseptotide starts at 2.5. Some people are getting enough benefit there. The other thing that I think our approach has been is that slow and steady wins the race. So we've seen anecdotally some data. I've seen, I've heard from others. And we've seen it as well, that yo-yoing on and off these drugs is probably a bad idea. So I always tell a patient, look, I'd probably rather you were on 2.5 milligrams until there was a new drug that we felt was even better. Then you're on 10 milligrams. You lose a ton of weight. You come off. You gain. You go back on. You lose. Like this idea of being on a saw is probably a bad idea. I think the data suggest you're getting most of the value by about 10 milligrams. So once you go to 12.5 and 15, which are the two highest doses, you're still getting a benefit. But it's like most drugs. You're getting most of the benefit at the lowest dose. So five to 7.5 milligrams of trisepatitis, probably where you're getting the majority of the dose. And again, I'd much rather a patient be slow and steady on it and as opposed to try to go for maximum and rapid weight loss. What do you think about some of that data on heart issues or bone loss? Do you think it is that concern you at all? Sure. I think it all does. IMean, I think all of the stuff has to be paid attention to. And I think thEQuestion, again, comes back to how much of that is occurring due to trening? How much of that is happening due to the loss of amino acid intake and the loss of trening? Well, the neuropsychiatric, IMean, that's another one on the eyes. What I'm interested in is we have these GLP when receptors are like so many different tissues. So what, systemically, like, how is it beneficial? Was it not beneficial? I don't know that we really know. We have data where there's obviously positive effects. You see reduced Alzheimer's disease incidents with people taking this GLP one receptor agonist. But is that how much is that due to weight loss? Right? Yeah. We've looked into this a lot because I do remain, it's funny. We did a podcast on this somewhat recently where I went through this particular question, which is will GLP one receptor agonist ultimately prove to be geopolitical. And I came up with a very obscured way to define that, which is independent of weight loss. Because obviously at the macro level, they're going to be geopolitical because if you apply them to people with type 2 diabetes and significant obesity, and you correct the metabolic dysfunction, you're going to live longer. So by that regard, it's a geopolitical agent. But the real question is if you take a person who is of normal weight, who does not have type 2 diabetes, but maybe has a higher risk for Alzheimer's disease, and you microdose them. So you're giving them 2.5 milligrams per day, which, by the way, we are doing in some patients for metabolic condition without obesity. So we have patients who have diabetes, but are already at very low body weight. We have two patients actually in our practice in this regard. And after lots of detailed back and forth machination with Ralph DeFranza, who's a previous guest on the podcast, we sort of realized that at least one component of the drug regimen for these patients was going to be a GLP1 agonist. Now, it seemed very counterintuitive to give Trezzepatide to people who have a BMI of 23. But we've been able to do it without them losing weight. So again, very careful strategies around nutrition and the effect on their diabetes is profound. So they're looking more metabolically healthy. Oh my god, totally. IMean, these are really interesting cases that maybe at some point, obviously a D identified a way it would be interesting to talk about where you have OGTTs that are unrecognizable. You simply cannot believe the degree of metabolic dysfunction in a person who otherwise looks the way they look. And in one case in particular, it was so confusing that even after all the genetic testing we did, we simply couldn't figure out an answer for this. We couldn't understand where the beta cell fatigue was coming from absent a formal diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. And within three months of being on 2.5 milligrams of Trezzepatide, this individuals, OGTT had almost normalized and I suspect by about six months it will. That's fascinating. And we've managed to do this without any weight loss. So this to me is the interesting question, right? Which is when you look at some of the Alzheimer's biomarkers, which are improving significantly, it begs thEQuestion, should this be part of the playbook for an individual who's at high risk? Especially given that we now, I think really understand how to make sure people don't lose weight and don't lose lean mass. And therefore I suspect don't lose bone density and all these other things that matter. Or like you said, if you're doing this microdose, like maybe you're not going to be as satiated. Like you still have somewhat of an appetite because you're on such a low dose. Maybe you're going to have a little bit of a... We've also seen some other weird things anecdotally. Patients have told us that when they inject in the abdomen, so when you inject in the fat of the abdomen, the anti-basically the anorexic effects are greater than if you inject in the leg or butt. And we looked into this and there was some mechanistic data to suggest that maybe you're getting more vagal tone when you inject in the abdomen. Again, I just don't know if any of these things are correct. They would need to be studied. But again, that would be a very important piece of data. If there's a location you can inject this where you minimize the anorexic effect of the drug. Again, for some people, that would be a feature, not a bug. For some people, that would be a bug as opposed to a feature. So you have to understand how to use the tool.

=== FILE: Head injuries： long-term management and mitigating the damage after an incident ｜ Tommy Wood [unZlGjl5v20].txt ===

The other thing I want to talk about is, another area where you have the great amount of expertise, and that is around head injury. About, oh gosh, 10 years ago, I had a friend that suffered a very significant head injury, writing a bike down the street, and a jogger bolted out between some parked cars, didn't notice him riding, and they hit head to head. You know, the jogger got the worst of it, because he was wearing a helmet, but nevertheless, they were both devastated by this. He was going about 40 kilometers an hour. She's sustained multiple fractures to her head, but he sustained a concussion that was so bad that basically he wasn't himself for about two years. He's more or less himself now. Can you explain what a concussion is? Even this, like the idea of what concussion is, is quite hotly debated. But in general, you would classify a concussion as a mild traumatic brain injury, with more severe traumatic brain injury, you might think of complete open skull fractures, and direct penetrating to trauma to the brain things like that. So this is, the skull remains intact, but there has been some trensmission of force or a wave of blast wave, say if it's a blast injury, there's been trensferred to the brain. Then, at some level, in order to have symptoms of a concussion, you have some kind of disturbance of neuronal function, and that can either be because of abrupt loss. So there are some significant head impacts in particular where you can get sharing of axons, direct axon injury of neurons, and then that cell is essentially, there's essentially lost as you sort of ripped it apart. But even more milder impacts may cause disturbances that include like the neuron firing when it shouldn't, this can then sort of create this pattern of activation, again, that's not expected or in an area, the brain where it's, you know, would normally occur in a way that it wouldn't normally occur, and then this can then cause these downstream processes within cells that can cause my condure damage swelling, you know, you then might see the accumulation of certain pathological proteins, so towers, it's like just like you see in Alzheimer's, dementia is also a response to neuronal injury in a concussion. I work with a neurosurgeon who's definition of concussion is any impact or force to the brain that causes the disturbance of function of one neuron. Unfortunately, that's not something that we can measure, because you probably need multiple or, you know, large sections of the brain to have an average function for you to be able to actually measure it or detect it. But, you know, those are the various processes that are going on when you get a head impact. So it could be as, as quote unquote, milder's just a headache for a few days following a head trauma, or it could be, you know, in the case of this friend of mine for a couple of years, light was, they had a lot of photo sensitivity, they had a lot of auditory sensitivity, they had difficulty, you know, processing things, they were much more irritable. How common are those types of, you know, more severe symptoms than just a headache for a few days after a hit to the head? So in reality, it's quite difficult to say how common things are because millions of concussions happen every year in the US alone, most of which probably go unreported. And so it's only when you see more significant symptoms, or, you know, something's, you know, is happening in front of a, so you're playing sport, it's happening in front of a doctor, you know, you get a formal assessment. And, you know, the downstream effects are varied, you know, can be around, you know, verbal effects, post-sensivity, noise sensitivity, effects of memory, focus, reaction time, you know, depending on how you're measuring things. And probably some of it is exactly which area of the brain was impacted. And then there's a systemic response aspect as well. So there are, you know, you can only really do this in animal studies, but parts of the process of, of the, the sort of the disease process, after traumatic brain injury is a systemic immune response that seems to sort of contribute to some of the symptoms. So, you know, how much of an inflammatory response you get, how much of a fever you get, that can then, you know, cause some issues throughout the brain as well. So what do we know about the short-term management of concussion and the long-term? And what is the relationship between concussion and a traumatic brain injury, which are terms that I think, both people are hearing. And of course, the term TBI in the past decade is sort of more front and center for people. I suspect in large part due to two things, right? Probably a greater understanding of TBI occurring in the battlefield, and also in at least one sport American football, though obviously it occurs in more than that. Yeah. So like I said, the concussion is generally considered within the, so all of these are TBI's traumatic brain injuries. Okay. Of, you know, various severities. A concussion is sometimes also known as a mild traumatic TBI, a mild traumatic brain injury, or M TBI. And then, and I think this is where probably most of our, you know, focus today will be on, because, you know, the more severe brain injuries, so say if you do have skull fractures or penetrating head trauma, or you have, you know, significant loss of consciousness that requires, you know, intensive care. It, that requires specialists in your surgical treatment that's, there's probably beyond what most people here will be thinking about. But if instead, you're thinking about concussions on the sports field or blast related or sub-concussive exposures, which might happen again in sports or in the military. And there's increasing evidence that says that sub-concussive impacts or blasts, so an example would be sniper fire, right? You essentially have a mini explosion happening right next to your head several times a day, right? If you're, if you're in the range practicing, and there's some evidence to suggest that even that over time, the damage can accumulate and cause issues with cognitive function. And there you call it sub-concussive because each individual one doesn't necessarily cause symptoms, but depending on how you define, concussion you may or may not get symptoms anyway, so there's kind of a gray area there. But, you know, each individual one wouldn't be able to detect it really, but the damage seems to accumulate over time. If you have a significant head impact, so say on the sports field, there's probably again where people are most familiar with it. There's probably two aspects that are worth separating, so there's the formal medical process, medical assessment that you should undergo, and there are people who made, you know, in multiple sports now, they may have some baseline cognitive testing, so that when you do get concussion, they retest you, they make sure that you get closer to your previous baseline before you're allowed to play against, so things like the impact assessment is often used in a sort of youth and college sports. And so there's that part, but then what I'm particularly interested in is how can we mitigate the effects of an impact initially like are there supplementation of other strategies that we can do to make the athlete, who's or somebody who's at high risk of concussions, more resilient to that impact, and other other things that we can do to support recovery or minimise the effect of the impact, so with the short term sort of post concussion management, there are two or three things that I think are particularly important. So the first is thermoregulation, and so which is basically managing normal body temperature. My PhD was actually looking at the effects of temperature on response to brain injury, and it's very clear that the hotter your brain gets after injury the worse you're outcome. Pretty much any type of brain injury, stroke, traumatic brain injury, you know, also these neonatal and pediatric brain injuries that I study. And we know that a lot of sports happen in heat stress environments, so you're on the field, you're hot already or you're out in the sun, and if experimentally, if you heat that brain up first, which happens during exercise, and then you have an impact in that brain stays hot, that can that seems to worsen outcomes. So getting somebody out of a heat stress environment, cooling them down if you need to, if you need to, and you can use external ways to do that, you can use things like tie-on, also help regulate body temperature. And that particularly becomes important because at some point a few hours later in inflammatory response is going to kick in, and it's very common to get fever. There's been a big, IMean, it's decades of what. How long does that, does the, does the, sort of power or potential of that intervention last? So if a person has a concussion, you know, at two o'clock on a Sunday afternoon, is should they be in an environment of taking Tylenol and cooling themselves off for the rest of the day, or something that would you'd want to carry out for a couple of days and just continue to run the clock Tylenol to keep, to prophylactically ward our fever? That's a great question, and it's something that the field probably still struggles with, but a period of 24 to 72 hours after the initial injury is probably the most critical. The, the most important thing is preventing fever, and the reason why the reason why fever causes issues is because you, you increase the mismatch between metabolic rate and capacity to produce energy to match them metabolism. So if you have my conjure dysfunction, you're basically increasing that gap in terms of required energy production, which then exacerbates the injury. So if you have it in for cooling, Tommy, so for example, and obviously as you know from your work, when you're doing certain types of heart surgery, you can actually cool the patient to 19 degrees Celsius, at least back when I was trening that was the sweet spot. I don't know if what the temperature is today, but if you were, basically doing anything where you had to cross clamp the aorta and prevent cerebral profusion, you would, you would, you would cool the patient. And obviously that was very protective. So is there any evidence that someone sustaining a concussion should go beyond just getting out of the sun and taking Tylenol, but perhaps be laying down and be, you know, Bay, at least have their head covered in ice. So the, the short answer is no, there's no evidence for that. So that's the reason story to answer that question. So in animal models, and again, this is something that I've, I've published extensively on. Hiperthirmia is magic for acute brain injuries, right? If you can decrease core temperature by three to four degrees Celsius for, you know, three, you know, 24 hours and 72 hours after the injury, you get a significant reduction in in brain injury. One specific scenario, and that's acute, acute brain injury in babies that have some kind of issue around birth, third piece of hypothermia. So cooling to third, 3.5 degrees Celsius, called temperature for three days is the standard of care. It was brought into the resuscitation guidelines. And then they didn't take it. They do that just externally. They're not using ECMO or anything like this. No. So if, so some of those kids can go on ECMO, but that's because of respiratory failure. And you see, you can call on pump. But no, this is just an external cooling with a blanket. In models of TBI, it is similarly neuroprotective in animals. Huge bodies of work say that if you create a traumatic brain injury in an animal model and then call that animal down, they get decreased injury. Dozens of trials, billions of dollars have been spent trying to replicate this in humans, and it has not worked. And people thought the temperature wasn't right. The duration wasn't right. Obviously, in traumatic brain injury, we have a very heterogeneous population, maybe the population wasn't right. But in reality, there's no evidence that hypothermia works for concussions or any kind of traumatic brain injury. But what does seem to work is maintaining normal thermia. So basically, a core temperature, at or below 36.5 degrees Celsius, ideally. There are some people out there who will sell cool caps and things. I think I once spoke on a podcast and said what I just said. And somebody emailed me and was like, here's my unblinded open study of my cool cap in some hockey players that shows that it improves recovery from concussion. There is no high quality evidence that these things work. So particularly, because it's sternly cooling the brain, you're probably not going to get the brain cold enough to do it. So what you need to do is you would need to cool the blood going up into the brain. So yeah. But in reality, I don't think there's much evidence there. So focusing on preventing fever or managing fever, I think is very beneficial, but then active cooling below that doesn't seem to add anything. And these studies, they demonstrated, they were actually cooling the neck, they were demonstrating that they were achieving a significant reduction in brain temperature. So these external devices like cooling the neck in individuals with concussion that hasn't been shown to be beneficial when they've trialled hypothermia. Oh, I just mean, I was afraid that they actually demonstrate efficacy of cooling, not that it reduced no concussion, but did they show that they can cool the brain? No. So this is another issue is that particularly with mild external forms of cooling, how do you know the brain is actually going to cool them? And so sometimes in these studies, you may see, like particularly they're doing external cooling on the scalp, they'll do measure scalp temperature and say, well, the scalp is colder there for the brain as colder. That's not necessarily the case. So no, there isn't documented evidence that these things can directly significantly cool brain temperature. Yeah. So there's two problems, right? One is we don't know if we're even cooling the brain in these studies. And of course, therefore we don't know if cooling the brain would minimize or mitigate this risk. It could be the complexity of the human model and given our surface area relative to, finally, infants have a surface area amount that allows for easy external cooling. In fact, that's when challenges of taking care of pediatric patients is they're very susceptible in sensible losses in the way that adults are not. So here you're using it to your advantage. So that's very interesting. If it doesn't work, in other words, if we could be sure that those studies are indeed cooling the brain, but it is not having an impact, what is your explanation for the discordance between that and the pediatric and animal literature? So there are two potential things that the curd conceivably remain as our answer question. So one is that the majority of cooling studies, although this has been overcome in a lot of them, but the majority of cooling studies are probably not cooling soon enough. So there's actually a very narrow window, again, based on animal studies that says, in an acute brain injury, you basically need to start cooling therapy within six hours, but probably ideally within three hours of the injury. If you're running a clinical trial, this one has to be found, right? It's the same as doing thrombolitis in stroke, like trying to get it as soon as possible, is very difficult. So if you could immediately call, maybe that's part of the issue. The other issue, which is potential a little bit controversial, but I think is increasingly appreciated in the neonatal literature, is that when they did the original cooling trials, the control group were kept at 37 degrees Celsius and had a lot of fever. So it could be, or you mean the controls were managed with Tylenol and the thermoregulation to keep them at 37. No, so originally, they were, in those original cooling trials in neonates, the control group was hot. So if you look at a baby's normal temperature after their born, they don't immediately go to 37 degrees Celsius. They may never get there. They'll slowly warm up over a day or so. But in those trials, the control group were immediately warmed up to 37 and they also frequently had fever, and they weren't managing those fever. Because that was in the era where you're worried about the kids getting cold. So the reason you may have made the controls worse off in artificially treated a gap. Exactly. So in more modern cooling trials, they do targeted temperature management in the control group. So the control group is kept at 36.5 degrees Celsius core temperature. And then compared to that, the cooling group doesn't seem to have a benefit. So some of the effects in neonates may be due to a worsening about coming in the control group rather than benefit in the intervention group.

=== FILE: Healing Through Storytelling： How to Overcome the Past ｜ Jeff English [_xLLwilko8A].txt ===

So if I recall, Jeff, the end of week one was when we do our story, right? Kind of depending on where you were in the order, but yet, it tends to be the last few days of week one. Talk about what the instruction set was for how, for each of us as we went off and prepared to do that. Well, the guidelines that we would typically give folks, again, we just, you know, we all, well, well, we always suggest that the clients, you know, write something out, bullet point it. And we'd ask that the story be told within the framework of the trauma tree. So, in these stories, don't need to be void of success and great moments. And if it wasn't for my grandfather and that stuff, but, you know, there's a thing we're here to focus on as well, right? So the what happened to me. And that we've been given the 45 minutes to tell your story. And we try to stay out of the way as much as possible, okay? Unless it's therapeutically necessary, you know, some folks, you know, not rescue would be the wrong word, but some folks need to, can get to go in down the rabbit hole of disregulation with their emotions and go in into detail. So that client may need a little help moving forward, right? Whereas another client may machine gun through a story, right? It's in that's ingenious too, right? Don't have to fill it if I don't stop and we might need to slow that client down, right? But the essence of the story again is just to tell the what happened to me. And then I think where the real magic can happen is during the feedback. Because as you get 45 minutes to use your mouth, and then we ask you to use your ears. And we ask folks to play by one more rule. And that is, please do not give feedback to the feedback. And then we're back to the control word, right? Because I've got this thing I'm ready to present perhaps I've presented at 10 times and I've got it written out or I've at least got bullet points. And I feel good about no problem. But you start telling me how you felt and what came up for you Peter when I was talking about my dad and what he did, I don't know how that's going to fill for me, right? And so and so many times, almost 100% of the time within the spirit of not giving feedback to feedback is feedback is, feedback is almost like equates to I'm going to throw some love on you. Okay? Like maybe I didn't have anything in the world coming with you, but when you talked about that thing at eight years old, I felt myself getting angry. And that's how somebody let somebody know, I was listening to you. I was there with you, right? And 90% of the time at least, when it's so hard for folks to not give to just sit there and let somebody share from the heart and to not give feedback to that feedback, right? And but so many times it's like, well, but my brother had it, my brother had it a lot worse. It just and it's like, and it's like, I just throw my hands down and I'm like, it happens almost that's why we do. It's like somebody throws some love on you. And it's almost like out of my shame in my wound in this, I need to remind that I'm a piece of shit. It had happened so often. So we're just like, you get to, you get to talk about it. I'm pretty afraid that cycle. It's very, very difficult. A lot of folks they think that change is about announcing what that they've been know what they're about to do. Right? I know this is going to sound code dependent. All right? Well, if you're firing on all pistons as a therapist, the response should be then don't say it. Right? Because there's enough muscle memory there. We need to practice the uncomfortable thing of not saying the thing you've been saying for years, not doing the same. I'm the last person to be black and white about many things. I think much of my work with clients individually in groups, what have you with human beings is finding the gray, right? And but I tell you, well, when it comes to compulsive behaviors, complex post traumatic stress, these things that we've been doing for years and decades, you're either eye myzer strengthening an old connection or I'm building the new one. You know? And so that's back to the when those clients say, what should I do when I leave this group room, do something different. And experience what it's like to do something different. And so many times, it's not doing something. All right? IMean, we've took the vacuum clener away from clients before. IMean, it's an ingenious damage control strategy. It's a safety map. IMean, it's like, it's written all over the walls. You know, we're here to talk about some deep stuff. And I'm finally going to be expected to talk about my stuff. All right? So, and we even encourage other clients to break rules. Some folks at the bridge, you know, might not like that, but it's like you need going that you need to go take some coffee into the morning meeting. Even a rule follow your whole life. Yeah, we were only allowed one coffee a day or something. Right. Yeah, first that's not much. What I understand is not the strongest coffee in the world.

=== FILE: Healthspan： What It Means and Why It Matters to You [-JMjiNAIa5o].txt ===

How do we define health span? So if you look at the statistics, if you accept that 60% of Americans have at least one chronic disease, and the median age in the United States is 38 point something, and then you think about how long are people living on average? That would suggest if you say that, and again, this is what you're getting up the definition of health span. I would not define health span as ending once you have your first chronic disease, but that's the definition most people would use. If you use that definition, most people are spending three decades or more in the absence of health span, right? Or in six span. So, IMean, the situation is even in the United States where life expectancy is relatively short compared to other nations, a big chunk of that life expectancy is not spent in good health, and it's exactly for this reason. But the two different issues that are being confused here in the discussion. One is the issue of whether, you can help middle-aged people live longer, and everybody's agreed that we're getting better, that we're pretty good at it, and that certainly contributes to whatever you think health span might mean. That's an issue, however, that is quite different from what a concoction that slows aging to do so by extending health span. Those both have the word health span in them, but they're different, and shouldn't ever be confused with one another. The other point in this question, you ask us, what is the health span? My own personal answer to that is it's a useless term. That is because no one can define it. It's not because no one is smart, it's because the term itself is vacuous and nebulous. If you have somebody that gets a certain chronic disease here, and then another one, and then they fall down and bump their head, and by the way, they go to the hospital, and with COVID, et cetera, et cetera, defining when in that broads, over that 20 to 30 year period, they flick the switch, now they have gotten to the end of the health span is impossible. And of no interest, the general notion that people are interested in is whether that you can do stuff to keep people healthy for a long time, either without changing their life expectancy, or by changing their life, with changing their life, explosive, interesting. But you don't have to assign a number. But couldn't we get away because I agree with you completely. I don't like the medical definition of health span, which I believe is, quote, the period of time, in which an individual's free of disability and disease, I find that to be a very unhelpful definition. Because it, but part of the reason it's awful is it's binary. And that's, yes, silly. But if we made it analog instead of digital, right, and not saying that makes it easy, it's still very challenging. But now it allows us to start talking about things, right? Or is it, except it's a concept? It's a qualitative concept, right? IMean, I think we should try to make it to where we can't actually come up with a way to measure some, whether we call it health span or not, that doesn't really matter. But I kind of agree with rich. Like I agree with what you're saying, except, I think it's a really useful term as a concept. I think it's a really useful way to communicate to a broader audience what one of the goals is, right? Which is to increase the healthy period of life. Yeah, I kind of like the term health for that. I have a way that helps you out with your health. And you don't have to. See, maybe it's a function you can define it as a number. But there is a period of, I think we all could agree. There's a period of life where you are in relatively good health. And then there's a period of life where you aren't. And so I think the idea that we're trying to increase that component of life is really important. So I don't think we're actually disagreeing on much other than whether we like the word. I also think there's an individualization of this that we're missing. To me, health is a state of your physical being that you can do the things you like to do. And therefore, if you like to climb mountains, your health span is going to be different than if you like to play golf, for instance. And a lot of this is personal. You know, if you can't run a marathon anymore, some people will say, oh my health is, I'm going to never pay attention to the mental health piece. At least the biologist. So it's just a question. What is my health span? I would only be able to ask you that. Well, yeah. So we do this exercise, guys, because I completely agree with you. Steve, we call it the marginal decade exercise. OK. So we say to everyone of our patients, and I write about this a lot in the book, right? Everyone will have a marginal decade, which I define as the last decade of your life. So obviously, by definition, everyone has a marginal decade. Most people do not realize the day they enter it. But most people have a pretty good sense when they're in it. Right? OK. So the exercise we do is we go through with the patient, and we say, what are the things that are most important to you to be able to do in your marginal decade? And they generally fall into three buckets with a sub bucket. Physical, cognitive, emotional, social. The physical bucket we kind of divide into activities of daily living and recreational activities. So that's where, again, most people obviously into it, that boy, I would really not be happy if I couldn't take care of myself. If I couldn't get out of bed, get dressed, shave, cook. Like that would be disappointing to me. But then, of course, you have different levels of ambition within the recreational side. And yeah, I've got patients who say, when the day comes that I can't helly-ski, I'm going to be devastated. And other people are like, I just want to be able to garden. So that's going to create a very different standard. On the cognitive side, you have people who say, I want to be able to run my hedge fund and still make money and make really important investment decisions. And other people are like, I want to be able to do crossword puzzles and read the newspaper. And that's my standard. And again, we can go to, I don't know. So this is why it's very, I agree to it. You can't define it, but it doesn't mean we shouldn't try to personalize it.

=== FILE: How Computers Can Translate Brain Signals Into Words  ｜ Edward Chang, M.D. [25cQzrWPL5s].txt ===

Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. There's this large and growing field that we call neural engineering. That is really trying to use computers, sensors, chips in order to interpret, even stop on how the neurons are signaling to each other. Regardless of their pathology or the biology, but just what are they saying to one another? Can we eavesdrop on that? Can we interpret it? Can we decode it? And then more importantly, can we use that information actually to guide, you know, sort of more normal signaling? Why this is potentially important is that at the end of the day, the function is from that electrical activity. It's the propagation of those action potential binorons, which give rise to our thoughts or ability to communicate our ability to walk, move our arm, without that, it's not there. So I would say neural engineering as a complement to the biological or pharmaceutical approaches. How would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high-tech, but what is it? Okay. Well, okay, so let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer, and face it for short. It's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things. But I think at a nutshell, what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive, like within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor, or in the research that we've done, is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. So it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then trensform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example, you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak. Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis. And phasia, we typically refer to someone who's got, let's say, a stroke in the language centers of the brain, where we've focused recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So their problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. So they can't get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tone, the jaw, the larynx, those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and loseability to speak. And an important part of that is that they loseability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual, by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract in written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say, that's right. Okay, let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, at least two broad ways to extract that information, a non-invasive way where, presumably, you're putting electrodes all over a head that's as well as shorn as mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasively. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain, the most EEG. ECOG would be electrodes that are on the brain service. That's short for electrocordicography. And that's where we've done the vast majority of our work in my lab. And that's just placed on the surface of the cortex, under the dura on the cortex. That's absolutely correct. Yeah. Okay. So what's nice about that is that you don't have the injury to the brain itself from the insertion of the electrodes. It's a stable recording over time. We now use ECOG devices to essentially help people with seizures, for example, where you can basically have a pacemaker now that records from the brain service and stimulates to help stop the seizures. And this is a fully implanted device? It's moving towards that. So the work that we've done in our clinical trial is using an array that's surgically placed, but connected through a port. We call it a perky canus port because it's actually physically attached an anchor to the skull. It's an array on the brain. It comes out the dura and is anchored in the skull. And there's a port exit the body? Right on the top of the scalp. How do you prevent infection with such a close? Yeah. It's a really good question. And that's what the main problem with this early prototype BCI. And it's our group. There's other groups around the world that are using similar things primarily to show if, you know, it's possible actually to decode brain activity useful purposes. So what's happening right now in the field is a lot of these technologies are now going to become wireless over time. But you're absolutely right. One of the main reasons is that we want to move away from the perky tenious. We want to move away from the ports which are infection risk on top of other problems. And move to things that are fully implanted for a global, fully wireless. How long do you want to do your away from that? Basically about a year. We've been working on it for quite some time. And so it's a really interesting time where we're seeing a convergence of what's possible with electrical engineering. You know, high bandwidth wireless, press a way beyond what we can do with Bluetooth. It's an advanced electronics that now allows to print some of these sensors on a substrate that is thinner than a piece of paper. Really, really small. And on a substrate that can conform to the convolutions, you know, the different peaks and valleys of the, you know, human cortical surface. So what is the tradeoff between ECOG and sensors inserted directly in the brain? Yeah. What's the resolution difference? Well, that's a very important question that we and many other people are trying to figure out right now. Most of the time when people are putting an electrode into the brain, there has to be some gain for that. And usually that's for recording a higher resolution, usually trying to record the activity of single neurons. A single cell. How can you isolate a single cell? Yeah, really small electrodes. Super small electrodes. And that's, we do a lot of work with this in our research. The challenge for the field has just been that it's very hard to stable it record from single cells more than a couple of hours or days. So that's one challenge. The other prop challenge is that when you put the electrodes into the brain, it can create a reaction. Those glial cells, so we talked about the very beginning, those support cells, they actually have immune function as well. They detect that there is a foreign body and they'll activate and they'll react to it, create a scar around the electrodes. So the advantage of having electrodes in the brain to do this very microscopic kind of recording is that you can get a finer signal from single cells. The disadvantage is that it can create a reaction that reduces the fidelity of those signals over time. One of the reasons we've been most interested in using these sensors on the brain cortex is that we've learned over time that if you don't have the electrodes penetrating through the peel surface of the cortex, that's the outermost very thin membrane that's covering the cortex. If you don't have anything going through that, you can avoid a lot of those immune reactions, avoid a lot of that's going, preserve the function that's underlying. But this is something that we're actively trying to understand. So just to give me a sense of magnitude, if EEG on the surface is one, one unit of resolution, what would ECOGB and what would implant an electrode be? Is it one, ten, hundred, what's the scale at your thinking of resolution? Well, I would say from the scalp, let's say we just are particularly called that one. You know, and then you think about what you could do with the ECOGB. I think we're really talking about, let's say, you know, a thousand times better resolution. We've been able to answer very fundamental questions, actually, about how the brain works using those kind of surface recordings in a way that's impossible with surface scalp electrodes. Wow. And then once you go take that further to single neurons and you've got another resolution, probably six to five, five thousand. So there is a big jump is just going from an EEG to an ECOG. Correctly. That's a three log change, whereas you're a five X change going. Right. And so one of the reasons for that is the skull and the scalp are a major loss of signal. The signals are small to begin with. So once you're trying to interpret them through the skull of scalp, they're basically gone and very diffuse too. So trying to understand where they came from in any precise ways, almost impossible. When you're recording directly on the surface, you're basically at the source itself. The cellular level, the single cell recordings are terrific for trying to understand that ultra-fine resolution primarily in the case that we use some force for research, primarily to understand what's happening at those units. But still to this day, there's really no way that you can chronically instaably record from the same cells, you know, over the same reaction. Also because of how fine of a problem it is, like how precise it has to be, we're talking about a single cell, you know, a couple of microns, and diameter, you've got a electrode, any micromotion at all, anything changes that. And so typically what we see with a lot of those systems that record from those is there's a lot of turnover from day to day or hour down, meaning you're drifting between which neuron you're recording in. That's exactly right. Yes. Does that imply then that, IMean, just taking a step back, you said 82 billion neurons in our brain. So you put the probe into one and it moves over to the next one and the next one and the next one. One, like me would naively assume, they're all the same. Like, you know, those are like three row homes that are basically all identical on the upper west side. Like, that's, we're not talking about trybacker here. Does it really matter if the probe moves between those three? Sounds like the answer is yes, but I'm curious to hear. The answer is yes. And because we now know that, you know, cells that are right next to each other can have some very different information. Now that being said when you go through a column of the cortex, the column is this vertical organization, typically what we were thinking about when we look at is the two dimension of the surface. But there's a third dimension of the information processing which is the different layers of the cortex that we call the lamina. And typically in some of the sensor areas, for example, if you put a electrode, it's primarily going to be tuned to the same information across those different neurons across that depth. So you're right. In certain areas, you may have neurons that are tuned to the exact identical thing. And for decoding purposes, that may actually not be a big deal to have it not, you know, not very stationary over time. In other instances where you're trying to code for areas where it's a lot more intermix, it could have really profound implications where you have to recalibrate the algorithms that the machine is doing to interpret the signals, you know, every couple of hours or days. So when you do ECOG, how do you direct the sensor at the part of the brain you want to go to? Because I assume it has to be far more nuanced than just where you slap it on the cortex. Yeah, we're definitely getting into details and I love that Peter. You're not afraid of getting into the details. And so this is one of the actually the elutes to one of the things we were talking about earlier. The part of my brain and the part of your brain that is responsible for speaking, especially in the motor control part, is largely the same. It's in the same ballpark. There's a lot of variation when we come down to the details. The micro geography. But it's in the same, it's like largely in the same city, if we're talking about geography. Where your house is for my house, et cetera, that's going to be a little bit varied within that. One of the nice features about using ECOG or electrocordography is that you can put an array over that entire area safely. And you can sample very, very densely across the other, you know, across the entire city. Let's say. And so it doesn't really matter actually at the end of the day, if one person's there that seems to actually be a feature, not a bug, right? Absolutely. The bug is you give up the resolution at what's happening in the kitchen of that house. But you now get to look at all the houses. Exactly. And you get to do in a way that's very safe and scalable. And you're only, IMean, the biggest thing you give up is 20 percent. You give up 80 percent of the resolution roughly. But yeah. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How Culture Shapes the Way We Die ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [ekdILo2HAI0].txt ===

And you two live in this world. I would say I'm adjacent to the world, but I don't live in it. And most people aren't even adjacent to it. So death is a really foreign thing. The reason I suspect that this can gets kicked down the road so much. So much in fact, that after all the can kicking people get to the end of their life, there's no road and there's just a pile of cans. So what is it culturally that prevents us from talking about this when we're 50, when we're 60, when we're 70? When we're 70. Yeah, like why is it because it's it's become such a, I don't know if I want to say it's a black box. I don't want to say it's a mystery, but, but it's just something that we don't want to talk about. And as such, I really believe that that's why we get to thaT3, we okay, fine, we're pulling the plug. It's three weeks and you fall off a cliff kind of thing. Do we know anything about other cultures? You know, do we know how is it in Japan? How is it in Europe? How is it in, in other parts of the world? Do we know anything about how, at the end of life functions there? A little bit culturally, there's a lot to study. IMean, often be so fun to take a couple of years and really study the anthropology around and which cultures, cultures do this differently. We've been dying a long time. You know, so, but one thing I think is a great skill. Yeah. Yeah. We're doing good. You will definitely do it. Yeah. I think you will not fail. You promise you. So, and I think what you're calling attention to, there's the culture. So, I scan an avian cultures. Japan, a place that generates its elders, you know, and aging and dying are different. But they bump into each other a lot. So, I, my armchair read on say, life in Japan, where the comfort of being in old skin might be a different experience. But there, you're still left with the sort of natural phenomenon, cultural phenomenon of aging, bumping into this healthcare system idea. And that is the cognitive dissonance. We have these systems that are engineered and wired in such a way that are so at odds with mother nature on some level. And so, blind to cultural issues in the name of science, and so many sort of reductive ways, that I think it's still, if you were in Japan, I think you'd still find a healthcare system that struggles with this question, even as the culture maybe doesn't as much. Similar probably in Scandinavia. But I think in those places, I know in the Scandinavian model, you will, one of the things that comes up for people than of life is other living issues like housing, like, you know, your relationships, they're still there. So, we, one of the things that makes dying harder in this country is the social determinants of health and society are not carefree. So, you still have your housing issues when you're trying to die. You still got billpaying things that are, you know, that's the stuff that makes dying extraordinarily hard in some cases, or in many cases. So, you're saying that the lower, the wider net of the social safety net here compared to a country like Canada or Japan presumably, just adds one more stressor to an already stressful situation. Largely, in any one sense doesn't do it just as, because as you said, the healthcare systems, these places, they can also do amazing work. And so, I don't want to just blindly categorically denigrate a healthcare system in any country. There's some good things happen, but it is such a mixed bag. And as many problems as it solves, it creates some other ones, especially around issues that people are struggling to look at. To your point still holds, like, that we do have a problem in why Bridget and I came this far, science to see or smiling face. But to talk about this in such a way that allows an audience, as large as yours, to begin to think about this before it's sort of too late. This is, I think, all of our work as citizens to begin to rope this part of reality into our view, so that we can prepare ourselves for it. And we can live with these realities and not be so surprised by the fact that we die someday. In part is so that we learn how to advocate for ourselves. Versus, yeah, I'd love to see our health system mature around these issues and we'll continue to work on that or towards that. But I think the bigger note for your audience is what can each of us do to prepare ourselves in ways that the health system is not. In some ways, you're going to have to say, no, to health. Got to die well in this country at some point. You have to kind of have to say, no, thanks to medicine. One thing your audience needs to appreciate and why advanced directives are so helpful. For example, is the system is what it is, it is by the default modes of our health care system would be just do more stuff, prop your body of anything to give you a pulse. Unless you've written or stated otherwise, we're going to just try to protect you having a pulse. Most of us don't equate having a pulse with actually really being alive. And that becomes a problem at some point. We in this sort of carnival where we can really prop up a body almost indefinitely. So it becomes a, you have to find a way to say no to that and unwind what that hospital can do. You have to get out of the way of that to die peacefully in this country. Does that make some sense? No, no, IMean, it makes so much sense. And as you're saying it, I'm just reflecting on the internal struggle that I think most nurses and doctors experience. And I, we don't talk about it much, but I remember during residency, the pride that I took in how heroic we could be, what we could do for a patient in the ICU. Like how many central lines I could put in you and how I could look at all the different cultures and figure out the five antibiotics you need and how good I was at managing your dialysis and getting that CVVHD to manage the pressure and this and that and how I could alter the aerotic inter-aortic balloon pump to just keep your, like we were, there is such a sense of awesomeness in like this technology. It is awesome. But then you take a step back and you're thinking, what am I doing? What am I doing? This is a physiological experiment. It's not a life anymore. And you would say, well, is there a chance that this person is going to recover? Well, of course, there's always a chance, but how big does that chance need to be for the expected outcome to justify what you're doing? And there's two ways to answer this question. The first is economically. That's an easier way to answer it because expected outcomes are probabilities. It's what is the expected outcome of this survival multiplied by the cost of this intervention. And take the dot product of those. You add them all up. There's the cost of your health care system with respect to end of life care. Let's put that aside. There's the human one. There's the how many people are spending their last weeks or months in an ICU where they are, for on-tents and purposes, no longer there. Because the amount of sedation you have to put on a person to keep them in that state is extreme. They're now swelling into a Michelin man. And is this what we want their families final memories to be? That's something I, you know, something I, as you're talking, I just like feel, I have such a visceral memories of, you know, sitting in those family meetings in the ICU where the person the bed is unrecognizable. And, you know, the expectation that physicians and nurses and social workers and spiritual, you know, that the healthcare teams are, they should be able to have all of that expertise knowledge, you know, not all of it. Just some of the expertise knowledge that you just outlined. And then also the very nuanced interpersonal capacity to with a relative strenger asks some of the biggest philosophical questions in a moment of crisis. IMean, that is like, in some ways, beyond human expectation of physicians, which is where the, and many do it, IMean, just like with profound grace and beauty, even when it really doesn't feel like it to them. But that's where sort of like the consumer side or the patient side is like, you know, come in, having wrestled with it, not because you were given a diagnosis of a serious illness, but because we all do die and that, and that kind of gets back to your original question, like, this is hard because it's kind of impossible to imagine not existing anymore. To actually psychologically spiritually philosophically grapple with like, I'm here and I won't be. And my children are here and they won't be, and my spouse is here and they won't be. And maybe I can kind of wrap my head around that being true for my grandparents, maybe, and then my, you know, it's, it, like, this is a fundamental sort of contemplation of being human. And, you know, it's a good muscle, good. It's a, it's a life-giving muscle, I think, to start to flex when you are healthy. When you feel good, when you're like, it is actually true that I don't know when I'm going to die. It could be because I'm hit by a basic could be from some unexpected instantaneous physiologic thing or it could be some process when I'm 85, like, we don't know. And collectively, we have a hard time talking about and being in spaces together when fundamentally we don't know. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How Falls Become Fatal After Age 65 ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [_KQ9P6mM5uA].txt ===

You know, what is the consequence of poor bone health? What is the consequence of low bone density? I think, you know, some people are, who will be listening to this, will have already known issues of bone density and some people have never thought about this before in their life. And so, you know, what would you say to those people on why they should care about this and why they should think about it? This is one of those things that I would say five years ago, I was not paying nearly as much attention to as I am today. And I think the easiest way to show this is, I put a couple of figures here. So can you pull up figure one neck? Okay, so this is a figure that we made an internal analysis, but it's a very straightforward analysis. All we've done is taken data from the CDC database from 2019. The reason we used 2019 is by the time you have the 2020, you start to get some COVID data mixed in there. Although the accidental stuff only changes and that you see a higher rate of overdose. So you're looking at the absolute number of deaths by decade for people aged 25 to 35, although we up to 85 and up. And we basically break accidental deaths into four categories. So overdoses, trensportation accidents, which are mostly car accidents, falls and everything else. As you can see, those firsT3, accidental overdose, trensport deaths and falls represent virtually all accidental deaths. So you can almost ignore everything else. This is the absolute numbers. These are total numbers. And I think kind of two things stand out here. Really clearly, the first is thaT4 people, younger than 60 overdoses are the predominant cause of accidental death. And for people over 65, falling is. But if you go to the next figure, it tells I think a more important story, which is when you adjust for the population, because remember, in figure one, what I'm showing you is total number of deaths. But what you don't realize is that as you move left to right, the denominator, the population is getting smaller and smaller and smaller. There are fewer and fewer people in each bucket as you go to the right. So to correct for that, we would ask thEQuestion, which is how many of these deaths per 100,000 people occur in each group. And if you look at that figure, I think the story is readily apparent, which is, but the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. Now, it's not as high as Alzheimer's disease, it's not as high as cancer, and it's not as high as heart disease. But it comes in pretty much just after that. So this is what sets the stage. Because on the one hand, I think you can look at these data and say, wow, this is really problematic. But the other point is, you can't wait until you're in that bucket to decide you're going to do something about it. So just as for atherosclerosis, we don't want to wait until we've had our first heart attack to say, oh, and I really need to worry about my APOB, and maybe I should stop smoking and make sure my blood pressure is okay. You don't want to wait until you have osteopeenia or osteoporosis in your 60 years old to say, it's time to do something about this. Now, if you're there, there's lots to do about it. But it's just as important if you're 25 years old, and frankly, it's just as important as a parent, if you're thinking about what your five-year-old and 10-year-old and 15-year-old should be doing, to make sure that they're setting themselves up for the best outcomes possible, as they age, of course. Okay, so let's look at figure three now, because so what you're looking at here is the excess mortality for women, which is shown in the top, men, which is shown in the bottom, following a hip fracture, and this is going to come up over and over again. We're going to get into some data about what are the fractures that really end lives, and you're going to see it's primarily hip fractures. A pelvic fracture, I think, is probably second, and again, in part this results from the immobility that comes after it, but I think there are some other reasons that play there. But so what we're looking at here on the top graph is women, following a hip fracture, men, following a hip fracture, and you're looking at mortality as a function of age. Now, this is kind of staggering. IMean, when I first saw this, I couldn't believe it. And I apologize for people who are only listening to this podcast. Again, this is one of those podcasts where I think it really helps to be able to see the figures. I'll do my best to kind of explain what the figures show. But for those who are looking at it, I don't think you need me to say anything. So you can just plug your ears and go, la, la, la, la, la, as I explain this, because there's nothing I need to say if you can read this graph. So if you're 90 years old or above, and you're a man, and you have a hip fracture, in this data set, and we're going to talk about other data sets in a moment. 40% actually more than 40% of you will be dead within a year. Now, that mortality comes down. That's generally the case. The mortality tends to come down because there's kind of a survival benefit. Or there's fewer people in that group, right? So, you know, what's the mortality of people who are 90 over the next 10 years that numbers going down because most of them have already died? You can see for the younger demographics, the numbers go up. So, you know, the good news is in this cohort, at least if you're 70 years old and you break your hip, you know, 10% of those people are gonna be dead in three years, but that number just keeps going up and up and up. So I think the important thing here from this data set because we're gonna look at another one in a second, I think is more stark. In this data set, what you realize is that for older people, people over the age of 85, people over the age of 80, which I would argue is not really that old. IMean, I think most of us, you know, listening to this podcast, if we're not that age, certainly have aspirations to be that age, your mortality is, you know, in the neighborhood of a third within a year after a hip fracture. So, you know, you know, Nick, we're gonna have Michael Easter on the podcast coming up soon, aren't we? Like I think we're having Michael, IMean, I know we do the interview next month, so that'll come out soon, right? Yeah, that will come out mid-Summer probably. Yeah, so for those who aren't familiar with Michael's work, he wrote a book called The Comfort Crisis, which I'm gonna say is probably, you know, one of the 10 books that I'll sort of force down most people's throats if given the chance. I think it's a really important book. And it'll, a topic from that book will actually come up later in this episode, Nick, when we start to talk about exercise and what we can do to reduce the loss of bone mineral density as we age. But in the book, he makes some references to a few studies that I went back and looked at, that talk about some of the unbelievable high mortalities in other fractions. So, so if you look at another study, study had like about 200 people in it. It looked at the six month mortality in people who were 65 or older who fractured their hip. And the mortality was 25%. Again, I wanna repeat what the implication of that is. So, if you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older, who fractured their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. Now, obviously, when you include younger people, that mortality goes way down. So, if they lowered the threshold in that study to people 50 and older, that mortality came down to just under 14%. Another study which was a finished study that looked at a little over 400 conceptive hip fractures in patients found that the one year postoperative mortality was just over 27%. So, again, totally different patient population, but identified and buzz weight of a country, very similar tren. And I think perhaps the most rigorous of these studies was a large study that looked at about 120,000 participants who were at least 60 years old from various cohorts. So, Europe, the US, et cetera. Followed them for 12 or 13 years on average. And during that time, found 4200 hip fractures. This study was able to then compare total mortality and look at the hazard ratio in the first year following the hip fracture. So, now this is asking thEQuestion, what is the probability or what is the increased risk of death one year following the hip fracture in this patient population? Again, these are people enrolled at the age of 60 or beyond. And the hazard ratio is 2.78. So, again, what does that mean? 2.78 means a 178% increase in the risk of mortality within one year following a hip fracture. There are lots of studies like this. I don't think we need to spend the rest of the AMA on it. I think regardless of how you slice and dice these data, a hip fracture is a devastating outcome. And it's something that we really wanna avoid at any age, but especially when we're into our seventh decade and beyond. Just for reference, what's the hazard ratio for smoking again? The hazard ratio for smoking on all cause mortality is less than 2.78 for sure, because the hazard ratio for end stage renal disease is about 2.76 for all cause mortality. Smoking is probably just below two. So, great, great point, Nick. This has a greater mortality than smoking. Yeah, not the other really interesting thing when you look at that. Those two graphs is I would love to do a study on the people who were over 90 when they fractured their hip and survived at 10 years. You know, who are those people in their hundreds? Just like kicking around, still going strong. It'd be really interesting to see. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How Fear of Hormone Therapy Harmed an Entire Generation ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [MDz2tMSEOks].txt ===

Do you want to talk about the history of HRT? IMean, you know, it was a largely normal practice in the 1960s. They, you know, certainly had some fits and starts, right? They initially were just replacing estrogen. Um, figured out pretty quickly. IMean, within a few years that if you only gave a woman estrogen, you were going to run the risk of endometrial cancer going up because the endometrial lining just continued to get bigger and bigger and bigger and you eventually developed hyperplasia, which presumably became metaplasia and ultimately cancer. They figured out pretty quickly how to combat that. If you've just opposed the estrogen with progesterone, you keep the endometrial lining in check. And this largely became the, um, the standard of care through the 1980s, uh, and into the 1990s. And this was largely validated by epidemiologic, uh, observations, which showed that women who took hormones did significantly better. Now, people who listen to this podcast are well aware of how critical I am of epidemiology. And it's certainly very easy to make the case that in the 1980s, women who were taking hormones had a healthy user bias, right? These are women that probably had better access to health care. They were probably more health conscious. And as a result, they were probably doing many more things to improve thEQuality of their health. So the NIH did something that I think made a lot of sense. It was the right thing to do, which was they said, look, we can't rely on this epidemiology. We need to do a randomized control trial. And they did it through something called the Women's Health Initiative, which had two components, a nutritional component that was asking a question about low fat diets and then, um, a component that was looking at the HR team. So, um, would you like to pick up the story as to how the study was designed? Maybe talk about some of the, the potential pitfalls of it. And ultimately, how the results of that have been misunderstood and misinterpreted for so long? The fact of the story hasn't been made into a Hollywood biopic mega drama. I don't know, right? This is a big deal, a billion dollars of our resources went into doing this study. There are many things that we learned that were helpful and useful and this huge set of data that we're still using today to extrapolate information from and there was a lot of good that came from it. But there was a lot of misinformation and just really bad marketing or really effective marketing, you could argue because what is so wild, Peter, is that when this study came out and they did a press conference. Okay, before the study was published, they did a press conference. Have you ever seen the NIH to a press conference? Matt Lauer talked about or that was made it on you, you know, like good morning America. Like they did a press conference. I remember I was in medical school at the time. Like I remember sort of all, you know, this happening. And they said, okay, this, we had to stop the study early. It is increasing the risk of breast cancer and increasing the risk of blood clots and cardiovascular disease. And we have to stop the study. And everybody, this, there's different statistics out there. The people say about 40% maybe of women were on hormone therapy at the time overnight, it went, it crashed in nothing. You're talking billions of dollars of an industry went to nothing. And the people who are prescribing the hormone therapy were like, this doesn't make any sense. I do this. I've been doing this for 20 years, 30 years. I don't have a clinic full of people who are dying of blood clots or heart attacks or who get breast cancer. Like this is not my clinic, whose clinic is this. And then over the years, you know, then they published the paper and as we talked about or, you know, before we did this podcast is that they misinterpreted the data so drastically and scared everybody so with so much fear that you actually have an entire generation that has forgotten how to prescribe hormone therapy. And this is where the nightmare that we're living in today because now we realize that the data was misinterpreted. So if we talk about, and again, and the WHI was one medication, one dose, that's it. And it was a sort of birth control pill style kind of hormone therapy. So a synthetic estrogen and a progestin, it was not sort of the, what we call, you know, more, and we can talk about the marketing term bio identical. But the FDA proof products that we use today, like Estridile and progesterone, they're different medications that we use today. And so you're talking one medication, one dose. And we are still practicing fear-based medicine. 30 years later, whatever it is, saying like, like, like, we don't practice any other medicine like this. Well, there was one study about surgery, 30 years ago and that's the way we practice medicine. Right? We evolve. We learn new things. So what it is, show. Let's talk about the good. When you took estrogen and progestin or estrogen alone, you had a decrease risk of colon cancer, but decrease risk of fractures, like significant decrease of fractures. Decrease of diabetes. Okay, that seems like a good thing. Those things like all good things. This is in the hormones we don't even really prescribe anymore, right? We saw a decrease in overall mortality, a decrease in cancer specific mortality. And then when you looked at the cardiovascular data over time, and again, I'm a urologist, I'm not a heart expert, but you saw there was actually no difference. Right? It actually wasn't so scary. Now as you get older, we know birth control pills can cause blood clots. So we do worry about giving a birth control pill to grandma because you can increase blood clots. Right? That's true. I agree with that. When it comes to breast cancer, the most fascinating data that didn't make the press conference, women who are on the estrogen alone. So they didn't have a uterus, so they didn't need the progestin therapy. Had a decrease risk of getting and dying from breast cancer. Right? And the new estrogen was never this, even in that study that put the box labeling on all the products, it's not true. Right? The estrogen and the progestin groups, there was a fear that there was an increased risk of incidence, but not mortality from breast cancer. And even when you look at that data, there is questioning of the fact that the placebo group actually was more protected by breast cancer because many of them had been on hormones in the past. And when you use a correct placebo group, the lines actually go together. And so you're more of a statistics nerd than I am, but the reality is there was no difference. And so we scared an entire generation of people away from hormones because of a bad misinterpretation of statistics. So Rachel, I don't know how good you are at sensing a person's blood pressure from across the room, but if you were able to sort of project your vision into my carotid artery, I see a bulgogi. Yeah, you'd notice that my blood pressure is up. I'm probably at 180 over 120 right now. First off, I think that was a remarkable succinct summation of the WHOI. I'm only going to repeat a few things. Bec, not because I didn't think you did a great job, you did, but because sometimes hearing it twice highlights the agregisiness of this study. Shout it from every rooftop you can find. And truthfully, I have friends, female friends, and I have patients who to this day are paranoid about hormones. And I just, I want to offer yet another opportunity for them to sort of understand what's going on. So this was a study that had, you know, two parallel arms, right? One, where women without a uterus were just randomized to either this synthetic or equine-based estrogen versus a placebo. And then one, where if you had a uterus, you got MPA, a synthetic progesterone, and the estrogen. As you pointed out, the elephant in the room here was the one finding that got all of the attention was that in the women with uterus group, if you got the synthetic progesterone and estrogen, you had an increase in your incidence of breast cancer. It turned out it didn't actually lead to any change in mortality from breast cancer, but there was an increase in the incidence. Now, the number is really scary if it's given in relative terms. It was a 24% increase in the incidence for the listener, meaning getting breast cancer, right? So you had a 24% higher chance of getting breast cancer if you took the two hormones. On the surface, that sounds devastating. But again, as people who lose some of this podcast know, we always need to think in terms of absolute risk. And relative risk doesn't mean that much if you don't understand absolute risk. So if I said to you, Rachel, I have a treatment for you that is going to fix a hundred problems, but it increases your risk by 100% of getting hit by an asteroid. Would you take the medicine or not? Well, you'd have to know what your base level risk of getting hit by an asteroid is. And given that it's almost zero doubling it doesn't mean anything, right? So the absolute risk increase for these women was 0.1%. So to put that in less technical terms, it meant that you will even if you believe the results of that study and you've offered a great explanation for why the actual results should bEQuestioned. But even if you take them at face value, for every one thousand women who were put on HRT, an additional one got breast cancer, though she didn't die from it at any increase rate to the women who didn't get the hormone. This to me is, and I'd like you to push back on this, although I'm worried you won't be able to because you share my bias. This is the greatest injustice imposed by the modern medical system in our lifetime. You are not going to get pushed back from me on that. I think women's, I think that... This is a disaster. I just got back yesterday from teaching at the largest internal medicine conference, ACP, the American College of Physicians, and you're talking more than 20,000 internal medicine physicians. I was asked what a wonderful thing I was asked to give a course on female sexual dysfunction, it was wonderful. I talked a lot about menopause. There was no other menopause content at this course. There was no courses, how to prescribe. Given everything you've done, my colleagues and myself have done to bring it into sort of just popularity. Patients are coming in, asking questions, and there wasn't even a course to learn. I can't say that's true for GLP ones, or any of these lipid lowering agents or all of the things that you've been pushing. The problem is you now have a, you have a brain drain, I think, because the doctors who prescribed hormone therapy either retired or died, right? And there was no one they taught. I had of them. Now I was very lucky. I had very good mentorship and incredible experience, but we are now trying to make up for a lost time to tren people how to write prescription. So it's not enough to say, hey, the WHO was misinterpreted and we've done a bad thing for people. You know how to do this. And it's not a small, it's a huge problem. And the reality is this is half the population. This is not niche medicine. The fact that menopause medicine is the tiniest little room of subset of gynecology, which it should not be under gynecology, right? This is whole body medicine, and yet nobody seems to care. Yeah, it's really interesting to hear you say that because you're highlighting something that's as dramatic and potentially more dramatic than the thing I've tended to focus on. I've focused more. So maybe I just take for granted that I got lucky and I had amazing mentors and they taught me how to do this stuff. But it's also the nature of my personality to just be endlessly curious and show up in somebody's clinic for two weeks and do this. I've tended to focus on the lost generation of women. So I had my analysts do this analysis two years ago. And I don't remember the exact numbers. But the analysis was calculate for me or estimate for me the number of women who were deprived of HRT because of the WHO and calculate the excess mortality that was achieved through that injustice, through hip fractures, cardiovascular disease. We just went through the entire list, right? So calculate the number of lives that were lost, the amount of disability that was incurred because to your point, even if you don't die from a hip fracture, 50% of survivors never regain the same level of function. And I didn't even know how to quantify all of the sexual side effects that women unnecessarily endured, all of the vasomotor side effects that they unnecessarily didn't even try to quantify that because I don't know how to. But that's the thing that I focus on. And again, it's personal to someone my age because my mother and my mother and law are in that category, right? Like they're the ones that got absolutely screwed by this system. You're highlighting something equally and potentially catastrophic with potentially a greater impact, which is we failed to tren a generation of doctors to do anything about it. And if that's not reversed, the problem doesn't get much better. The data's very clear on this, right? Less than 6% of internal medicine, OBGYN or family practice doctors get even an hour of menopause education in their trening. Do you remember learning about menopause in your medical schools? Zero. Zero. I didn't learn one minute of it. And so here's the... I did learn that hormones were bad. Oh, yeah, you were right. So there's this, so because you are taught hormones are dangerous, or the bodybuilders take the hormones. The snake oil salesmen take the hormones, right? Like we don't talk about this in real medicine, right? So you actually have everyone says it's not my... It's not my... it's not my... it industry. It's not my thing. I went to this internal medicine conference, you know, yesterday. And all the internal medicine doctors were saying, but this isn't... This isn't my field. Like I don't feel comfortable, right? And endocrinologist was standing there saying, I don't feel comfortable doing this. I said, you're a hormone doctor. Like that is what you do. It is so embarrassing I've been asked to speak at multiple academic centers to teach on hormone therapy. And every time I'm like, is this real life? I am a urologist teaching hormone doctors about how to prescribe hormone therapy. And it is real life and this is why I'm so loud about it, because we have to change this. We have to change this on a big level, because I need the ICU doctors and the pulmonologist and the card... and the heart doctors and all the doctors to know that menopause affects their organs, right? Coal and cancer. Why aren't... why aren't GI doctors talking to women that estrogen prevents colon cancer? Why are we checking dexas at 65? Like, why are rheumatologists not prescribing hormone therapy? I found out recently that psychiatrists, because I do a lot of teaching about how to prescribe hormone therapy. A few of us are very passionate about it. And I was like, sit with me, I will teach you how to write the prescriptions. I've had psychiatrists tell me their malpractice insurance will not cover them if they prescribe hormone therapy. And I said, wait a minute, you prescribe postpartum depression drugs, which are pregestin-based, right? You do reproductive psychiatry, which means birth control is a part of what you do. And you're being told you're not allowed to prescribe hormone therapy. When hormone therapy is one of the greatest antidepressants in the history of medicine, it is insanity. We're living in a nightmare. Packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peteratiamed.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How Much Protein Should You Really Eat Daily？ ｜ David Allison, Ph.D. [0a936pOVQZo].txt ===

how much protein should I be eating, what should my family be eating? You know, our guidance to our patients is pretty straightforward. And it varies based on their preference. We have some patients who are vegetarians who have been lifelong vegetarians who can't stand the feel of meat, right? They're not, this is not like a belief that they have that meat is bad for them. They genuinely don't like meat. We have other patients who won't eat any animal products. So they're gonna have a harder time reaching the upper limits of protein consumption. And so, you know, with those people, we're just trying to nudge them as high as we can get them. And that's probably not gonna get much higher than about 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight. But the guidance we're giving people is we really like to see you at about 1.6 to 2. It's an easy, heuristic, it's easy to remember too, because you're basically consuming almost a pound, a gram per pound of body weight. So how would you advise people? I would say, if you just wanna survive, stick to the or. If you just want to survive, the RDA is probably okay for most people. But if you want to thrive in these goals that most of us share, then I would aim for in the neighborhood of two grams per kilogram per day, per person spaced out throughout the day. So for example, if you want to pass, you should study this many hours per day and you will get a C, right? But if you wanna have the best shot at getting into the best college, you could get into, because you wanna study engineering, you should probably study this much, and you're probably gonna need to try to get A's. Great analogy. To me, I look at and say, life support, basic maintenance RDA. Strong evidence for thriving, tuition. Above two, probably more benefit, but you're starting to hit the ass and tote, I don't know that it's gonna come down, right? I don't know if anything that says that it's not gonna be monotonic, that's gonna turn around. But diminishing benefit, and then starting to get into more costs of economic costs of buying fancy products, of the costs of that your time and attention on it, the costs of not eating something else you might like. I know you and I are both sort of, out of struggle with is the right word, but wrangled with fruit, we both like fruit. And we both play with diets at times that where we've minimized the consumption of fruit for other goals, and yet both perhaps come back to it a little bit and said, I don't wanna give it a fruit. And those are examples, I think, there's some optimization, but I see no harm, and I think the more refined your goals are, then the more it's reasonable to push it a little bit. If I wanted to win the Olympics, I'm more motivated to push it. For me, if I can lift one more pound of weight on the bench press, who cares? But if I'm trying to win the Olympics, it matters. So what is your best aggregation of the data on where you start to reach diminishing returns? I think the evidence is very clear that when you go from the RDA level of poinT4ish grams per pound or point eightish grams per kilogram, up into roughly double or even a little bit more than that roughly two, I know no evidence of harm in any group, other than perhaps, again, the very rare folks, and even in people with chronic kidney disease or anything else. I think there's lots and lots of evidence for benefit in at least medium term observable phenomena, like body weight, like appetite control, like bone, strength, muscle, and so on, for people to be consuming more. And I think it's especially true in people who are recovering from injury, bodybuilding, looking for performance in athletics, looking for strength, who are older, who are growing, all of those things. People keep raising thesEQuestions of harms. I said, show me the data. Can anybody send me? And it was sincere. I said, this is an open call and I sent it to like some of the top people in the world, including those who are a little bit hesitant not protein intake were integrated. And I said, can anybody send me one or more papers that are intervention studies, not observational ones, that are in humans, ideally randomized, but I'll take an intervention, even if it's not randomized, but it's got to be controlled, controlled intervention study, in humans feeding different levels of protein, in which the different levels of protein intake are separable from other effects. That show deleterious effects on a clinically or intrinsically meaningful endpoint, right? Don't show me that this molecule change, so this gut microbiota change, and what do I do with that? Why do I care that that gut microbiota changed? Nobody cares about those things intrinsically. We care about them only and so far as if they give us heart attacks or strokes or earlier or later death or greater strength or make us better looking, right? We care about how long we live, how good we look, how we feel, our strength, what we can do. We don't intrinsically care about whether this molecule or our body is higher than that molecule, or this gut microbi. And I said, can anybody send me one? Nobody. What you did is the right thing to do, which is look guys, we're having religious debates on social media where people are using their Twitter platforms to like lambast people they disagree with and call them names and do all this sort of nasty stuff. Why don't we just do this like grown-ups and show me the data, right? And so the data is show me human clinical trial intervention studies that demonstrate the deleterious effects of quote unquote high protein.

=== FILE: How People Over 65 Can Reduce Their Fall Risk ｜ Peter Attia [ejaGqqZh24M].txt ===

Do you want to quickly walk through the tactics and your longevity toolkit? And then from there, we can go into detail on each of them. Yeah, IMean, I think broadly speaking, there are five buckets of things that we have control over to impact all of these things we're talking about. So one, we just talked about exercise. And you can probably tell my bias is that that's the single most important one for the most part. So the second, in no particular order, would be nutrition. So what you eat matters? And we'll talk about that. I'm sure in more detail. The third one would be sleep. So the difference between sleeping well and not sleeping well has an enormous impact on your brain, but also on your metabolic health, which then indirectly plays a great role in other diseases. The fourth would be all of the sort of medications and supplements, drugs, anything that your doctor prescribes or that you can buy over the counter. And these are of varying degrees of efficacy. Some of them are incredibly dubious. Some of them can be life-saving. But again, all of those things we'd want to think about. And then the final bucket would be all the tools that we would have at our disposal to improve our emotional health and well-being. So we've already touched a little bit about why exercise is important. But for people in this audience, how can they start just safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? It's hard to provide a blanket statement on that because everybody's going to be different. But I think it's safe to say that people are less fragile than they believe. And IMeet many people, for example, who have back injuries. And say, look, I have a back injury. I can't really do anything. And the reality of it is when you sort of probe a little bit further, what you realize is nothing tends to make their back hurt more than inactivity. I don't remember who made the statement, but I loved it. And I've paraphrased it or plagiarized it many times. Sitting is to lower back pain, what bourbon is to alcoholism. So any of you who's back has hurt will probably think about that and go, you know, he's kind of right. When my back hurts, sitting is the one thing I don't like to do, or after a long drive it hurts worse. And, you know, for most people, actually being active makes them feel better. Now, let's be clear. There are certain activities. Like if you have no cartilage left in your knee, more walking won't make you feel better. And so you've got, you're going to have to see an orthopedic surgeon. They might need to do a knee replacement. But boy, I will tell you in this day and age, in 2025, what can be done with a knee replacement, a hip replacement, even a shoulder replacement? IMean, these operations have come along so far. And they have restored so much quality of life to individuals. So, every one of these cases has to be managed individually. But if you have a really good PT or rehab professional who knows what's fixable with more trening or more conditioning versus, hey, this actually does need some medical attention, I think the aspiration should be, what can I do to get as active as possible? Moving from exercise into nutrition, we saw questions come through that different diets are being talked about and they aren't sure which one they should follow. So, is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? I don't think there's a diet that is best. I think there are principles that matter and everyone should find the diet that best allows them to adhere to the principles. So, what are the principles? The principles are not to eat too much and not to eat too little. That sounds dumb, but it's just the reality of it. And I think everyone struggles with a different end of that spectrum, right? There are some people who just don't like to eat that much. They're like little birds. And as they get older, that becomes a huge problem. They are too frail. At the other end of the spectrum, you have people like me who like to eat too much. And we will spend most of our life fighting against the urge to eat too much. And that also becomes a problem as you get older because the heavier you are, the more weight you're putting on each and every one of those joints. And again, we're thinking about all these things that are working against us as we age, not to mention other complications that come from eating too much. But I would say that in an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. First of all, I just think for many people, it's kind of hard to get enough protein in. Even I have to pay attention to it and I don't have a problem eating. But I need to be mindful of, hey, that I get enough protein. It's really easy for me to get all the carbs in the world. It's not, I don't have to go out of my way to eat more fat. But I do have to be cognizant of getting enough protein. And enough protein is a pretty big number. It's about one gram per pound of body weight. So I would challenge each of you to pay attention to, hey, if you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? And I would bet that especially for the women here, that's even harder. Now, if you follow a little bit short of that, it's okay. But if you're at half of that, you're really not getting the optimal amount of protein. And as we age, we develop something called anabolic resistance, which means that it is harder and harder for our muscles to synthesize and grow new muscle cells with the given amount of amino acids, which are the building blocks in protein that we get by eating protein. And therefore, we actually need more and more protein to overcome that. So, we talk a lot about obesity. We talk a lot about osteoporosis in osteopeenia. But there's another condition of aging called sarcopenia, which is the condition of muscle loss. And that's a huge problem. And there's really two ways to, in concert, two ways to address that. One is consuming enough protein, and the other is doing enough resistance trening. So again, doesn't matter if you're a vegetarian, doesn't matter if you're like a Mediterranean diet, doesn't matter if you like steak and potatoes. If you can adhere to those principles, that's gonna make your life easier. Is it harder to adhere to those principles? If you're a vegan, yeah, it's a lot harder. But it's not impossible. I know lots of people who have done it. But looking at a food tracking app in your phone is a great way to spend a week evaluating how many grams of protein you're getting. And I think you'll be surprised that for many of us, it's we're probably underdoing it. Now I'm moving on to sleep. Sleep is something that you've written a lot about. And you said that you didn't use to take it very seriously, but now you do take it very seriously. And that's true. He goes to bed at eight every night. So why do you think it's so important? I think I'm up till nine these days. Yes, sleep is important. And you're right. I used to probably until 12 years ago. I think my mantra was all sleep when I'm dead. And I just would try to sleep as little as possible. But the evidence are pretty overwhelming, especially for both near-term and long-term function of the brain that sleep is very important. Now I think at your age, a couple of unique challenges emerge. Again, I think most people, once they're over 65 or 70, they're not fighting the will to sleep because they want to be out partying all night. It's more that other things are getting in the way. So we know that as a person ages, they tend to sleep a little bit lighter and their sleep architecture tends to change a little bit. We also know that other things get in the way, especially for men, which is it gets harder and harder to make it through a night without having to get up to pee. And IMean, I'm already at that stage, where at least two out of the seven nights a week, if I am not mindful about when I had my last glass of water, I'm gonna be up at two or three in the morning to pee. And sometimes that's harder to go back to bed after. So what are the things that we have under our control? Well, one of them is absolutely timing of water. Now again, water is super important. The older a person gets, the more susceptible they are to dehydration. The older a person gets, the less reliable, thirst is as an indicator for fluid status. So at a liviage age, you don't really, we do not need to pay attention to how much you're drinking. First will be the guide. But that becomes less and less true as you age. So you're juggling a narrow problem, which is on the one hand, you have to be mindful about drinking enough. But at the other hand, you can't drink too much too close to bed, and that's gonna keep you awake. Another thing that makes a huge difference in sleep quality is timing a food. So the longer you can have between when you have dinner and when you go to bed, the better. So we eat dinner really early because we have young kids in our house. And that's why I can get away with going to bed at nine because it's still been three and a half hours or three hours since I ate. Another thing is alcohol. So some of you probably drink alcohol. And the less alcohol you have in your system, when you sleep, the better you're going to sleep. Having a super dark room, having a super cold room is going to make a big difference. And perhaps the biggest thing to sort of make a point about here is consistency of timing, especially on the wake up. So if you could head through yourself to one time, it's what time do I wake up? And if you force yourself to wake up at the same time every day and don't allow yourself to take a nap during the day. And this is a big ask because I know napps can be tempting. It's going to regulate when you end up going to bed by building up enough sleep pressure. So if a person tells me, I'm struggling to sleep at night and I find out they're napping during the day. The first thing I want to do is get rid of the nap. I want them to, and then I want to fix the wake up time, eliminate the nap, and then actually let them get into a better sleep cycle that way. Are there any good sleep supplements that you recommend taking and that are like not damaging to you? Yeah, there are. IMean, and I think one has to be very careful with this stuff. We, you know, there's certainly evidence to suggest that as we age, melatonin levels go down and therefore melatonin can aid, at least with sleep initiation. But it's important to know that melatonin really is only the signal to initiate sleep. It's not going to necessarily keep you asleep all night. So if you're not doing all of the other things correctly, melatonin is going to be limited in its efficacy. So before I go down the route of supplements, I want to get everything we just talked about. Vsavee, the hygiene completely dialed in. And then yeah, if there's still an issue falling asleep, I think melatonin can be a viable tool. Although I really want to make sure it's the lowest dose you can buy. They tend to sell this stuff in high enough doses to kill horses. It's not necessary. The lowest dose, which is maybe 300 micrograms is probably all you need at most twice that dose. But you don't need anything north of a milligrams. I think one has to experiment a little bit with other things. I find Ashwaganda a little bit helpful for others maybe not so much. OK, and then we'll quickly touch on the last one, which is emotional health. And a lot of people think that this is not really something that kind of matters in longevity. But you talked about this in the last chapter of Outlive and how it's really important to you and that you've recently discovered it. So do you want to talk a little bit about that and how it's important as people are aging? Well, I think it's actually important at any age. And I think that what I imagine is so appealing about living at a place like this is you have a built-in system of friendship. And I would imagine that that's probably a great source of well-being that many of your peers would be missing out on if they were living alone. I think about how little I see my parents because we live in a different country. And so I can imagine that things that we take for granted when we're young, like being close to our children or our grandchildren, aren't guaranteed when we grow older. Now, of course, she's signed a contract that says she can't leave Boston. So this won't be a problem for me. But I think social support network and some sense of purpose might be the single most important part of the emotional health toolkit as it pertains to living longer. Every one of us knows the story of the couple that have been married for 70 years, one of them passes away and then the other one has dies within a year. I don't think these are just anecdotal. I really think there's an understanding of why that happens. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet. You can sleep right. You can exercise. But if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible. But I would say even more than that, regardless of how long you live, if it's unhappy, why bother? You know what IMean? So let's say you do live a long time, but you're alone or you're miserable. In some ways, that would be the ultimate purgatory. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How Temperature Affects Male Fertility ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [RlrXS0hibWg].txt ===

Tell me about the impact of cold plunging and sauna and hot tubbing on fertility for men. Okay, so the testists has outside the body. Yep. It's 3 degrees cooler than the rest of the body. So 95 versus 98 degrees Fahrenheit. And then there's a reason for that unknown. We had that conversation don't really know why, but it may be that it's an immunologic sanctuary and that's the only way to do it in that God or Don't We can figure out. But if you heat up the testicles, it's also close to the skin. So it's a radiator. So when the heat comes down in our turbo blood, it has to cool. So it raises in lowers and there was a journal in the journal of air reproducible results about 20 years ago. A man went to Big Sur and wore nothing and he measured ambient temperature and then he marked on this leg with a marker where his high-scrowed him hung how low it hung and he could tell the ambient temperature by how high or low his scrotum hung. He became a thermometer. So so it does go up and down. Is that Peter a tealactic? Journal of air reproducible results. Oh, really cool. But it's showed that it's very temperature-centitive. Right? And it goes up and down to regulate it closer to the body when you want it warmer. Except right, going to a cold shower or a plunge where your testicles, they're way up there. In my abdomen. Yeah. And that's all the creamest jerk muscle and it's all temperature driven. So it spends all of its time regulating its temperature to stay at 95. Now, sauna's bad. Hot tub secosis, steam rooms, change that. Right? The worst one of those is anything underwater, submerging underwater. Because your one centimeter away, your liquid, it's a liquid. You're going to turn that temperature and maybe not the inner part of your body. But little kids going into hot tubs, right? They overheat. So testicles will certainly overheat. So you get into a 105 degree hot tub, which is a very typical temperature for a hot tub. It's 105 to 110. You're saying within a relatively short period of time your testicles will assume that temperature. Absolutely. Yeah. You're 70% liquid. Yeah. And this is right at the surface. Published in the Brazil and Journal of Eurology, very, I published 200 studies. This was the hardest one to get in. Everyone said we know that it affects fertility. So I don't, we're not going to publish it. So American Thailand, the Brazilian Journal of Eurology. Then went to the New York Times as a press release. That's how popular it was. It's probably my most cited paper ever and it's certainly not my best. It's very interesting. I took in fertile men with low sperm counts and stopped the tubs. They were in hot bas Urcus. I used to work jacuzzi, jacuzzi called mepsit stop. Don't use that word. So I don't use that word. So hot baths are tubs. And I told them out and they went up 300% They're seeming, and now, seeming quality went up 300%. Total amount count. In three months or four months and 600% in six months. So you know, you have to give us some time. And that's that curve, right? The recovery curve. And we didn't look at fertility. We just looked at that recovery. And someone was zero and went up to close to the age range of these men. They 35. So fertile men. Yep. And you can see. Yeah, these are men who are not able to conceive. You're making the diagnosis. I think it's your hot tub. Let's get you out of there. And they have a sixfold increase in sperm count. Total amount of sperm count. Mean count, motility. Meanly driven by motility. Interesting. So it's motility that the price. The biggest one. But cost of count might have doubled to me. Chilly may have gone up threefold kind of thing. So sixfold increase overall. Then I calculated after that, I calculated a lethal dose of tubbing. So what's the lethal dose? What's the only 50? Yeah. So lethal dose to me means you're zero. Yep. You do it enough. You have no sperm. And it came out to be 20 minutes of a hot bath or a tub. 20 minutes on 140 degrees. Three times a week would probably make zero. Wow. There have to be a lot of guys out there who are spending at leasT3 times 20 minute sessions in a hot tub that's at least 104 degrees a week. And the highest group, the biggest, interesting, the largest group of people in Tubbs at Northern California would do this study where environmental lawyers. I don't know. It's like, is your job that stressful? It's okay. It is. IMean, it probably isn't California. All right. So then then I think there's been studies. That was the, IMean, the only study ever done prior to that was a PhD thesis at Vassar College. Where someone had a guy dip their test skills into a bucket for 20 minutes that really hot. And looked at their sperm counts or their fertility and they went, they went, they really. That was the only, and I couldn't even find it wasn't published. I had to go, you had to figure out the thesis thing. But that's how little was written about it. And they gave me so much plaque for publishing. This was really funny. And the New York Times had an article said, you know, a juicondum and a juicondum, a birth control pill, that was a juicondum. It's like, picture, picture contraceptive. So it's huge. And it's, I asked it, I'd say 10% of my populations in it. And the next question is, what about sonas? So sonas is not underwater. It's not some version. But sonas are, you're not, you're in a hot room. You're going to, it's going to affect it. And I would say the effect is onEQuarter to one third. It's a profound, as a hot bath or some version. So my friend was absolutely right to have those ice packs on his scrotum. He's thinking he's reading. Yeah. He's listening to his Markiplier. The Turk protocol. Yeah. And then I would say steam rooms, showers are probably fine. Yep. Because you, you're in an ambient temperature's normal. And I think steam rooms are probably between sonas and, you know, events are much time you spend, but it's probably not normal, but not a hot bath. Hot baths are terrible. Okay. And then what about the cold? I don't worry about cold. I remember surfer magazine call me and said, you know, I'm on the other California surfer, right? No, I'll say surfer. And they said, I'd get a surfer magazine call me and say, I'm surfer surfer surfer surfer. I'll let you say, is that water bad for them? Because California waters are extremely nice. Yeah. And I said, no, I've never met an infernal surfer. So I don't think it's bad at all. All right. So the cold is okay. Because you're such a plunge where you're talking seconds. Yeah. Yeah. You know, your test moves are going to go up. Yeah. And you're going to be able to maintain the heat. I think if you did it all the time, it would probably be bad. Yeah. Because enzymes work in the testicle at that one temperature. They work optimally. I'm Peter Rattier. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterRattierMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How To Build Up Your Willpower Muscle ｜ Charles Duhigg [gHwVrvsuWLI].txt ===

If you were to consider a group of 10 individuals who are similar in most observable ways, externally, right? And you want all of them to create a new habit in a domain that is entirely foreign to them. Are there attributes of these people that would allow you to predict who is more likely to be successful? For example, does willpower, which might form the basis of the initial, you know, for lack of a better word activation energy getting over that hump the first few times? Does that factor into it? IMean, truth certainly I think I understand the science of willpower, so maybe we can spend some time on that if it's helpful. The answer is absolutely, but I'm going to caveat the answer by saying, there are certainly behavioral characteristics that make it easier for some people to understand how to change their habits and adopt new habits. There does not seem to be a great deal of evidence that there's genetic reasons to predict that. Now, some researchers will say there is slight genetic variations. We think that some people are more prone to willpower than others are, but it's so small and insignificant in comparison with the behavioral trening that you have, right? The environment that you've grown up in, if you have parents who teach you willpower habits, if you're someone who is an athlete and so you have a team that's taught you how to push yourself a little bit harder when pushing yourself as hard, you already have an intuitive sense of how to adjust your own habits. And so as a result, if you're in a room with someone who has none of that background, they've never played on a team sport, their parents let them do whatever they wanted, it's going to take me longer to change that second person's habits because I'm going to have to tren them more and the trening just takes time. That makes sense. Okay, so it's not that one does herinability, yes, exactly. High environmental and behavioral exposure is absolutely. Absolutely. And the research is pretty consistent on that. This is an exact metaphor, but we can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles, it gets stronger the more we practice using it, but it also gets fatigued in the short term. And so this is why if you look at a data on when accidents happen in surgery, they most often happen when a surgeon has been either in his second or third surgery or her second or third surgery or when it's a very long surgery. Right? They've been using their willpower for so long. They get fatigued. If you look at the number of affairs that happen among lawyers and doctors, they most often happen when someone has been at the office after 9 or 9 or 9 or 30. And for years people thought, oh you get to the evening and it's like kind of romantic. No, it's that after 9 or 10 hours of exerting your willpower in your office, your guard is down, your muscles weaker. And so when someone comes up and they kiss you instead of pushing them away, you kiss them back. Thinking about our willpower muscle, both strengthening it, but also protecting it when we need it, is critical to being able to be the people that we want to be. And so part of that then is recognizing when you're vulnerable. Yes. So you're, and IMean, you used an extreme example of having an affair, but also vulnerable to fall. So let's use a less extreme example of I really want to eat less dessert. Yeah, right. I really just want to eat less dessert. Well, it's just smoking. Okay. So it's a great one. It could be because James Prochaska at the University of Rhode Island has spent his whole career. And like the data that we have on smoking cessation is enormous. The vastly outpaces almost everything else. Yeah. So, but, but, Diane, right, you, or no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, okay. So let's talk about what happens. Nicotine, as you know, is an addictive substance, but we're only addicted to nicotine for about 100 hours after our last cigarette. By that point, nicotine is out of our bloodstream. Like, we don't have a physical dependency on nicotine. And yet we all know people who create, who smoked for years quit and they crave a cigarette a decade later after they have breakfast in the morning. Right. Let's, so I didn't, I didn't actually know that Charles. So four days after you smoked your last cigarette or had your last exposure to nicotine, you can go with longer have a physiologic need for nicotine. Yeah. It's out of your, you have, you have completed with withdrawal. Now, that, that is, that is, IMean, I had no idea of that, but what you still have. You still have the cue. You still have the, you still have the, you still have the, you remember the reward. Right. Exactly. The habit, the habit loop still exists in your brain. Like, if you have a, if you have a cigarette with every morning cup of coffee, as soon as you pick up that cough, cup of coffee, your brain is craving that nicotine. And that feels just like an addiction, a physical in fact, it's, in some ways, more powerful than a physical addiction. And so, so what, so what Prochosca did is he looked at how peoplEQuit smoking and this gets to the point you were raising before about learning. He found that on average, a smoker needs to quit seven times in order to actually quit. So, so committed smoker. Somebody who's been smoking for years, they will give up cigarettes seven times before it actually works. Which raises this kind of interesting question. What is happening in those seven times? Like, why seven instead of four? What's happening? What the research tells us is that the first time I give up cigarettes, I focus on willpower. Right. I say, like, I'm going to resist, I'm going to resist these cigarettes. I'm throwing them out. I'm going to change my environment a little bit. But all those cues are still there. The craving for the reward is still there. And when my willpower gets taxed, my mother-in-law comes to town, I've had a really tough day at work. My willpower is really, my muscle, that muscle has been exercised all day. That's the moment that I give in and I pick up a cigarette and I say to hell with it, I'm going to start smoking. And just to be clear is what happens when you have that first cigarette? Why can you not on that first cigarette go, hey, it was just a lapse. I'm exhausted tomorrow's a new day. Well, it's because you don't have a plan. Right. So you're caught off guard by this relapse. And as a result, it tends to shake our faith in ourselves, even if it's almost subconscious. It tends to shake our faith in ourselves that we can't quit. Now that's the first time. That's the first time. So I just want to interject here. This is something that we try to talk a lot to our patients about, which is, because again, we're not dealing with something that's as binary as smoking. Let's just say it's exercise and you're like, we've set a plan that you're going to do something for 30 minutes every day. And then you're going to have that day when you don't. What we tend to spend a lot of time coaching on is absolutely positively under no circumstance to you judge yourself for that day. And the next day just get back on the horse and don't let one bad day be to. And then it's fine. Because I think what we see is a lot of times a personal goes six days of an exercise, you know, of their routine, they miss a day, they beat themselves up and then they're done. They're like, well, forget it. I screwed up and or you know, it can happen in the reverse. Yeah. Well, and it makes sense, right? Because we're talking about rewards and positive rewards and negative rewards. IMiss a day. And I start beating up on myself. I'm flooding my brain with negative rewards, with recommendations, with feelings of shame. My brain pays attention to what gives me positive rewards and negative rewards. And it's saying this exercise thing, it's a soccer game. Because if you do if I feel good for a couple of days, you're going to miss it. You're going to be a terrible laugh of when IMiss it. So you're exactly right. We can't not engage in that self-laim. Well, this poor smoker, this poor smoker, his his mother-in-law, who nags him comes into town. His his willpower is exhausted. He's been dealing with their all day long. He grabs his. He lights up. Sneaks outside and shame. Yes. So here's what happens. You do that once you do that twice. You do iT3 times. Here's what's hard happening around the third or fourth time. And this is what gets to your exercise as well. Suddenly, people stop looking at it as a moral lapse and they start looking at it as a scientific experiment. Okay. Here's the data that I've observed. I do a pretty good job of avoiding cigarettes until something really stressful happens. So I need to ahead of time figure out when that stressful thing occurs, what am I going to do instead of smoking? Because if I don't have a plan in place, what's known as an implementation intention. If I don't have a plan in place, I'm going to pick up the cigarettes. So here's my plan. Instead of beating up on myself, I'm going to write down that the next time my mother-in-law comes to town, I'm going to have some sweet candy in the house. Because I know that I'm going to have an urge to put something in my mouth. I'm going to want some type of quick boost reward and sugar can provide that to me, the novelty of taste. I'm going to have that candy in my house. And when she's driving me crazy, I'm going to walk over pick up a piece of candy and go outside and eat it. So what happens is that over time the reason why it takes seven times to quit smoking or the reason why you're your clients and your patients, they have these moments of willpower failure, is because instead of looking at that as a failure, we have to look at ourselves as scientists who are conducting experiments and paying attention to the data. And my wife is a scientist and you're a scientist. So you know, if every experiment that a scientist does succeeds, they're a terrible scientist. Right? The goal is to figure out where it's succeed and where it fails and learn from the failures. We have to look at our own lives at the same way and say, IMeant to go run today and I didn't. Let me try and figure out why. And then I'll come up with a plan for the next time. Next time this obstacle emerges. I know what to do without having to worry about. Is it the case you think that that people are able to kind of do that on their own or is this the enormous opportunity to to coach a person through that and say, you know, to create an accountability partner for example and say, look, I want to hear about it when you fail just as much as I want to hear about it when you succeed and when you fail, I'm going to direct all of the inquiry towards learning. What did you learn? What can you, you know? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How does blood flow restriction training produce such high levels of hypertrophy？ ｜ Jeremy Loenneke [4lFyqyxLRyg].txt ===

Let's talk about the mechanism by which this is happening. My assumption, which I don't know if it's right or wrong, is that at least one of the reasons that BFR can produce so much hypertrophy at such low load is, is in response to the metabolic challenge that's posed. And so one of the things I was doing quite a bit was testing lactate levels with and without BFR. And you get it's very easy to demonstrate that when you acclude your arm, for example, will distill to that occlusion lactate is going through the roof because you're exercising that arm and you're not letting the lactate clear out of circulation. So pin-pricing my finger and getting very, very high lactate levels. And so, you know, that's obviously a metabolic byproduct of any time you're exercising and then especially when you're doing this type of exercise. And so, yeah, I could demonstrate that I had a higher level of lactate doing blood flow restriction than not, even when I was lifting slightly more weight and doing something traditional. What do we think, do we think that that matters in this equation? Do we think that that's partially driving this? Or what, and that's just one of the metabolites that we can measure easily. There's plenty that we can't. Yes, I would agree. I think that there's kind of two schools of thought. One is that the pulling of these metabolites in and of themselves is turning on some of these anabolic signaling pathways, meaning just the fact that you're pulling lactate around the fibers that that's able to activate growth. I used to be interested in that idea. We tried to test this using a couple different ways. We didn't find an advantage to doing that. So, we kind of started to say, well, maybe there's nothing to metabolize in and out themselves, but maybe it's what they're causing a muscle to do. So, in other words, maybe the way we think about it now is that as you said, you're exercising with blood flow restriction, the metabolites are being trapped. What we think is that they're augmenting muscle activation. So, they're causing the muscle to have to work a lot harder than it normally would, because you're pulling this lactate around it, and you might fatigue some of these cross bridges, so we have to recruit more and more and more and more fibers. So, that's where we think the benefit of metabolites is, is that they're basically inducing fatigue which then leads to further muscle activation, and muscle activation for a sufficient duration of time is the name of the game, at least in my opinion, for making a muscle grow. So, one of the big kind of questions always is, are the mechanisms themselves different from traditional exercise? If I do high load exercise, is that going to be a different mechanism than when I do low load exercise with blood flow restriction? And I don't think so, and I'll tell you why. I think that the mechanism involved in activation is different. But once the fiber is activated, all the signaling pathways from what I understand are going to be very similar. So, when we lift a heavy weight, it requires a tremendous muscle activation to even lift one rep. If you are trying to do a bicep curl, and you're only activating a small portion of your fibers, and you're trying to lift 70 pounds if your 1 orm is 100 pounds, right? That's enormous bicep curl. I'm really feel pretty pathetic here, yep, let's go ahead. So, choose any left, right? In order to lift that heavy weight, you need to activate a large portion of your muscle structure, otherwise the weight isn't going to move. Compared to low loads, where you don't need to activate the same amount of muscle fibers initially, because the weight is extremely low. So, when we exercise with low loads and bph, we're activating only a small amount initially, but those metabolites as you just got start to become trapped, and we activate more fibers, more fibers, and more fibers, and then by the end, we've activated a similar amount of fibers as we did with high load exercise. By the way, is there an order in that? So, if your 1rm bicep curl is 100 pounds, and then without, so with no blood flow restriction, you pick up 80 pounds and bang out, I don't know, 10 reps, 8 reps. Compare that with if you picked up 40 pounds and banged out 40 reps. What is happening from a fiber fatigue standpoint under those two scenarios? In general, we have what we call the Hennemin size principle, where you recruit type 1 motor units first, and then, as you require, based on the exercise you recruit, type 2 in addition to type 1. So, when you lift a heavy weight, you're getting to the type 2 is very quickly, because you need them. Whereas with lower weight, you're probably taking a little bit of time, but then you are eventually getting to those type 2 motor units. So, if the person in my example fails at 8 reps with 80 pounds and 40 reps with 40 pounds, at the, it's just that the 40 reps took a lot longer to burn through the type 1 fibers, and then the type 2 a's and the 2 a-b's, and then finally at the very end the 2x failed, whereas when he did the same exercise, you know, 20 minutes later at 80 pounds and failed at 8 reps, he just got, he did the same sequence, but he just got to the 2x much sooner. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, and the reason why I say that is if you look at, if you pull out fibers following trening, type 1 and type 2 fibers, have both been shown to grow in both high load exercise, as well as low load exercise, with them without blood flow stations, so they both respond. Some people have suggested that type 1 might grow a little bit more with low load trening, but I'm not, I'm not convinced on that yet. I think that it's probably very similar to high load exercise, although I see the thinking, but yeah, both of them will grow in response to both types of exercise. In general, at the extreme level, there's a bodybuilders, high-perter-feed, more explained by type 1 or type 2 fibers, or are they both massive relative to anybody else? Yeah, I would say probably the increase in both, although I don't, there's not one thing I can point to, that would suggest that for me, but I think that in response to trening, my guess is that both of them would increase. I think you might be able to make an argument that people who might, again, go back to our argument earlier, who start lifting weights and realize, man, I'm actually able to grow quite a bit. Maybe they already had more type 2 fibers to begin with, which is something that is more responsive to loading. So maybe you can make that argument, but I think in response to actually, when a bodybuilder exercises, I would probably guess that both of them are going to grow both types of fibers.

=== FILE: How is autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosed？ ｜ Trenna Sutcliffe and Peter Attia [DozJQanFDNk].txt ===

Let's talk a little bit more about autism. Now, of course, it referred to as ASD, right? Correct. Autism spectrum disorder. Spectrum disorder. Tell me today how is the diagnosis of autism made? Because I think when many people think of autism, you know, if they're old enough, they might think a rainman, right? You're going to think of somebody who in a very short interaction, a non-clinician would go, that person is not neurotypical, that person clearly has something about them that's quirky and very different. And you might think of even more extreme examples of children that are non-verbal and things of that nature. But, but again, given the nature of this and the fact that it's a spectrum, that must make it even more challenging to find the diagnosis correct? Very, very. So, I have so much to say about autism, right? But the diagnosis and how we make it and how it's changed so much over the years. So, autism spectrum. So, first, it's a spectrum. Huge spectrum of what those, what this means, what people remember it from decades ago as from, you know, non-verbal, very little, you know, communication skills, being somewhat isolated, not interacting with other people, mannerisms, such as flopping your hands, very, that sort of a classic description that we do remember from, you know, over the last couple of decades. Nowadays, many children who have a lot of speech a language skills, who do communicate a lot, but to struggle with the social communication that we have with each other, who have many, many strengths, but do struggle with social skills and do have some restricted interests of repetitive behaviors. They also qualify under this umbrella term, called autism spectrum disorder. And this term, autism spectrum disorder, that term came out in 2013 with the DSM5. So, how we diagnose it is based on, again, clinical traits, but the definition and the checklist of those traits have actually changed many times over the last few decades. So, currently, it is, you work with an expert who is a lot of experience with autism, and they do an analysis of someone's behavior in the two areas that we look at social communication skills, and the other is the repetitive behaviors restricted interests. So, for social communication skills, our current diagnostic criteria requires that a patient has differences in three specific areas. One is their social reciprocity. So, this is the back and forth of social interactions. It's how to initiate socially, how do you respond socially? The second area is related to nonverbal communication skills. So, it's how someone uses their nonverbal communication, I contact gestures, as well as how they understand and interpret somebody else's nonverbal communication. And then the third area is related to how they understand relationships. So, it's about building friendships, playing with peers, how they understand the social contacts of being in a group. So, those are the three key areas when it comes to the social communication piece. And in order to get the diagnosis, you do have to have differences in all those three areas. Is this something that is done during one assessment or is this something that's done over repeated assessments? Great question. Depends on the level of severity in the child. So, first of all, it's important that whoever's doing the assessment really understands that child. Who in your clinical team does this? What type of trening does this person have as it a physician? Is it a social site like, yeah? Yeah, great question. It can be a physician or it can be a psychologist. Those are, that's generally who does it. So, physician, it would either be a developmental behavioral pediatrician or a psychiatrist. That's most often. Cache, it's a pediatric neurologist or somebody else in, with some sort of similar background and trening, but generally D.B. P. or psychiatrist. And then, if it's not a physician, then it's a psychologist that usually does the assessment. The assessment could be multiple things. There's no gold standard, like the assessment has to include certain components. But again, I could mention that it's important that the clinician get to know the child. I think it's important to understand the child's profile. The label is only one piece of it. To me, if someone tells me their child has autism, I actually really don't know much about their child. Hmm, say more. I, because you tell me your child has autism, I really don't know what your child does like if someone tells me that on the street. So, and again, like then we come up with treatment plans for like a child with autism. It's like, well, there's a saying, you've met one child with autism, you've met one child with autism. And so, to really, you know, make a difference with the treatment plan, you need to understand that profile of that child, that child's strengths and challenges. There's multiple goals with the assessment. One part of the assessment is to make a diagnosis. Because the diagnosis can be a tool to help the adults around that child better understand that child. It gives some sort of structure of like how to approach that child and leverage their strengths and, um, and work on skill building, it can help get resources at school or through insurance. The diagnosis is a tool. However, to really make a difference, you want to understand what about that child is unique and different and how to use to part that child. So, you're asking how do you do an assessment? So, when it is a, um, more significant case, um, with significant impairments, we frequently can make the diagnosis. You can make it pretty quickly. You should take a good history. You should definitely meet with the child, work with the child and the clinic, but there are many children where of trened clinician can do that diagnosis pretty quickly. In a child with very significant autism. It'd be obvious to you if you were in a restaurant, you saw someone with autism. You know, it's obvious to many people. But for children who have milder symptoms, it is really important that, um, that there probably is multiple visits to see the child on multiple days, um, that different types of assessments are done, uh, directly with the child in addition to taking history with the parents and in addition to collecting information from other people involved in that child's life, such as teachers or therapists, uh, it's important to get different perspectives. So, you mentioned that, um, the diagnosis in sort of, probably more severe cases can be made earlier and earlier in life. Sounds like sweet spot is three to four years of age. But then you said half kids are half of the kids are diagnosed, above six. Yes. So, is that something that is a relatively recent phenomenon of the past decade since the DSM five broadened the inclusion criteria or was that even true in the 70s and 80s? Yeah, great question. So, it's complicated. I'll say it has a lot to do with the new diagnostic criteria. So, before 2013, we had Asperca syndrome. Yes. We don't use that diagnostic label anymore. And we also have to say the, called PDDNOS, pervasive developmental disorder, not otherwise specified, a mouthful. And PDDNOS was a term we used when it had similarities to autistic disorder, because all three of those names were under the umbrella of autism. Um, and so there were a lot of kids who received this PDDNOS because they were like, uh, something different. So, it's different. They're sprinkled with bits of autism, but they didn't quite meet all the criteria. When you didn't meet quite all, all the criteria, you got PDDNOS and then there was Asperca syndrome, which generally described an individual who had good cognitive skills, you know, average or high high cognitive skills, intellectual skills. They had a lot of speech and language skills. They actually had a huge vocabulary. But again, their social reciprocity back and forth conversation, picking up on social cues that was at a typical. And they also had a lot of like restricted interests. They would have things they were really interested in, but then they would like dive deep into those things. Um, so in 2013 with the DSM5, we put all of that together under autism, uh, or, I'm sorry, autism spectrum disorder. Um, and so now the kids who have the more like clear cut, very traditional autistic disorder, they, you know, they're picked up at two years of age or two and a half, three years of age. And it's the kids who have, you know, the stronger cognitive skills, the stronger, they have speech and language present, um, they're picked up later. By the way, nowadays with the new diagnostic criteria, um, language impairment may or may not be present in the diagnosis. So when you give the diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder, you also have to clarify whether there is intellectual disability. So with or without intellectual disability, and then we say with or without language impairment. So with all of these changes, um, the spectrum has, it's, it's, it's, it's very broad.

=== FILE: How misguided peanut allergy recommendations created an epidemic ｜ Peter Attia & Marty Makary [tb-9w347Lis].txt ===

So let's talk a little bit about peanut allergies. Probably everybody listening is no strenger to a peanut allergy. In fact, I don't know what the prevalence is, perhaps you do, but it's quite prevalence. So there's again, the probability that someone listening to this doesn't either have a peanut allergy or no somebody with one is probably close to zero. So let's talk a little bit about this. Has it always been this way? And if not, when did this become an epidemic? Well, it really isn't epidemic and it's tragic and people can go into severe antiflexus just being neuropunit without even ingesting the peanut. In 1999, Mount Sinai did a study and estimated the prevalence to be about half of 1% and the vast majority were very mild. And it's there are many theories as to why that might have crept up from zero generations prior. The American Academy of Pediatrics decided to address this problem by issuing the recommendation. Now they didn't know what to recommend. They honestly literally had no idea what to recommend. I went back and interviewed some of the individuals who made that recommendation. It was a strong recommendation. Even if it wasn't made with such absolutism, it was interpreted as the law of the land. And the recommendation was for all children, zero through three to avoid all peanut products, including the little peanut butter moms would put into food and infancy. And pregnant mothers and lactate mothers should also avoid 100% peanut abstinence. And what happened immediately after that recommendation in the year 2000 is peanut allergy rates in the United States began to sore. And we saw a new type of allergy, which is the severe and a phylactic reaction, the ultra allergy where if someone used the same ice cream scooper as in the pistachio, even though they had rinsed it, that kid could end up in the emergency room when we saw emergency room visits skyrocket. So the American, so the medical establishment deletes, I'll say not the rank and file doctors that think independently. And the latter than rank and file doctors knew they just made this up. And somewhere had immunology backgrounds and knew this doesn't fit with immunology. And immunology, you need to be exposed to things early in life to be immune tolerance, something called oral and immune tolerance. Parents had known it as the dirt theory, sometimes you around. Can't the funds get developed a robust immune system that helps the illiterate and life bubble kids end up getting really, really sick later on. There's a pediatrician named Gideon Lack who's an allergist who was one of these enlightened guys early on and he said he noticed kids that had. I think it was like iron or metal in their teeth for dental work were less likely to get a reaction to ear piercing later in life. And so he had done research in immune tolerance and knew this concept if you're exposed to something you're less likely. Well a bunch of pediatricians to test this recommendation tried to speak up they were basically silenced or sideline and this recommendation took on a life of its own parents were told for their kids. Remember one two three at age one you can introduce milk at age two eggs and age three finally you can introduce some peanut products. So it became known as the one two three it took on a life of its own it became dogma. As the peanut algae rates soared the medical establishment said what's going on here we're telling people what to do they're not listening we need to double down we need to get people to comply we have non compliant parents out there if we can only get everyone to comply with this we can defeat this epidemic. If you can dear little echoes here of modern day correlations so this doubling down took place. And the more they double down the worse it got to the point where now there's an estimate the one eight one and eighteen kids has a peanut allergy. But the severe peanut allergy is that the real issue now where it's banned in a lot of schools about 20% of schools in America banned all peanut products altogether. And the more you ban the less exposure the more immune sensitization because now you have to think about the one and eighteen kid with an allergy. So it became a self-licking ice cream cone it was like you know more abstinence more abstinence what are you doing. And the parents who are like no I'm going to introduce peanut butter as my grandmother did and for generations whenever we're no peanut allergies they were seen as anti science they were ridiculed schools would address these parents sometimes. I have two medical students well graduate students doing research in my research center at Johns Hopkins from Africa. Once from Cameroon and once from Zimbabwe and they came to fly over to the research meeting in their first days and they were like what is it with the peanut allergies here. Like they're announcing it on the plane to be WI there these all these products are like contains no tren nights. And they're like what have never seen this before my life and like some student invited one of them to dinner at his house because he was a new student from Africa. And he goes oh would you like to come over for dinner sometime and he goes yes sure. Do you have any peanut or other allergies and he's like Marty what that always with this peanut obsession here we have no peanut allergies in Africa. And I was like wow faith have you ever heard of a peanut these are public health graduate students. So we have no peanut allergies in Zimbabwe then I would call relatives that I have back in Egypt same thing I've never heard of a peanut allergy except for there was an expat living here in Cairo. And you realize this is a unique American epidemic that was created. But there must have been some index cases that caused the hysteria. Yeah so that incidence from outside I suggest half one percent it might have been microbiome related we think. But but the peanut abstinence just through lighter fluid into this fire and it really resulted in where we are today. So where is the American Academy of Pediatrics today on their recommendations. So here's the thing the study got done eventually 15 years into the recommendation that doctor Gideon Lack IMentioned. London published a study in the New England Journal of Medicine with a with 640 kids doing a randomized control trial to early peanut butter exposure in infancy. Four five six months not as they're sold diet he's go pro bet breastfeeding right and whole peanuts have a choking risk. So IMean the smart way. Yeah and then some peanut abstinence and peanut introduction and infancy. Fast forward a couple years radically eight full different rates in peanut allergies and severe allergies published in the New England Journal of 15 years. Why didn't the American Academy answer what year was that study published 2015. Okay then of course full difference so we're talking about that's almost like a significant as smoking. Giving lung cancer versus not like smoking versus not smoking and lung cancer was about a tenfold difference. Yeah one of the biggest odds ratios you see in research. Yeah and then of course the you know the beer crats at Nye add and NIH from the National Institute of allergy and infectious youth. They fought two years later they get around putting a position paper and all this stuff. So so 17 years. But do we also understand how much. How much is that position paper reverse the behavior in parents because when it comes to kids that are born today. Do we know that the amount of peanut abstinence going on is virtually gone now. I think it's unknown but it's a great point you raise why not reverse the recommendation now that the science is clear with the same vigor. Right. Which you put it out initially why not show some humility why not what.

=== FILE: How statins might affect brain cholesterol synthesis and cognitive function ｜ Tom Dayspring [s7iUcvcwL2U].txt ===

Anybody who's ever prescribed the statin to people knows there's a very small amount And it's even in the package insert that comes back and tell Docs since you started this I'm not right. I'm thinking right I'm not calculating right my brain is in a fog And we use the word brain fog again and extreme minority of people given statins have that we had no clue what caused that Environmently would stop the statin trying another one it usually occurred or if it didn't find but if not then We'd have to figure out other ways to a lower LDL cholesterol which was not easy years ago But anyway my hypothesis now it gases these small number of people get brain fog I wish I had this monochrome levels on them could some people be very sensitive to the effects of a statin We know in the periphery hypersynthesizes of cholesterol respond Incredibly well, this is that and so our should be over synthesizes do hypersynthesizes do not so who knows but That if that being said now here comes the next part of that epidemiologic study where they correlate at low Disemustral with serum desemostral people who had low serum desemostral had a much higher incidence of cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease which would lead simply to the hypothesis that Serum desemostral is a usable biomarker to say is somebody at risk for Alzheimer's disease and This goes back to when IMet Richard Isaacson with Peter we started throwing these hypotheses around and we've watched that ever since Where would it come into play so if we're and you know until recently you Estatins were our only game in town So if we write a statin especially if used in higher dose if Desemostral was dropping low and we use an arbitrary cutoff point to 20th percentile Would that be maybe you don't want in Hibbit cholesterol synthesis in the brain to that degree? Might we want to attack a pobe with another agent all hypothetical Reason's I'm putting on the table here right now and I think right now we look at that especially in who Who are the people that we know are slightly prone to? Dimension cognitive impairment the e4 carriers people maybe which strong family histories People that have other Identifiable traits that make traits that make us think they're prone to AD we would watch Desemostral incredibly closely in that population So now the last thing I'll tell you if the astrocyte is not making cholesterol because of it's being over suppressed by a statin The neuron would be getting less cholesterol the neuron would convert none of that cholesterol to 24 S. hydroxy cholesterol because it's trying to conserve every cholesterol molecule again So I think if you were somebody who could measure 24 S. hydroxy cholesterol in the serum you would not see it And somebody who had cholesterol synthesis suppression in the brain this all has to be worked out in future clinical trials But there there are looking at this in some clinical trials right now. So one day will be a lot smarter on this Right now if you want you could measure Desemostral and perhaps use that as a cautionary marker Number one if they're not on a drug and it's low Yeah, they haven't done an April E4 genotype you might look at it But if it is somebody who has a propensity Desemostral and you have to use a statin Maybe you want to watch that the good news is and I think it's why our Manitri is if we have to use a statin we start with low dose statins. We have very little use for the hydro statin in the year 2024 because None of the other April B lowering drugs be a ben pedolic acid is that a mime certainly pcs canine inhibitors get into the brain and suppress cholesterol synthesis So we have many ways of lowering April B if we were a little fearful of load as maustral in a patient prone to a day or so So that's As much as we want to get into probably with brain lipids right now Understand April E is a big player up there and there are different types of the April E protein But understand cholesterol homeostasis has a lot to do with what is in the peripheral cells We can look at markers of synthesis The markers of cholesterol absorption that we use big time when evaluating peripheral cholesterol homeostasis Obviously is not at play in the brain the brain is not absorbed in cholesterol from your gut before we leave that time What is our hypothesis around the hydrofobicity Of various statins and do we think that certain statins are more likely to cross the blood brain barrier Are there certain statins that should be ignored in patients with marginal desemostral Great question in the thoughts of changed on this too because early on if you go back probably Maybe even listen to the podcast you and I did in 2018. I believe We were talking about hydrofilic and lipophilic statins in the lipophilic ones Can pass right through the barrier little easier than the hydrophilic one which need receptors to pull them in But subsequent analyses is shown all statins get into the brain ultimately once you have a steady state Staten level in the blood They all will get into your brain and they all have the ability to suppress cholesterol synthesis in the brain Now the last thing I want to say about statins before everybody says oh my god I'm stopping my statin amar I can't get it does most role level Oh, they're available if you look for them, but in general if you analyze all of the statin data the many trials be the observational or Randomized control there is no signal whatsoever that in a population statins Worsen or co-is cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease There's a few studies that even suggest perhaps some lowering Maybe that's through a thoracic cerebral vasculine disease who knows But don't worry that statins in the overwhelming vast majority of people are not hurting the brain But I think we've introduced perhaps a biomarker that you might know with a little more certainty If you have to write a statin in somebody subject to dementia Yeah, we actually covered this at length in one of the previous AMAs and I went through every meta analysis on this topic it's important for people to understand That at least at the time and I don't think this has changed there has been not been any statin trial where the primary outcome was dementia The primary trial is always cardiovascular disease but there have been more than a dozen such trials Where the secondary outcomes are dementia it's worth noting that in every one of those trials regardless of statin used There has either been no change in the risk of dementia or a reduction in the risk of dementia Now it's interesting these studies were almost all done in the setting of trying to determine If lipophilic versus hydrophilic statins were more or less or better and the answer always emerged It didn't seem to matter which of course makes sense if you understand now that they probably all across the blood brain barrier So thEQuestion remains will there ever be a study done that tests this question specifically as the primary outcome In other words where the study is powered to ask thEQuestion does the use of a statin increase Decrease or have no effect on the risk of Alzheimer's disease and dementia or will we instead be forced to rely on these Secondary outcomes which are always subject to some Potential misinterpretation again. I take much more comfort in knowing that they are all either neutral or favorable That would certainly be better than the opposite But again that remains a bit of an unknown and you might be right Tom it might be that On average it's having no effect on the brain on Average it's having a beneficial effect through the vascular system But then there might be edge cases that are not being captured in large clinical trials based on Hundreds of thousands of people and it might in fact be those patients in whom a little extra knowledge Goes along way these of e cholesterol synthesis in the brain and the final point I'll make here is What a privilege it is to be practicing medicine in 2024 when we don't have only statins But we have is at amy we have benpedoic acid we have short acting PCS canine inhibitors We now have long acting PCS canine inhibitors We have ASOs around the corner There really is no need for a patient to ever endure a side effect of lipid lowering medication today We can we can lower everybody's lipids without side effects and and so that's that's you know That's and that's only going to become more and more true in the next decade Can argue with anything you said there's brilliant what you said and also this is not a reason not to use statins You individual I we're not evaluating populations we treat people one at a time so In somebody we're worried about dementia We have a biomarker that's probably usable and if God you can't take the statin so what we can't get your able Bego pretty easily with the other things that we know Are not affecting the brain what Peter said wouldn't it be nice to have a randomized blinded trial to answer this question All statins are generic I don't know of any form of companies gonna spend the billion dollars to prove or this proof What statins do to a cognitive Functions of the brain so it's not gonna happen so if it's not we can use an individual patients these Oddball biomarkers that is what I think is part of medicine three point out where we Maybe use a little smarter knowledge to Trying to a better job the last thing I'm gonna paint Peter as heart this enough to we can IMaybe I'd bad mouth I go stands we don't use them When I treating a kill carinary syndrome patients where maybe you want to be out of high dose statin for x amount of time You can get most of the apobe lowering with a statin with the baby dose this has been proven in trial after trial Most of the LDL receptor up regulation occurs with the lowest dose that inhibits cholesterol synthesis You start doubling tripling quadruple you might get another six seven percent not the original 30 percent lowering or so So in today's world why do you ever have to double triple or quadruple the dose of a statin? When we have all these other additive drugs that you take a baby statin my Sort of acronym for a low dose statin and you combine it with a ZMI benpedoic acid or p p says can you nine inhibitor? You've got a A military machine that can destroy a poe b So that should be the thought processes about attacking apobe nowadays we have so many options Which we didn't have in the heyday? I always say one last thing because I'm old enough to remember where did all this hydrophilic lipophilic stuff come from? the first two Competitive statins on the market were symbol statin Which was a Merck's most potent statin more potent in their low-vest statin or nevacore So everybody jump on zilkor or symbol statin but bristomir squid may privacy statin hydrophilic And there was a lot of thought looking at other bio markers that the and even catabolism that the hydrophilic statins were safe for them the others Was there a little more brain fog with mevacore zilkor than there was with protocol and it totally people said that I never saw it Trial it looked at that so but that's where it all came from form a competitiveness hydrophilic versus a little bit of the statin

=== FILE: How the Military Builds Habits That Stick ｜ Charles Duhigg [tVi1l5VkDC8].txt ===

You know, in many ways, you're kind of the OG guy when it comes to talking about habit formation. Give folks a bit of a sense of your background and maybe even how that factored into you taking an interest in this topic. Yeah, absolutely. I had two experiences that really got me interested in habits. The first is that when I was in Iraq, I got embedded with a unit that was right outside of Baghdad. And I was talking to a captain there, actually he was a major. And now I was asking him, how do you how do you tren soldiers to become soldiers? Because one of the things that you see in a war zone in particular, or anyone who's spent around the military, is that the behaviors of so deeply ingrained, right? The goal is to ingrain a set of behaviors that if a bomb goes off, which happened underneath my car, everyone around you, the 50, 18 year olds around you who probably don't know how to do anything with their lives, they know exactly what to do in that moment and they react automatically. And so I was talking to this major. And he's this like little short guy and he kind of like, you know, really muscular, he chaws all the time. And I said, how do you do this? And he said, well, you think you have to understand, Sun, because he called me Sun, the thing you have to understand is the military is a giant habit change machine. This is what we do. We teach young recruits who maybe don't have any self-discipline, maybe you know our prone to emotional we teach them the right habits and we've made a science of it. And when I came back to the U.S., I kind of had this experience where I was thinking about that and I was thinking to myself, if I'm so smart and so talented, if I have this great job and when these words, why can't I get myself to lose weight? Like, why can't I get myself to go running in the morning every day? Why is this such a struggle for me when I'm so good at other things? And I realized it was because I had not learned and studied how habits function in my own habits and that once I learned that, I had the tools to change how I behave automatically, which is of course the most important component of our behavior because it's what we do every day. How did you come to understand the ways in which a myriad set of behaviors? Because as you said, like a soldier is able to do so many things that basically become autonomic, that might be very counterintuitive. In fact, might be counter to the value of your own life. Absolutely. Like moving this direction as opposed to that direction under threat. Absolutely. Or are trening people to kill? Yes. The many people have a natural reaction to not kill. So how does the military do it? Yeah. So how do they employ this reward punishment? Yeah, leverage. So one of the things that they do is they pay very, very close attention to teaching cadets to respond to cues. So one would think about saying, okay, if a bomb goes off, what are you supposed to do? Right? Let's talk about the behavior that you do when a bomb goes off. The thing about a bomb going off is that a bomb going off is a little bundle of cues and we need to talk about which cues you should pay attention to in which ones you shouldn't, which one should trigger not an behavior. So in Iraq, the issue with bombs going off, IEDs was dust. When there was an explosion of dust, that is when you should react and we're going to practice that. So we're going to take you out into the field and we're going to use ordinance that does not actually produce sounds, that does not produce fire. What we're going to do is we're going to put stuff in the ground, that creates a huge cloud of dust and we're going to tren you to react to that. Because we have found that dust is a more predictable and reliable indicator of when you should behave than the noise of an explosion or being able to see the fire. And to be clear, the noise could be coming from anywhere you don't know where it's coming from. It's often a alarm. It could be something that's a town away. That's exactly right. And oftentimes overwhelming, the thing about like a visual stimuli in this context is that it's very, recognizable, whereas an audio stimuli, it's hard to tell. It's hard to localize, but it's also, and it also sort of so overwhelms you that it can kick in that fighter flight instinct that we're trying to avoid. So that's the first thing that they do is they pay a lot of attention to cues and they think really, really hard about that trening. In one of my other books, smarter faster, better, there's a chapter about bootcamp for Marines. And it's probably the most scientifically well-fined to trening you will find on Earth because it takes in hundreds of thousands of people every year and we have to tren them to be Marines. The other thing that they pay a lot of attention to is how do we reward that behavior in a way that will make it automatic? Right, we mentioned that a habit is a cue, a routine, and a reward that's known as the habit loop. But what happens in our brain to form that habit loop is that the part of the basal ganglia, which every animal on Earth has a basal ganglia, the basal ganglia's job is essentially to make habits. Because without those habits, we essentially can't evolve. We just spend too much time in cognition. And what the basal ganglia helps encourage, and this is oversimplifying dramatically, but is it takes that cue that routine in that reward and it puts them in a kind of circuit where the neural synapses connecting the behavior centers of those three items becomes thicker and thicker, which means that as a result, the electrical impulse can travel down that synaps faster. So if I'm the general, my goal is to take these soldiers and to change their brain so that when they see smoke, they react immediately, which is they pull out their gun, they look for the thread, they go through the mental checklist of look for these five things, and then I want to have a reward for them that's predictable and consistent. Now, in that situation, there's not a natural reward. I have to create that reward. So one of the things that I do is I have them trened as a unit, and as soon as they all take position, they all say to each other, good job, good job, I'm in position, good job, good job, good job, good job, they're all positively reinforcing each other. That becomes a reward that can build this behavior, which is why looking at the unit or the platoon is so important in how we tren soldiers is because oftentimes the rewards that are reinforcing our habits are social rewards that we're getting from other individuals. And during trening, let's say it's the first day they're going through this drill, and two of the guys follow out of formation, they fail to get in position. The absence of being able to say good job is that sufficient, or is there also a punishment of, hey, you two guys, you were in the wrong spot, let's go do it again. Well, it's the Marines, right? So they start certainly the drill sergeants. They were certain reputation depalled about about yelling at people, but no, it's actually not doing that much. It's not really doing that much. It's helping people correct it's creating sort of that instead of a wicked feedback system, a positive feedback system, where I'm learning very quickly, but it's actually me seeking out that reward. One of the things that you'll find, if you look at surveys of why people fight, inevitably they will say, I joined because of patriotism and I stayed in the military because of my router because of camaraderie. So the guys next to me, I couldn't go home. I couldn't, I had to have to take care of them. That's really encouraged by the military, and that becomes the dominant overwhelming positive reinforcement, is that you act for your fellow soldiers. And when one of them turns to you and says, good job, good job. What he's really saying is, you helped protect me, and I'm going to help protect you, and that feels amazing. So when you think about the number of people that make it through the various forms of trening and whether it be Marines, special forces, elsewhere, et cetera, are they screening for the capacity to be able to form these habits? Or is there a point of view that we can basically instill this in anyone provided some basic set of criteria of aptitude or psychological well-being as present? It's the latter. It's latter. And I'm kind of curious in your work how that plays out. That's exactly why I'm asking about it. Yeah, because what they believe in, and the science tells us is true, humans are habit machines. Right? We literally have evolved to brain that is fantastic at making habits. And so we can take almost anyone, assuming a baseline, physical readiness, and mental capacity, we can take anyone and we can teach them to be a good soldier. Now, some people are going to be a lead soldiers, right? Some are going to become special forces. They might have an aptitude where they're more comfortable with willpower, they're more comfortable with grit, they're more comfortable experiencing discomfort. And so they might be able to create habits faster. They might understand it's sort of just intuitively or through learning how to infect their habits, but we can do this with anyone. Which actually, I'm curious when someone comes to you and they are showing a habitual behavior that you think is negative. They want to race and you want to race. Are there some people who you believe like, it's just not going to happen. Like, I can't help this person. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How to Build Stronger Bones  ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [iDbrmvWgPKE].txt ===

So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. I think we made a lot of the groundwork that we need to do. And this next section we'll get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have somEQuestions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health and we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, yeah. So the next set of questions fit perfectly with where we're going, which is, you know, lot of questions on what does physical activity have to do with bone health. You know, you kind of hinted at it, we got a lot of questions on other certain types of physical activities that is better for bone health than not. We talked a little bit about it just now with kids, but as people who are adults are also thinking about this, what would you say to one? Well, again, I just want to go back to what it is about muscles that have such an impact on bones and this is. This is not always clear, right? So the more force that a muscle is applying to a bone, which is directly related to how much force you're trying to put on the muscle, you know, picking something up, contracting a muscle under an enormous external load. And by the way, I think that can be isometric, I don't think that has to be isotonic. In other words, I don't even think the muscle has to change in length necessarily for that force to be experienced. So there are lots of safe ways to do this. You're applying force to the receptors there, those receptors are trenslating that tension into signals that say lay down more bone. Okay, so, you know, we look through some of the literature on this and I kind of tell you, this is one of those things where I was kind of surprised. I saw some things that I just didn't expect to see. I already mentioned one of them, right? I kind of thought running was going to be really great. It turned out that studies looking at resistance trening found them to be significantly better at retaining BMD. When compared to anything errobic, you know, running swimming cycling. And even impact things like pure jumping. So power lifting turned out to be more effective than just regular strength trening in maintaining BMD in postmenopausal women. So think about that for a second. When we talk about power lifting as a sport, we're talking about, and I've seen women do this at all ages. We're talking about someone doing a squat, a deadlift, and a bench press. And the squat and the deadlift, or, you know, that is lumbar spine, that is hip. IMean, that is really stressing the lower body. More than just going into the gym and lifting. Okay. And then we talk about high force impacts sports, such as football and MMA, where it's associated with the highest BMD values. On the flip side of that, these low weight bearing low impact things like walking swimming cycling don't really seem to do a lot to improve BMD. And again, I don't know the studies, you know, it hasn't been done, but my suspicion is that when you make those things a little bit harder, especially with, you know, walking with a rucksack and walking uphill, you're going to apply more stren, also walking downhill. So again, when I'm rocking, I'm always trying to find the maximum elevation change. And I actually, you know, the walking uphill is harder cardio, but the walking downhill puts more stren on the muscle. And again, the take home point here is the more this strens your muscles, the better this is for your bones. Yeah, I'm going to pull up that figure as well that you mentioned metrics and colors and graphs for people to see this too. Yeah, this is this is an interesting figure. So on the on the left here, you're just looking at the absolute BMDs. You may also recall just where these units sit, right? So all of these athletes have very high BMDs compared to, you know, what we were looking at is the average man in the average woman. We don't have to flip back to that, but I just unfamiliar with the numbers. One point two grams per centimeter squared was considered a really good BMD for a middle aged man or woman. Remember how we've seen that that number 1.2 is pretty common, right? Yeah. Okay. So when you're looking at this, just to put in perspective, even the swimmers or, you know, the resistance trening females and females are tend to be a little bit lower than men. They still have excellent BMD. So I, you know, we do not want to be suggesting that some sports are bad for BMD. That's not the take on message here. The take on message here is if you really have to juice it, what do you want to be doing? Again, even the distance runners here, all of them. So you're in the brown one in the black one, you know, you have to look at which one separate men versus women, right? So for example, like blood, sorry, red versus green is showing you the difference between male and female resistance trening, whereas all the swimmers, all the distance runners, all the track and field athletes are in the same bucket. Now again, compare distance, the track and field, what's the difference track and field more power, right? A sprinter has more force being applied than a distance runner. What I find amazing is the MMA and the football, like, IMean, just staggering, right? Now, I'm going to say something else that's kind of unpopular. Not really sure playing college football is a great strategy for increasing your BMD when it comes with so many other injuries, not to mention all the head trauma. So the purpose of this analysis is not to say, you got to go be a college football player. No, it's to just give you a sense of what types of forces are involved in generating higher BMD. And I think most people who have even watched a football game can appreciate the kind of forces that those athletes are experiencing and as you talked about with MMA, you know, incredibly strong forces apply to cross muscles trensmitted to bones. Yeah, no, yeah, good for the bones bad for the brain. Right. So what's the sweet spot here? To me, the sweet spot is resistance trening, right? All of these things come with risk if you don't do them correctly. IMean, hell, if you don't swim correctly, you're going to tear your shoulders apart. So we just have to think about this through a risk reward lens. MMA can, I don't know anything about it, but I'm guessing it can be done safely. I'm guessing there were ways to do it and not be, you know, not put yourself at risk to tear your meniscus or tear your shoulder or, you know, have a lumbar spine, disc blow up because you get folded into a, you know, half like a pretzel. You can hurt yourself resistance trening, but also you cannot. So if you're going to take one thing away from this, just notice that walking isn't on here and gardening is not on here and golf is not on here. So I just want people to understand that if they're in the business of trying to increase their BMD, they have to get wicked forces on their muscles. I feel like you didn't have to do golf like that. I feel like I'm making enemies like non, I'm just killing myself today here. I know, I feel like that has a potential to be the most thing that we get feedback for. It's like, yeah, you can insult the different organizations, but once you talk about golf like that, I can't even know what I'm saying. Don't play golf. Look, race car driving is not on here, okay. Our true reason not on here. My favorite things in the world aren't on here. Let's do that. All right. Is that is that an appropriate, you know, me, a culpa. Like the things I love doing are not on here. So I just don't want to be diluted into thinking that all that time I'm in a race car. I'm increasing my BMD. It's not enough. You know, yeah, that's a BMD gym. Got to be hitting it. Kind of on that realm moving from exercise to nutrition and supplements. We do get a lot of questions on how nutrition supplements can impact BMD. One of the first kind of questions we got was what are some essential nutrients that are important for optimizing bone deposition that people should think about. Yeah. So if you don't mind pull up figure 12 because I think, you know, one of our analysts put this together and I think it's, I think it's just a great way to lay all of this out. I think there were the big three you want to think about. So there are other things that matter protein matters total calories matter. All of those things other matter. But when we think about kind of the micronutrient side, the big three are calcium vitamin D and when I say vitamin D, IMean D three and magnesium. So in the first column here, you can see the required daily amounts. And I consider this a minimum, right? So so this is, you know, this would be like a letter grades C, right? So you might want to think about having a B or an A. So calcium about a thousand to 1200 milligrams daily vitamin D, 800 to 1000 IU daily and magnesium 300 to 500 milligrams daily. Now these can be supplemented. So if you can't get this in food, if you're not sufficiently getting this either through sunlight in the case of vitamin D in food, calcium carbonate calcium citrate or reasonable options in the magnesium school. You know, it really depends on what your gut can tolerate, right? So magnesium citrate, glycinate and oxide are fantastic if you're looking for a little speed up of the bowel. If you aren't, you want magnesium carbonate. It's also worth noting magnesium carbonate more fully absorbed than mag oxide citrate or glycinate, which is actually why those three help with bowel regularity. So personally, I like to mix them up. I'm sort of using three forms of magnesium. So I'm supplementing with mag carbonate in the mornings. I use mag oxide at night. And I also use a bit of mag glycinate with L three and eight as well. So you know, I'm routinely hitting about a gram of magnesium supplemental. And then the final column here is you can sort of see the foods where these things reside. And you can see why I believe most people are magnesium deficient. You know, it's pretty hard. I think to get 500 grams predictably of absorbed magnesium every single day. And by the way, I think that's a real minimum, right? IMean, I think a gram is really where you want to be. You've got to, you've got to do a little bit of work to make sure you're getting that from your nutrition. The same, I think calcium's a bit easier to get if you consume dairy, but you know, look, a lot of plant-based people aren't going to eat dairy. They have to sort of look to other things. And some of those other things, I don't think you really want to be eating a bunch of like look at how high figs are dried figs. A cup of those is 300 milligrams of calcium. So that's, you know, a quarter of your daily minimum amount. But, you know, I don't know that I want to be in a cup of dried figs every day for other reasons. I love tofu, so, you know, but I'm not eating it every day. So, again, I think this is something we need to be paying reasonable attention to both from a dietary standpoint and then for a number of us also from a supplementary standpoint. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: How to Choose the Right HRT Provider ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [ESGePceUSPE].txt ===

The unfortunate nature of everything we've just described is you create a fringe movement. And unfortunately, I've seen a lot of Doc on a box hormone practices that are, I believe, putting women at risk. And I believe are doing bad things to women in the name of doing good. And I don't believe that these are inherently bad individuals. I think they are, I think they're ill-informed. I think they're just not that bright. And maybe some of them are just actually charlatans. And they're seeing an enormous opportunity here. As a general rule, I tell patients be very, very suspicious of a doctor that is selling new hormones, be incredibly suspicious of any physician who has their own compounding in the practice and is giving you compounded formulations and also making money on it. Talk a little bit about the, I don't want to call it the dark side, but just kind of the fringe side of this world. So I would argue that people care about their pain points. People want to feel better. People will go to anyone who tells them, here's, you know, there's a whole supplement aisle at CVS that makes all these wildish claims that we're going to help you with everything. And the reality is is I just got done saying you're going to college is in your internal medicine doctors are going to, in that 10 minute visit tell you that you don't need this. This is not going to help you. And so enter the fringe people. The snake oil salesmen, the people who are doing wildly inappropriate things. That doesn't mean the hormones themselves are bad. It just means we have a marketing problem here. If we're not doing it and helping people, people are, you know, they hear their friend did it, they hear their neighbor did it and they said, I want what she's having, right? This is why we call ourselves the menopause. This is why we teach so loudly is because we're trying to bring it back into medicine and evidence-based medicine and say you can actually do this quite reasonably. In fact, there are many FDA approved products that work, you know, much better that are more regulated that are totally safe. You know, here's what they are. They should be covered by your insurance, you know, and giving them that knowledge because the problem is is when no one is right, it's too quiet. No one is giving people answers. No one's even looking at thEQuestions. So then the fringe people take over and are unfortunately doing very inappropriate thing. You know what? We see this with men's health too, right? As a urologist, we see shot clinics and all these wild PRP clinics and testosterone pellet clinics and compounded pellets and all of these things because my colleagues, we are not doing enough to take care of men's sexual health. And so these clinics exist to prey on those patients who deeply want to connect and get their answers, right? Which is why my colleagues and I are even loud about it on, you know, for everybody. Yeah, the number of online testosterone clinics is mind-boggling and, you know, a lot of them are prescribing, I think, second tier drugs, right? And you know what I say? I say, you know, with these things, is the people who need it are not being offered it and the people who don't need it are abusing it, right? And that is true for hormones for everybody because they just talked about this the last menopause meeting, less than 4% of women are on hormone therapy, right now, less than 4%. That's worse than 4% of the energy of women who would be able to be a good person. Yeah, 4% less than 4%. That's worse than 10 years ago. That's worse than 10 years ago. It is so bad out there. I did the same calculations you did when I was on my Uber on the way over, I said, how many women are over 40? It was something like 84 million according to AI, right? And I said, okay, and there are about 3,000 people on the menopause society website that doesn't mean everybody knows what they're doing or that they all do the same thing. But divide 84 million by 3,000, it's a big number and we can't see patient panels of 27,000 people, like that does not, the math doesn't math there. So we need people to step up and write the, so who should be writing estrogen prescriptions? Who? Every doctor who sees a woman of that age? Every doctor who sees a woman of that age and so who actually does? Nobody. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How to Choose the Right IVF Clinic ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [RJxINGRzrwQ].txt ===

if someone's listening to this and they're trying to figure out how to select a good IVF clinic. What? What are the things they should be looking for? Because I would have to assume that it's like any other field of medicine, right? Not all doctors and not all clinics are created equal. And just because you see a lot of advertising, doesn't tell you anything, right? So in other words, you're going to have to become a very, very intelligent consumer. For most people, this will be the single most expensive out-of-pocket health care expense they have. Yeah, that's true. And so it's not just that it's the most expensive health care decision they're ever going to make. It might be one of the most consequential as well. For sure. And yet, IMean, I know what I suggest to people when someone says Peter, you know, my wife and I are thinking about getting IVF. What do you think? I just go down the rabbit hole of like, here's a hundred questions I would ask. Yeah. And it usually begins with, tell me your success rate individually. I don't care about their national success rate. It means nothing to me. So how would you counsel someone who's trying to come up with their checklist of questions to ask? Yeah, there's a good question. And you know, these days is a little bit easier because obviously there's the internet and there's just somEQuestions online. So you could look at, there it's true there is some variability amongst clinics. Although there's a lot of consolidation happening in the field as well. So a lot of the, you know, practices are becoming common to most clinics. But some of it is practical, right? Like which clinics are close to where you live because as a... You have to be aware that these ultrasound... Yeah, you gotta go in every few days. So you can't be going to another state. And you know, most people can't. But in most major cities, you have multiple options. In most major cities, that's true. Yeah. So you're right about individual clinics, success rates. Although technically it's hard to use those to compare them to each other because you don't necessarily know the patient population. We don't have the patient population, right? So how do you normalize it to... Right. Right. So one thing for sure, look at the success rates. And we're one of the few fields of medicine where actually you can get clinic specific success rates. So... You mean publicly it's available or... It's available. Yeah. So... Where do you find it? Well, the CDC... ...vintil recently. There is a law actually that says you have to report every IVF cycle in the success rate that was passed in the 90s. So because of that, the CDC tracks this. Although all the people that work in that department were fired recently. So we don't know what's going to happen with that. But also our professional organizations called Society of Assisted Reproductive Technology has a website called SART.org is the URL. And all the clinics in the US or most of them are on there. And they have to report their success rates and they're published every year. There's usually like a two-year lag because the babies have to be born and everything. So I would send people to that website first. Look at the clinics in your area. Look at the success rates. Keeping in mind, right, the populations might be different in different clinics. I probably would go to a clinic that does a sufficient volume. You know, you have to do at least 100 cycles I would say, but ideally more than that. Your clinic has how many doctors? Our clinic has about six doctors. And how many total cycles do you guys do a year? We do like six to 800 retrievals a year. There's a lot of variability. There's some clinics that do thousands. There's some that do like 50. So that would be one factor that I think is important just volume. Like, and you have how many embryologists? We have something like nine embryologists. Yeah. Yeah, there is a shortage of embryologists, you know, nationwide and reproductive and chronologists because of demand for Ivy that is going up, right? So I would definitely look at the clinic success rates. Look at the volume. The other thing, you know, with the internet, especially, you can look at patient reviews, you know, word of mouth. And got to take those with a grain of salt, right? Yeah, they take these negative selecting. Right. Not everybody has a great experience necessarily going to post it on red it. But everyone who has a bad one does. Yeah. Yeah. So you have to take that with a grain of salt. But they're objective ways. And you can also like interview your doctor. Yeah, what arEQuestions you should be asking of the doctor that are independent of the objective metrics that we might have just discussed? You can ask about their sort of philosophy about protocols about things like add-ons like genetic testing, you know, for example, is like, are you a clinic where everybody is encouraged to do a genetic testing? You know, that's not necessarily the clinic I would choose, right? You talk to the patient about the pros and cons and you let the patient decide. And we do a lot of genetic testing, so it's not like I'm against it or anything. But, you know, you want to get a sense of the vibe of the clinic, you know, are they just, you know, interested in money, not that doctors, everything like that. But you know what IMean? So sometimes it takes having a consultation with one or more clinics to see where you feel more comfortable. You know, I'm a little bit biased towards some academic centers just because our missions include education and research, etc. But there's several very excellent private clinics as well. What would be some red flags if you're going through this process? And by the way, do you have a, is, how much of a Delta is there in cost within a same city? Or did prices tend to converge within a given geography? Yeah, within a given geography they're pretty similar and it's not cheap. What are we at today? Fully low cost? You know, an IVF cycle is probably around $20,000 per cycle. But that doesn't include genetic testing or does. Including genetic testing. Okay. If per cycle. But how does that compare to 20 years ago? Is that more or less inflation? Traces like most things have gone up. It has. Yeah. Okay. IMean, and I guess it should go up just based on the cost of labor that goes into all these things. Yeah, and there's, you know, even though the genetic testing is coming down. Yeah, yeah, innovations and things. You write like you think as volume goes up eventually prices go down. But that quite hasn't quite happened. And new things get out of it. And it just tends to become more expensive. And most people are probably still paying out of pocket. Most people are not getting this covered by insurance. Again, depends where you live. Yeah, but across the country. Yeah. And I think there are now there are 24 states that offer some kind of fertility coverage about 15 of them include IVF. So most of the, you write most places. And at a pocket if your employer doesn't happen to offer infertility insurance coverage. Yeah. Um, so red flags. You know, again, communication with the clinic. So a lot of your experience is going to be communicating with nurses and, you know, Yeah, just setting up a coordinator's. Yeah. So, you know, you want to get a sense of what that is like because that could be stressful if it's not smooth. And oftentimes, you know, our, our clinic included sometimes it's not smooth. IMean, there've been, you know, some things we try and do like texting and apps and things to make the communication. You know, easier. And, um, but. Doesn't always work the way it's supposed to kind of thing. And you want to get time with your doctor. So some clinics, you hardly ever see the doctor. And you see maybe the ultrasound on a further note that that's bad. You know, but it's kind of nice. Some patients prefer to have that sort of more frequent interaction with their actual, probably a sweet spot in volume where you, It's from an inverted you ship where if they're too low, they don't have the reps if they're too high. It's a bit of a sweatshop and if actually you want, you want in the middle there. I'm Peter at here. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter at EMD.com. Forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: How to Exercise for Longevity： Stability, Core, & Injury Prevention ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [BUlGlPi5Ecs].txt ===

You know, most people listening to this are not going to lament the fact that they didn't run as fast as they could of when they were younger or that they didn't punch or swim with as much, you know, prowess as they could of where I think we should all care about this is that it's not just that the energy leakage costs you performance. It clearly does. It's that it predisposes you to injury. And that's where I think we have to bring this back, right, is what, you know, when I exercise today, I don't care about the performance. I care about the preservation and longevity of my body for whatever number of years I have left. So this is really where I think stability matters. It's, you know, what are the exercises I need to be doing? What are the exercises my patients need to be doing? So that as we age and we walk up the flight of stairs or carry something heavy, we don't hurt ourselves because we don't have that core stability that can resist the deformation that's going to allow energy to seep out of the system. Well said, a story was coming to mind as you were saying that, all be giving a lecture or teaching a class and I'll show some data from an elite athlete. And there will be therapists and clinicians in the room who say, we don't deal with elite athletes. We deal with the elderly or we deal with sick people. And I think, what are you thinking? I'm showing you what the human body has the potential to do and your arrogance won't allow you to learn what is possible. And I'm going to give you a very emotional, I hope I can get through this, a very emotional story to show the arrogance that exists among some of our colleagues. Occasionally medical groups, a hospital or whatever will ask, would you come out and assess three patients in our auditorium in front of all our medical staff? I was at this facility. It was in Europe and they brought out the first person was a rugby player fair enough and I at 20 minutes and declared what I thought was going on. The next one was a woman in our early 70s clearly distraught. You could look at her posture, her carriage. She was defeated by the world. She came onto the stage and I said, can you tell me your story? And she said a little few sentences and then she said, but the therapist says that I have to leave my home now. When I get off the toilet, I'm a bit unstated and she's afraid I'm going to fall on the floor. I can't get off the floor by myself and I'm just going to lay there and no one will discover me. I have to leave my home. You started to cry at this point, Peter. She said, what's going to happen to my cat and all this sort of stuff? And I said, really, would someone please bring me out of school and this will be our simulated toilet. So in a system of running, so along the stage, I said, okay, pretend that's the toilet and the seat she turned and had no idea how to move and just sort of plot and collapsed on the toilet. And then I'm just going to turn this down because I want you to see my lower body kinematics as we're moving here. And then I said, would you get up off the chair? And I can't remember whether she was wearing a skirt or pants. I think it was, but nonetheless, knees together and she just sort of collapsed and I had to help her. She was going to collapse onto the floor. And so I said, I want you to humor me now. You're my mirror. And I thought when I coach, I try and use minimum words, I said, do this with your hands. But your kneeca between your thumb and your hands as you slide your hands down. Go ahead. Now, I want you to be a leaning tower, leaning tower forward and backwards and play with the curve of your back. Do you have any pain now? She said, no. And I said, watch my shoulders. You're shrugged. And I said, come on down, and you're going to be able to go ahead and do that. And now I said, well, your hands up your thighs, like pulling your hips through. Don't lift us your back. Well, your hips through. See, she hadn't done in three repetitions. That was not her pattern. And I said, okay. Think of what we've just done and sit on the toilet. And I said, oops, strength your feet apart. And there she went. Her hands down. And now I said, then she put her knees together. And I said, now stand up. She was going to right back to the incompetent movement that caused her inability and disability before. I said, strengers of part and employer heels underneath you. Sift some air. Now lean forward and do what you now know how to do. And she did a perfect squat. Do it again. And then by the third repetition, big smile came on her face. This is the emotional part. I said, what's up with you? She said, I don't believe my home do I. No. Do you know, many of those hard-baked surgeons and clinicians started to cry as well? For the first time they realized all I did was teach her weightlifting 101. And remember how this story started with the arrogance of some of our colleagues who say, I don't want to hear stories about elite athletes. I deal with old people or sick people. And that's why they continue to not have the skill set to help their people. All I did was learn from the best with with first the world. People who know how to move load, learn what the efficiency was and turn it into a hack to change a person's life. Anyway, that's a pretty emotional story. And I hope we do that quite often. But it's a matter of, you know, I know you like cars. Why does Honda race F1 race cars? Well, they don't anymore. But when they did. And the reason was they learned about automotive technology. And the gear shift change in your Honda Civic came from the F1 race track. So that's why we work with elite athletes. So I can bring it down. That's what I love working with. Of course. But this is the, they just give it away free to us. And yet some of our colleagues are just so close to off. They don't want to hear about elite performance. Let's talk a little bit about first of all. That's a, that's an absolutely beautiful story. Stuart and thank you for sharing that. You know, it's a sadly common story too. And to me, I think the saddest part of that story is how many of those patients don't get the chance to sit on a stage with you for 30 minutes and learn that movement. And I, I don't, you know, you've been around long enough that I'm sure you have a better sense of this. But I feel maybe optimistically that we are in a place now where people are starting to appreciate the importance of strength and stability and that we're less afraid of this. You know, there's more discussion of the importance of resistance trening and that it's not a, it's not a young guy thing to do. It's an everybody thing to do. But given the arc of your career, am I being just sort of delusional or do you really think that we're in a, in a, in a, in a coming of age here? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia, MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: How to Fall Asleep & Stay Asleep ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [Uqb8cXYARJw].txt ===

Is there a difference, for example, between the individual who can't fall asleep, you know, this initiation of sleep in Somnia versus the person that I hear much more about, and frankly, I experience more, which is, that's not that hard for me to fall asleep. But boy, I will jolt up at one in the morning with some thought or anxiety, that I can't get out of my mind. And my mind starts running and I can't go back to sleep. Or I get up because I got a P, but when I come back, I erroneously just do something with my mind where I get thinking about the day's problem or whatever. So do you think of those as difference or the same side of a different coin? Different side same coin, I guess I'm. Great question, great question. So those people need the same stuff. And the people who can't fall asleep at the beginning of the night, their mind's just racing earlier than yours. Yours is just waking you up. And there's a whole suite of interventions that are part of cognitive behavioral therapy for in Somnia, starting by addressing the racing mind issue. I always tell patients, if you don't deal with what's causing you stress or anxiety during the day, it's going to demand to be dealt with in the middle of the night. It's going to say, I noticed you're laying there peacefully, not doing any work or tasks. And you don't have anything you need to do right now. So you're going to pay attention to me. And it's going to demand your attention at that time. Other people, that happens right when their head hits the pill at the beginning of the night. Oh, you're relaxing. Okay, here's your 10 things to worry about. So one of my favorite interventions that's actually born of anxiety treatment, but that I've co-opted and I've moved into cognitive behavioral therapy for in Somnia, because it fits with the theoretical framework. It's something called scheduled worry time. This sounds a little bit panicked and silly, but hear me out. If a patient came to me and said, Ashley, like, I worry all day. I'm worried about all of these things. My life is just a constant ball of worry. And I said, okay, I've got a solution for you. And it's two words. Ready? Stop it. Yeah. That wouldn't work, right? Doesn't work. So I take the opposite approach. Okay, this is really important to you. This is something you're doing all the time all day. Guess what? What do we do with things that are really important to us? Make time for. We schedule them, exactly. So I have my patient literally get, we sit back in the day of paper calendars. This was like, this felt like a different exercise. Now, people get out their phones, but I have them get out their phone or whatever. I say, all right, we're going to schedule worry time. And it's going to be an hour a day for the next seven days. It is non-negotiable. IMay or may not schedule an email to go out to you at that at the end of that time. And you have to go and reply to it and tell me what you did, right? And what we find is that when people work with this during the day, it does two things. The first is, let's say it's 9 a.m. and you are trying to do something in your life and instead a worry pops up, you can actually think, oh, okay, I don't have to deal with this now. I'm going to write this down because aT4 o'clock, I've got scheduled time to deal with this. So that way you're uncluttering the rest of your day by moving all of the worry into that schedule time. So this could be a valuable technique, even absent in Somnia. Totally. I would tell I'd say that probably between a third and half of my patients who come in with in Somnia, they've got some bad sleep stuff for sure. But for some of those people, it's a primary anxiety disorder and sleep is suffering also. Whereas other folks, it's primary in Somnia, that's driving them anxious, right? But to rewind back to your earlier question about the middle of the night versus being in it. So the other thing that's scheduling worry time does decides, unquuttering your whole day, is it helps you get it done during the day so that when your head hits the pillow, it's not there. Oh, I already worked on this and also the knowledge, oh, I have time set aside tomorrow to work on this or to think about this. So I don't have to do that now. And cognitively, this all makes sense and maybe think you can think your way out of this, but you can't, you actually have to try it. And I've done this with a lot of people I've done this with doctors, police people, all people from all walks of life can really find this valuable. The other thing when it comes to falling asleep at the beginning of the night versus the middle of the night is that there's sometimes low hanging fruit that we can think about. You mentioned getting up to go to the bathroom. I've found that for a lot of men who are 45 and up who still have a prostate, just not drinking very much fluid with dinner and after dinner is huge and also throwing an electrolyte tab in there can really help. Granted, it's got to be the right Osmalarity and everything else, but there are ways to find this. Don't slam gatorate at night. That's not what I'm suggesting, but just throw a noon tab or whatever elementy, whatever, electrolyte replacement and I've had some male patients go from waking up three times in the night to be to one time. And the fewer times you wake up in the night, the fewer times you risk not falling back asleep. So little things like that can actually make a difference for waking up in the middle of the night. The other one I have about the middle of the night is a little more out there but hear me out. If I had five cents for every time, I took away a downcomputer from someone and their sleep got better. I'd have like eight dollars. IMean, this is huge and this is because everybody's heard of circadian rhythm, right, but it's missing a word. It's circadian temperature rhythm. Right, your body is supposed to be its coolest at night and it's warmest during the day. And my favorite people to talk with about this are actually anesthesiologists. They know more about body temperature than anyone. It's remarkable. But what I've had the great good fortune of learning is that your body temperature, it's supposed to be the warmest during the day in the coolest during the night. And when we do things like trap heat with downcomferters, quilted nonsense, even cotton replacement dovet, if the word dovet isn't it? Comforter is in it. I like that's a no for me. And I give people a handout. I'm like, here's the definition of a cotton blanket. Here are links to examples of what cotton blankets are. If you are cold, buy two, buy three, use these. And I'm telling you, it's made a huge difference for a lot of women, in particular with night sweats. And people wake up less sometimes because they're not giving their body this message that it's time to wake up because they're not as warm. People complain about their feet in their hands and I say, that's fine, you can put your downcomferter over the foot of your bed. You can wear some socks, right? But I take body temperature regulation very seriously and sometimes it's a quick fix and we don't need a whole lot of moss and fuzz. Now you've probably tried to, this is a very long way to answer your question. But I'll finish after this. The people at the start of the night, it's worth asking people to start at the night if they're cold, if they're hands and they're feet are cold. If you've tried to fall asleep when your hands and your feet are cold. Yeah, IMean, I try to be comfortably cold when I get into bed. Right, but your hands and your feet. No, generally not. IMean, it's just my body. Right. But again, I'm using a device to cool me as well. It's slightly different. Yeah. Yeah. But spoiler alert, it's pretty hard to fall asleep when you have cold hands and feet. And what we have data on from some interesting research in a totally different realm is that people with extremity circulation disorders, like who have really grown hands or something like that. Right. Yeah. They will have more early in what we call early in Somnio, which is difficulty falling asleep at the beginning of the night. Yeah. And when they get successful treatment or when you warm their hands in their feet, much easier to fall asleep. The whole warm foot bath before bed thing. That's an actual thing. So warming your extremity is help you dump heat. Right. So when you actually warm your hands in your feet, you can actually help dump heat from your core because your vaso dilating. And when you fall asleep, you want to be dumping heat from your core. Hard to do that when your vaso constricted in your hands in your feet. So for folks who have trouble falling asleep at the start of the night, we want to make sure their hands your feet and feet are warm enough. Right. And that they've dealt with the thoughts and the worries during the day. And that they're not trying to go to sleep at nine o'clock when their body doesn't want to go to sleep until 11. A lot of people just think I need to have this much time and bed each night. And they get into bed and they struggle for two hours before their body actually wants to go to sleep. So a major part of CBTI is aligning when your body can produce sleep with when you're in your bed.

=== FILE: How to Get Off of Sleep Medication  ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [z3OlgZq6CzI].txt ===

So what about sleep medications? And let's talk about as many as you want. Like we get talk about benzos, we can talk about trazodone, we can talk about ambian, we can talk about the erects and base drugs, how many of the patients who come to see you are on a regularly taking one of these prescription based drugs, firstly. A lot of people take over the counter drugs and prescription drugs for sleep. And there was a huge shift that I noticed when COVID started. And there was a ban on flying to different countries, Mexico and Europe. And it turns out there are a lot of people who will fly to Mexico to get their ambian or end-filed Europe to get very sleep drugs that you can't necessarily get here. So all of a sudden, I saw a wave of patients dealing with withdrawal in the early months of the pandemic because they couldn't go get more of their drugs. Oh my gosh, I'm screwed. What am I doing now? How do I cope with this? So there was a meeting? And why couldn't they get them here in that situation? Oh, ambian's prescription only. And if you're saying they were buying it. I got it. Okay, and they just, they couldn't get a prescription while they were here. Yes, because they were taking so much that they were well beyond what they could convince someone to prescribe them. And a lot of physicians are, and a lot of my patients are physicians. And a lot of physicians are pretty redocent to go above FDA recommended doses when it comes to ambian. A lot of people don't realize that I believe, I believe this is the case. Ambian is still the only drug that is differenturally prescribed to men and women according to the FDA that's starting dose for women should be five milligrams. Starting dose for men is five to 10. For instant release, and then for extended release, I believe for women at 6.25, and then for men at 6.25, I've all of the way to 12.5, because women metabolize it less efficiently. So, IMean, the people who I've seen, I've seen people taking 30 milligrams. Big doses, right? And gosh, this is a very loaded question. But there's a lot of patients who come to me who will say, I've read something in the news. It turns out this medication I'm taking for my sleep is bad for my brain. I'm gonna be like, oh, I see, they saw that. And I wanna quit immediately. I need to quit by next week. Oh, okay. And you've been taking it for how long? Oh, 20 years. Okay, right. That's, oh, mm-hmm. So that never works, that never works. And I wouldn't say that I have any sort of extreme expertise in the different classes of sleep meds, but what I can tell you is the ones that people most often are coming to me saying, I wanna quit this. I hate being dependent on this. What do I, what do I do? These are gonna be the benzos, which doctors are becoming less and less hip to prescribing for sleep. Ambient, the senata lannesta stuff. And then over the counter stuff, like benadrill, maybe your occasional doxipin, and then people are often prescribed remeron for sleep, and they run into metabolic issues, and they need to get off of it. So if folks are showing up on 20 milligrams of volume or, you know, Sanxer, pick your favorite benzo, do you have them go and do a tapered detox with their physician before they come into the CPTI program? No, I have them do it with me. Most of the times, so you will manage the medical withdrawal on that? Let me explain exactly what I do, because a scope of practice, right? So first of all, I always work with the prescribing physician. I never start without making sure the prescribing physician is explicitly aware of what I wanna do. I talk with them. And this has to be one of your colleagues at UCSF, or whoever they're prescribing physician. Who ever is prescribing the medication to this person? We now share a patient and have an obligation to. Great. Every single time I have done this, the physician has been in support of getting their patient off of benzos, except for one time, which isn't even worth really getting into, but the point is, it's an overwhelming amount of support. Yeah, I can imagine. Most of the time, these patients have already tried to get their patients to quit, and to reduce. But in my opinion, they've tried to do it way, way, way too quickly. And that's because there are physiological dependencies on these drugs and psychological dependency, dependencies on these drugs. And we have to attend to both of them while we're doing this taper process, or it's gonna be a botch, and the patient's gonna relapse, and we're gonna be back at square one, or square negative one, unfortunately. So here's what I do is, I'll, let's take, can we take a boring example, pick your favorite benzose? I don't particularly like them myself, but let's take value. Well, okay, 10, 10 milligrams. Yeah, sure. So let's say we've got a patient on, a value them, they've tried to quit. They've occasionally abused, they've gone up, they've split in extra and half, they've gone to 15 sometimes. What not, the first thing that I do with a patient is, is they all right, we are going to get you stable. Actually, for sake of better example, for sleep, let's just put, put you ambient, because it's a little fun, and we can make more coffee. 10 of ambient, 10 of the night. Let's say 10 of ambient every night, the beginning of the night. And then let's say sometimes they're actually taking a fiber in the middle of the night when they wake up, because they wanna get back to sleep. Right, like I like the party dose. Right, right, so let's say there, some nights, it's 15, some nights, 10, what do we do? So the first thing I do is I take out the middle of the night dosing, and I say, we're done with that. You limited to 10 of the night, and you gotta take it before bed. Well, yes, you have to take it before bed. You've taken the same time every night, but if you're going 15, five nights a week, and 10, two nights a week, I'm gonna make it a 12.5 before bed. Let's be generous, start higher, right? So we'll agree on a dose that the patient will take and it'll agree to pun time. So the prescribed or an I agree on this, like, okay, same page, this with patients gonna do. And they start doing that. Generally, the patient's like, no, no, no, no, I'm trying to quit. I don't wanna take more, and I see no, not before you quit, it must be stable. You cannot quit from a point of instability. It will not work. I've seen people try. And people say, oh, I wanna quit. I wanna go from 10 to five. No, that's not how we roll. So let's say this patient's taking 12 and a half. And they're like, okay, I wanna cut down, I'm like, all right. Okay, so how does it going from 12 and a half to five sound? And they say, oh my gosh, that's gonna be really scary. I don't think I can handle that. And what I actually have them do is I rate it on a scale from one to 10. With 10 being the most anxiety-provoking upsetting thing and one being not upsetting at all. This is called a subjective units of distress scale. So it's okay, I have them suds it. So I say, okay, so going from 12.5 to five, that sounds really terrifying now, because they've just done a week, right, with our consistent with 12.5 at the beginning of the night, they've had no middle of the night crutch. And they're not feeling great about that, right? So then I say, okay, so how about going from 12 to 10? And they say, oh, not as bad, but that's still like a six on my scale. And I do this process all the way until I get them to a one. And I'll say, all right, so next week, we're going from 12.5 to 12. How are you even making that increment? Yes, I can tell you exactly how I're doing that. We're going on the internet and we are buying something called the gem scale. Now you and I both know that people who are wealthy and have gems worth measuring aren't measuring their own. So the people who are buying those scales are using them for other things. And so what my patients end doing is they buy these scales and they get a full blown, like, breaking bad setup in their bathroom. We're going to, okay, we're cutting pills, we're weighing pills, we're doing math because the pill actually weighs more than 12.5 because it's got binders and fillers. And what percent doing it, and we kind of make it fun. And they end up having to put the crumbly pill into a shot glass with water. We shoot it in the whole thing. We make a whole production out of it, right? But the point just is, they're going from 12.5 to 12. And we do that for like three weeks. They've been on it for years, we're looking aT3 weeks. And the first couple nights are a little rough. So they're only doing a seven week program with you, you're not. Oh, no. This table program, we make, and it will last a year, it'll make a long, it'll last a long time. So when they enter the program, it's a separate issue. This is a separate issue, and we do this after they finish CBTI treatment. During CBTI treatment, I stabilize them on their meds. And we just get it, so they're not erratically taking five different cocktails of things. When people come into CME for treatment, they'll say, oh, yeah, so Monday's I do ambient. Two states I do triad. So it won't Wednesday's has been a drill, because they have it in their head, because they think they don't want to get dependent on one. So they think they're by doing a rotating merry-ground of these things that, that's actually smart, I wouldn't ever even thought of that. Oh, yeah. Well, it's sinister. Working great. Yeah. So I generally work with the doctor, and we decide, okay, here's the one you're going to do. Here's the dose you're going to do, and you're going to be consistent with that. Let's see, vodka on Monday. And then Tequila on Tuesday, red wine on Wednesday, and then Shard and A Thursday, and this way I'll never become an alcohol. Oh, you figured it out, Peter. So in short, I have people really stabilized during CME and sometimes during week four, week three four, they're ready to start this, and we start them on this program. And once I have them in this way, they're able to do this on their own. So they'll go from 12 to 12.5 for like three weeks, and they'll be keeping sleep diaries. So they'll see, like, oh, okay, and they'll get some confidence. And then they'll email me, you know, if IMessage me and I'll say, okay, so now what? And I'll say, all right, well, how you feel? And like, how, what if we go down to 11.5? How do that sound? Like sometimes that'll be too scary. For some reason, crossing the five threshold is really scary, so we go from five to four, 0.75 sometimes. And just to be clear, this is psychological. They're can't possibly, a physiologic difference between four and 4.75 and five, and five, and a bandian. That's what, the medicine isn't even homogenously enough compounded within the capsule, to, like, yeah, okay. So as long as everybody understands that. Probably not. But, you know, it's a test. I'm thinking some of her tablets, and I don't know about the homogenes, I don't know about the requirement. Yeah, because the binder and the active ingredient are in no, like, yeah. And generic SB85% similar to the, to real deals, and there's all kinds of messups here. This is, remember how I said, there's the psychological part in the physiological part. This is the psychological part that I think it's left out of a lot of the, oh, just cut it in half to start decreasing your dose aspect, which is dealing with, okay, what can we physiologically do? I'm talking about what can we psychologically do? And do you think that this methodology of the incredibly slow taper with incredibly high precision? Do you think it works for opioids? So I, don't think I've ever seen that in my clinic, it's just not something I've had to do it. I don't know if it's for sleep. I just mean in general, like if we're dealing with people that are, or is the problem so grave that you have to be a little more aggressive? And switch them to a completely different class of drugs, like that's so far outside of area. Okay, I can't speak to it, but what I can tell you is just that doing this method with the sleep drugs slowly over time, people get more confidence, and they can make larger reductions at a time. And then importantly, Peter, when someone gets is tapering and something crazy in their life happens, like a child gets diagnosed with cancer, something terrible happens, we stop the taper and we stay where we're at. So your taper might look like this. Yeah. Right? But there's not a huge rush to get off this thing. You've been on it for 20 years. Better to stable you get off it. I always joke with people like, yeah, if you think, if you can lose 10 pounds in two days, how quickly do you think you can gain two pounds? Right? So when it comes to quitting these meds, slow and steady wins the race, having people gain the confidence that they can do it is such a big part of it. And I know that one of the critiques I've gotten from folks is like, wait a minute, some of these pills have coatings and dead, but it's a lot of it is psychological. So this works really well for a medication taper and people can do it themselves. There's no, there's no magic.

=== FILE: How to Get Your Insulin to a Normal Level ｜ Ralph DeFronzo [wdEhREszsMk].txt ===

So basically, if there's a person with Type II diabetes listening to us today, and they're taking 75 units. That's very soon. That one of the takeaways should be, what do I need to do with my nutrition and other pharmacologic activities plus exercise plus everything that's under my control to maybe get that down to 35, where I would be at a physiological level? Absolutely. There are things that you're in already insinuated weight loss. If you can get people to do it, exercise, and then we can add medications in combination with insulin, insulin sensitizers or some drugs to help you lose weight that will also allow you to get that dose of insulin, you know, reduced. The other thing we showed in this study, Dr. Del Prado, who's past president of the European Diabetes Association, we took normal healthy lean kids, 18, 25 years of age. And we gave them, we put them on the clinical research center for three days, and we gave them a very, very low dose of insulin infusion. And we raised their fasting insulin from eight, which is what a normal person would be to 20, which is really quite low. And within 48 to 72 hours, they were as insulin resistant as a type 2 diabetic patient. So hyperinsulinemia induces insulin resistance. This is, why is that the case? So what insulin does is it down regulates the insulin signaling trensduction system. So that insulin binds to its receptor and then it activates iris 1, pi3 kinase and a KT. That's just them is down regulated by hyperinsulinemia. All of this that I'm telling you about, it's all published. These are all studies that in in in in humans. And this also been shown in in in rodent models as as well. So this is another reason why we don't want people to be hyperinsulinemic. You have to explain that to me again, Ralph, that is mind-boggling to me. I would never, I would never have predicted that. So let me say it back to you because I, I feel like IMissed it when I was writing something down. You took normal volunteers who had a fasting insulin of 8. Yep. And they're lean healthy. Okay. And you simply infused insulin in them, presumably with glucose. Oh yes, of course. On the clinical research center, we can monitor, keep the glucose perfectly Cons that we're not letting the glucose change. So person shows up in salineate glucose is 90. You do a you glycemic clamp where you bring insulin up only to 20. One and a half per, one and a half. Much less than, yeah, be when you eat a meal. Exactly. Not even a pros-prandial bump. Right. But now it's constrictively sitting there at 20. Yep. And you've obviously had to bring glucose. You're doing a few glucose to maintain you glycemia. Correct. Did you say that in four days, 48 to 72 hours. And these people are as insulin resistant as that due diabetics. Okay. Again, very, very counterintuitive because if our, if our model is that insulin resistance, which is the hallmark factor, contributing to type two diabetes in the combination of beta cell fatigue is driven by lipotoxicity, which we're going to come to. That's an important one. Yes. These people didn't have any of that. No, these people didn't have any of the intramyosolular lipid that we talked about with your colleague. No, Jerry Reven as a predisposing factor. It's the direct effect of insulin down regulating the insulin signaling system. And probably other distal metabolic within the cell as well. Okay. So then when you turn the clamps off, let's just say we ran this for 72 hours. Yeah. We've made them functionally diabetic. Turn the clamps off how many hours or they do that. What would you predict? I would predict probably within 24 to 48 hours they would return to normal because we did this acutely. Now, if we were able to do this for several months, then I would anticipate that the insulin resistance would remain for a long period of time. And remember, when we treat type one diabetics, we're always giving the insulin into the periphery. And you arrive when you ingest the meal, where does the insulin go? It goes into the portal vein. So the liver is seeing a high level of insulin. That's good. It says stop making glucose. But now it removes half of the insulin. So how much insulin gets into the periphery? Half of what you secreted. Why? Because we don't want the insulin in the periphery over insulinizing the periphery because we would make the muscle tissue very insulin resistant. So the portal, the pancreas, the secreting insulin into the portal circulation, liver disease, the insulin, good. Stop making glucose. But it also takes up half of the insulin. So less insulin gets enough to nourish the muscle. You're enough to shut down the fat, producing free fatty acids, but not enough to hyperinsenize the system. And in a certain way, if you're a diabetic and you are insulin resistant, or an obese person, and you are insulin resistant, and you're a hypersecrating insulin, it's kind of working against you because it's a reverberating system that's making the insulin resistance aggravated. So one of the big things that we've forgotten is that insulin, I told you, there are two problems in diabetes. One is, you know, I'm making an oven insulin. The other is your insulin resistant. You need to attack both problems. And the paper that I recently published, which is a perspective in Lancet Diabetes and the chronology, was to bring people back to look, we're focusing on obesity and weight loss and we should. But we need to remember that we still have a genetic cause for the insulin resistance. You know, you go back to 1950. You know, the incident to diabetes was 2%. I've seen even data that says it was 1%. As recent as 1970, it's very low. Yeah. But these people were all lean and they're insulin resistant. So there's a genetic cause of the insulin resistance.

=== FILE: How to Train Your Cardiovascular Fitness ｜ Peter Attia [qLf_1rFrlRs].txt ===

If you're really committed to developing your cardiovascular fitness, you're trying to maximize the area of a triangle, right? So the triangle has a base and the triangle has a peak. And the goal is how big an area can I get? Not how wide, not how tall. You don't want one that's this wide in this tall. And you know what one that's this tall in this wide? You want the max. The base is your zone two. The peak is your VO2 max. From a trening perspective, the rule of thumb that is applicable for people like us, IE normal people. And the best athletes in the world is roughly 80-20. 80% of your volume is down here. 20% of your volume obscene. In fact, some of the really, really elites are probably closer to 90-10. So you're saying no matter if you're just an ordinary athlete or you're the best, it's still roughly the same. Ta-di, pogotcher, who's the greatest cyclist on this planet, two time winner of the tour de France, absolutely mopping up the field of cyclists like their children, that guy is doing 80-90% of his trening at zone two. And I know that for a red fact because we know who is coaches. If you know it's 80% 20% let's break out of the world. I just start with how much time am I willing to put into this. Now I got to be honest with you. I wish I could be putting 10 hours a week into cardio. I do. IMean historically I've put in 14 to 20 hours a week into cardio up until 10 years ago. So it's simply not possible today. All of the obligations that I have and there's, I've done the math 10 ways to Sunday. I'd have to give up something I'm not willing to give up. I heard it give up archery or give up driving or give up my kids. There's something like I'm just not willing to give any of these things up. So yeah I basically start with what's the most amount of time I can put into dedicated cardio. And for me it's like four to five hours a week, not including rocking. I sort of keep that in its own bucket. So then it's a very simple calculation. 80% of that time is zone two and 20% of that time is VO2 Max. And how are you breaking out? Let's just start with zone two. How many? I divided into four workouts a week. So four Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, Sunday. Actually, what I was walking through the whole week, that'll be easier. So Monday is just strength trening. So that's about 90 minutes to two hours when you include the stability trening that I do as well. So movement, perhaps stability trening, strength trening and that's all lower body. That's Monday. Tuesday is zone two followed by dedicated hour of stability. Wednesday is upper body strength and stability. Again, 90 minutes to two hours. Thursday is a repeat of Tuesday. Friday is a repeat of Monday. Saturday is zone two in the morning, upper body strength, repeat of Wednesday in the afternoon. Sunday is zone two followed by VO2 Max. And will you ever do VO2 Max before you do zone two? I generally don't just because I like to have a lot of reps before I go for broke. So even when I was like a cyclist and doing two zone VO2 Max workouts a week, they were always preceded by a long, the metric we would use on a bike was kilojoules. So as how many kilojoules of work would you do before you would do the super hard sets? And it had to be at least a thousand kilojoules, which is trenslated to at least a thousand calories of work. And four zone two, I know you said you kind of like to break it up, if someone is like, hey, you know, I can do four days a week of zone two, but I can only do 15 minutes a day. Would you say I'd compress it? I would say do two 30s. So in your zone two sessions you like to do at least 30? At a minimum. And now when you're in those zone two is are you like when you hit the bike and the clock. No, I take 10 minutes. I do it all mine on a bike. Sometimes I'm in treadmill, but what I do is there's a, like a little, it's the computer is programming to the Wahoo Kicker, which is the device I'm sitting on. So it's taking 10 minutes to ramp me up. And maybe just walk through what modalities can people do zone two on? treadmill by anything that is steady state. So you know, swimming is a great way to do it because you can really swim in a pool at a steady state. Running is a great way to do it because you can pretty much run it a steady state. Cycling outdoors is generally hard. Unless you have specifically like fiesta island was a great place to tren. I used to tren at fiesta island because for people who don't know where that is in San Diego, where all with a time trial bike races were and it's just a seven kilometer loop that you can ride on without lights or anything like there's no traffic or anything that gets in your way. But for the most, I wouldn't be able to do zone two outside here in Austin. It's just it's too hilly and there's too much traffic and it's just it's, it's fits and starts. I can do my VO2 max here because I go to a hill and that's my favorite way to do VO2 max is on a hill. That's about a mile long and just do very hard up the hill and then easy down the hill. But a treadmill is another great way to do it. Just one of a walking incline typically. Rowing machine if you're really a good roar. You have to be efficient enough. Most people are not efficient enough and they just, they don't have the strength, they don't have the stability to row really well for 45 minutes. Stair climbers and other really good one. But you know, depends again if you're if you're starting out brisk walking is probably good enough too. Yeah and we we don't have to get into all the reasons of the benefits of zone two because we have so many podcasts within you go. Sound malon people can listen to but you kind of hint at another thing there which is, you know when you start your zone two workouts you'll ramp up. But also a lot of times we get questions where you know hey I did a 90 minute workout and I was in zone two for 45 minutes of it. Is that am I good? No IMean I think what you mean in that question is you know like I went out for a three hour bike ride today and when I got back my computer told me I was in I did 40 for my own zone two so two issues there one is that's just a zone two based on heart rate that's generally the worst approximation of zone two so zone two really is more based on lactate if we're going to be if you're purely accurate or at a minimum RPE but even if you posit that that 45 minutes of zone two from your heart rate is roughly accurate it's not the same physiologically because usually you're passing in and out of zone two in that situation and so you're not getting kind of that constant steady state turn which you're looking for what we're really kind of looking for is the harnessing of mitochondrial efficiency and to do that you just you have to be able to push oxidative phosphorylation right to its limit before you trip into glycolysis and you're just you're at the limit of that glycolysis being the dominant energy source whereas if you're on that ride you're going into and out of glycolysis constantly so it's not that you're so much in zone two for 45 minutes as that you passed through zone two for a sum total of 45 minutes which again that's the still there's still value in that but not for what we're talking about yeah and what about votomax what modalities can you do votomax trening on you know here I think it's it's probably easier in a way right because it's pretty much anything that gets your heart rate up and gets you very tired so you know look it could be you know an air bike it could be a regular bike it could be a stationary bike stair climber treadmill running outside you know the skies almost the limit something like burpees is probably pretty tough once you get into something that intense like jumping because the sweet spot for votomax is kind of three to eight minute intervals so you don't want to be doing things that are so intense that you can't do them for at leasT3 minutes and so what's your what's your current votomax workout so you mentioned kind of three to eight minutes on is it typically I do four on four off is sort of where I spend most of my time sometimes three on three off on a rowing machine I got into that quite a bit last summer but these days and sometimes by the way I just am in a bit of a rush and I'll just do one minute on two minute off at a much higher intensity on the stair climbers so I have one of those like industrial grades strength climbers and sometimes I'll just go sprint for a minute up the stairs and then it takes me two minutes to get my heart rate back down to about a hundred and then repeat that for 20 to 30 minutes so that's kind of like my poor man's cheating votomax workout but what I really like to do is four minute repeats four minutes on four minutes off and on the four minutes on are you going a hundred percent for the full like how how should someone think about yeah this is one of those things you have to you have to play with this there's a this is years and years of practice to know what that feels like so again I'm doing this on a bike so I'm looking at wattage and my watts are so low now I'm embarrassed so I'm not going to tell you what the watts are because there's so much lower than they used to be but I know I have a sense of what I need to average my wattage over those four minutes so IMight go out at 105 percent of that wattage and it feels pretty easy for the first minute if it doesn't I've gone too hard by three minutes I'm very uncomfortable and at a minute I'm IMean I'm with at that in that last minute I eat aT4 minutes I don't have much left so that's you know if you go out all out in that first minute you're not going to get to four minutes you're you're just going to crash and you're sort of not in that zone you want to so it's not there's no question I positive split the thing meaning I do more work in the first half than the second but I don't want it to be more than about 10 percent

=== FILE: How to find the right therapist ｜ Jeff English [PJbETLgiH3g].txt ===

Jeff, what advice do you have for somebody who's out there trying to find a therapist? They've listened to us today and they've been like, okay, you know, these two guys have got me at least thinking, I ought to maybe scratch this a little bit. See if this scabbleeds, what are the attributes they should be looking for? First of all, how do they even begin to, like, what do you go on Google and search trauma base therapy? How do you find somebody? And more importantly, when you find somebody, how do you say, like, I'm going to give this three or four sessions to determine if this is a good use in my time? What are you looking for? Is it, hey, if I'm not uncomfortable in three or four sessions, this probably, this person probably isn't doing a good job, what are the metrics? I certainly want some input from a professional, a seasoned professional. A personal referral. IMean, if you will, you mentioned that I just did a go Google, like trauma informed is kind of like the buzz thing. And what does this mean? Did you, did you go to a 45 minute seminar on trauma does affect folks and now you're trauma informed, right? Yeah. Is there a certification that people should be aware of that says you're a true trauma-based therapist? There are several, but I would be more interested in, what I do when I look at bios. Sometimes I get more concerned about the more specialty, so I see, right? And, you know, a niche, you know, is so when I see these lists that cover every class that someone takes during a graduate program for counseling or that troubles me, you know, because, well, because it, it looks great. I cover all of these different things. No depth. Yeah, but like, how many, like how much muscle memory do you have as a clinician? Working with a certain population, the way that you do it, you know, and where did that muscle memory come from? So, and that's a, it's a big part of what I do, you know, is, is helping folks make sure, you know, that they are with the right person or they can go, that's where I go with the efficiency of it. Like, no one in the story, learning the story, getting that eye opening moment, and then that, hence that someone wants something different, right? And then to be a part of that process or to put them in the direction, point them in the right direction. What else should they be looking for? So, so they, they find somebody, they think, you know, they even get a personal referral that says this person is good, how should they evaluate what is going on and if they're on the right path within a month, for example, what's a sign that things are going well, what's a sign that things are not going well? I personally think that sometimes, I would say that challenge, like, how, how challenged do you feel, right? How do you feel going into a session? How do you feel after the session? Okay. What's a good sign to that, to the going, is going in, apprehensive and coming out exhaust at a good sign? I think, yeah, yeah, absolutely. I don't think it's a good story when it's like, I can't wait to talk to Jeff, because I'm going to get to Grite for 55 minutes and he's going to let me pay him for that, right? Now it's happened before, and I would just say, we need to call this what it is. Okay. You know, if this is where you want to put your anger at, for an hour, we can do that, but let's call it what it is, because we're not working on change here, right? So what's happening? What's being illuminated, right? Because they wouldn't call it a blind spot if I could see it, right? So what's happening within that back and forth that's what I, what did I not know? What made me think? What made me pause? But the main thing is what's different? And, you know, not all therapeutic relationships are a good match. And so to just know that that's a reality. And to give yourself permission to, you know, after an adequate amount of time, this isn't working, what's not keep doing this? You know what's not keeping doing something's not working, you know, watch short.

=== FILE: How to know if you’ve experienced trauma ｜ Jeff English [aAizX_Fs0i4].txt ===

What would you say to a person who's listening to us, who's trying to even understand if they've experienced trauma? Which sounds like a dumb thing to say, but let me give an example, right? So you have a person who's listening, who's either introspective enough to realize that there's some of those things we describe as the four branches of the trauma tree, whether it be codependency attachment disorders, some sort of maladaptive behavior, et cetera, addiction, maybe. They're like, okay, IMean, if I'm being brutally honest, I'm not flying on a perfect level, right? Yeah, and my spouse has complained about XY and Z, and there does seem to be a little bit of interpersonal discontent in this relationship, et cetera. Okay, fine. And then if they're, again, in a particularly charitable mood, they look at the kind of five roots of the tree, and they're like, well, okay, yeah, IMean, these sort of things happened. But they can't make the leap to say, but does any of that stuff actually rise to the level of quote-unquote trauma, even little T trauma? Like, is the answer just that I need to get my act together and drink a little less, you know, just try to be more present with my kids or, you know, whatever it doesn't matter what the fix is. But they're just not sure that going back and stirring the pot of what happened to them during the first 10 years of their life is going to be an exercise worth engaging in. How would you help that person decide that, you know, you're right, it's probably not worth stirring that up. Let's just work on some behavioral tools right now to address the behavior versus actually, I don't think you're ever going to truly fix these things until you go back to the root. I think that's a perfect way to approach it. So let's try that. You just, in your example, like maybe I should just do this less and do this more, all these behaviors. Let's try that. Let's put together a plant goal setting, okay? This is, you know, I'm coaching you. We're not doing an intervention here in the therapeutic intervention and then we, and if it happens, it happens, right? But folks who realize or already know that they have trauma or have been wounded significantly, sometimes I think the word just trips folks up and they just can't get over the word, right? It's wounded, right? Survivors, whatever we want to call these folks, they have a really hard time putting knowing into action, right? Like, I spent many years as a very well-informed prisoner, right? Like, I know all this stuff about why it is. I do the things that I do, but it's the putting it into action. The thing that you did said about the not doing, that's where we get to realize, hopefully it meant to self, if that's the fact when I come back to C.J. for whoever, well, the goal is still failing. For some reason, I just can't do that, right? Okay, well, perhaps there's something significant connected to this. Maybe something needs to be integrated, the part of you that is unwilling to do this thing that you say is the goal and the plan when you sit in front of me, that's who we need to work with. So how do you begin to do that integration, right? So, you know, let's go back to the example you gave because it's so profound and probably tragic where thaT4-year-old boy that learned how to manipulate and deceive to protect his mom has now carried that behavior into his marriage. So, step one is obviously getting to the point where we uncover that story and make the connection, which was an inner child is wounded, that inner child adapted when the strategy that was very positive. Everything about that strategy made sense, but guess what your dad is and kind of hurting your mom anymore because luckily she got a divorce and he's gone and you're now applying that same behavior pattern in relationships that I've nothing to do with the relationship and which that was developed to be protective, right? And he says, okay, I get it, Jeff. How do I change? Like what are the next steps? How do I go from the understanding of that to creating a new pattern of behavior? Because this is really wired. Yeah, these pads are heavily, heavily, violated at this point. So, in general, what we're gonna have to do is we're gonna have to expand your window of tolerance if you will to vulnerability, right? Because typically that protective behavior, again, the enemy is vulnerability. And so to create some muscle memory doing something different when vulnerable, not doing that same thing, okay? And when you talked about your experience at the bridge and you talked about what it would have been like if we had a taken away exercise, okay? Like, simply sitting still for some folks is a very vulnerable experience, right? And so to create an environment for that person can experience the discomfort. And that's why I think that within my work and a lot of professionals looking at individuals from a part's perspective, right? There's different systems, different theories, internal family systems, structural dissociation, but this language that I'm using. It's not necessarily new because it's like you're talking about, so this is original self, this wounded self, this adapted self, right? The adapted self tends to have some really hard line beliefs, right? Safety equals control, safety equals distance, safety equals self abandonment, safety equals somebody else, right? And as long as that part of self, right, has that core belief, I believe it's going to be damn near impossible to do those things that I know I should do, right? So to know that there are interventions that will fit that process within, the first question is, do you get issue with this? Right? Because I'm back to if you like it, I love it, right? Like, when a client is talking about, you know, they're at the bridge and they're there because they're spouse, you know, that their spouse is going to leave them, their spouse is finally fed up with it. And, you know, they've got all these opinions about it. So here I am because they said I needed to go to a place like this and you know, you're like, you know, it doesn't sound like you got a problem at all. What do you mean? I was like, it just sounds like you can keep being you. You just got somebody telling you now that they're not going to deal with it, right? So it might maybe it's the biggest controlling jerk in the world, right? So all you need to do is go find another dormant, you know? I'm just hearing you say your spouse is not. So you decide whether there's a problem there or not, right? And so this behavior, again, that's become the problematic behavior, how difficult it is to unravel and stop doing that behavior, again, tie it into the trauma, tie it into it being an ingenious, damaged control strategy at a time in life, perhaps. And perhaps done multiple times successfully, right? So, you know, there's a part of self that says, why not do this? We've been doing pretty well like this for a long time.

=== FILE: How to think about preserving aerobic capacity and muscle mass into old age ｜ Alex Hutchinson [qKEwoiFwDAY].txt ===

You know, one of the things that I think is, I don't know that we'll ever know an answer. I don't know the we'll ever have an answer to thEQuestion, but I think one of the challenges of trying to reconcile all of these disparate data sources is it's all apples and oranges with respect to the metrics, right? It's your comparing hours of exercise a week to mileage run to, you know, true measures of fitness like VO2 Max. I guess thEQuestion is, and I've thought a lot about this. I'd be very curious to your thoughts. If you could reverse engineer where you want your VO2 Max to be when you're 90, what would should it be? Because if you have a sense of what your VO2 Max should be when you're 90, you kind of know what it needs to be when you're 80, 70, 60, blah, blah, blah, blah, all the way back. And, you know, at that point, it's not necessarily about how fast you want to run a mile, though you may say, look, when I'm 90, I still want to run a nine minute mile. I don't know, but it really starts to get into the activities of daily living and how much pain are you willing to tolerate to walk up to flights of stairs with your groceries. And I suspect, so I know for me, I don't know for me, I hypothesize for me that when I'm 90, the real risk is that I won't be able to get up out of a chair more than that I won't have the VO2 Max. And there are, you know, I don't remember these act numbers, but there are thresholds of VO2 Max below which they hypothesize that you can't, I come on, it's like 18 or not. It may be a nine or something like that where it's like, at this point, you've crossed the sort of mortality index where we think you're going to die in a few years because you can't do activities of daily living. So there is some research into that, but for me, as just my personal, I can look at myself and say, you know what Alex, far before your VO2 Max is too low, you're going to be the guy who falls on the floor and can't get up. And so again, from a health perspective, that's why I said, you know, the next thing, if I had, you know, magic motivation dust, it would be like, you need to put on some muscle mass. And for other people, it would be totally different. There are people I know who don't necessarily exercise a lot, but who just have a lot more muscle mass than me and it's like, you need to, you know, make sure your aerobic fitness is taken care of and maybe you don't need to worry as much as me about muscle mass. So there's, yeah, but I agree, you figure out where you want to be and for all those different things. So I'm doing exactly what you said, except I'm doing it for muscle mass and I'm like, this trajectory is not good. And of course part of that's predicate on the idea that we know there's an inevitability of decline. So if you do nothing, you're going to lose x-pounds of muscle per decade on a, if you're lucky with a tailwind. If you tren really hard, you might be able to reduce it to this amount of loss. And if you really go crazy, you might even be able to keep it flat. But here's the scenario under which that occurs. What do you think is the, IMean, I assume there are pretty clear tables on what the decade by decade drop of maximal aerobic output is? There are. IMean, the problem with the tables is that they, they draw a nice smooth line. Do you lose, I think it's 9% per decade or something like that, at least in that, once you get into your 70s, it gets steeper. Yeah, there's an inflection point. There are sort of revised thinking is that that's, that works on a population level. But what actually happens is the decline is not that steep for any individual. But what happens is you have certain events in your life. You get an injury and you're, you're stopped trening for six months and then you're hoist. Yeah, so either you have reduced activity for six months or you have bed rest for a week, which can be disastrous. And you lose 7% in the course of a week and you only get 2% back. And so it's this punctuated decline. And so that, IMean, that puts a lot of emphasis, that it sort of points to the idea of really taking care to avoid, to the extent possible, obviously, to avoid these sort of events because you can actually, in the absence of those, those events, the decline doesn't have to be that steep. You can, you can hang on probably better than people used to think. Can you say more about that? Because I, I don't, I don't think this point can be stressed enough. And so that's a listically how much aerobic capacity, maximal aerobic capacity can a person lose with a couple weeks of inactivity. And what's the difference between being bedridden versus going on vacation to Europe where you're not quote unquote trening, but you're still walking every day. Like neither of those is exercise per se. But one is active and one is complete inactivity. Bed rest is terrifying. There's a guy named Luke van Lune in the Netherlands. His focus is his muscle muscular strength, but he's done a bunch of bed rest studies. And he, I, I, I, I, I, I, I'm giving the talk once and he, he had this great anecdote about, you know, they, they, they, they'd spent a whole, it's really hard to get old people to put on muscle, right? But they just managed to finish this two and a half year study where they got, I can't remember. Some fairly large number of septageinarians, octagenarians to do strength trening and they'd put on like two and a half kilograms of muscle, which is a huge victory. And they were feeling really good about it. And then the results came in and for their one week bed rest study. And they'd lost like 2.6 kilograms of muscle in one week. So it's like, they did this like, herkulean effort to, to shepherd these people through strength trening for for a long period of time with full support. But man, whatever it is, you know, grandma gets pneumonia and is in in hospital for a week. Bam, she's lost a year of trening or, or what, you know, whatever the case may be. So I, I don't have the numbers at hand for YouTube. I think it's like up to 20, you know, maybe 10 to 20 percent in that range if you, if you stop trening for a month. It depends where you're starting though. Like it's say, if you're, if you're well trened for a short period of time, you'll lose it quickly. If you're, if you haven't been trening, then resting doesn't make any difference. And if you're well trened for a long, long period of time, then you have structural adaptations that are going to take a lot longer to disappear. So, you know, there's no one number for anyone. And, and the one thing I, I would add is that this is not a recommendation that you should never take a break from exercise that you should be obsessive and tren 365 days a year. Certainly if you're trening hard, like if you're, if you're trening as a, as a marathoner say, man, you should take a week or two off. And off doesn't mean bed rest. It means play a couple games of tennis, go for walks, chill out, go for some bike rides or whatever. But you, so you shouldn't be terrified of, like, missing a day. Yeah. But you should be terrified of bed rest. And of, and of totally, IMean, look Van Lune, one of the things he said is like, if you're in bed rest, you know, hospitals should be forcing you if you're at all possible to walk down the hallway to get your meal. Even just walking down the hallway is infinitely better than not moving at all.

=== FILE: I Want to Look 10 Years Younger — What Next？ ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [6gt0Bt_Buu4].txt ===

Okay. All right, let us move now into the really confusing realm of I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong, but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago and I say, I want to look like that. And I should have brought a picture in of me so you could actually see it. But like, you've already described it without having seen the picture, right? I don't have bags under my eyes. My skin just looks better. Everything just looks better. Part of it is color. I will admit, 10 years ago there was no gray anywhere in my beard. We're not going to fix that problem. That's fine. But but aside from that, um, like, oh, and the wrinkles in my forehead, like, I noticed in pictures of me in the past, I had some wrinkles. Now it looks like I have a wrinkle farm. Right. So, so go again, go over the changes. Assuming I had that photo, how would you describe them pathologically? Or maybe that's too strong a word, but you know what IMean? So I think, um, there are three basic changes that happen to every single person with aging. And we've touched on this a little bit and we'll dive deeper now. So there's skin changes. There are volume changes. There are gravitational changes. Um, and maybe we should throw on the fourth, which is, you know, bone structural foundational changes. And so those happen to everybody. Um, when we see patients in our clinics who are presenting the way you've just suggested, we will spend extra time analyzing the individual nuances of skin, volume, boni, ligament to anatomy, gravitational changes that are specific to your face. Um, and then also we'll just rely on just general knowledge that we have about what types of aging changes we see at this point. And, um, it's a very complex process. I tried to analyze this a little bit before walking into this podcast today. Like, what am I actually thinking about when I'm starting to come, come and hit with the patient? As soon as I see the patient, while I'm, you know, making some niceties and saying hello and get to know them, I'm already analyzing. I'm already looking at their skin. I'm looking at the bone structure. I'm analyzing the facial proportion. I'm looking at areas where there's volume loss. It's obvious. I'm looking at the dynamic movement of the forehead and the face. I'm analyzing how much heaviness is on the eyes. It might be driving front towels, muscle tone, it's causing forehead wrinkles. I'll be, I'll be looking for facial asymmetries. So a lot of the, a lot of the physical exam that we do in our offices happens in the first 15 seconds, because we're just, this is what we do. And it just happens quickly in our mind. It's a blank moment. It's that blank moment. Yes. You lit it for me. I know what I'm going to do on them. Yes. Yes. The urologist doesn't have this advantage. Right. He can't, you know, examine the prostate and the scrodoltissued during that first 15 seconds. Very good boy. Yes. So, so we do that, um, when we walk into the room, that analysis already happens. And then, because I've already got that sort of snapshot anatomic analysis already in my mind, then the next step that I'm doing is, and I'd love to hear what your process is, Susan. But the next step is I'm now going into their mind and trying to understand their psychology and what their motivation is. And the problem that we have is that the patient doesn't know what words to say. Yeah. They're like me for them to communicate what's actually driving them. Yeah. And so I have to pull that out of them. This was a little bit of detective work, um, a little bit of background. Um, my parents are both psychiatrists. I actually went to medical school thinking. I was going to go into psychiatry. And then I rapidly pivoted into surgery and it up where I am. But that initial love and appreciation for what's happening inside the neuronal processing and subconscious is something that we actually work with every single day in our offices. And so, um, so the next step that happens in a consultation is, I would say, hopefully. IMean, to me, that's a, that's a great thing. But I, I don't know. I, and not to be a downer. I, I don't know that that's true of every, you know, person who is, who is dealing with with aesthetics. I would guess there are a lot of people who are just kind of doing this in a coin-operated way. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. Unfortunately, there is a, there can be a tendency to take a cookie cut or approach where you recognize this and there's a, it's a knee jerk reaction. There's wrinkles on the forehead and jack bowtocks. You know, there's gels do a facelift. That's not the way that we should be practicing aesthetics. Every single individual has a totally customized situation anatomically physiologically and psychologically. And so our job is to try and figure that out when the patient doesn't have the ability to express. So, sometimes it's almost overlaps into pediatrics, which is something that I know you've got some history with in, in surgery. But, you know, you're trying to do a physical exam and get history from someone who's unable to communicate what they're actually able, what they want you to figure out. And so, we'll all start asking questions. You know, did you like the way you looked when you were 20? If they say yes, that means that they actually like their natural facial proportions and they're probably looking more for a rejuvenation. But if they say, you know, I always had a heavy eyelid and an ever-couped makeup on Rye. Then I know that there may be looking for something that's a more substantial result in that particular area. That's just one example. And then I'll try to get to know them from just what are the, what kind of, what's their occupation, what's their situation at home? Do they have kids? Tell me a little bit about your life. I'm trying to understand their social history to see if there's any red flags that would stop the process and say, okay, this is not the right time to be considering aesthetics. You got to get your mental health in order before we proceed, which is something that I would, you know, very openly telepacient at the right time in the consultation. But if a woman came in and said, my husband is leaving me, right, which is unfortunately probably not an uncommon thing. And let's make it more extreme, right? A 50 year old woman comes in and says, my husband of 25 years is leaving me for a 20 year old, understandably she's in derress and she's probably comparing herself to a 25 year old. Would that be a non-starter in your mind? So the scenario you described is actually very common. Yeah. I see this kind of situation all the time. And then and this is why a schedule 45 minutes or an hour for initial consultations. Because once we start talking about that, tears may start flowing because the patient is now in a safe zone, talking to a medical professional is actually listening to them. We were talking about time in a cook before. And so then we start to fall into the role of a therapist and we're letting them express because I want to see how deep is this trauma? I'm trying to understand, you know, is this something that is now a non-starter or what should we do here? Because there are scenarios where someone is in that kind of scenario situation where we certainly would not want to make any drastic moves or big changes or shifts. But is it appropriate to recognize that this person is, you know, desiring something that is a reasonable goal, but the current emotional state is not appropriate to do the procedure to get there. So maybe we say, look, let's do something irreversible. Or is we do something reversible? Yes, exactly. Because the fear, sorry to interrupt, but I'm guessing that the fear here is if you say no to her, she's going to find some guy down the block who will do anything. And it's better that you do something small and develop a relationship with her that will ultimately serve her interests. But you can't give her everything she wants at the moment. Is that a fair assessment? Very well said. I, that is exactly right. We're trying to build that trust and build that relationship on the front end so that this individual who's trying to get from A to B, we're going to take them there safely. Whether it's, you know, over a couple of months or 10 years, we're going to try to get to that goal and there may be some obstacles along the way and choices that we have to make will navigate it together. And it's all built on building that relationship on the front end. So the trust exists where I can tell the patient, we are not going to do this maneuver right now. And then that patient will listen to me because the trust has been built up enough that this individual knows that I have their best interest in mind and we're going to get to that goal eventually. And so, so yes, this scenario that you're describing, the individual might be best served with, okay, look, I think we can get there one day with procedures. But right now, I'm going to refer you to a therapist. You have a lot going on your life right now. Let's do some simple things that we're not going to regret like neuromodulators and fillers and some skin treatments or lasers, things that are low risk, they're not going to create any scars or permanent changes and then we can eventually get to that next step. We're not going to do the face lift next to correct. Yes, that's on hold. So, so, you know, the first step is we do this kind of snapshot anatomic dynamic analysis. This is not just a single image, just we're looking at the muscle movement and then the second step is this deep dive into the social situations, psychology. And then, presuming that everything's kind of moving along smoothly and now we're getting ready to talk about what we're, you know, what should we do now? Then I'll spend time educating the patient on their actual anatomy because they've never actually had that information presented to them. Right. So, I will put the mirror in front of the patient and I will say, let's go through what I'm seeing with on your exam today, together and we'll start at the top and I'll go through every little detail and I'll throw in little caveats like, I'm sorry, I'm not trying to make you feel bad about your features but you're here for me to tell you, so I'm going to tell you everything. We're going to talk about your bones, we're going to talk about the wrinkles, we're going to talk about the asymmetry you never noticed, which, by the way, is almost always the case. People don't notice the race symmetries and so we point out these asymmetries to them. And then, after that, kind of, you know, relatively, you know, lengthy discussion about their individual anatomy, then we'll start to say, okay, now you initially told me that these are some of the errors about are you? Here's what we could do to fix your eye region, your cheek, your mouth, your gel, whatever it is, and I'll present typically options that go from minimally invasive to more substantial and based on how the individual is responding to the conversation. I can usually, at this point, 20 years in my practice, dial in, like, what is the appropriate scope for this patient? They don't really know whether they want to face the turn-out. Maybe I need to explain them the complications where the incisions are, so they really understand what that procedure means. And then, if that seems like it's too much of them, we will dial it back and I'll have to tell them, look, we're not going to be able to get the results of a face of a lot of faces, but I don't think you're ready for a face lift, so maybe we should start with something smaller and kind of taking baby steps. And then, just to conclude, usually we'll end up finally telling the patient what they showed up to here, which is my opinion. And that won't give them my opinion about what we should do until we've gone through this whole process. And I've watched their body language as we've talked about procedures, sometimes I'll suggest something that's minimally invasive and they seem uninterested because it's not enough for them and I'll read that body language and kind of dial in the treatment for what I suggest for them. And so that'll happen at the end of the consultation, typically. So I know that was a long answer, but that that does, I would say, describe my typical consultation. How about you, Susanne? Yeah, pretty much everything that Tanish said. And I was so glad to hear that you talked to the patient about their mental state at that time too, because we do a lot of almost like psychology in therapy with our patients. If they open up to you, then that's an honor to you and you have to take that and you have to help them through that issue. And my I have a psychology background as well. So it's biology and psychology double major in schools. And I find that I use it a lot. It's so important. But I approach patients very similarly, but I try to put things in terms that they can understand. So I tell them there are the five hours of rejuvenation. And it doesn't mean they need all of it at that point in time. But at some point in their life, they're going to need one of them. And no, make it through all all five. And that is, we need to relax over active muscles. And I'm showing them on their face, the movements. I will say we need to refill lost volume, whether it's through fat, grafting, which is still one of my favorite procedures to do, or refilling with fillers. And I tell them we need to resurface the skin, because to me, how the skin looks is absolutely much more important than how tight they are. So patients sometimes come in. They're like, I just want to lift here and they want to lift their lower face. And their skin is terribly wrinkled and they have hyperpigmentation and sunspots. And I'll tell them if I lift you now, no one's going to notice that you look better. But if IMake your skin look better, people are going to notice you look better before I even do the surgery. So we have relax, refill, resurface. We need to do redraping. So there are going to be times that you can't lift in as I fill enough. You have to lift. So they either will lift with devices, such as micro-needling radiofrequency devices or ultrasound devices to tighten the skin or a face lift just some sort. So those you need to do. And then what people don't realize my fifth are is that you have to keep renewing because the aging process continues. And the minute they leave their office, everything you just did on them looks great and they start to diminish. And that's what we talked about a month. That's what we were just talking about. The renewal was the maintenance. Absolutely. So you have to keep renewing because otherwise you're going to lose that benefit. And what do IMean by renewing? You definitely maintain your neuromodulators and your fillers, but they have to be strategically placed. You don't need a lot of fillers. You need to keep the skin priming itself and turning over. And so you can achieve a lot of that at home. And I think people underestimate how much they can do at home with their skincare regimens. And then have to do less than the office. And that's my big emphasis. Do more at home. And then let us do an office a little boost here and there afterwards. And so those five hours make it very easy for these patients to comprehend. And they might not need all that. Yeah, for at some point they're like they're going to have all of us. Five. Five. Five. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Ibuprofen, Naproxen, Celecoxib： When Are NSAIDs Actually Appropriate ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [C3lAz4h1muU].txt ===

But why don't we start with a softball like NSAIDs? How do they work? Everybody's heard of Adville, you know, a leave, neprox and all of these things. What they do is a couple of things. They reduce some of the inflammation and their anti-inflammatories. So I was alluding very briefly that there are substances that can be released down in the periphery during injury that wind up that no seceptor. And amplified. Prosthig landins, histamine cytokines, interlucans, all of that. This inflammatory soup that occurs after every single surgery, every single injury that we experience. You get this inflammatory soup. And it's classically mediated by swelling, redness, temperature increases. And aspirin and a cox to an hip or end said, do a nice job in reducing that inflammation. Now, this is where medical science, you're going to probably be much more informed on me and form than I am on this. But medical science has been slowly shifting in its view with this. We have historically thought, take these medications in an acute injury. It knocks down that inflammation. And all is well and good. Well, some of the data was coming out in the orthopedic literature decades ago that people who were taking NSAIDs during total joint replacements were getting non-fusion of that joint to the bone. They were getting failures. And then more recently, there's been somEQuestion as to whether knocking down the inflammation is a good thing after all that may be that inflammation is part of the healing process. And that by giving an NSAID, aspirin, we're delaying the natural healing effect and causing more problems. So where's the truth? This is tough. One, I don't think we have the whole story yet on the NSAIDs. Two, I'm a gray guy, meaning I don't live in black and white. And I'm also appreciated that every medical field has their own lens that they look at in the world. And I think we have to appreciate the complexity of the patient, meaning if it's perhaps something minor and they can get by without the NSAID and it's not going to change significantly the level of function and maybe not taking it will improve healing. They can't get out of bed. They can't go to work. But an apperson helps them to do that thing so that they can engage with their family, with their friends, with work. Well, then heck yes, take the NSAID. You know, if it's helping with that, level of functional improvement. Now, are you talking about this through the lens of a cutepane or only through the lens of chronic pain at this point? Little both. But I think through chronic pain, we start to introduce all the broad or the longer term negative consequences of this. Impact on blood pressure, your heart, impact on your kidneys with long term NSAIDs. Particularly if you're older, I remember I think it was in your book. You took Viox. Yes. I loved Viox. I did too and I still remember the day in, oh God, it must have been December 2001 when the FDA came down and said no more Viox and I looked at my last bottle and I was like, oh God, no. I stockpiled it. I wish I did. I called up all the drug reps I knew because it couldn't give it out and I'm like, can you just hook me up? And so I ran out of stockpile of that for a long time and this is another classic thing if you cut this if it's too tangential. But every field looks at the problem through their own lens. Here you had a drug that was causing heart attacks. Well, IMean, in the world's most susceptible individuals that are relatively small, absolute rate. At the top right, it has discussion, okay. Okay. It was like mistake. Negative. That was right. Absolutely. Net negative. So yeah, because I've always won. Works is faulted. They should have been much more trensparent about this. Yeah. Put a black box label on it and we should all still have access to them. Stocks and 50 milligrams use the 25s and you're right. Don't give it in susceptible people and I think it's a class again. Yeah, the baby got thrown out with the bath. That's right. And it's a class, you know, we all do this. We look at the world or our own particular field. It's like with the latest blood pressure guidelines, the cardiologist want it really low. But it screws up the kidneys. And while the cardiologist say, you know, save the heart screw the kidney. And so yeah, a great drug, wish it was still around. Why do you think there hasn't been any drug that's come close to that? Like, celibrex is a joke. Like none of the drugs that are in the... That's a trot. Had a valdecoxib, I think it was a little bit close. But I think if I remember it, had a Steven Johnson, a bad rash with terrible consequence. I think the drug companies get scared of the lawsuits. Oh, so NSAIDs, new ones around taking the version. Do you have a version on dos? IMean, do you say 800 milligrams of, of ibutamoren TID three times a day, 2400 milligrams would be, you would tolerate that for how many days if a person needed it. Yeah, you know, week to two weeks on that. Make sure you read this. Yeah. Food and the stomach fluids. If you're either older, you've got kidney issues. You've got GI issues. Talk to your doc first. You know, don't just go into this stuff blindly. Yeah, it is interesting that we can buy acetaminophen and ibutamoren over the counter. And yet they can cause a ton of damage if not taken correctly. IMean, the ERs see people with acetaminophen Tylenol overdoses and, you know, cause of, while you know this is... It's a liver filler. Now, let's talk about acetaminophen for a while. When I last tried to understand it, there was no clue as to how it worked. Do we, to this, to this day? Do we understand how it works? Menomely, more information. And I haven't, in full disclosure, I haven't read up on it a lot. I know it has some cycle oxygenase. One impact, a lot of it is thought to be central. I haven't tracked it much beyond that. I saw some interesting, the side studies where it seems to have some impact in the brain around emotional modulation. And so there's a degree of emotional blunting on acetaminophen. Now, whether it trenslates into a real world or if it's just an experimental manipulation, I don't know. But there's a nice synergy with acetaminophen and ibutamoren because different mechanism of action, different organ systems are impacted. So you can take less of each when you combine them. What's your take on that? I think you just set it, Peter. IMean, you set it beautifully. I use those in combination to get the two for, to get that synergy, the one plus one is not two, buT3. So you can take Tylenol historically. We would say up to four grams a day. More recently, there's been some push to try to reduce that to two grams a day. Clearly, if you've got liver dysfunction, if you are drinking large amounts of alcohol less. Yeah, my go-to stack, if I am actually in pain, like if I'm having a year ago, I had, I had to get a crown replaced. Or sorry, I had to get a crown put on a tooth that had an old filling that broke. And it's the funniest thing because of how remarkable the teeth are at sensation, but the crown was a little too high. Okay, so what's the impact of that? That meant every time I took a bite, that one tooth was bearing the brunt of it. It was the last tooth I had, but right in front of my wisdom tooth. And I'm talking to my dentist, and he's like, yeah, Peter, it's just too high. Just come in and let me shave a little bit of it off. Well, I didn't have the time to go in. So for two months, I did not go in to get this thing shaved off. The pain was, this is how stupid I am. Like, I couldn't spare the two hours to go to the dentist in a, and he was willing to see me nights and weekends. This is the most accommodating dentist in the world. Everybody should have that kind of dentist. Tony Pachaco, I can't say enough about him. And yet I couldn't make the time. So for two months, the pain got so bad that I eventually couldn't chew on that side at all. So my point is I had to be taking something to get through the day. And the stack that worked was 400 of Adville 500 of Tylenol three times a day. Okay, so, Jeremy. Now let me ask you, does I be a pro-f and work better for you than an a person? I don't know, but the reason I prefer it is that I can line up the dosing with the Obsita Menafin because I believe an a person you only take once a day, right? Twice a day. Twice a day. You're right. Yeah, I wanted something where I could do a TID instead of BID. Sure. The reason I ask is I find huge individual variability in response to hand sets. Okay. Napperson works beautifully for me at 500 twice a day. I'd be pro-f and not so good. But what dose? 800 three times a day. Wow. Yeah, with food and water. Are there types of pains people should be thinking of where these things work especially well and other areas where, yeah, that's just not going to have much efficacy? I don't find it as effective in neuropathic pain. It might take a little bit of the edge off. No susceptible pain typically as you go to. You're kind of your no susceptible or your no susceptible inflammatory pain that kind of pain you'd see in a joint. Those are your typical go to forms of back pain, particularly in acute situations, but also somewhat in chronic. And you know, I get a lot of patients that say, yeah, that didn't do it for me. But if you inquire and ask questions, you find maybe it knocked it off a little because in our game, we're trying to knock off pieces and pieces and pieces of their pain experience. The issues with the different responses are very individually based. And I think in part, it has to do with a little bit of what we call pharmacokinetics or where the drug is getting and different inseds confirming a different tissues at different rates. So you're saying, maybe we should be empirical. In other words, try the nepox and try the ibutamoren, figure out which one works. Obviously, don't take them together. Obviously, don't take them together, but your take on message is spot on. Do you have a concern with people taking a seat of benefit and consuming alcohol? Do you tell people to refrain from alcohol when they're taking time on all? I tell them no more than I just said a conservative. Listen, don't do more than like a drink a day. You know, is at the right amount. I don't know. But if I tell them one drink a day, they'll go do two. And they're probably still okay with that. And then I am looking in their chart just to make sure they're not drinking for a, and there's liver issues. What do you do? I typically, when I'm taking a suit of benefit, I don't drink much anyway. I'm probably going to have four drinks in a week. So, meaning four days a week, I will have a drink over three days a week. But if I am taking time on all, I'm just going to refrain. Again, I don't have any evidence to suggest that that's necessary. But it's probably the safest. It's the precautionary principle, it's finest.

=== FILE: In Vitro Fertilization： The IVF Process Start to Finish ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [JJh6xL3vwUs].txt ===

Okay, so let's just walk through how IVF works and then we'll kind of dive into the ins and outs of some of the nuances. So a one comes to you, probably she's progressed through some layers of treatment, but you know, you've collectively come to the decision that this is hands down the best opportunity both for success and, you know, risk. So how does the treatment go? Yeah, so typically we do a bunch of screening tests on both partners. I include some blood tests, seamen analysis and ultrasound to get some assessment of their egg number, the woman's egg number. And then when the cycle starts, takes about two to three months to complete a cycle of IVF. And when you say egg number, are you determining that through an AMH or through a physical examination of the ovaries? But so we do an ultrasound, we can count the number of follicles. How small are these things? You know, a few millimeters. And you have the resolution to see that on ultrasound. Yeah. Okay. And that gives you some sense of about how many eggs that particular patient will produce with a variant stimulation. So anyway, when she's ready to start cycle, everything usually starts with their period. Usually we depending on the age again, but usually the patient starts on a couple weeks of birth control pills. And what that does is kind of suppresses the ovaries because we want all the eggs to kind of go up the same rate. Yeah. Stop the pill. Then you start the gonadotropans, which are this. That is injectable. Yep. And they're injectable. Just under skin kind of injection. So meaning HCG and FSH. Not a HCG, but primarily FSH. Okay. The little bit of LH. Okay. Okay. So you're on those for about eight to 12 days. And then every few days while you're taking those medications, you have to come into the clinic for ultrasound monitoring and astrodial levels, blood levels. And we can monitor how many follicles are growing, how big they are, etc. Usually medications are pretty well tolerated. Typical symptoms. Most common, I would say, is bloating as the ovaries get a little more enlarged. There's a small risk of something called ovarian hypers stimulation syndrome when the ovaries get a little bit too stimulated, but that's exceedingly rare. Usually your signs is happening. We can always back down on the dose. Sometimes patient doesn't make it as many eggs as we were hoping. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or change the protocol. But usually we guess pretty right. And then once the follicles are certain size, that's how we know the eggs are mature. Because of course we can't see the eggs on the ultrasound. You can only see the follicles that continue at the right. So then the patient gets H-C-G, which is another medication which kind of simulates her own L-H surge and the purpose of that medication causes the final maturation of the eggs. And if we did not do an egg retrieval, she would release all those eggs. But of course we time the egg retrieval to happen just before the woman ovulates. So that medication is very time sensitive. And do you harvest the follicles in the philopion tube? You need to re-enter the ovaries. In the ovaries. So the egg retrieval happens two days after the H-C-G trigger. Wow. I would have thought it would have taken two days for her to 36 hours specifically. So she usually takes it in the evening and then the retrieval is the day after in the morning. Okay. So when it comes into your office, a day, two days later. And like, walk me through this. So you layer on a table, you've got an ultrasound on her ovary and you're literally putting a needle in there. Well, first of all, she's asleep. Filet asleep or just local sedation. Yeah, yeah. So this is done in a surgery center, typically. Okay. We're clinic with anesthesiologists present, IB sedation, proposal. So it's like a colonoscopy or dental extract. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. All done vaginally actually using the ultrasound. In that day, there is a needle that's guided by the ultrasound that goes through the vagina into the ovary. So you're looking where you are and with the ultrasound and you're using the needle to puncture the ovary, get into the follicles. And the needle is attached to like a vacuum suction. And so the fluid and the follicles collected goes through the needle into the test tube. And then that test tube is handed off to the embryologist. They look under the microscope and try not to sleep the egg. Okay. So how long does that procedure typically take? I'm happening. Okay. And you've got the embryologist next to you and here she is under the microscope, going check, check, check, check, check. Yep. And here she is validating that you indeed are getting ripened eggs. And they look different presumably, right? Like those are easy to identify under a light microscope. Basically they tell us they got eggs. We don't know if they're mature yet we know nothing about them yet. I see. But long we get the eggs. They go to the lab and then the rest of the process happens there. So in the retrieval we're just aspirated and all the follicles try to get as many eggs as possible. Got it. Tell me the time course now and how you move from retrieval to fertilization. Right. So then the eggs are sitting in the petri dish in the lab. So the embryologist trensfers this to the media. Yep. Few hours later the eggs are inseminated. So with conventional IVF, we just put a bunch of sperm in there and let the fertilization happen by itself. With XE or interstitoplasmic sperm injection, the embryologist takes a single sperm and injects it into each egg. And the only time you get you need to do XE is if the sperm is so dysfunctional that it can't even on its own with no barriers make its way to fertilization when placed in direct proximity even egg. It probably could but maybe there's two few sperm. So anytime there's a male factor, we tend to do XE. Any male factor you just need to do XE? Yeah. Yeah. And in fact, a lot of times it's done even when there isn't a male factor because fertilization rate is a little bit higher with XE compared to IVF in very few cases. You don't get fertilization so you don't want to bind out. Oh, by the way, your sperm can't fertilize your egg. That's the whole problem on long because then you got to get a lot of sperm. I think that's the way to get it. So for again, for a couple listening to us now, this is something they need to be talking about with their fertility doc which is, hey, do you do XE out of the gate no matter what? Or yeah, it's a little controversial because it adds cost. How much cost? You know, it's probably another thousand dollars or two thousand or something. Probably a thousand. Okay. But so the data to be clear shows that XE and IVF have similar success rates for non-none. Male factor. But I'm just telling you that a lot of times we're doing it anyway because we don't want to find out small, very small percentage of cases that have zero fertilization. That's like not a conversation. Oh, that conversation. Yeah. Because you've lost those eggs too. Right. Right. So that's part of the reason that we do it. So by the next day, usually we look at the embryos to see or the eggs see if they're fertilized. Usually about 70% of the eggs fertilized. So let's say we get 10 eggs. You can expect maybe seven of them will be fertilized in another seven embryos. So we discard the unfertilized eggs, continue to culture. Okay. So how many days you go to 14 days? No. No. No. Five days. Okay. Six days. And depending if we're doing a fresh trensfer or freezing the embryos or fresh trensfer weeks. So you'll take both, right? We do both. Yeah. So time we're freezing because you're doing genetic screening because we're doing genetic testing. Okay. So let's go through that exam. Okay. So we're cultureing these embryos in the Petri dish for five to six days. Then we look at them again. The ones that have made it to that stage, which is usually only half of them. So remember, you're seven. Now maybe they're three or four. So what explains that? So most likely the ones that didn't make it are the chromosome. We have normal ones. Remember, we talked earlier about those ones. Not making it. Well, the items. How long does it take? Typically to get the genetic results back? Typically within a week or two. Okay. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here? Are you doing whole genome sequence? Or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah. Good question. So it's evolved over time. And I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? IMean, we do it a lot. And the data definitely shows that if you trensfer normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting. But the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal? Because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing, but the genetic testing is flat. So personally genetic testing is really easy to identify and your ployedie. It's a chromosome analysis. It's geared up to do that, right? Okay. Right. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is, you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting, yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosome abnormalities. Unless you know that the couple is a carrier for some genetic mutation that you also want to screenplay. Yeah. So let's say one of the parents, well, this would be a bad example. But cystic fibrosis, like let's say both patients. So both of them have our carrier for CF. And so there's a one in four chance that you're going to get two copies of CF. So then you're looking directly for this CF. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. There's a whole bunch of them, right? And part of the screening, we didn't mention it, but most people doing IVF will get carrier screening to see if they're carriers for any genetic mutations. That's a pretty common scenario where you have two people that are CF carriers, neither of whom have CF. They most of those people would say, I'm going to do IVF because I don't want to take the chance that might kid. Okay. So let's just say you know, you harvested 15, you fertilized 10, seven had good morphology. Six came back genetically good. Okay. Those would be reasonable numbers. Yeah. Seven is high. Yeah. So five came back genetically good. Let's say, okay, young person. Yeah. So you got one third of what you harvested, you could implant. You're saying each of those is 70 to 75 percent success rate. And yet you would only implant one at a time. Yeah. Which is interesting. Because if you implanted two, let's do the math. You're talking about 50 percent chance. That's right. That's right. Exactly. Yep. Twins. You got risk. Yeah. IMean, you know, obviously, you know, we believe in patient economy, patient usually gets to make that decision. But you're going to make the case for where this one is. No, no, no, no, no, no. You want to help the baby in the end. You want to help the mom. Yep. Okay. So now let's talk about, um, not it's time to implant. So how does that process work? So that process is much less complicated, but equally important. So usually does it's time to write it has to happen at a certain time in the cycle. So we either use the woman's natural cycle to time it and time it at the time that implantation would normally occur, which is like the second half of the cycle. Or we use what we call a controlled or programmed cycle where we basically give the woman the hormones. And then again, time that trensferred to happen at a specific time. The actual process kind of like a pap smear. It basically doesn't require any anesthesia or anything. We do do it under ultrasound guidance. So abdominal ultrasound. We saw one of the embryos, draw it up in a little catheter with a little syringe on the end. Place the speculum in the vagina and then just pass the catheter through the cervix and we're looking on the ultrasound for the placement. And where are you implanting it? About 1.5 centimeters to 2 centimeters from the top of the u-race. And then are you done or are you still doing ongoing hormone therapy? Sometimes we give supplemental progesterone, that's another hormone that helps maintain the pregnancy. And then usually 12 to 14 days later, the patient has her first pregnancy test. Hopefully she's pregnant. We usually follow the pregnancy for the first few weeks. And then she trensfers to her non-harbid. That's what? Yeah. Wow. I was just kind of amazing that this all works. Yeah. I've been doing it for 30 plus years and I still find it fascinating. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Is Consciousness Required to Feel Pain？ ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [h0UceZ3YXoA].txt ===

in his consciousness necessary for the internalization of this full gamut of pain. Yes. Yes, it is. I believe it is. I believe firmly it is. And I'm a recovering anesthesiologist. I haven't done it now in, oh gosh, 20 years. But when I did it, and when you were operating on a patient, the patient is unconscious, they are not experiencing pain. You need a conscious brain for the experience of pain. Now what people incorrectly made the leap of is thinking, well, they're not experiencing pain, so everything's okay. That would be a logical fallacy. Because all those signals are still coming from the body, still hitting the spinal cord and having their impact there, all those injury signals because let's face it. When you do surgery, it's really nothing more than a controlled injury. Yes, and I just want to point out, and this shows you how long I haven't been in surgery, but 20 years ago, my recollection is, an anesthesiologist was giving not just one medication, but several. Yes. So they were giving something like halothane, to my understanding, we didn't know how it worked then. Do we have any idea how it works today? That or we still are trying to unlock the whole consciousness aspect of things, but we're inching our way there. But it wasn't enough to give that. Right. When I say we, the anesthesiologist still had to give, typically on narcotic. They were still typically giving something like fentanyl, even though the patient was unconscious. Yes. They were also often giving an mnesic, so that they wouldn't have any recollection of what was going on. But of course, we all hear the horror stories of the patient, and a paralytic on how to evolve it, right? Exactly. So you hear these horrible stories of the patient who is paralyzed, but somehow conscious, you can miss on this state sort of thing. But just to make sure I understand, in theory, a paralytic, and an inhaled anesthetic, it should be sufficient to eliminate the perception of pain in a patient who is being cut. Yeah. Part of the challenge was, and now here, I'm starting to step outside of my wheelhouse, even though I was a member of the anesthesia tribe for a long time, is the levels of volatile gas anesthetic that you need to necessarily obliterate reflexes and full no-susceptive impulses would be so high that it would depress one's blood pressure. Got it. And so you augment that with an opioid. I understood. Like, fentanyl, like, morphine, like, whatever, and you combine those together, and that's why what the anesthesiologist do is quite magical. Got it. So in other words, you give the inhaled anesthetic just to get unconsciousness, but not to fully suppress the no-susceptic system. Instead, you bring on the opioid to do the remainder of that work. They're working synergistically on the working at different mechanisms. And during that process, the patient is not feeling pain if they're unconscious because you do need a conscious working aware brain to feel pain. But all of the electrical impulses coming in from the body that are slamming into the spinal cord and the brain are open full bore. They're impinging on all those brain systems responsible for stress responses. So does that mean we are seeing a cortisol surge? We're seeing whatever one would expect a conscious person to experience with epinephrine, nor epinephrine, cortisol, all these things still surging out. Yes. In response to pain. Yes. And in response to no-susception. Independent of perception of pain. Right. And you notice that I'm trying to be precise in my language. Because sensor unconscious there's no pain, but there's plenty of no-susception. So arguably more than you would ever experience. IMean, if you think about what surgery, think about what we do in surgery, my God. Take down the gallopal. Yes. And then take an electrocordery and start burning tissue. Right. IMean, there's no level of no-susception. You could ever experience like that while being awake, unless you're in a burning car. Absolutely. That's exactly it. And it's remarkable. Through modern medicine that we get people through all this as a reflection of the advancements in surgery, advancements in anesthesiology, advancements in post-operative care. But it is no different than a controlled injury. It's done in a nice sterile environment, but it is a massive injury that people are undergoing. Yeah. And they're just not awake. And it's nice and clen and sterile. But there is a stress response associated with that. Most people recover well. What one of the hot topics of research these days is why do most people recover, but a certain percentage of people go on to have persistent pain after surgery? That's an area that I used to research years ago. Many others are doing some great work in that space. It turns out that a lot of the factors we're going to get to this is what people bring to your operating room table, meaning early life events, levels of emotional, health, cognitive health and everything else. So to answer your question and getting back to it, no, I don't believe there is the perception of pain without a conscious brain. And there's all sorts of nuances to that. Yeah. So let's go back to something you said at the outset from an evolutionary perspective, which is pain and pleasure have been the driving factors that have been the engine of natural selection. Yes. And but clearly those things have had to work in pre-conscious models. Yes. So that means that whatever we're defining as pain there did not include a perception of pain. Yes. So what does that mean? That's where it gets muddy. And there's some art of people than I that would probably be more articulate. But I think this is why I think on first principles you have to define the thing that you're talking about. When we typically talk about pain, we're talking about it from a uniquely human standpoint. Does a dog experience pain? It's easier to accept. Yeah. To accept them a dog person. I believe they experience pain. You move on down the evolutionary at what point? Right. Does a goldfish experience pain? Goldfish clearly experiences no such option. They clearly have all the classic with draw, protection survival aspects of it. But what level is there a conscious brain that is trenslating it? And also on top of it, remember in our human definition of pain, we bake in it's an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Does a goldfish experience emotions? I you leave that to the goldfish experts. You see how muddy it gets. Yeah. And you go down rabbit holes pretty quickly. Which is why I tend to stay with humans. Which is just for enough. Right away.

=== FILE: Is Infertility Becoming More Common？ ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [ILHoUhUV6go].txt ===

Is it possible to say anything about fertility rates changing over the past 50 years? Is there any statement you can you can make on that? Yeah, there are some data that seems to suggest that infertility rates are increasing over the last several years. It's pretty common. I don't know if you're listeners know, but about the lifetime risk of infertility for each person's about one in six. So that's close to 20%. In the last few years, the United States seems to be kind of a plateau of the prevalence. But as far as the reasons for the increase in infertility prevalence, it's not super well understood. Part of the reasons delayed child barriers. But to say you could make it 100% if every woman decides to have a baby when she's 70. By definition, you look like 100% for fertility. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah, so women are waiting longer, of course, to start their families, to pursue education, careers, etc. Maybe they haven't found the right partner. And so that definitely is contributing to increased rates of fertility. There's some data that show that sperm counts are decreasing globally. It's a little controversial, but that might be plain and roll. There might be a slight increase risk and sexually trensmitted diseases as well. So all those things are probably factors. But do we know if a 30-year-old woman today has a higher rate of infertility than a 30-year-old woman 50 years ago? We think so, but I don't know that data of top of my head. I got it. And so if the answer there is yes, we would then, I don't know that it would answer all our questions because it could still be explained by decreasing sperm count. It could still be increased by increasing paternal age. This would be very difficult analysis to do. Right. Environmental factors as well. Our exposures are different now than we're 50 years ago. Well, and then thEQuestion, of course, would be if this is an environmental reason, what are the environmental triggers now? You mentioned STDs a minute ago. So how do STDs in which STDs play a role in fertility? The ones most well-earned are probably gonorrhea and clemitia, which are very common sexually trensmitted diseases. And on the female side, those particular infections can ascend to the phlopian tubes and cause scarring in the phlopian tubes, which then interfere with that process that we talked about earlier or the egg and the sperm meeting and can lead to infertility. And is that something that happens if it is left untreated or is that something that's easy to address with antibiotics if caught early? IMean, if it's caught early, then it's usually treatable with antibiotics or there are some issues with antibiotic resistance, especially with gonorrhea. But usually if you catch it early, it's treatable. But if it's late stage or it's unrecognized or untreated, then it has more likely more likely to send to the phlopian tubes where usually cause fertility problems. How prevalent is gonorrhea today in the US? I think it's pretty common. I don't know. Really? Yeah. Yeah. In certain populations is more common than others. But, um, yeah, unfortunately. And there's a number of reasons for that. Some of it is just lack of awareness and education about safe sex practices. Maybe less testing as well, especially we saw that during the pandemic for sure. How does it present? In women usually with pelvic pain, fever, vaginal discharge, those are the most common symptoms. And is it equally trensmissible from male to female to male? It's probably more trensmissible from male to female. Okay. And is it, is it an STD where the person who has it knows it? Like if a male has it, does he know he has it? No, it's not. It's not. It's not trensmitted this readily. Yeah, not always. Okay. What about HSV? Does that factor in fertility at all? Not as much. No. And, Climity, again, I apologize from my ignorance. I just don't remember any of this stuff since taking, you know, the USML leads. Yes. Tell me how Climity presents and how it impacts fertility. The same, actually. Yeah, very similarly. So, pelvic pain, fever, usually they're both present together. Okay. And does it have the same pathology where it creates, it ascends the phalopian tubes and scars the tubes? Yeah. So, if, if, if, worst case scenario, if a woman undergoes a severe infection with one or both of these, it's not treated in time. She has completely scarred phalopian tubes. Is it still likely that she could get pregnant through IVF or the eggs still? Yeah. Genreal, is the, are the eggs and uterus still preserved enough to? Yes. Yes. It doesn't usually affect the uterus or the eggs or the ovaries. Yes. Now, she may not know that she has blocked tubes until she starts trying because you wouldn't necessarily feel different if your tubes were blocked. So, one of the tests we were talking earlier about, you know, what testing we might do in addition to a cement analysis and getting menstrual history, et cetera, is we usually do an x-ray test that's called a hystrocell pingogram or HSC for short. Yep. And it's done specifically to evaluate whether or not the tubes are open. So, are you just injecting contrast in, you go, I assume you do this externally, you go into the sermons into the cervix, into the, and you just inject dye and take an x-ray. Exactly. And you're looking for how smooth and so tell me what is a normal phalopian tube look like on that test. So, first the dye, so it's done in radiology facility usually by radiologists, although some gynecologists do that, it's this test as well, but usually fills up the uterus so you can also see the uterus. And then the tubes are kind of like these wire like, yeah, what's the diameter of a normal phalopian tube in that setting? Like, less than a centimeter. Yeah. That's, that's pretty big. Yeah, the whole tube, but the actual sort of opening. No, yeah, how big is the lumen? My crons. Oh, wow. Okay. Or millimetres. I don't know. Exactly. But you can see it, definitely see it on. Yes, right? And you can see it. Well, you can see it. It's probably a millimetre or a little bit, and not my crusher. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then the dye is filling up the tubes and then spilling up the tubes so you can see that. The ovaries are not visualized because of the finger like projection. So it's actually spilling dye into the perennium at this point. Right. Okay. Right. And based on that visual inspection, a trened radiologist and gyn can say that is smooth, that looks great versus that is jagged and or obstructed. Right. Now, if it's obstructed, I assume that the woman has a much bigger problem, which is every month, one of those eggs comes out. It's not getting past the point. Right. Is it just atrophy and get reabsorbed? I see. So it wouldn't necessarily cause pain. So let's say you do the analysis. And I assume if you, if there's scarring on one side, but not the other, would you intervene or would you just say no, we just have to. It's just going to take twice as long for one to get through. Yeah. There's still a chance to get pregnant, although whatever process call caused the scarring in the one two probably affected the other tube as well. So just because it's open, doesn't mean that it's functioning normally. Certainly can give, give it a few months of trying. But the other issue you have to worry about is what we call an ectopic pregnancy. If that tube is not normal, if fertilization happens, that embryo can implant in the tube. And that's kind of a very dangerous situation. Because obviously the tube can accommodate a pregnancy so usually eventually that causes pain. And if it goes unrecognized. So surgical emergency. Yeah, exactly. At how many weeks of gestation is a woman typically? Because that's, you know, I did my trening in general surgery. So that was one of the things we were always thinking about was ectopic pregnancies for women presenting with abdominal pain. But I don't think I know the answer of this question, which is how many weeks of gestation is a woman when she's showing up in the ER complaining of abdominal pain? Usually about six to eight weeks pregnancy. Two months pregnant. Right. Now, remember we time? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Pregnancy from like two weeks before ovulation. So she's, you know, but at times she recognizes she's pregnant. She's already a month pregnant. Yep. So in the next month, it's probably the most common time or are those, ectopic pregnancies present. So when a woman has an ectopic pregnancy, can that philopian tube be salvaged? Sometimes, sometimes if you recognize it early, it can be treated either medically or surgically and that tube can be salvaged. If you recognize it late in the tube ruptures, then often time the treatment is to just remove the two, especially if it's not functioning normally. Yeah. So when you remove that, let's just say it's a young woman. She's 25 years old. You can't salvage the tube. You end up taking the tube. You're leaving the ovary. Right. So you still want her to have her endocrine system intact. Right. What's happening to the eggs that come out of that tube? They just get released into the abdomen, puritanarmon resort. So do you tell that woman your fertility rate just went down by 50 percent? Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. She can still get pregnant if she has the other tube in intact, but most of the time, if the egg ovulates from the right, it's going to try and go down the right side. Although there have been cases where you can ovulate from the right ovary and it can travel down. It makes it's way over to the left. It makes it way over there. Yeah. It's rare. Wow. But it could happen. Yeah. What are the risks for ectopic pregnancy besides former STDs that lead to scarring in the tube? Previous surgery, pelvic surgery, in particular, like ruptured appendix or something like that, endometriosis, concuss scarring of the tubes. Those are probably the most common. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Is It Too Late for Hormone Therapy After Menopause？ ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [KiZ7KauLOfQ].txt ===

There were three other questions that I want to ask you going back to hormones postmenopause. And these are, I'm saving the three most contentious questions for, for last on this topic. Question one, I buy your argument. This is someone's posing this question to not me. I buy your argument that hormones are safe. But I am now 56 years old. I finished menopause at 49. Isn't it too late to do anything about it? Yeah. So we have this idea in menopause medicine called the timing hypothesis. Or the window idea, right? So thEQuestion of the timing hypothesis is, what are you afraid of? What are we worried about? We're worried about blood clots. We don't want to hurt people. We're worried about cancer. We're worried about blood clots. We're worried about heart disease. But thEQuestion is, is does the hormone therapy that we use? Apply to the data that we have and I would argue it doesn't. And so there is a level of we don't know what we don't know. But even the timing hypothesis using prem pro, which was the medicine used in the WHI, is under question. So Susan Davis from Australia just wrote a big paper questioning the timing hypothesis. And say, actually when you look at the data really closely, even it doesn't really hold mustard. We shouldn't really be forcing people to, like say, you cannot start hormone therapy after 60. So I think this is where shared decision making really comes into play of what are we treating? What are we trying to do care about your bones? Do you care about your sexual health? Do you care about, you know, sort of your mental health? And do you want to see a hormone therapy helps with these things? Now hormone therapies indicated for three reasons. Vazemotor symptoms, hot flashes, night sweats, that sort of thing. Prevention of osteoporosis, which to me is a green light. So anyone should be offered hormone therapy because who wouldn't want to prevent osteoporosis? And the thing I just talked about a lot is the genitaline urinary syndrome of menopause. So anybody of any age and I'm talking even parry menopause and premenopause, vaginal estrogen or DHEA is safe and really helpful to prevent UTIs and should be used absolutely everywhere throughout life. Throughout life. Okay. Now I'm going to ask another question that is the extension of that question, but I think your logic is going to hold the same, which is the hedging strategy, which says not only use as little as possible for as short a duration as possible, says you really need to stop this after 10 years, right? IMean. So even if you were lucky enough to catch a woman through parry menopause and you know, you got her on hormones by the age of 49, now that she's 69, you got to stop it, right? Definitely not. So that's really the, there is no data to suggest stopping it. In fact, stopping it, all of your bone gains, that's right. They all go away quickly. By the way, that was the argument put forth to me with one of the authors of the WHO, who is by far the most willing to concede that mistakes were made, right? Which was, okay, yes, I will concede that the Estrodial is doing amazing things for the women's bones. But remember, they're going to go away when you stop the hormones, as though that was a necessary thing to do. So keep them on, right? And again, this idea of if hormones, if it's not broke, don't fix it. By taking a woman off of hormone therapy, you actually potentially could be disrupting any plaques that are there. You could be causing vasospas. Like, there are all these things that could happen. And so we really don't want to take women off their hormone. Therapy, unless there is a reason too. And the only reason I honestly see is if a woman has an active cancer that you are going to target hormones as a target for your treatment of cancer, that's not to say the hormones cause the cancer. But we have a target sometimes because all body parts have hormone receptors. And we have used hormones as a target for our breast cancer. Therapy is in some other cancer therapies. Is that helpful? Does that make sense? Yes. And it actually does. Tales perfectly into my third critical situation, which is how do we manage hormones in women who are at risk of breast cancer from a familiar standpoint who have been diagnosed with DCIS, which is not cancer, but increases the risk of cancer. So that's kind of a subset of the first group. And then in women who actually have breast cancer or have a history of treated breast cancer. So I would imagine you see women that fit into all three or four of those buckets. How do you handle it? Yeah. So first we take a long time at my clinic and we get to know each other. And we really try to dive into the data and say, what do we know? What do we not know? And I always tell people, you can't take hormone therapy because Rachael Rubin tells you to take hormone therapy. You have to do your own research, figure out what you, you know, what you're interested. And so I have a lot of colleagues who are talking about this. You had Alvaram Bluming on your show. And he has a great book called Estrogen Matters. He's an oncologist who's questioning a lot of this research. We have amazing colleagues of mine like Corinne Mann, who is a gynaecologist who had breast cancer as a young person in her 20s. And now takes hormone therapy and talks a lot about hormone therapy and teaches courses on hormone therapy and breast cancer. So I am always learning about what data. So I don't like fear. I don't like telling women they can't do things with their body. I like understanding what we afraid of. And so when it comes to the brachapatians, if you do surgical menopause on someone and they don't have cancer and you do not give them back hormone therapy, you are trading one problem for another. You may give them extra life from a breast cancer perspective, but you are shortening their life from a bone health and a cardiovascular disease perspective. That is very clear. So the other problem is the DCIS. If you are not going to give someone endocrine therapy of any kind and they're done, they have surgery, they're done. There is no reason why they can't take hormone therapy. And then when it comes to active breast cancer, there is a lot of emerging questioning in this patient population. And again, thEQuestion is if you're allowed to get pregnant, are you allowed to take hormone therapy? And that's really the pushback that we give some people. And I think there's a lot of data that we need here, but we need to be asking thesEQuestions. I'm a urologist to stop when I came out of my trening, it was testosterone fuels prostate cancer. Now 10 years later, it's you have prostate cancer. Sure, we can give you testosterone. No problem. If you have metastatic disease, we target testosterone. So we're going to use castration level androgen blockers. But that doesn't mean if you have localized disease that you can't have testosterone therapy. So we think of testosterone and prostate cancer as a saturation model concept. And I actually think we need to be using that model potentially when it comes to breast cancer and have more logic and understanding unless fear, it's marketing. All prostate cancers testosterone sensitive prostate cancer. But we don't cut off testicles for the fear that an abnormal cell will happen in a prostate. All a lot of breast cancer is estrogen receptive breast, and not all of it, right? But some of it is that doesn't mean that estrogen causes cancer. Is that helpful? Like I think it's a it's insanely helpful. And of course, it echoes exactly what Ted Schaefer said when we spoke about this after discussing the traverse trial, which was I think to me the most telling thing that Ted said was, look, if I have a man who's got a glee sin 3 plus 3, means he has prostate cancer, and we are going to follow this. And if it becomes a 3 plus 4, we're going to actually have to take this thing out. We'd put him on TRT if he needed it. And his argument was exactly your argument on the pregnancy side, which is the reason we would happily give him TRT is, let's just assume he's a man replete with testosterone. Would we castrate him during that period of time of observation? Of course not. So why would I not give him testosterone if he needs it, even though he actually has prostate cancer? And this is again where that patriarchal divide happens is we're willing to take those risks and focus on quality of life when it comes to men's health. We castrate women with the mere thought that they may develop an abnormal cell in their body and completely ignore their quality of life and all of those things that go with it. And that women are more than breast tissue. They are so much more than their cancer risk. And we have to understand it actually have these reasonable conversations with women. And what I say is your oncologist is not in charge of you. They don't tell you. They give you advice. They are so, it's like a pit crew. Let's go back to our car model. You have a pit crew, but you get to decide who's on your pit crew and who fits into your pit crew. But it can't be just one doctor. You may need someone to talk about your sexual health. You may need someone to talk about your menopause hormones. You may need a bone doctor. You may need a, you know, a heart doctor. So you need to collect your pit crew. But with one doctor says no, you can't do this with your body. I don't like that termina. I don't think it's fair anymore. And when you give women information about how their bodies work, they make great decisions for themselves. They can look at the menu and say, listen, I'm most worried about all timers. And I've looked at the data. And this is what I choose to do. Or hey, I'm more worried about osteoporosis. Listen, my grandma died. Sorry, my grandma broke a bunch of ribs. She had Alzheimer's and osteoporosis. And my grandpa hugged her and she broke a bunch of ribs. Like that's not how I want to age. Right? So what do I care about? I don't want to get osteoporosis. I don't want to get dementia. And I've seen all the literature hormone therapy sounds pretty good to me. Right? Like, and that's really the key. I think there's a lot of people on social media. Maybe negative about hormone therapy. But if you look, they are on hormone therapy themselves. They will say they have an estrogen patch on. I'm sorry. I don't, because I don't pay any attention to social media. There are people out there saying they're, they're anti HRT, but they use their chart. So I don't, what's their argument? What are they talking about? This idea that we are overselling HRT that not every woman needs a HRT. And I'm not suggesting every woman needs HRT. But I want every woman to be offered the menu. Right? I want them to know what they are like, like, just like I want people to know how to exercise and lift weights and eat healthy. Here's the menu. If you choose to smoke and drink and do drugs, that is your choice. But I want you to know that the menu exists. Does that make sense? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Is Your Back Pain Physical or Mental？  ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [WB6WY_Tl4eU].txt ===

Well, let's pivot for a moment to talk a little bit about the amount of psychological trauma that exists in the patient with lower back pain. And I'm thinking very specifically, even about some of my own patients or friends who have been in the throes of lower back pain. And if nothing else steward, I take a great degree of comfort from the injury, the third injury that I had the one in 2000, because it lasted so long and because it was so debilitating and because I'm here today without pain, my confidence around small recurrences is so high that I don't tend to awfulize about it and work myself up. But I have great empathy for a person who doesn't have that knowledge. And instead, I don't know how to help someone sometimes because I can't tell what is mind and what is body at this point. And I suspect that there's a significant interplay. So can you speak more about this phenomenon? And what those of us who want to help these patients can do? I am certainly much more conscious of the point you're making now than I was 30 years ago, absolutely. I'm going to start with a little story. But this happens very often. You mentioned earlier how MRIs don't show you the mechanism of pain than I can give all kinds of reasons why. But let's take this patient. He came to see me and he said hi doc, I hear you're different. I've got this pain. I've been everywhere. I went to the pain clinic. They gave me narcotics. And now they say the pain is in my head. I can live with the physical pain. I cannot live with someone telling me the pain is in my head. Because that means I'm crazy. And if I'm crazy, I don't deserve to live. You've got two weeks. And in two weeks, I'm blowing my brains out. Now there's a heavy psychosocial challenge. And a little bit of a story about what the system does to people. And it's not unusual for someone to come here suicidal. So I said, all right, you don't appear to have pain right now. And he says, no, I don't. And I said, OK, what causes your pain? And he said, well, it's when I do a certain movement that I get a flash of pain. That feels like someone has broken a beer bottle and have ripped open my hamstring muscles. It's awful. I said, oh, can you show me the pain? And he said, what? You want me to show you how I create the pain. And I said, it's the only chance I have to understand it. I said, you've been to 15 different clinicians. He says, no one ever asked you to show them the mechanism of your pain. And as I know, whatever it touched you, he says, no. I said, well, it's the only way I know Peter, I put on my instrumentation, which was muscle EMG over the torso, the glutes, et cetera. We put on this fine motion on her 3D motion, it's fine on her. And then I said, all right, let's see what causes this. So he stood there and he did a very weird thing. And he said, all right, well, here you go. And he wound himself around in a circle like this. And he got to 10 tucked at center. Oh, no. Now at that time, I heard like a little cavitation, little paw, come out of his back. And that was the brap of the sciatic nerve. And he was in a bad ways. You know, I laid him thrown on a table, tried to give him a bit of decompression. And he went home. And I said, I know exactly what the mechanism of your pain is. Here's what you should do over the nexT3 days. But I want you to come back, but promise me you aren't going to do anything silly. Remember what the threat was hanging over us. He said, I promise. I called him that night. I called him the next day just to make sure. Then he came back. And I said, I know exactly what your mechanism is. As, and here's what the data showed, as he was winding himself around, he was using muscle, muscle, as stiffening, and stabilizing. It's centrating of the joints. And as he got to top it, send me shuff all his muscles off. He completely relaxed. And then there was a little shear trenslation or a clump. And that's what we heard. And that's what strapped the sciatic root. I said, OK, you have no pain. Push my fingers out. Error. Good. Hold that. Now talk to me and keep talking to me with that controlling. And we focused on through this in a minute. Very simple. I said, oh, keep the tone now. And we're going through. And as he came to top that center, you could see it. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I said, we're there. Do it again. Hold on. Keep control. He didn't clunk. Now let's talk him abouT4 months to wind down the ache. But he never had another clunker at drive. 10 years later, he brought his daughter to me. And I saw her for back pain. And he brought me a case of beer. And he said, I said, you know, I did my one year follow up with you. But how have you been? He says, fabulous. I said, did you ever get another episode? Never had one. Now some people will think that that's a fantastic impossible story. P, after one close, close and gave him, he was so coachable. And he got it. He understood. He was a mechanical mind. You know, he never had another acute episode ever. And so think of a suicide case from the medical system, not having a sufficient evaluation procedure to really get at what the mechanism of his pain was to a point where they defaulted and said, we've tried everything with you, it's not working. Therefore, the pain is in your head. So it was a process of understanding the mechanism, giving him a strategy to address the mechanism. And the psyche just changes. It empowered him. I'll give you one more story. Absolutely. OK. I was giving a lecture in England. And there was a fellow off to the side. And he was slumped down. Now if you get a clinical psychology textbook, the picture of depression is this. He used to get a slumped down in that demeanor. Now if you have a posterior disbolge, that is not a position to be. So they were starting with clinical depression, beating a disqualch. So you don't go together. And then in the break, he came over to me. You're a very quiet spoken fella. And he said, I hear what you're saying. Do you have 30 seconds for me to tell you my story? And I said, sure, I used to be a police officer. I heard my back. I went through the NHS system that they only gave me exercises that hurt me more. Finally, they gave me a pamphlet. How to live with your back pain? And he said, that book destroyed me. What? I have to live the rest of my life with my back pain. And no one's ever touched me or shown me any of this. And I said, oh, and then you'll remember that spot procedure that we went with the older woman that I described her. I simply showed them that. And he went back and he sat down on the chair. I said, tall. And then at the end of the lecture, I went over to him. And I said, how is your pain? And he stood up. And he said, it's gone. And he started to cry. Because he realized now what the system had done to him. In the meantime, he lost his job. And he realized that he'd been stolen from. And those are his words. He said, they stole my career from me, giving me that book out of live with my back pain. Why didn't anyone show me what my pain was like? You just did in 30 seconds. And it was just, I've been watching this pattern for so many years. You could see it a mile away. Anyway, those are two stories to link the mechanics. And ultimately, what we're trying to do is to empower people in showing them they have the ability within themselves. They just need to understand the mechanism. And most of the time, they are able to mitigate the cause and then build a robust foundation. So I wrote back mechanic. And people would come, I started the experimental research clinic at the University of Waterloo. We were the only clinic, maybe you heard of this. But I've never heard of another clinic where they follow up with every single patient that they ever saw. We did a two-year follow-up with every single patient who came in and we subcategorized them because we assessed everyone into the mechanism of their pain pathway. We gave them an appropriate exercise prescription. We followed up to see, did they even comply? Because some people didn't. And then how are you doing after two years? If you were in the subcategory that everything has failed, you've been told you need surgery. So you're at the end of the road now. You're a surgery case. In the two-year follow-up, following the plan that I just described for you with this thing called virtual surgery, which is part of it. 95% reported that they avoided surgery and they were glad that they did. So that's my efficacy to the empowerment and psychology issue. I don't know if that answers your question. Sometimes I get a little bit, I try and create a logic flow. I hope that works. Yeah, I'll tell you what stands out to me the most in those stories Stuart is your consistent, adamant drive towards understanding the mechanism of the pain. So it's a, how do we break this down into a physics and biology problem? And I guess my question is, where, which type of healthcare providers are most in line with that? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Kids' Bone Health： What Parents Should Know ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [7PdloOZDjd8].txt ===

I think we made a lot of the groundwork that we need to do. And this next section we'll get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have somEQuestions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health. And we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, is there anything in particular any advice you would have for people who have kids? On those very important ages, you know, the eight to 20 on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health. Yeah, I think this is very important. You know, when I stop to think about all of the things that, you know, a parents got on their plate to try to help their kids with during this relatively narrow window that your kids are in your house and and therefore somewhat amenable to your influence. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular being very active in things that load bones. So one of the things that was a bit surprising to me was that running didn't have a greater impact on BMD. So in a moment, we'll pull up that figure neck that I think is pretty interesting that shows all of the different sports and how they impact BMD. Now, I'm going to posit that the running one has a confounder in there because if you think about it, running puts a lot of force on muscles, right? IMean, especially when you think about the hips, which are two of the three bones that are attached to muscles that feel experienced, that experience great force during running. So why is it that running where you're potentially, at least at the knees experiencing eight times your body weight with each impact? Why wouldn't that do more? And I've been thinking about this for some time and maybe somebody knows the answer, but my suspicion is that the confounder here is body weight and BMI, right? And that when you talk about elite runners and usually these are studied in elite runners, they're very weight conscious, right? Running in cycling are the ultimate strength to weight ratio sports. And I do wonder if we're seeing basically mal-nourished runners. What do IMean by that? Basically, people that are BMI is too low, might be perfect for being a runner, but it's too low for optimizing bone mineral density. So I guess this is a long-winded way of saying, running might not be enough. So obviously running's a great thing to do and it comes with a lot of benefit, but you probably want to make sure that your kids, both boys and girls are doing other sports that involve more power. So probably things that involve jumping and actually lifting heavy things. This is kind of a great plug for rocking. You know, IMentioned Michael Easter briefly at the outset. IMean one of the things that Michael writes about in his book, The Comfort Crisis, is the importance of just walking with heavy stuff. So either doing a farmer's carry, doing a rock, which I love, you know, I try to rock five days a week. So it's, you know, backpack with heavy weight in it and just walking around and always trying to find a hill to walk up and down, kind of loading myself without the knee joints being susceptible to that. So going back to the kids, I think we just want to make sure BMI is not too low. Cormon dysfunction is not there. Energy availability is there. Body fats not too low. All of those things that tend to occur. Obviously smoking, you know, we obviously want to make sure nobody's smoking, but as we just talked about, kids beneath the age of 16 are uniquely susceptible to this. So again, it's pretty straightforward. Lots of nutrition, lots of physical activity, and specifically physical activity that builds muscular strength. And because I think that's going to apply them greatest force to the bone and the bones as we talked about our mechanical sensory entities that are going to remodel in proportion to how much mechanical stress they're under. So again, lifting heavy stuff matters. And that doesn't mean that 12 year olds need to be deadlifting three times their body weight, but we also don't want to shy away from kids lifting things. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Lactic Acid Myth： Buffering the Real Culprit ｜ Olav Aleksander Bu [q4Cu7uMdKNQ].txt ===

People ask me all the time, hey, you know, I understand Peter that as IMy work load increases, my production of lactate increases and as my production of lactate increases, my capacity starts to fall off because as lactate goes up, it's buffered by a hydrogen ion or it's married to a hydrogen ion, and that's what creates the acid part of lactic acid. And it's that hydrogen ion that's causing all the trouble. It's not the lactate. It can consume, we can tolerate endless amounts of lactate, and we can't tolerate, and lactate is crucial in the metabolism. Yeah, we just can't tolerate the hydrogen that comes with it, and it's that hydrogen that actually paralyzes the act in myus and filaments prevents them from disengaging, and that's what leads to that seizing up that you feel, the rigidity you feel when you're at, and when you exceed your lactate threshold. So thEQuestion then becomes, what can I buffer this? And everybody in the brother talks about, hey, what if we, you know, took lots of tons, you know, anything that we could get sodium by carbonated into our systems? My looking at that literature, which I haven't done in a while, was that this strategy didn't really pan out, that there wasn't really a great way to orally ingest enough by carb to make a difference. Obviously intravenously, you could, but that's probably illegal anyway. IMean, I don't think water would permit that, but even if you weren't concerned with that and just asking the theoretical question, unless you're on a stationary bike, it's not practical to have an IV drip of bicarbonate to buffer your hydrogen. So what is the state of buffering agents to reduce and lessen the impact of lactate as lactic acidosis? This is a little bit of a complicated domain simply, unlike all the other simple domains that are discussing today, yes. No, the, the, the reason for that, I've been very fortunate over the last decade to be involved in, like, at a lot of edge case researchers, plenty that, let's say, we are maybe year, we are, or not maybe, we are years away before this will be published, not necessarily because we don't want to publish any, but, but there just remains work to be done. You have to understand it. And for example, again, this is also a place where, where we have some indications now, but where some of my colleagues, they have actually also tested on larger population, but Gustas highs view to max actually is done under bicarbonate utilization. How? But Gustas. How? How is it in the minister? So, so the way it was administered is that there's a company in Sweden called Morton, and what they did, this is actually something that is going to be studied now also in actually in, in health, let's say, or let's, in medical settings as well, because it actually has somEQuite interesting applications there too. But how this was administered is basically that it is packed in a hydrogen, and it allows you to buy, so you get rid of a gastric P, you bypass the gastric pH and you get it into the intestine. That's in, using the same mechanism. You basically pack your, let's say, the agents into a vehicle to deliver it where you need it more efficiently. So this means that we can go to concentrations that are significant. What have you seen is the difference in his lactate tolerance within without this buffering? So this is a place, again, where obviously the sample size is still limited. I didn't him. Yeah. In a super, in a world class elite athlete. So the interesting thing there is that here we have two different cases, and that's for example, I have some athletes that have almost twice as high lactate concentration in the blood when they're using. So this is why I said, we're opening a kind of, yeah, did the deal. Yeah, did the, of lactate buffering? Yeah, exactly. Because we also have them to remember because then we have to come back to the technology where we measure and where it's called again. So this brand is called Morton. Morton. Morton salt. Well, yeah, yeah. Well, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's written and, and now, our T.E. and Morton. And they basically are, like, people go crazy over the gels and everything in during races. They have a gel that is actually based on the same principle. So actually without, we open up that box as well. But basically Christian Gustav sits comfortably in the eating 160 grams of carbohydrates per hour and basically this is then quantified using as it'll traces as well. So they don't only eat it and it starts packing up in the stomach. It's moving. They use the use. So this is a commercially available product. Yes. We're using it. And what, is there any sense of why some people find like Gustav seems to find huge benefit from it? Sounds like Christian does not? Well, I wouldn't say that Christian doesn't, but it depends a little bit on, let's say, dissecting we are using it in as well. And Trotland is inherently complex in the sense that you have tree sports that you put together and we're very, very intenseity or the things that are happening there, which makes it a little bit more complicated. And then there also is some benefits, but also, all that's, but can also potentially be disadvantages with it. But the benefits that also comes with it is that actually also increases your plasma volume fairly instantaneously as well. Simply because you're just pulling, yeah, you're pulling fluid. Yes, that's why it's. But the studies early studies that have done on this and then which will be published on this, basically shows that there's a positive effect of using, using by carbonite now or using, for example, the molten product. We have studies now on larger population, done by some of my colleagues, which indicates this. And then on top of that, but what I would say is that we don't fully understand why it is like this. It's a one interesting one interesting hypothesis I presented to the to the to the to the research group is that if because on one side what we think is that, okay, this, this, this increases the buffering capacity. So we, we think, okay, if it increases the buffering capacity, then you can basically do more, then you can go more anaerobic or tap more into anaerobic or glypholic resources. Because one thing that we are fairly sure about is that you never gonna run out of glyphogen. Really, like you come to a certain level and the body will rather start to sense that it's really, really low. And that's why you shut down. You don't shut down because you basically depleted every gram of glycogen in your body. That's one. And then the order of preserving mechanisms. That's easy to verify with a muscle biopsy at failure, right? No, the problem. No, the problem with that is that even in muscle biopsies, you will see that if you basically do sampling just across one muscle. So you do not know what's going on. There's a lot of control. Yeah, that it's so hee to genic that even in well trened accuracy. So if you, if you wanted to do it, you would need to biopsy multiple times, multiple side simultaneously, or even make somebody radioactive and start to do nuclear, or a magnetic reason. Resonment, yeah, measurements on people. So it's something, it's so impractical to really study that you have to go more by, again, coming back to, for example, first order principles. Like, for example, looking at gross efficiency and then calculating that's basically how much subsidier using basically is already involving inaccuracies to it. That's why you just have to sometimes just say, okay, we're going to look at auction consumption, versus a, let's say, mechanical power output. And then you just say, we don't care about whether that's RQ correlates to this value. You just have to have the raw values. But back to the bi-carbonate, bi-carbonate, and so on. One way we can, one way, what we can observe, for example, is that when we do blood gas and analysis, so when the athletes are exercising, so true, all basically along the protocol, we are taking blood samples to look at basically pH level in the body. And what is interesting to see there, even for Christian, he does not have a doubling in his, like the concentration. So Christian have almost unchanged, almost unchanged, like the concentration in his blood level of exertion. Yeah, whatever, even all of any given power, any given power. So the interesting thing here is that the interesting thing here, that is that for this, is easy to think now that when an athlete has double, they like the concentration of blood, then it has to be double the contribution from the glycolysis. It's not. We have to remember, we measure in the blood, this is a concentration metric, and the state can be completely different, all the places in the body.

=== FILE: Learning to Mastery： How to get Your Child to the Top 1% ｜ Joe Liemandt [EhVrBL8vZvo].txt ===

And I remember another story, Joe, that we kind of bonded over a couple of years ago, which was the student that was really struggling in entry-level chemistry. Yeah. And IMean, I think anybody who's been through chemistry can empathize with that the first time you're doing, you're going through physical chemistry and you're trying to balance the chemical equations. And this kid is dying. And they think the problem is, I'll never, it's chemistry. They problem is chemistry. And you came in and said, no, actually, the problem is fractions. You didn't master fractions in third grade or fourth grade or whatever fractions are introduced. And you're failing chemistry because you did, you, for this exact reason, we're going to go back and fill the gap in, in fractions. And this will become easy for you. And of course, that's what science, knowledge is hierarchical. Right. And this is back to mastery, which is why we do poorly. We've given up mastery in this country. Why? We're a time-based system. Right. At the end of third grade, you're moving to fourth grade. And at the end of fourth grade, you're moving to fifth grade. And we don't hold kids back. We just, we've said, we're just going to move kids through no matter what. Because it's time. Because there's all these other social issues, right? And, you know, oh my god, I can't have my kid hold back the pressure on the school to relax the standards. You know, 80% of kids at Harvard get an A now. You know, it's just grade inflation. You know, grades look like this. Yeah. So, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, like, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, right? And it's just, we've just got, and for whatever reasons, we've done it, but in a time-based system, you know, and here's part, just even grading. You know, there's this concept that, you know, okay, you got a 70, you know, you can pass in 80s at B, right? That's great. I'm coming because it'd be student 80. The problem is, you know, if you only have 80% knowledge, you're creating all these holes, and it all compounds were eventually, and it starts to when you had algebra or chemistry, right? That you're, you think it's the current material. Yeah. But it's your pre-rex. It's your foundation. It's your foundation. And, you know, we talk a lot about parents, because a lot of this is, you know, we all grew up in this time-based system and just the old system. And so this new way is very different. But the best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports, right? Just like game film. Like, have you, your test figure out what's wrong? Masteries the same one. You know, which is, if you're the point card and you lose the ball 20% of the time going down the court, the coaches and like, let's work on the advanced stuff. They're like, kid, let's learn how to dribble. We don't even worry about dunking yet. Correct? No dunking. Like, let's focus on, right, get up to 99% get to mastery that you know how to do the basics. Everybody in sports is like, if you're not doing well, go back and do the basics. Well, academics is the same way. And if you apply that same logic, right, but in a time-based system with a teacher in front of a classroom, right, you can't get every kid to mastery, right? And that's when we get into like the new solutions and why we get these crazy, you know, kids can learn tendons faster. It's because we're able to get out of a non-mastery, non-time-based system or a non-mastery time-based system that has a teacher in front of a classroom. Right? Teachers are great, teacher in front of a classroom is bad. You know, that dynamic. And so but into your point hierarchical, you know, chemistry is just algebra with advanced word problems. Right? Physics is literally calculus with advanced word problems. You know, algebra is basically advanced fraction manipulation. You can give kids a fraction test and predict their algebra score. Right? And then fractions are, how's your division of multiplication tables? Do you mean that? That's a lot of fun. And so it just keeps going down, the whole track, you know, all the way down. And so part of what you have to do to fix the system, right, is figure out age grade? Oh, wait. I'm an eighth grader in algebra. And knowledge grade. Wait, I don't know my fractions are different. And so, you know, what a teacher in front of a classroom though. It's not their fault. Right? I'm a teacher. I'm an eighth grade teacher. What do you teach? eighth grade material. Yeah. And I have kids who don't, who don't know some third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh material. What do I do? Right? And this is why, you know, so many people hire tutors. You know, after school, private schools, right? There's, you know, it's crazy. We have all these people go to private schools and hire after school tutors because the school doesn't teach them. And, you know, the tutors just like, okay, I'm going to go give you the earlier grade level material. That's it. When we talk about kids, all these hundreds of kids coming in who are, you know, three years behind, seven years behind, the second part of what I tell the parents is that's freaking you out because nobody wants their kids this far behind. But it's so easy to fix. The remediation of this stuff is no time at all. That when you use these, you know, learning science based AI tutors and the apps that we have, kids can learn 10 times faster, 10 times faster. So when you actually look at material, there's 180 school days, right? Our day plus homework. So a couple hundred hours. Most of grade that one subject, right, per grade level, takes our alpha kids between 20 and 30 hours to finish an entire grade level, two mastery. So you can take fourth grade math and be like, you got 26 hours kid, you do an hour day homework, you're 26 days away, right? 22 hours is seventh grade and sixth grade, 22 each, right, for math. And Joe, would this work if, and again, as just as a thought experiment, if each student had one teacher, the private tutor, if you could put a private tutor in front of a student for 22 hours over the course of, you know, whatever two months or one hour a day for 26 days, are you confident that that individual, and of course we'll talk about why that's not practical, but that that that individual if skilled enough could navigate and weave that child through. If you give me a few more hours, then what I just gave you, because the AI can do a little bit better than most tutors, but yes, fundamentally, the paper that was written when I was in high school, about education, like so learning science and we didn't, you know, learning science has been around for 40 years. They've been writing papers. There's 10,000 papers published by all the schools of education, Stanford, and you know, all over the place that is, we know kids can learn to five or 10 times faster, right, we've known it. In, you know, blues to say, blues to sigma as a seminal paper, and he just said, if everybody got a personalized tutor, was his first point. And second, they did it to mastery. They worked to master. So mastery-based, not tenure-based, correct? Just you have to know the material before you advance. And there's an individual tutor to coach you. You will get two sigma better performance, which is right, your leftmost part of your curve, your worst students are going to be what today is considered the top 10 percent in a two sigma performance. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Long-term impacts of steroid use： muscle retention, impact after discontinuation, and more [fopgOjMINEM].txt ===

So how old are you, Mike? 40. Okay. I know I look 50. Not where I was going. What would you look like now? I'm going to just pause it. I'm guessing that you have good genes. Well, you tren very hard and you're using enough antibiotics, steroids, to fuel a small country. If we subtracted that last one out of the equation, because I don't have a sense of what the relative contribution is, what would you look like if you did everything the same minus the antibiotics steroids? Or if you if you run like regular TRT, you were taking 100 milligrams ofcipient A to week. How much of a do you have a sense to quantify how many pounds lighter you would be in terms of total muscle mass? Me personally or the average. No, you personally. Yeah, I want to get a sense of having had use steroids before. High doses are not having ever had used them. Oh, very good chance. Yeah, good question. Let's do both. Yeah, let's do both. So let's assume you when did you start using high doses of antibiotics? Or when I was 27 years old. Okay. So let's say we go back to 27 years old and we put you on the same path of doing everything you're doing in terms of your trening intensity, all of the scientific principles that come into it, et cetera. But you've just you've never gone down the path of taking mega doses of steroids. And if you've ever taken testosterone, it's literally to bring a hotel to you up to 800 nanograms per year. Yeah. After at this body fat, I would probably weigh about 200 pounds versus 230 versus 230, versus 230, 235. Okay. Not 35. I know that's a lot of muscle. A lot of muscle. Yeah, but I would still be very jacked. IMean, before I had ever started taking antibiotics, steroids, I was already an elite power lifter. I weighed 270 pounds at probably 30 something odd percent body fat. But I probably, I've dexed myself in a master's program when I had been totally drug free. And I had a hundred and somewhere between 175 and towards the end of my drug free era close to 185 pounds of fat free mass. For someone who's five six, like myself, though, if anyone asks I'm five nine. So your FFMI would have been north of 30. Oh, not quite. But up there. Yeah. FFMI for folks not familiar with it is fat free mass index. So it's total fat free mass and kilograms divided by height in meters squared. And just for reference, you know, it's pretty hard to be above 25. Yeah. I'm likely. Unlikely. So that's right. There suggests kind of some interesting genetics that you were probably 29ish, 2829. Something. It's easier to do when you're really fat, though. But I have, but your ALMI was probably very high as we're all in business. I have very elite genetics, not swagger. It's just stating a fact. Anyone who sees this on video will notice that my head is curiously shaped like my massification muscles are absurd. I looked like this before I ever took any steroids. I have a picture of myself on Facebook from the side before for sure. I took anything. And I was like, holy crap. I usually wasn't bald back then, but I shaved bald. I was like, yep, they were. Those weird, mass-dicating muscles. And so yeah, I was kind of built for the ship. But also, I got plenty out of steroids, but not as much as some other people. Some people without steroids are not overly jacked. But with steroids, it's a total trensformative event. And then when they retire and they come off of steroids, they're like, holy shit, did you're back to mortal-sized? How? Where's other people? Come off of steroids. And they keep most of their muscle mass. And they're on TRT. And they just look so jacked for forever. Huge, huge variation. But for me, steroids did a lot. But nothing crazy. I didn't gain 70 pounds of muscle. But I gained ya 30, something like that for 13 years. And then what? And so now the reversEQuestion, which I guess is tomorrow you just decide, you know what? I'm going to keep doing everything I'm doing trening wise. I'm going to gradually taper this thing down until I'm just, because at this point, you're going to need to be on testosterone throughout your life, I assume. I don't have to be. My testicular shrinkage has been zero. My spermatogenesis is seemingly zero. And so people just don't suppress your, and you're, how many times a week, a year, you completely completely off any in a ball of agent. Zero. And how many years has that been? 13. I find it hard to believe you would continue to make testosterone. Huge, legionatically variable. In addition to that, even if IMake not making any now, within several weeks, my my testosterone production would likely resume. Now, if I hadbols of size of capers, yeah, you'd be like with uphill battle, most people can resume normal testosterone production after the cessation of metabolic endogenic steroids. But not all, maybe like 90, 10. You don't want to be that 10, which is why it's a huge thing for me to say. Don't just start steroids or TRT without a real long heart think about what the hell you want out of life, especially if you have yet to have children, but want children, because I know people personally who've done one of two things. I know people who on full steroid cycles. During that time, fathered children, I now call my friends. The real humans, I can point to and be like you're a steroid baby. The freak you're doing pissed. I'm kidding. Obviously doesn't go into the germline cells. The other thing is I know some people who you blast it for a long time cannot have children. Try everything. It's just not in the cards. There's dramatic genesis. It's just gone. Yeah, I don't. I can't imagine it's 90, 10 though, Mike. I cannot imagine that 90% of people that use antibiotics derives for more than two years would be able to resume. IMade the incorrect. It's gone from production. I would look into it. I think that most of the stuff you hear about how the comeback is difficult. This from people for whom the comeback is difficult. And having been in the bodybuilding powerlifting space for a long time, most people come off and they're just normal after. Almost everyone knows it's come off completely. It's just normal after. So when do you think back to the original question, if you were to come off today, how much of the call at the 35 going down at regular TRT? Not super tiered. Correct. You went down to 100 milligrams a week or none if you were able to make that on your own. Sure. Of the 35 pounds of Delta supplemental muscle, how much of it would you keep you think? About half. Yeah. So in other words, there is a difference between the muscle you gain versus the muscle you never had. Huge, which is why if you have a natural bodybuilding Federation that allows you to compete after you've used steroids is not a share. Yeah. Yeah. Now, let me back that up. If that's the explicit rule of the Federation, I don't like that it call it a natural Federation. I respect every athlete and I think it's wonderful that they're doing what they're doing. And in a sense, it's a very different category. So it's cool. If I was making a natural bodybuilding Federation myself, you would have to sign paperwork that says, I've never used antibiotics. Because the literature we have now on how much muscle you gain and keep forever is unequivocal. We even have mechanistic data on how it happens. Your satellite cells that are incorporated into your musculature, which are kind of dormant and then they get in and then they grow big. We have no reason to believe they ever leave. It's like, you know, living you're letting your act come live with you for a few weeks. And like, Rosanne Lind is here for forever. Here's our children. It's like that. So having done higher doses of engines ever for weeks or longer on end can give you a higher level of muscularity, especially, well, actually only if you've gone beyond your natural limit. People generally can gain only so much naturally and only so much on steroids. Starrers are unlimited for games. If you were going to ever have 160 pounds of fat free mass, and if you went from 150 to 160 with steroids, but you could have gotten there and would take you three times longer without steroids than the inherent advantage you don't have because you just got their faster. But if you got to 180 on steroids and then you quit all the steroids and now you're back down to 170, you could walk around and maintain that 170 on a normal secretion of testosterone and a normal TRT. You would have never been able to do that without the steroids. So it's a permanent advantage. If you've been hyper muscular from steroids, you will probably never be as small as you would have normally been ever again. And that's a big deal. Very, very big deal on Olympic sports because you can just kind of hide out. Don't get into the doping pool, crank it, get into the doping pool, you drug free, but you have muscle that will never leave you. That's a massive advantage. Yeah, sure sounds like it. Not that anyone ever does that.

=== FILE: Longevity Q&A with Peter Attia [iuBOh9nlTGs].txt ===

Is there anything else you want to add before we hop into thEQ&A? No, let's turn it over to you guys. Yes, so why did you decide to start focusing in longevity? Yeah, that's a great question. I guess there are sort of two things, right? The first was when Olivia was born, she's my oldest, and I bet all of you can appreciate this. Those of you that have kids, which I'm guessing is most of you, something about your mortality kind of kicks in. There are many stages to mortality, but I think having a kid is one. I think losing a parent is one. I think losing a friend. As we gain and lose things throughout life, we become aware of its finitude. And her birth was a moment where I was like, this is amazing. I'm not going to be around forever to be a part of her life. So that kind of got me thinking about it. And that coincided with me also coming to the realization that there are lots of things in my family history that might otherwise suggest a short life for me. And I wanted to get very serious about it. So my own journey into this space was actually very selfish and was strictly geared towards me figuring out things for myself. Awesome. Okay, I'm going to repeat that question. There were two questions there. The first was an update on Clotho, and I'll explain what that is for everybody else. And then the second was on the gram of protein per pound of body weight as it ideal body weight if a person is overweight. I'll start with the second question. The short answer is, it depends on how overweight. So if a person came to me and said, look, I weigh 260 pounds. I probably should weigh 200 pounds. I would tell them, you know, if I agreed with that assessment, I'd say being closer to the 200 is probably fine. You don't need to be at the 260. Okay, this gentleman was asking about a podcast I did. So I don't know how many months ago it was six nine months ago. I had an amazing scientist on my podcast. Her name was Dina Duball. She's neurologist at University California San Francisco. And she studies a protein called Clotho. This is a protein that is made by the body. It is made in response to exercise, but it also is just made, you know, endogenously and declines with age for reasons we don't understand. So children make six times more of this than adults. But of course, any one of us can trensiently increase it by exercising. What's special about this protein is it seems to be one of the most important proteins that protects the brain. And so in both mice and monkeys, when you inject this protein, if these are animals that have signs of dementia or cognitive decline, it reverses. If these are normal animals, they seem to get superpowers like super cognitive powers. That protein is going to be tested over the nexT3 years in humans. And if the results of that look promising, then a larger clinical trial will take place. So I would say the best case scenario here would be that in, you know, seven to 10 years, this could be an actual drug that humans take either to prevent cognitive decline or to treat it. So what is the best type of protein supplement you recommend to get to your grams these days? So I always ask people if possible and it's not always possible, whatever you can get from food is great. But I understand that for many people and again, especially for women, it's really hard to just mash through that much protein. So we turn to supplements. Now, when it comes to foods, the three that stand out the most are dairy products, beef and eggs. And there's a, because there's a quantitative way that you measure both the type of amino acid and what's called bioavailability of the amino acid. So how complete are the sources of amino acids and how readily can the bodily access them? Can the body access them? So again, if you're thinking about eating, beef, eggs, and dairy are the big ones. Again, you can get lots of amino acids and lots of other proteins. I'm not saying don't eat chicken or fish or vegetable proteins, but those are big ones. Therefore, when you're supplementing, way protein, which comes from dairy, tends to be the winner. Now, KCN is also great because it's also from dairy. So way or KCN probably stand out a little bit above, but so does egg protein supplement. So what I tell people to do is figure out what works best for you, because there's some people that just can't do dairy proteins. Remember, if you just because you can't tolerate dairy, doesn't mean you can't tolerate a dairy protein. Most people who can't tolerate dairy can't tolerate the carbohydrate in the dairy, but they're totally fine with the protein. So give it a try. So you're saying, a few years ago, you did a genetic test, and it did not show a genetic, okay. So let's assume that the test was correct. What it was screening for was very likely a gene called the apoe4 gene. And this is a gene, the apoe gene that exists in three types. There's the number two, the number three, and the number four. Now, every one of us has two copies of every gene, because you got one from your mom and one from your dad. So if there's three types of a gene, and there are two copies, there's six combinations. We can go through them all. You could be a two, two. You could be a two, three. You could be a two, four. You could be a three, three, a three, four, or a four, four. Okay, why is that relevant? One of those types is higher risk than the other two, and that's the four. So people who have two copies of the four are at significantly higher risk for all simmers disease, about 10 times higher risk. Now, it doesn't mean that they're guaranteed to get it, but their risk is significantly higher. People who have one copy, typically a three and a four, are at about a two times risk. And so what that study told you was you, what I'm assuming it said was you did not have a copy of the four gene. So you might be a three, three, which by the way, most of you probably are 60% of the population is aT3, three. That's the good news. The bad news is it doesn't mean you're free of risk. Because the only people who can't get Alzheimer's disease are people who don't have brains. IMean, a being glim. Everybody with a brain is at risk. And unfortunately, women are at almost twice the risk of men. Now, we don't have a great understanding of why there are lots of theories. I won't expand on them now for the sake of time, but this is one of the areas where women are disproportionately affected to men. The other one, by the way, being osteoporosis and falls. So we've touched on both of the areas where women are at higher risk. Of course, men have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. So yeah, the takeaway for me is I'm aT3, three as well, but I don't rest on it. I act as though I'm high risk, meaning I take all the steps possible, exercising, being the single, most important thing we can do to preserve brain health, managing nutrition, sleep, all of the things that I can do. Sure, okay. So the first question was talking about how your mom had a fall. She broke her hip, had a long protracted recovery, managed to survive, but was never the same again, and basically slipped into a state of cognitive decline. And your question was, is there a relationship there? Very good question. My intuition is that there is a relationship there. In other words, we don't know the parallel universe experiment where we could see how she would have been, had she never had that fall. So what we're trying to understand is, is there any causality between the fall and her cognitive decline? And my intuition is that there is. And it's exactly what you said. It's that with the period of profound inactivity, and probably with it, not just the physical inactivity, but also I would suspect some cognitive inactivity. If nothing else, it may have sped up by a period of years, something that may have ultimately happened. But I think probably was happening sooner than it should have. But again, I don't, it would be a very difficult thing to prove that, but that's what my intuition says. And I think that's just yet another reason to think about all these things we've talked about as far as, like, what are the steps we can take to minimize our risk of a fall?

=== FILE: Longevity Science vs. Hype ｜ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [acBTr0KkRnE].txt ===

What are you seeing that you're worried about? What trens do you see that people are doing from a biohacking, longevity standpoint that have you concerned? Either, and I'll put this into buckets, the higher bucket would be safety. The second bucket would be predatory behavior around, basically people getting, you know, having their money wasted, even if the agents that are being sold are not necessarily harmful. Yeah, I think the first one, I'm excited about Jean Therapy. Don't get me wrong. I think it's interesting, and it may really change the feel going forward. I even kind of like Palestine, but I'm Palestine is a protein. Yeah, but I think that those treatments are not very well proven yet. And I would not do, I asked thEQuestion, what you have been selling? $100,000 for Palestine and Jean Therapy. I probably don't have to spend the money and I still have a dud at this. I've done MSCs though. Yeah, I've e-c to try that. And I think, you know, stem cells, it's a different question there. I think if you're repairing soft tissue damage or something like that and injecting them directly, probably works. For aging, I have no idea, but I think it's probably safe if you have somebody that's a good practitioner that knows what they're doing. But I think there's a lot of, this problem with stem cells, you go places, and you really don't know who you're working with. And, you know, if they're really treating the cells correctly, if you're putting the right things in your system. And so there's a safety concern there based on the practitioner, I think. And so those are things that concern me. I haven't gotten totally on board with growth hormone yet. IMean, I think probably use correctly, might be okay. The data is interesting. Are you aware of human data that, and I'm in your camp, by the way, which is, actually had a bunch of friends over for dinner last night and this came up. And yeah, I was sort of, I said, look, I can't point to a study that tells you this is, this is a bad idea. And I've never spoken to a person who takes a modest, judicious dose of growth hormone, who doesn't tell me they feel bad. So it's hard to believe it's not making people feel better. I also have never seen data to suggest it initiates cancer. But it seems very biologically plausible that if you have cancer, small amounts of cancer, your probability that this becomes clinically significant is higher in the market. Yeah. Again, I say that with no data. Yeah, me. And so, yeah, my view has just been despite my own interest in trying things. I've left the growth hormone one off the list. Is that an answerablEQuestion? Do you think? Yeah, I think we could do clinical studies. Yeah, and some are being done. How would we address the safety concern, right? Because you really need to be able to track people for quite a long period of time. That's the problem with the cancer susceptible. And all of these things, right? We don't know what the long term is. And I guess, it's a gray area. This is a weird thing with these clinics, right? Because I think from what I read in your book, you're doing sort of validated stuff. You're not really out there in the stratosphere doing crazy stuff that we don't know about. Some of that I would like to think I'm not. But I'll tell you, there are people who are very critical of my use of rap and mice in patients for geoprotective reasons. There are people who might think I'm crazy for giving people SGLT2 inhibitors who don't have diabetes. So I think there's things that we do, not for all of our patients. And again, I fewer than 10% of our patients take rap and mice. And because my view is unless you're willing to have a very lengthy discussion about the pros, the cons, the risks, the uncertainties. And I don't give people an answer that says, oh, this is the stuff's amazing. My answer is I don't know. Here's how I think about it probabilistically. Here are the trade-offs. And again, after you can tell I'm not a good salesman. If only 10% of the patients are taking it. Look, I think that's perfectly reasonable. But they're cutting, stewing some really out there stuff. And how do we know the long-term safety on it? I think if you're going to go do that stuff, you need to go in with your eyes open. You're taking a risk. I just seen so many orstories of people that have come back from parts of the, because you can't do this a lot of the stuff you can't even do in the United States. So they're coming back from South America, Mexico, places in Asia, having done fallostat and therapy or other very questionable stem cell therapies. And IMean, people that have had horrible infections. Like literally just artifacts of the treatment. And again, that's a practitioner problem with this. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, but some great stuff happening to I work with Bermaryngrad Hospital in Thailand. And they've got a longevity clinic now and they're very grounded in good science. And so, but the problem is if you're a consumer for these products, it's really hard to know. So someone listening to us who's saying, guys, can you give me some rules of thumb, some heristics for navigating the never ending landscape of longevity hacks that keep showing up on my Instagram feed, my TikTok feed and at cocktail parties? Yeah, IMean, that could be diet books. And I'm just going to clinics around the world. I think it's really difficult to sort that out. And because it's what I was going to say is it's clinical practice and research at the same time. It's a very unique situation, right? And there aren't many examples of that I know of that are really maybe some functional medicine is a little bit like that too. But it's interesting. And I feel like it's better for scientists to engage with where it's possible to engage with these clinics and try to help them than it is to just let people do things and without, if you can provide oversight that's helpful, you should be doing it. And so that's kind of how I feel about it. But a lot of academics don't even want to work with these clinics at all too, so I get criticized for working with them sometimes. It's an interesting world right now. I'm Peter Rattier. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Rattier MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Low-Dose Naltrexone： Hype, Hope, or Homerun？ ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [d0S7_H0UdjY].txt ===

One of the drugs that I have studied with Jared Younger, who's now at UAB, is a drug called Lodosanal Truxone. This is a fascinating drug. And it's got like this underground reputation out there that it's all over the forums. And the reason for it is because it's been around for decades and often patent there is zero money for any pharmaceutical company for it. What is now Truxone? How Truxone, when given it 50 milligrams, is used to block opioid receptors. It's an opioid blocker. And so we use this in the treatment of opioid and alcohol addiction because it blocks the rewarding experiences of alcohol or opioids. And so it's used as a treatment for addiction. And it's about 10 milligrams. AT4 and a half milligrams, one tenth of the dose. It has been shown to activate, to block, toll like four receptor on the microglia. Now I just introduced like this really technical concept. So, allow me to briefly explain. The microglia are these cells that hang around nerves, but are not neurons. And when I was in medical school, a few years, several years before you, what I was taught was these microglia, we're like the warm fuzzy blanket that propped up the nerves. I don't know what you were taught, but they provided structural support to the nerves. What I learned is that was only part of the story that they're key neural immune modulators. And so what IMean by that is, in times of stress, injury, fever, these microglia get activated. They release all sorts of inflammatory mediators, chemicals that sensitize the central nerves responsible for pain perception, pain trensmission, pain perception. So you give a load of it and I'll truck down it blocks that. It blocks that neuroinflammatory soup. And in some patients' Peter, this drug's been magical. Like magical. I give it in four and a half milligrams. What are the other areas where LDN is just captivating the world? Complex regional pain syndrome. It has had a, that's a very tragic pain condition that is a neuropathic pain condition. We see a fair amount of, I've got a clinical trial. I'm just wrapping up on that using Lodos and L-Tracks on funded by the RSDSA Association. And another is actually multiple sclerosis. They've used it in and they've found some reduction in reoccurrences of MS. I think they did that UCSF or UCLA. But it's in these weird neurodegenerative type conditions where there's things in them. Now I've had some wacky, really wacky patient responses. If, IMean, I can share one. He is disarthur, he can't speak. He's got weakness, he has hemibody pain. Burning pain. This is that central pain. Okay. The Llamic pain. So he comes to me several years later, comparing speak at all. He's tried everything. Oh, let's try Lodos and I'll truck. So why does he come to a pain doc? Because he's got terrible pain. Okay. So he wasn't coming to you for the speech issue. No, no, no. He has a speech therapist. It's not getting any better. He's a couple of years out, stroke a stabilize. Okay. So it's this burning pain. Burning pain. On half his body. Half his body. I trial him on four and a half milligrams of L-D-N. He goes away, comes back a couple months later. Pain is improved. But not only that, he's now speaking and throwing a few words together for the first time in like census stroke. I'm like, what the hell, I bump up his dose. You cannot hurt yourself on this drug. You know, I know you know this. It's also, I go to nine, one out ten. Well, because it's easy to take two capsules. He comes back a few months later. He's now like talking in sentences. And I'm like, I said, are you sure this isn't due to your speech therapist? And they swear up and down, absolutely not. I go on up to like 13 and I go up to 13 and a half. And now he's having conversations. And how does his pain? Massively better on this. And really remarkable effect. I cannot, the only way I can explain these things is, you know, in a stroke, you've got like these, you've got dead tissue, you've got live tissue, you've got these intermediate zones. And somehow with reducing maybe inflammation, you end up with... Yeah, more functional brain. Somehow, if that model makes sense, which at least twoologically does, something about that inflammatory zone in the middle between what was clearly gone and not is poisoning the part that's still okay, right? So what is the downside of this? Meaning what would one need to be mindful of in trying an approach like this? This beauty of this drug is the only side effects that I've typically, I see, 20, 30% of people get vivid dreams. They get technical or dreams. Not bad dreams, not nightmares, but their dreams just take on a more colorful nature. Everyone's on well, see somebody who they say it activates them, we tell them to take it two hours before bedtime. And if it activates them a little bit, take it in the morning instead. I guess where I'm going with this is we think that at least a subset of people with neurodegenerative diseases and you mention multiple sclerosis, but we think this is true in at least some cases of Alzheimer's disease that neuroinflammation is a part of the pathology. Yeah. So would there be any efficacy to a trial there in either an individual with MCI, mild cognitive impairment or as crazy as the sounds as there are reason to consider it prophylactically in high-risk individuals? With the caveat that, hey, by the way, if you happen to get an infection like this would be a good time to stop it and ride it out and get better. I think the short answer is yes, a little bit of the longer answer is everything, I know, you know this, everything we do is weighing risk and benefits. Yep. This is one drug. I am hard pressed to come up with significant risks. We have decades and decades of experience with this drug in people with addiction. At 10x the dose. At 10x. How long are they typically on that drug? Lifetime. So meaning for a subset of individuals just putting them on the party dose of 50 milligrams of Naltrexone keeps them free of alcohol and opioids for life because it's so blunts the pleasure center. Yeah, the problem is all the addictionologists know is that it's hard to keep people on this because they can just stop it and go back and use. Yep. So that's why you have to want to be off. You have to want to be off. They have injectable versions of this. It's not called the vitroal is it? It's an injectable under the skin that lasts X number of days months. But yeah, we've got a lot of long-term data on this. And from a pilot standpoint, with informed consent obviously and just, you know, I would view that as a kind of a novel treatment in patients that one could try out monitor. Do some objective measures and see what you get. I wouldn't say that. I want to be careful. I wouldn't say that for a lot of the things that we do because there's real risks with a lot of the medications that we provide a lot of the procedures we do. Not only that, there's big costs that come with them. Where is this? I'm going to make a plug here. I have no relationship to, but we get our stuff out of ballmarr pharmacy in Colorado. Why? They're compounding pharmacy. They've got all the certifications. Oh, the reason is you can't go to Safeway or Costco and get this. You can't get a low dose of milk racks on there. You mean you have to, it doesn't be compounded at 4.5, you're saying? You're right. Good. And so we go through this pharmacy because they've got good customer service. They take patients' credit cards over the phone and they will ship it to you immediately and they're very responsive. You can probably find it in your local area at other compounding pharmacies. It usually runs about $30 a month. So it's basically a free drug. It's an insurance. It doesn't often cover up because they consider it experimental, but it's basically a free drug. It's a bucket day. Yeah. So it's one that I use more and more and more because of its safety profile and it's potential for getting me a home run.

=== FILE: Medicine 3.0： Rethinking Prostate Cancer Screening [hnamfo1AzWc].txt ===

There's been a lot of discussion this week about the announcement of former President Joe Biden's diagnosis with Metacetic prostate cancer. And while I have no interest or desire to comment on anything political or conspiratorial, I think there is a lot to talk about here, and this is in a illustrative case, in my mind at least, of how medicine to Poeno has gone awry, and why we should use this as an opportunity to talk about maybe a different way to practice medicine. So what appears to be the case, at least as of this moment when I'm sitting here making this recording, is that the last time that President Biden had a PSA level check was at about the age of 72. Now to be clear, that is within the guidelines. The guidelines say that once a man hits 70, the decision to do a PSA for screening is somewhat optional and really largely based on a discussion that the patient can have with his doctor. Now, I've never really understood the arguments against it other than the misinterpretation of data and the failure to look at PSA data more closely. So it is true, I think, that if you look at PSA and PSA alone, it can be a very misleading protein or biomarker that can lead to false positives and false negatives, which of course are the main problem we care about when trying to screen for cancer. So we can't lose sight of the fact that cancer is the second leading cause of death. Procedure cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among men. And unlike many other forms of cancer, this one is actually really preventable because of the pace at which it develops and the newer and newer tools that we have to predict which of those prostate cancers are non-lethal, which means they're going to stay in the prostate they're not going to leave versus which ones are going to be lethal, which means they have the ability to leave and spread and they almost always spread to the bone, which is unfortunately exactly what has happened to President Biden. Okay, so what would you do? Well, you would look at not just the PSA every year, which is what I would recommend, but you would also look at something called the PSA velocity, which measures as its name suggests the rate of change of PSA. And the higher the PSA velocity, which I think makes sense, the faster the rate of change or increase of PSA, the more likely that you might be dealing with a cancer, even absent a very high absolute PSA. The second thing we want to consider is what's called PSA density. This is where you take the PSA and you divide it by the prostate volume. So, if the PSA part of me if the PSA is measured in an anagram's predestilator, which it typically is, you divide that by the prostate volume in milliliters and you will get a number. If that number is large, typically over 0.15, we start to get a little bit concerned. So the more dense the PSA is, the meaning PSA divided by volume, the more we are concerned. The final thing that you can get from this remarkable $5 test, that's right, $5 a year is what is going to cost you to get a PSA, is your free PSA. And the percentage of the free PSA also tells you your likelihood as to whether or not this is a potentially dangerous PSA that's arising from a dangerous set of prostate cells or not. So you have these three things that you're getting for free, right? You have from the PSA, you're getting the absolute number, you're getting the PSA, velocity, the PSA density, and the free PSA. And if all of that is pointing you in a direction that is leading you to be inconclusive or causing concern, you can do additional tests like a P.A. try or a 4K, which admittedly are more expensive blood tests, but they do even more to further elucidate the risk. Of course, this can be all followed up with a multiparametric MRI, which might be the gold standard before you would progress to a biopsy. Why didn't they do any of these things? Well, I think one reason comes down to, again, the failure of medicine to point out, which tends to rely on actuarial data of life expectancy. That's it. And it says, look, if you're 72-year-old man, which is apparently the age at which President Biden was last tested, it says, look, your life expectancy is X number of years. It's less than 15 actuarially. And this is relatively slow moving cancer, all things considered. So we should do nothing about it. But yet here we are, it's 11 years later, and he has a very aggressive form of prostate cancer. And so two things turned out to be incorrect. One, we didn't actually know what his life expectancy was, but more importantly, we placed an emphasis on lifespan over health span. And this is the part that really grinds my gears about medicine to point out, is it says nothing about thEQuality of life. Now obviously, I can't speak from personal experience, but metastatic bone cancer, having spoken to many patients who have had this and doctors who have treated this, is debilitating. Men experience this with prostate cancer, women experience this with breast cancer. Why would we say, well, this is an acceptable outcome when it could have been completely prevented? So again, I want to point out that, unfortunately, we are in my mind a trensition period between a more rapid adoption of medicine 3.0 principles. And what that means is that each one of you has to be your own advocate here. Each one of you has to be the one to say, you know what? I understand that there are risks of screening. I understand that there are risks of false positives, but I am confident enough, at least in the case of this particular test and the derivative tests that we can derive and salary to it, that I want to take a more aggressive posture in making sure that I don't succumb to what I believe is truly an unforesterer. I can't say this for all forms of cancer, in fact, I can't say this for most forms of cancer. But for prostate cancer, for colorectal cancer, we can absolutely say that screening will undoubtedly save lives if done correctly.

=== FILE: Menopause HRT： Avoid These Doctor Red Flags ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [K30a74H7s-s].txt ===

What do women need to be aware of? So not every woman can come and see you, right? Not every woman has access to a doctor who has the breadth of knowledge that has select few due in this space. So A, how can women find practitioners near them? And what do they need to be aware of? What are the exploitative practices out there that they need to be mindful of? And not get duped into sort of, you know, either dangerous therapies or, you know, just, you know, overly extractive therapies. There's danger on both sides. There's danger going to the doctor for 10 minutes and saying, oh, that's not safe. You don't want to do this, right? And there's dangers of going to the very expensive pellet clinic that is going to overdose you and charge you lots and lots of money. So you need, I like being somewhere in the middle and getting a few opinions here, right? So this is where opinions can be following the a bunch of people on Instagram. Don't just follow one people, follow a bunch of people. If you like books, there's tons of books now on menopause, right? There are some of your favorites. So IMean, you've got Mary Claire Haver as the most popular book called The New Manopause. Heather Hirsch has a great book called Pick Your Menopause Type. There's been a hot and bothered journalist wrote a great book on Perry Menopause. Jansie Dunn, Tim's in Phadal just wrote a book about menopause who's also a reporter. So you're getting a estrogen matters. There's a great book, right? Really great book. So this is, there's a lot of books now, thank goodness. You know, there's one called The Menopause, Manopause. There's great books on menopause. There's also podcasts now. There's great podcasts out there. There's great Oprah just did a special on, you know, there's documentaries on PBS now. So menopause is having a movement. So you can't have this excuse anymore of, oh, my doctor doesn't do this. Go find a different doctor. They're telemedicine companies. And what's the website? So menopause.org is the Menopause Society website. That doesn't guarantee you have someone who knows everything. But menopause.org means somebody took a test and put some effort into saying, I care about menopause. I'm on that website, but it's swishiswsh.org is the women sexual health society. So people who we care about menopause and sexual health. So that's a great place to find a provider. So those are two websites that can help you find someone. Again, you have to advocate for yourself because no one will do that other than you. And so I think the more you educate yourself, the more you can find the right people in your pit crew who are going to fill that gas tank and get you where you want to go. Do you feel that there are too many women that are still getting their hormone therapy in the sort of dark alley with sort of highly sus individuals. And if so, what would be a clue that you're in that camp? Because there's nobody that's in that camp that knows it, right? So what are the, I want a woman who's watching this who's not getting great medicALCARe. But thinks she is to maybe get a bit of a hint as to what that might look like. I think this is a problem. When your doctor only has one type of men, when your doctor says no, you can't have anything. That's suspect. If your doctor says you can only have this really expensive product that has to be inserted into your butt for times a year and you have to pay me thousands of dollars. That's extremely suspect compounded by me. If you say you have to pay lots of money for this special compounded product that's safer and more effective, I call red flag on that situation. If you have to give very expensive saliva testing labs and they're making you pay a lot of money. Very suspect again. That doesn't mean you can't do it. If it's working for you and you're happy, you have body autonomy. You do what you want. But know that there's red flags there. I think the pellet industry, I have a big problem. We have an FDA proof pellet for men. Okay? It can be FDA approved. I don't not upset with a pellet as a concept. If the pellet companies care about women, do the studies. Go through the FDA, show me it's safe. If you believe it's billion dollar industry, if you believe that it's the greatest thing in the world, show me. So that I have that so that I can start using it because I'm going because the FDA is a pretty good compounding pharmacy. So do the work go, I have my beef with the FDA. Hello, you need to take that box labeling off estrogen products, especially vaginal estrogen. But if the pellet companies deeply care about women, which they say they do, do the work. That everyone takes advantage of women, all the supplement companies, all of these, they take advantage by promising these things to women. But they don't do the work of science. So that's what I ask is, is just do the work. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Menopause Misconceptions Are Hurting Millions of Women ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [bf67e1Uw_Q8].txt ===

So, anything else you want to say about systemic therapy before we go and talk about local therapy in the context of genital urinary symptoms of menopause? Yeah, I think we haven't spent a lot of time really talking about the symptoms of menopause. Right? What are we treating? Why do people have, why do people need systemic therapy? And I think, you know, I'm often saying that menopause has the worst PR campaign in the history of the universe. Why? Because we think it's for old people and we think it's just hot flashes. And we think hot flashes go away. There's actually not enough education. Like we can argue about E1, E2, and E3, but the reality is doctors don't even know the symptoms of menopause. Patients don't even know the symptoms of menopause, right? The person who was doing my makeup this morning, she's like, I just feel awful. I feel like an old person. I'm not sleeping. I'm not fun anymore. I can't drink. I can't, you know, IMight join Sir Aki and as it welcomed you need hormone therapy, right? Like I'm always teaching no matter who I'm, whether there's a cab driver, a hair stylist, I'm always teaching. But this idea of of you have hormone receptors throughout your whole body. It is a whole body experience. So yes, there's hot flashes and night sweats. And by the way, hot flashes are not just a nuisance. That is a neurologic, vascular, genic, probably event, right? The worst, your hot flashes, the worst, your risk of cardiovascular issues and things like that. Joint pain is a huge one. I never thought as a neurologist. I would treat so much joint pain. Never in a million years did I think I cared about joint pain and yet patients come in all the time and say, oh my God, I don't get out of bed feeling old. I don't feel creaky. My joints recover again after I exercise and think again, am digastank inflammation. When you, I think hormones are natures, a joint fluid, if you will. So, so almost like, break fluid, right? Go back to the car analogy. And we are going to work the heck out of this right? So it's really cool. So your eyes need lubrication. Your ears need wax, your vagina needs lubrication. Your joints actually need lubrication. And so think of horny teenager. You've got oils, oily skin. So, so hormones create these oils, vaginal lubrication, oil for your skin. There are androgen receptors in your eyeballs, right? And these myobian glands. So, so I think of hormones like fluid. So, as you lose the hormones or the hormones go too high or too low, it dries everything out. And so you get joint pain, you get frozen shoulder, you get plantar fasciitis. And now it was recently published on by my colleague Vonda Wright, the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause. Right? This idea that so many women in their 40s and 50s, everything starts to break down. It's because the gas tank is empty and that inflammation increases. It's such a simple analogy. So, what are the symptoms? You've get muscular skeletal symptoms, sleep issues, mood issues, bleeding changes. Obviously, low libido or gas on problems or rousal problems, pain with sex increases like crazy. I sent you a list here. What am IMissing? You've got a list there. Irritability, very common one. I think the one that I was going to ask you about is brain fog and depression. This is one where I think this is a, I think this is a very unique one because it's one that gets easily dismissed as something unrelated. Same more about those. It's it's one of the most common symptoms and all women start going to doctors in their 40s. Like, like, doctors, you know, I know you're listening and you get so many people and every day, you say, oh, it's probably hormonal, but you're not giving them the solution. You're just telling them it's not cancer. So, the neurologists are seeing all these patients to rule out a cognitive decline or all these other issues, but really, it's that brain fog because your brain is filled with estrogen receptors. This is crazy research. Okay, I don't know if you've had Lisa Musconi on, but here's this researcher from Cornell, neuroscience researcher, who says, hey, I want to study Alzheimer's. I want to do this. This is just in the last couple years and she goes to her lab manager and says, okay, what's the assay for estradiol and the brain? I need to look at estradiol receptors in the brain and the people at Cornell was like, that doesn't exist. She's like, what do you mean that doesn't exist? She's like, how can we not look at estrogen receptors in the brain? So, she gets Maria Shriver to give her a giant amount of money who gives her a huge amount of money. So, she now develops this assay. This is only within the last couple of years. She just published in nature very early findings that what would you expect right? Your body is efficient. It's not going to do things it doesn't need to do. So, the hypothesis was that as menopause gets later and later, the estrogen receptors in your brain are going to down regulate. Why have receptors around when there's no estrogen to feed the brain? What did she find? Yeah, exactly. That's the exact opposite, right? That actually, even up to 65, she stopped looking past 65 because she's like, there's no way that's going to matter. The increase in receptor density, the older you get and it correlates to brain fog and irritability, you know, sort of correlates to all these symptoms. My reading of that was estrogen is so important in the brain that it has to upregulate the receptors as the estrogen level goes down and down and down and down and has to do any more so. In other words, it's a lot like the way the brain is treated for glucose. The body will, if you, if you are fasting, the muscles will within days become completely insulin resistant. It's their way of saying every molecule of glucose that that liver spits out better not go into the muscle, it better go to the brain. And so you look like you have diabetes in an effort to save glucose for the brain and I think that's what's happening with estrogen. And could you argue that weight gain in menopause is evolutionary so that you make more estroener what that right? That goes to the brain because it wants every more so that it can get, right? So this idea of hormones matter for the brain deeply, right? This is very important. So it's fascinating research, but you're going to see a lot of again think of a receptor as perimenopause is happening. The receptors are full. Now they're empty. Then they're full. Now they're empty. Now they're have full. Now they're empty. It is, this is why we see ADHD pop up in perimenopause. All these women are saying I have now new diagnosed ADHD. It's real. Why? Because your brain is, is having a panic attack because it's just trying to figure out some stability here, which is why actually in empty gas tank. So in menopause, when you are totally empty, the brain fog gets better, right? Because there's stability of hormones. Yes, it's a volatile anymore. But if we just all am saying, it's just adds some estrogen, right, to just keep the receptors happy. The other one that we didn't talk about was the urinary symptoms. So both urinary and continents, and then the higher prevalence of UTIs, you've alluded to it a little bit, but just maybe finish the swing on that. Okay, so this is my favorite topic in the history of topics. Because we used to call this problem initially it was called Cinald vagina. That was the initial, yes, there was a paper's written on the Cinald vagina. Then it got up to it. I don't even understand what that means. An old vagina, I suppose, but then it got changed to Volvo vaginal atrophy or a trophic vaginalitis. That was the terminology that was used to. I'm familiar with that. I've been told 24 before that. I was seen a Cinald vagina. Check the history books. Very fascinating. So Volvo vaginal atrophy was sort of the common name of this. Okay, as you get older, the vagina atrophy. It travels up. It shrinks up. Again, if a penis tripled up at age 52, we'd probably have a vaccine sponsored by Pfizer. They created biagra. They would create this vaccine. No one even tells you. I love that analogy. So you're saying, if by the time a man became 50, his penis became a shriveled up useless organ, you're saying that the medical system would have probably done something about this. What do you think, right? You tell me what you think. You might be on to something Rachel. I know what I'm talking about. So this is the thing. We just told the Volvo vaginal atrophy. We said, well, if you have pain with sex or a little vaginal dryness, here's some moisturizer. Here's some lubricants. Here you go. If you're really bothered, really bothered. You got to be really bothered. Then there's the thing called vaginal estrogen that we could give you. Now, here's the crazy part of this. It's not just a little vaginal dryness. The vagina and the bladder need hormones, right? Baby's don't have hormones. And that's why you see it's red. It's irritated. They're these small little labium menora. Dipper cream was invented, right? Because it looks so painful. Then hormones, they pee their diapers all the time. The genitals morph and change with hormones. Right? Puberty happens and you have a change of the genital and urinary system. And so what happens is as you lose hormones, it goes in reverse. And so it changes the microbiome. The hormones keep the tissue acidic. It grows the healthy lactobacillitis. The vagina is supposed to be acidic. It's supposed to be able to fight infection. And without proper hormones, you lose that ability to fight infection. So you see urinary frequency, urinary urgency, vaginal dryness, increase in leakage, increase in urgent continents, and recurrent urinary tract infections, which can and do kill people. Okay? We've known this since the 90s in the New England Journal of Medicine, actually this was on Astrid all. You could reduce the risk of urinary tract infections by well over 50%. We have known this all along. And yet. And that was with topical Astrid all. Interesting. Yeah? I wasn't out of where. And yet there is no FDA approved Astrid all formulation despite that fact. Yeah. Correct. I think it's available in Europe. So the name got changed in 2014. Okay? 2014 a bunch of people got in a room and they said, you know what? This bulb of vaginal atrophy thing. That's kind of a bad name because it doesn't describe what's really happening to people. So they changed the name to genital urinary syndrome of menopause, GSM. Now there was one urologist, my mentor was in the room. And they almost didn't put the word urinary in it. And he fought and he yelled and he said, this is the power of one person to be able to change the whole world. And they said, okay, well listen to you. We'll put the word urinary in it. And I'm so glad they did because the urinary problems are the things that kill people. Right? People are dying of urinary tract infection. In fact, a large amount of money goes to Medicare expenditures when it comes to urinary tract infections. And we published last year that if Medicare patients used vaginal estrogen, which is safe for everybody and $13 a tube, we would save Medicare between $6 and $22 billion a year. Billion. Just say that again, please, because I know there are people that are in the Medicare system who are going to be interested to understand that. Okay. So when you when you do a low dose local vaginal estrogen or DHA product, you can reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half. They're safe to use if you've had a history of blood clots, breast cancer, whatever medical problem you can come at me, I can tell you that it's safe. Okay. It will not only help with lubrication, help with pain with sex, help with urinary frequency urgency leakage, but it will reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half. It's also inexpensive and covered by your insurance. If everybody in Medicare eligibility used vaginal estrogen, we would save Medicare between $6 and $22 billion a year. And in my opinion, that is a conservative estimate because of how many patients are getting urinary tract infections. They're going to their doctor for cultures. They're in the ICU with sepsis. This is a huge economic, a more big, a more tallity problem that we're dealing with and no one cares. IMean, again, I always try to come up with this steel man and say, is it that they don't care or is it that they're unaware or is it that they feel that it just needs to fall on the shoulders of somebody other than themselves? So I think we have a marketing problem. I truly believe this is a marketing problem because let me tell you. But how? Okay, let me push back. Not because I don't agree with you, but I'm just going to put my hat on that says the opposite, right? So maybe I am too attuned to this. But I feel like there is nothing more talked about right now. IMean, look at what Hallie Barry's doing, look what Oprah's doing, look what Gueneth is doing. IMean, there are so many very powerful, very influential women that are talking about this. Why is this not in the zeitgeist right now? It's getting better. But again, they don't know how to write the prescriptions. Okay, so let me tell you, so you're saying there's not enough physicians talking about this. Then if it really comes down to prescriptions, if it can't get them, it's not over the counter. If you can't get the prescription, or if you don't go to your doctor saying that you need it, we had an Instagram reel just yesterday that the patient said, I sent my friend went to her doctor, said she was having pain with sex, asked for vaginal estrogen and her gynaecologist said, and I quote, you need to think of other ways to change your relationship from now on. It's not in the cards for you. What does that mean? Meaning you can't have sex anymore, right? And the fact is, is that about sex is about your inner tract infections. Wait a minute, this is impossible for me to fathom. A woman went to her gynaecologist and said, I'm having pain within her course. Yeah. This woman, any idea how this woman is? Okay. And the gynecologist said, didn't you think this gynecologist doesn't know about estrogen? Honestly, I don't know any more. It's incredible, right? So, okay. So we could argue via agro. 1998, via agro comes out. Via agro changed the world. Billions of dollars. What is via agro? It is a PD-5 inhibitor. It relaxes smooth muscles of the penis. Increase blood flow gives you a rigid erection. So it helps with a rousal ferment. Okay? If you take it, microdose, low doses, it can also help with BPH or urinary problems. Right? We love via agro. We love Cialis. Wish it was in the water. We should study it in women. This is the problem, though, because I didn't met a cool school. Oh, I'm going to talk about that. But I will argue, we have had via agro for women long before. We've had via agro for men. And we've known about it since the 1970s and via agro for women is vaginal hormones. What do vaginal hormones do? They relax the tissue. They increase arousal. They increase lubrication. They increase orgasm. They help with urinary symptoms. So they do everything via agro does. And they prevent urinary tract infections. Via agro doesn't do that. So you're talking about better than via agro. It's inexpensive. Now, it didn't use to be. So when I got out of my trening, a tube of estrace was $500. Wow, because of people like Mark Cuban and good Rx. And I've talked to Mark Cuban on my DMs in Twitter. And he knows more about vaginal estrogen than 90% of doctors. But this idea of it's not expensive. A tube of estrace is $13. And you're saying that the reason that this price has come down is I know Mark is a very hard liner against the PBMs. Did Mark basically take a sledgehammer to that? Yeah, they changed. They changed the game. And so it's incredible. Oh, my gosh. It's incredible. He understands it. He literally understands the nuances of why vaginal estrogen is so important. That's right. I can't get doctors to do that. I think he's using credible. And so, so we've a marketing problem. We have a product that is better than via agro for women. It's been around longer than via agro. It's inexpensive. It's inexpensive. What are we missing? What is it? It's marketing. We're not telling the patients. We're not telling the doctors. And we have a box labeling that says this product causes stroke heart attacks blood clots probable dementia, breast cancer, and needs to be taken with progesterone, not one of those statements is true. Not one. Okay. So we went to the FDA and says you got to remove the box. This is not your killing people. And the FDA said, we're going to leave the box on. This is a nightmare. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts, summaries, where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Microplastics, Stress, and Male Fertility ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [vbggTamb-p0].txt ===

lots of discussion around microplastics. Right. So tell me what your impression is of the effect of any or all of the above on fertility. So all those sperm are made constantly and are susceptible to that. We know the testicles are a pretty good place to me and insulated from exposures. I, I'm also, I also think there's a lot of smoke there and there needs to be sorted out, but such you, but the 80, 60, 80,000 chemicals that are being used that aren't really tested at all. I think the only way to know is to do do, you know, stem cell and vitro testing as much as you can before you put it on at the ID, investigation drug stage, not at the final stages for clinical trials, but early on do it. So you're screening away in advance of getting it to clinical trials and where the money gets big. But I think that men, there are windows of susceptibility and men, unlike maybe with women whose eggs are constantly exposed to toxins, men have windows and one of those windows is birth and early development, the first 12 weeks of life. So there's a good idea. But when, when all organ systems are developing, including testicles, IMean, Sean is fond of this one with maternal beef consumption, estrogenized beef consumption, their sons had lover sperm counts when they were 20 years later or something. So so I think that's a window of susceptibility also think, you know, puberty is a window of susceptibility when things turn on. So I think if exposures in those moments are probably going to matter the most to men, I don't know, I don't know about other times. And what is your advice to a guy when you're giving him counsel on everything he can do? We're going to talk about everything. But on this particular domain, if he says, hey, should I stop drinking Starbucks, coffees in those plastic cups with the plastic lids? And should I get a reverse osmosis filter in the house like where are you telling him to draw that line? I'm not great at that because the stress level goes up so much and I think the stress counterback balances any amount of microplastics you say. You double the stress in a man and just toss a level fall. And then just from production falls for a whole different reason. So my, my, my testosterone level when I left residency, oh, I bet. So how old was I 33? Should I had a pretty good? Yeah, total T, 220 nanograms per deciliter. Did you measure LH? It's probably low. Yeah, I'm sure FSH and LH were totally low. I don't remember that. That's secondary. Free testosterone of light. So think of me to four. Yeah. Well, the sleep deprivation, the stress, the so what to stress to stress is the sympathetic nervous system. It's fight or flight. You're running from a woolly mammoth. It doesn't know what you're running from. It doesn't know whether it's sleep or travel or financial or emotional. It's just the body. We are cats and dogs. We have the same binary nervous system either you're on or you're off. And when you're on, do you want testosterone? No, you want cortisol. You're running for your life. And do you want fertility when you're running for your life? And any species? No, you're trying to save your life. So cortisol goes on testosterone is nowhere to be found for tillings. No, you turn off all that stuff. Then when you outrun the woolly mammoth, then you're behind a rock and you grab the berries and you catch a nap, boom, testosterone shoots up because it's rest in restore and you have to rebuild for the next run. And how quickly will you think that it turns in humans? How quickly? How quickly can that? Dates. Easily. We can reverse. Is it? It's not. We love acute stress. All species love acute stress, right? We love that starvation, intermittent fasting. It's really healthy. But not low-level chronic stress, not connected to your computer, not your emails, not the workday that never ends terrible for us. And the best manifestation is erections because the erections will fall if you're stressed to penis out of the mind of its own according to the Vinci. I had a guy come in, you know, he came in and he was like 25 and San Francisco, who started up kind, he comes in and says, I got to see him. I said, why? I said, I lost my erection yesterday. He's 25. He said, first time. He said, yes. I said, all right, come on in. Sweet couple. And he's got his act to get it looks good. And I said, what happened? He said, you know, I just thought, I just lost my erection. I could never happen to me before. I think something's wrong. I said, okay, tell me about yourself. He's just getting his a round of funding. He's traveling half a million miles a year. He sleeps like three or four hours a night if any. And he's constantly running. And I said, congratulations. We're walking to the human race. This is amazing at the first time. I know. It's like, we're talking about it. You're not in a purvious stress. Stress has a tough fix. So clearly, the fertility women who are sort of marathon run, how the great study was a moderate exercise, moderate exercise men. A real blog on this called, can you be too fit to be fertile? Moderate exercise went to extreme exercise measured as two hours a day of viotu 80% maximum capacity. So pretty heavy workouts for 12 week periods. So moderate to extreme and then back to moderate. Spurme counts fell by 40% when it moderate to extreme and constant sperm, testosterone flow by 50% and then went back up. So that's a kind of a, and there's also military studies of men under acute stress during you know, hell weeks and trening where they were taking their testosterone and elage, it's when they were dropping by about 50% with severe stress. And that's okay for a day or two or a week. But when you're doing it chronically, we're not built for that. Peter, we're not built for chronic stress. That's a long-termity issue. I'm Peter Rateeer. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. From a premium member today, a Peter Rateeer MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Minimalist Shoes Bad for Runners？ ｜ Courtney Conley, D.C. [UFUIy5U5tVs].txt ===

Now very few people today, competitive runners or otherwise will run in a minimalist shoe like that. It's a very, you know, very infrequent occurrence. Do you recommend people do that? And if so, how long does it take to strengthen the foot enough to be able to run an shoe like that? I know I keep saying this, but it is very patient specific. You look at their history of trauma as you look at their history of injuries. I will always implement some type of functional footwear regardless. It's just a matter of what we're going to be doing with it. So for example, if I'm working with, you know, just someone who wants to walk for example, we'll put them into a ultra for example, wide toe buck shoe, zero drop, and moat us have them start like five or ten minutes. See how they feel. And then we can start to trensition the stack height. So if they're used to wearing this big bulky cushion shoe, you don't want to take them into something like this too soon. They'll be like this sucks and I don't want to do it. And then you lose them right out of the gates. For a person to run in a shoe like that, must they give up a heel strike and running? Um, oh, these good questions. When you change your footwear, you start to change how your body feels the ground. So with runners for example, everybody gets all up in arms about heel strike. Right? Heel strikeings bad. Heel strikeings bad. It's not that it's bad. It's just where the load is going. When I'm running, it's not necessarily how my foot is striking, but where my foot is striking. So overstriving is the enemy. I don't want to have my foot well in front of my body when I'm running. There's too much ground reaction force happening there. We want the foot to strike as close to the center of mass as possible. There have been runners who have one marathons with a heel strike that's at their center of mass. They just have more knee flexion for example. The further the foot is away. That would almost feel like they're running forward. Wouldn't it? Almost. Yeah. Wow. So when I'm striking with a heel strike that's in front of my center of mass. Okay. When I heel strike, I have a lot of ground reaction force going through my knee through my hip and through my low back. When I switch and run to a mid foot or four foot strike, all I'm doing is taking the load out of the knee hip and back and putting that into the foot into the calf. And theoretically isn't, IMean, that just seems like given the structure. It seems like that's how it should be. I don't want to, IMean, I have no dog in this fight as a non-runner. So, but what do most elite runners do? You will see all across the board, different strike patterns. You truly will. When you are running though, efficiently, when you look at cadence and you look at you know, I call them running fairies. It just looks like they can run forever. Their foot will be close to their center of mass. And it is more likely that they will be at a mid foot and four foot strike. When their foot is underneath them. Yeah. It seems like exactly. Just anatomically, if you can bring the strike towards the center of your body, you're much more likely to be not heel strike. Correct. Because it would be very awkward to heel strike at that angle. And you take out, you know, when you're running, so if I have heel strike, then I have to go to my four foot and then I have to drop that heel down again. Yeah. Versus just running mid foot, four foot, which yes, I think that is a more ideal position to run in from an efficiency perspective. With that being said, if you have a history of heel pain, a kill is tendonopathy, and you tell your runners, hey, we're going to take you out of this heel strike and we're going to get you to run on your four foot. You better prepare them for it. You may better have good capacity at their foot and at their calf, or else what you're going to give them is more foot and calf problems. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: My Back Pain Story ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [I6WCYlgoFEQ].txt ===

Well, I'm going to start with a story, Stuart, because it's a story that some of the listeners might know, but you probably don't know in this level of detail. And it sets the stage for why this is a topic that is of great interest in me personally. And of course, by extension, I suspect that there are very few people who are going to listen to us today who can't relate to the subject and hand. So the very abridged version of the story is, I grew up doing all sorts of really aggressive things and really took to powerlifting when I was probably 14. And found myself reasonably strong for a little scrawny kid. And between about the ages of 14 and 19, I really, really pushed. It couldn't bench press to save my life, but seemed pretty strong in a squat and deadlift. And kind of ignored any claims my parents made that maybe I was doing a little too much. And truthfully and sadly had no formal instruction. There was no, you know, I was just watching the other grown men in the gym who were insanely powerful and sort of just trying to replicate what they were doing. But truthfully had no sense of what I was doing. Anyway, fast forward, I am 21 years old. I'm rowing at the time. So rowing crew. And for the first time in my life, I experienced lower back pain. And this really rocked my world because I always thought that people who got lower back pain were people who did nothing. I never really thought someone who is as active as I was could get it. And for about two weeks, Stewart, it completely disabled me. You know, I could sort of get around, but barely. And being a college student, I didn't really have any resources. I didn't know what to do. I was able to get that this was actually, I think I'd occurred during the summer. So I didn't have classes, but you know, I had to stop rowing. I remember that. And otherwise, I was able to work. It went away. And I thought everything was fine. And I never thought about it. Again, until the summer three years later, when I was 24 years old. And I remember exactly where I was. I was in San Diego, riding my bike up the steepest hill in San San Diego, which is a certain patch of a mountain called Mount Soledad. And there's a section of this thing where you make a sharp right turn. And at that moment, it's about a 25 degree pitch. And I experienced this very sudden pain in my lower back. And like a typical idiot just kept on pushing and climbing to the top and finished my ride. But then went on to experience the exact same thing, Stewart. For two weeks, I was debilitated. Couldn't do a thing other than sort of lay around and walk. But then it got better. And I kind of just forgot all about it. And then fast forward to the big one. It's doing a good mission here. Yeah. Yeah. So the big, the big one occurred in my third year of medical school. And now 27 years old. And the remarkable consistency of this is not lost on me. It is every three years by the summer, the summer of 94, 97 and 2000. And I'm riding my bike from class to the gym. And I get to the gym, hop off my bike to lock it up. And all of a sudden, I feel that same familiar, just horrible pain in my back. But this time, it's a little worse than the previous two bouts. And it was so bad that I did something I'd never done before, Stewart. I decided not to go into the gym. And so I just slowly got back on the bike and limp my way back to my apartment. And wasn't able to do anything other than just sort of lay in bed. I assumed I'd be fine the next morning. And I woke up the next morning. And actually couldn't get out of bed. Luckily my roommate and I each had separate phone lines. So I was able to call him from my room. And so began the a really painful journey over the next couple of weeks where the only place I could find relief was bent at 90 degrees forward where I would basically stand and bend over the nurse's station. By this point, I was doing my clinical rotations. And as every good gunning medical student knows, there was no way I was going to miss a day of this. So I would drag myself into the hospital each day. And somehow managed to get through this. The nurses took pity on me and so did the residents and they were injecting me full of tort all. And this went on for a month. And it got so bad that eventually the pain progressed from just being debilitating in my lower back to a nerve pain that felt like my foot was being skinned. And it was interesting in that the pain in my lower back started to subside as it was replaced by the feeling of my left foot being skinned from the bottom. I'm not going to go into the more details of the story because it gets worse and worse before getting better. But needless to say, I have a graduate degree in back pain. There's a happy ending to this story, Stuart, which is after this particular, the particular when I was 27, which took a year to resolve. IMade it kind of a mission to figure out what was going on. And I'm not suggesting that I have, but I know so much more now than I did then. And fortunately, anytime I've had back pain since then, it has been a very, very short lived experience. I'll plant one last seed before we jump into this just for both you and the listener so that we can come back to it. If you are to look at an MRI of my spine today, you would ask yourself, maybe not you because you're so well versed. But a reasonable person would look at an MRI of my spine today at the age of 50 and say, how does he walk? Like, this person must be in so much pain. He doesn't know his name. And yet I can tell you for the most part, I'm not occasionally I get a little tight in my, you know, my lower back musculature, but you know, I don't have ridiculous pain. I'm not, I'm not limited in anything I do. Again, suggesting that the correlation between the image of my back on an MRI and my symptoms is pretty light. Okay, so with all that is a backdrop, the fact that you're smiling so much as I tell you this story tells me not that you're taking pleasure in my pain, but rather the familiarity of my story. Exactly. I've been doing pattern recognition. There's only one thing that would account for the repeated acute episodes in the interim between each one you arEQuite fine. Then it's shifted to a ridiculous pain. And now you're at the stage of your life. It's more an occasional grumpyness when you cross what we call the tipping point. So I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: My technique for getting back on the rails when my sweet tooth is getting the best of me. [0lUvqCp5-Bo].txt ===

I was talking to a patient today on a call and he was talking about how over the past several months his sweet tooth has really been kind of evolving and he's sort of been feeding it and that's been making it a little bit worse. And so I shared with him kind of my three tricks for managing a sweet tooth in myself and he seemed to find it helpful so I thought I would share this here. So this is by no means like a scientifically validated approach just to be clear it's really empirical but it's it's helped me a lot when I'm trying to cut back on sweets and by extension the number of my patients. Okay. Step one don't drink sweet things. That means obviously don't drink sugary drinks but it even means don't drink diet drinks. So in the short term your brain doesn't really know the difference between a coconut diet coke. It does in the long run we can get into all the neurobiology of that but it's not really relevant. Your body will actually chase the calories more following a diet coke but point being in the short run it doesn't and more importantly when you switch from a coke to a diet coke you're not really helping your body recalibrate away from sweet. So so rule number one it's just don't drink sweet things and that includes anything even if you're having an alcoholic beverage you know if you're going to have an alcoholic beverage don't have it be some sweet sugary margarita. Rule number two is lean into berries as your fruit. My guess is that if we went back in time 10,000 years fruit would look totally different. The way they are today the way they've been bred I think they've deviated sufficiently from that but there's something about berries that is still kind of the right level of sweetness. So I think what you want to do is target a place where a raspberry is sweet. And so if you have a real sweet tooth and you go in the fridge and need some raspberries they're going to actually taste a little bit tart and that's kind of a sign that you're probably over calibrated on sweet and so I would say you know continue to consume berries as your sources sweetness mix berries in with plain yogurt throw in some almonds or something like that it's kind of a great dessert and rather than eating you know kind of sugary things or even higher sugar fruits. Again I'm not saying there's anything wrong with higher sugar fruits what I'm saying is if you're trying to dial down your cravings for sweet this is a step. The third thing is leaning into dark chocolate. So again this is another litmus test right if you eat a piece of 70% dark chocolate and you don't think it's sweet that might be the test that says you're you're over doing it on on sweet. During periods of my life when I've been incredibly strict which I'm certainly not at the moment even 85 is too sweet I would say for me right now 85 is the sweet spot. I would define as you want to have a couple of pieces but you don't need to eat the whole bar. If you want to eat the whole bar at least if I want to eat the whole bar it's generally going to be a lower concentration of chocolate and therefore a higher concentration of sugar. So basically those are kind of my simple tricks besides the obvious right like by definition you're not leaning in eating junk food all day but what are you substituting it for? It's moving your way up to call it an 85% chocolate it's titrating down into berries and just not drinking sweet things and I tell you you do this for a couple of months and all of a sudden you're going to recalibrate and by the way if you go back and eat something incredibly sweet you're going to notice it. Again am I suggesting everybody do this? Absolutely not. I'm suggesting this as a tool to help if you feel that your sweet cravings are out of control and it's leading you to eat an unnecessary amount of junk food.

=== FILE: Navigating bone health： early life influences & strategies for improvement & injury prevention [Zld5iuH5anQ].txt ===

If you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older, who fracture their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. But the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. This has a greater mortality than smoking. What we're going to talk about today is all things bone health, bone mineral density, what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if they're maybe at risk? Family history matters, genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. Having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. Any advice you would have for people who have kids on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular, being very active in things that load bones. I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Alright, here, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? Doing well, man. The final, final seven episodes of Ozark Drop Tonight. We're recording this on April 29th. So, interesting date for two reasons. By the way, the other thing that occurred to me this morning is that the days and dates in this year 2022 were the same as they were in 1994. So, I was like, oh my god, today is Friday, April 29th, which is the same as it was in 94. So, on Friday, April 29th, in 1994, was the practice day at Imola. And that's when Ruben's Baricela had that horrible, horrible accident. We can link to the accident where he basically hit the Chican and launched into a barrier and amazingly, only escape with a concussion and a broken nose. The following day, which is the same day, is tomorrow will be, which was Saturday, April 30th, was when Roland Ratzinberger was killed, which made it the first fatality in Formula One in 12 years. The last one being Jill Villanova in 1982. And then, of course, Sunday may first, which will be the same this year, was when Senaday. So, all in 1994? Yeah, it was at the same race. IMean, you had these three horrible accidents resulting in two fatalities in one weekend. But again, just to think that it's the exact same days this year as it was, 28 years ago. Just, I don't know why, just sort of, I didn't, I never, I didn't, I didn't notice that until today. It's kind of important information, right? Like your brain can only count so much. And what, IMean, this is really off topic, but do you still have the skill that you had back in the day where you can, like, remember what day, like day of the week a date was? Uh, only if I can peg it to something, but not as profound as it used to be. IMean, it used to be, I remember in meetings we used to just throw out random, random dates, and then we would fact check it. I feel like we wasted a lot of time doing that. Right, someone would tell me either birthday and I would tell them what day of the week they were born on. Yeah, love it, love it. Oh, on the complete opposite end of that. Um, what we're going to talk about today is, is really a question that, IMean, it's the topic that we get asked about a lot, and we've gotten a lot of questions that have come in, but we've never really dove really deep into it, which is what we're going to do today. And it's kind of all things bone health, bone mineral density, osteopeenia, osteoporosis, kind of all things of that nature. And I know this is something that you work a lot within your patients, and I know it's something that's of really big interest for people. And so our hope is that we can kind of go through this episode and focus on, you know, why is this important? So why should people care about this? You know, people listening right now, there'll be a subsection of them that are going to be super interested, and that will be probably another subsection who are maybe younger. They've never really thought about their bone health, and they might not think it really applies to them, but our hope is in the beginning, at least, we'll kind of walk through why they should care about this, and why they should focus on it early on in life. And then from there, we'll talk about, you know, how bone health changes as people age, the differences between sexism and men and women, and then we'll also focus on things on how people can improve or kind of help their bone health become better from physical activity to nutrition, supplements, drugs, and more. And then if all that goes well, and we still have time, which is always 50, 50 on how these AMAs go, well, also, focus a little bit on, you know, people dealing with acute injuries, and how they need to think about this, which I know is something that you're interested in, given your recent shoulders or dream now, you're kind of not as active in one side of your upper body as you used to be. So all that said, I think before we start going through thosEQuestions, it's going to be helpful to set the stage a little bit, just so everyone is on the same page and the definitions and what we're talking about. So maybe when we start with, you know, what are some of the types of bones we'll be referring to, because at least for myself coming into this, I just kind of think of bone as a bone, and I don't really think much more beyond that. So why don't you dive into that a little bit? Yeah, IMean, bone is, it's a living tissue, and that's obvious, but I think it's also easy for a person to kind of forget that and think of bone as somewhat inert. But in fact, bone is heavily vascularized. Bone is an organ that plays a very important role in a lot of things. I'm actually not going to go super deep into the anatomy and physiology of bones. I'll point out just a couple things, right? So first of all, kind of think of a couple types of sections of bones. So we think about the cortical or compact bone, and that's what forms like the shaft and the exterior of long bones. So if you think of your femur, your humorists, things like that, you know, they have kind of like the long shaft and then the nobons at the end. So the shaft of that is the cortical or compact bone. And then at the end, you have the trabecular bone, sometimes called the spongy bone. So those are kind of at the end of the bone. And there are some differences amongst those in terms of their vascularization and things like that. But again, I think for the purpose of this discussion, just you know, whenever I talk about compact or cortical bone, I'm talking about the shaft, and whenever I speak about the spongy or trabecular part, I'm talking about the end. Again, I think marrow, people probably intuitively understand that marrow is important. But again, it's very important, right? Marrow is what's producing our white cells and our red blood cells. So in this era where we were thinking about, you know, a post-COVID world, you know, it's important to understand that the memory, B cells and memory T cells that are going to provide lasting immunity against this virus and other viruses reside in the bone marrow. And so the whole purpose of being infected and then having a subsequent infection that's less devastating, purpose of being vaccinated for the same reason, is to have memory B cells and T cells that are sitting there in the bone marrow that can respond immediately and quickly upon reintroduction of the same antigen. You know, when you mention nubbins, it kind of many think about your banana nubbins. And you recently posted on Twitter, you might be looking for a new profession. Do you want to let people know kind of what your new interest is in the term and the world of longevity? Well, yeah, IMean, as you point out, I've been very interested in human longevity for yes, probably about, you know, a little over 10 years. And I'm sure I will remain. So, but but I, I, I, I, I, I, at least considered moving into banana longevity because I think the opportunity for impact is huge, right? IMean, it's one thing if you can figure out how to take the average person from being 80 to 90. And that, you know, that'll have a huge impact on the world. But if you could take the average banana and go from like two days before it turns mushy and brown to 10 days, IMean, I, I think it's revolutionary. And I just noticed I was on the USDA's most wanted list because of how many bananas I waste. So, I got to do something about this. Yeah, IMean, if you solve the banana crisis and you move to avocado, so probably give you a Nobel Peace Prize as well. So, the upside is very high in this new world. The thing is, IMean, avocado's last so much longer. IMean, you just have a window of opportunity to like, I can actually buy avocado. I can buy like seven avocados and eat them in a week. I can't buy seven bananas and eat them in a week, like at one a day. It just doesn't work. So, I think that entire fruit space is just a racket. I think the whole banana infrastructure, I think bananas are a pyramid scheme. Like I think it's just the whole things just total scam. Yeah, maybe one of our upcoming AMAs will just do a conspiracies with Peter Atia and we'll just go into the world of bananas. So, Peter, you mentioned earlier go, be sales and T-cells. Can you kind of walk people through what cells make bones? Yeah. And again, this can be made as complicated or as simple as you want. IMean, I kind of just try to thread the needle a little bit and say, just think about osteoblasts and osteoclasts. And I kind of remember from medical school the way I used to remember this. So, osteoblasts be a responsible for building bone by producing collagen bone matrix and mineralizing it. osteoclasts remove bone by reabsorbing calcified bone and the matrix. So, osteoblasts contribute to increasing bone mineral density osteoclasts the opposite. It's also important to understand this exists in an equilibrium. Right? So, we're constantly remodeling bone. So, we're sort of adding to and subtracting from this and basically turning over calcium. So, bone is like 50 to 70 percent mineral and obviously what's the predominant mineral? Let's calcium. We'll talk about that in a second. It's about 20 to 40 percent organic matrix. Right? So, again, what is organic? Inorganic is carbon hydrogen oxygen, sulfur, is that all of that? And then the rest of it is a bit of water and lipid. And again, you'll see that primarily in the marrow. So, in an adult, like the entire human skeletal system can be remodeled in a really long cycle. Right? It might take 10 years to turn over all of the mineral and organic content within the bone over and over again. But at the micro level, calcium balance is happening quite frequently. I don't remember the exact number. I want to say it's like 99 percent, but virtually all of the body's calcium is contained within bone. And therefore, bone plays a very important role in calcium, homeostasis. And if anybody's taking a physiology class, they probably remember how important calcium signaling is to everything within a cell. So, again, we think of these bones as structural entities, which of course, first and foremost, they are. But remember, they're also a very important reservoir for calcium, which is another very important ion in the activity of every cell. And you talked a lot about calcium. What about vitamin D? What role does vitamin D apply in the bones? So, they're both very important. And again, there's sort of two forms of vitamin D, vitamin D, 2 and D3, but really, when I talk about vitamin D, I'm going to mostly talk about D3, which is the active form. So, what's the problem with being deficient in vitamin D? Well, again, people might recall a disease called rickets. And you see this often in developing parts of the world where people are really malnourished and they have really, really soft sort of spongy bones. And it's actually just yesterday, I had a friend over who does a bunch of mission work in Rwanda. And she was showing me a child at their camp whose legs, you know, the child was probably five years old. He was sitting down and they were doing something with his legs that you would think would be impossible to do with a human being. Basically, while he was sitting on the ground, they were able to move his foot back and forth back and forth. And he was in no pain, but it's because he didn't have bones that were anything other than basically rubber bands. So he couldn't stand. And within, I want to say six months of correcting his nutrition, totally normal. So, you know, amazing opportunity when you think about what's what happens in that part of the world and how you can fix that. But what is it about vitamin D? Well, vitamin D increases the guts absorption of calcium. So, if you're wofully deficient in vitamin D, you're going to have trouble absorbing calcium through the gut. And we're going to talk in this podcast later about the importance of dietary calcium and or supplementary calcium. And so you can see why that becomes part of the issue. Yeah. So the other thing to kind of keep in mind here is the role of another hormone. And again, I'm trying to only introduce concepts now that are going to become relevant later, either through treatments or nutrition or supplementation. So I'm, you know, being a little bit simplistic. But the other thing that you can't avoid here is understanding the role of calcium and parathyroid hormone. So I think most people are probably familiar with their thyroid gland sits here in the neck. It's kind of got this shape to it that where it's got like kind of two main lobes and then each lobe has two poles. Well, at each of those poles is a little tiny gland called the parathyroid gland. So you have four of those. And the parathyroid gland is really the master gland for regulating calcium levels. So low levels of calcium in the blood stimulate parathyroid hormone secretion. As parathyroid hormone level goes up, assimilates the release of calcium from the bone into the blood. Now it also induces enzymes in the kidney which then convert vitamin D into its active form to then aid and speed up in the process of reabsorbing more calcium from the diet. So all of this parathyroid hormone calcium vitamin D, very important to maintaining bone health. And anytime you have of things that disrupt that system, you're going to see disruptions potentially in the bones. Yeah, I think that was a good and kind of quick overview of what will be important for what we cover next. And I think the natural fall up to it is, you know, what is the consequence of poor bone health? What is the consequence of low bone density? I think, you know, some people are who will be listening this will have already known issues of bone density and some people have never thought about this before in their life. And so, you know, what would you say to those people on why they should care about this and why they should think about it? This is one of those things that I would say five years ago, I was not paying nearly as much attention to as I am today. And I think the easiest way to show this is I put a couple of figures here so can you pull up figure one neck? Okay, so this is a figure that we made it's an internal analysis, but it's a very straightforward analysis. All we've done is taken data from the CDC database from 2019. The reason we used 2019 is by the time you had the 2020, you started to get some COVID data mixed in there, although the accidental stuff only changes and that you see a higher rate of overdose. So you're looking at the absolute number of deaths by decade for people age 25 to 35, although we up to 85 and up. And we basically break accidental deaths into four categories. So overdoses, trensportation accidents, which are mostly car accidents, falls and everything else. As you can see, those firsT3 accidental overdose trensport deaths and falls represent virtually all accidental deaths. So you can almost ignore everything else. This is the absolute numbers, these are total numbers. And I think kind of two things stand out here. Really clearly the first is thaT4 people younger than 60 overdoses are the predominant cause of accidental death. And for people over 65 falling is. But if you go to the next figure, it tells I think a more important story, which is when you adjust for the population. Because remember, in figure one, what I'm showing you is total number of deaths. But what you don't realize is that as you move left to right, the denominator, the population is getting smaller and smaller and smaller. There are fewer and fewer people in each bucket as you go to the right. So to correct for that, we would ask thEQuestion, which is, how many of these deaths per 100,000 people occur in each group? And if you look at that figure, I think the story is readily apparent. Which is that, but the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. Now, it's not as high as Alzheimer's disease, it's not as high as cancer, and it's not as high as heart disease. But it comes in pretty much just after that. So this is what sets the stage. Because on the one hand, I think you can look at these data and say, wow, this is really problematic. But the other point is, you can't wait until you're in that bucket to decide you're going to do something about it. So just as for atherosclerosis, we don't want to wait until we've had our first heart attack to say, oh, and I really need to worry about my APOB and maybe I should stop smoking and make sure my blood pressure is okay. You don't want to wait until you have osteopeenia or osteoporosis in your 60 years old to say, it's time to do something about this. Now, if you're there, there's lots to do about it. But it's just as important if you're 25 years old and frankly, it's just as important as a parent if you're thinking about what your five year old and 10 year old and 15 year old should be doing to make sure that they're setting themselves up for the best outcomes possible as they age, of course. Okay. So Nick, let's let's look at figure three now. Because so what you're looking at here is the excess mortality for women, which is shown in the top, men, which is shown in the bottom, following a hip fracture. And this is going to come up over and over again. We're going to get into some data about what are the fractures that really end lives. And you're going to see it's primarily hip fractures. A pelvic fracture, I think is probably second. And again, in part this results from the immobility that comes after it. But I think there are some other reasons that play there. But so what we're looking at here in the top graph is women following a hip fracture, men following a hip fracture, and you're looking at mortality as a function of age. Now, this is kind of staggering. IMean, when I first saw this, I couldn't believe it. And I apologize for people who are only listening to this podcast. Again, this is one of those podcasts where I think it really helps to be able to see the figures. I'll do my best to kind of explain what the figures show. But for those who are looking at it, I don't think you need me to say anything. So you can just plug your ears and go, la, la, la, la, la, as I explain this because there's nothing I need to say if you can read this graph. So if you're 90 years old or above and you're a man and you have a hip fracture in this data set and we're going to talk about other data sets in a moment. 40% actually more than 40% of you will be dead within a year. Now, that mortality comes down. That's generally the case. The mortality tends to come down because there's kind of a survival benefit or there's fewer people in that group, right? So, you know, what's the mortality of people who are 90 over the next 10 years that numbers going down because most of them have already died? You can see for the younger demographics, the numbers go up. So, you know, the good news is in this cohort at least if you're 70 years old and you break your 10% of those people are going to be dead in three years but that number just keeps going up and up and up. So I think the the important thing here from this data set because we're going to look at another one in a second. I think is more stark in this data set what you realize is that for older people, people over the age of 85, people over the age of 80, which I would argue is not really that old. IMean, I think most of us, you know, listening to this podcast, if we're not that age, certainly have aspirations to be that age, your mortality is in the neighborhood of a third within a year after a hip fracture. So, you know, Nick, we're going to have Michael Easter on the podcast coming up soon, aren't we? Like I think we're having Michael, IMean, I know we do the interview next month so that'll, that'll, that'll come out soon, right? Yeah, that will come out, mid-Summer probably. Yeah, so for those who aren't familiar with Michael's work, he wrote a book called The Comfort Crisis, which I'm going to say is probably, you know, one of the 10 books that I'll sort of force down most people's throats if given the chance. I think it's a really important book. And it'll, a topic from that book will actually come up later in this episode, Nick, when we start to talk about exercise and what we can do to reduce the loss of bone mineral density as we age. But in the book, he makes some references to a few studies that I went back and looked at that talk about some of the unbelievable high mortalities in other fractions. So, if you look at another study, study had like about 200 people in it. It looked at the six month mortality in people who were 65 or older who fractured their hip. And the mortality was 25%. Again, I want to repeat what the implication of that is. So, if you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older who fractured their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. Now, obviously, when you include younger people, that mortality goes way down. So, if they lowered the threshold in that study to people 50 in older, that mortality came down to just under 14%. Another study, which was a finished study that looked at a little over 400 concept consecutive hip fractures in patients found that the one year post operative mortality was just over 27%. So, again, totally different patient population, but identified and, by the way, different country, very similar tren. And I think perhaps the most rigorous of these studies was a large study that looked at about 120 to 1000 participants who were at least 60 years old from various cohorts. So, Europe, the US, etc. Followed them for 12 or 13 years on average. And during that time, found 4200 hip fractures. This study was able to then compare total mortality and look at the hazard ratio in the first year following the hip fracture. So, now, this is asking thEQuestion, what is the probability or what is the increased risk of death one year following the hip fracture in this patient population? Again, these are people enrolled at the age of 60 or beyond. And the hazard ratio is 2.78. So, again, what does that mean? 2.78 means a 178% increase in the risk of mortality within one year following a hip fracture. There are lots of studies like this. I don't think we need to spend the rest of the AMA on it. I think regardless of how you slice and dice these data, a hip fracture is a devastating outcome. And it's something that we really want to avoid at any age, but especially when we're into our seventh decade and beyond. Just for reference, what's the hazard ratio for smoking again? The hazard ratio for smoking on all cause mortality is less than 2.78 for sure, because the hazard ratio for end stage renal disease is about 2.76 for all cause mortality. Smoking is probably just below 2. So, great, great point Nick. This has a greater mortality than smoking. Yeah, not that really interesting thing when you look at that. Those two graphs is I would love to do a study on the people who are over 90 when they fractured their hip and survived at 10 years, who are those people in their hundreds just like kicking it around, still going strong. It'd be really interesting to see. Do we know where fractures occur on the body? Yeah, so if you pull up this figure, Nick, I think this is a really elegant way to look at this. So you're you're looking at all the sites of fractures. And in the first column, it's showing you how many fractures occurred in this study. But it's ranking it by median age. So I've just highlighted the first one, which is proximal femur, which is hip fractures. So not only are those highly frequent 4,000 fractures, but look at the median age. 81.1. Pelvis right there, 73.2 behind it. Necod the femur, 70, distal femur, 70, acetabulum, which is the cup that holds the femoral head 68. So you know, and then down to say proximal humorous. So the top of the hemorrhol bone 66. So those are the big fractures for people over the age of 65. And again, you can see that the frequency of proximal humorous and proximal femur are very high. You can go through this list and it's really telling about how people fall, you know, what's a distal radius fracture? Like the fracture at the end of your hand. So the radius bone runs right here just so you can see and how to someone break that, right? Like, you know, they break that by falling, right? So you sort of get a sense of how balance strength impact a lot of these things. Yeah, I want to curiosity what's the talus? What's the the last thing on the list? That's what you got it. So the next kind of terminology that I think would be important for people to know because we do get a lot of questions on it. We're going to talk a lot about it is, you know, the terms osteopeenia osteoporosis. Like just for people who don't know myself included, are they the same? Do they mean the same? How do we think about them different? You know, why isn't important a differentiated between them? Yeah. So just think of this as a continuum, uh, neck and in fact, if you pull up figure for, um, this is kind of just a not entirely helpful, but at least schematically helpful figure. osteopeenia and osteoporosis just exist on a continuum relative to healthy bone. Now this is going to get a little complicated and I like explaining it in the right, you know, the the amount of rigor that's necessary in a moment, but let's just start with the concept. When you go from healthy bone to osteopeenia, that represents about a 10% reduction in bone mineral density relative to a young healthy adult, and then osteoporosis is a further degradation where you hit about 25% reduction. Now there are two things that I have to add to this to to make it sort of rigorous. The first is the diagnosis of osteopeenia and osteoporosis is based on two locations, technically three, but two of them are symmetric. The hips and the lumbar spine. So for anybody who's gone and had a dexis scan before, you may notice that they report the z score and t score, which I'll explain in a second, of the lumbar spine, of the left hip, the right hip, and usually of the entire body. And the reason for that is we use left hip, right hip, lumbar spine, L1 to L5, to make this diagnosis. Those are the areas we look at. I assume the reason for that is that's where the fractures are. Right, so we, you know, we see people that have a traumatic fractures, compression fractures in the lumbar spine, as you're going to see in a moment, the majority of fractures in older people are in the hip. And as I just shared a moment ago, the mortality for those fractures is very high. So that's where the diagnosis is made. So again, osteopeenia 10% reduction in bmd, osteoprosis 25% reduction in bmd. And again, these are made to healthy individuals. Again, healthy bone to osteopeenia to osteoporosis, it's just a continuum. But osteoprosis and osteopeenia are distinct in the degrees to which bmd has been reduced. And Peter, you mentioned Dexa there a little bit ago, and anyone who's listening this podcast will be familiar with the Dexa scan because we talk about it a lot and looking at, you know, fat and like the benefits that you can get from that. Is that the best way for listeners to figure out what their bmd is? Is that how you're doing it in patients? Yes. So Dexa is a super, super low radiation scan. Nothing like a CT scan. It, you know, takes 10 minutes. You lay on a table, a little scanner moves over your body. And it's using two very low dose x-rays that are absorbed differently by bones and soft tissues. And so it's able to differentiate between out-uposed tissue, bone, and lean tissue, or non-out-uposed tissue. I will say this, not all Dexa's scanners are created equal. So if you want to know your bone make sure before you go and get the Dexa scan, you confirm with the entity doing this that they are giving you segmental bone analysis for left hip, right hip, lung bar spine. A lot of Dexa places can only give you whole body bmd. So they'll just spit out the z-score for that one metric, but they won't give it to you segmentally. And that's sometimes okay. If a person's bmd is very high, you don't need the segmental analysis. But if you're doing this to screen for bmd, you have to make sure of course that the Dexa's capable of doing that. Yeah. And just a reminder for people, we talked about this in another episode, but we were always surprised at how easy it is to get a Dexa scan, right? You don't need a doctor to do it. So if you just Google the city you're in and then Dexa, you should be able to find different providers that do it for relatively cheap, I think, and most cities that's around $150. So it has a lot of benefits. And just maybe remind people again, if they are calling different places, what are the three things they want to look for? Yeah, you want to make sure when you're doing a Dexa again, if you care about knowing the full bmd, and you're going to pay more for that segmental analysis. So when you talk about those scans that are like in the hundred, 125, even up to 150, a lot of times they aren't showing everything, they're just giving you body composition. And usually visceral fat now, you'll say up to $400 typically if you want to see everything. But again, it's all like, and you're going to pay more in New York in San Francisco than you're going to pay an Austin Texas, for example. I, I, I, I probably pay like 125 for mine. But I'm not getting the full bmd analysis because I've already had it done and my bmd is high. So I don't need to screen that frequently. That's not at the rate that I screen everything. The other things you want to look at, you obviously want to make sure you're getting full segmental lean tissue analysis. So you can look at appendix and lean mass index that you can calculate for yourself. Obviously, fat free mass index, you can calculate for yourself, fat mass index, you can calculate, you need them to be able to give you that. And so those are those are kind of the things I want to see along with bmd. And let's say you have like you and a friend are going and getting your bmd done through a nexus scan. Is there going to be variability that exists in bone density between different people? Like let's say even if someone didn't have osteoporosis, can there just be natural variability between different types of people? Yeah. And it's also important to understand the number you're going to get. So they don't at least to my knowledge. I don't recall seeing them typically report in grams per centimeter cubed, your bmd. Because what would you do with that information? Like it's not that helpful. What you really need to know is statistically where do you rank? And this is done via a T score and a Z score. And this is done to compare you to a young healthy adult and to an adult that is your age. So if you go back to statistics 101, I think many people may recall the idea of a normal distribution, which is a bell curve function. And a Z score is basically telling you where you lie on that distribution. So a Z score of zero means you are right in the middle of the distribution. And if you're in the middle of that distribution, it means you are, you have a higher bone mineral density than 50% of people and a lower bone density than 50% of people. If your Z score is plus one, it means you are one standard deviation above the mean, which means you are, you have a higher bone density than 82.5% of the population. And a lower bone density than 17 and a half percent of the population. If your Z score is plus 0.2, it means you are two standard deviations above the mean, which means you're 97.5% higher than 97.5% of the population. Of course, this works in reverse. A Z score of minus two means you have a lower bone density than 97.5% of the population. So that's what Z scores do. I'm sorry, I'm a misspoke. The Z score is comparing you to your age when I say the population. The T score is comparing you to the young healthy individual. So in other words, for someone who's older, the Z score is always going to be more favorable than the T score. Does that make sense? Yeah, because you're comparing to a 30, if you're 60, you want to compare yourself to not only a 30 year old, but also other 60 year olds. That's correct. And is it when you look at for yourself and even with your patients, their scores? Is it kind of like how you do VO2 max where you always want to be in the elite of the elite categories for like, you know, VO2 max you want to be elite in a decade younger for like BMD, do you if someone is at that zero, that 50th percentile, does that worry you? Or is it a little different? How you look at this? Other things factor into this, Nick, IMean family history factors into it. History of smoking factors into this current lifestyle. I hate the word lifestyle, but I think you know what IMean? You know, how active is that person? How much weight bearing activity are they doing? So being male versus female also factors into it a lot. So if I see a woman prior to menopause, let's say I'm talking about, you know, I got a 42 year old female patient who's, you know, IMight guess 3 to 5 years out from menopause and she already has a low Z score. That worries me a lot because of what we'll talk about shortly, vis-a-vis the effective estrogen here and why women are disproportionately affected by estrogen withdrawal. But you know, you've heard me make this my glib stupid joke, right? Never in the history of civilization has a 90 year old person ever been heard uttering. I wish I was less strong. I wish I had less muscle. I wish my bone density wasn't so high. Impossible. Yeah, you know how Tim Ferris always asked people on the podcast, you know, what, Boba, they put on a bill barn. Yeah, I think we've, we've come to the conclusion of what you had 100% put on your billboard. That's right. The Peter T. billboard would just say, find me one example in the history of our species where a 90 year old said, I wish I had less strength. I wish I had less muscle. I wish I had weaker bones. Love it. All right, Nick. So pull up figure five. All right. God figure five pulled up. Okay. So you can see on this graph we're looking at males versus females top to bottom. And then we're looking at Mexican American non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black. So three races, two sexes, six lines. But I just want to make one thing to the listener a little bit clear, which is on the y axis here, you're seeing units of grams per centimeter squared. Earlier I said grams per centimeter cubed. Why the difference? Well, the difference is even though density in real life is measured in grams per centimeter cubed because you need mass per unit volume. With bone density, it's actually done as grams per centimeter squared because it's a planar measurement. So the dexus scan is compressing everything to 2D. Does it make sense? Because the scanner is kind of looking at the area of the bone and imputing the density by what electron beam doesn't go through it. So I've always found this a bit confusing personally and I've always thought, I've always wondered why they just can't do this in grams per centimeter cubed. But I'll just point that out for the astute observer. Okay. I think there are two observations that one would pretty quickly take away from this. The first is that up until the 20s men and women are kind of similar, right? You go through a profound increase in BMD from the time you're eight years old until you're about 20 years old. Difference one is that while women maintain a reasonable plateau, they tend to fall quite precipitously in midlife. And that's obviously due to menopause we'll talk about why in a moment. The second thing that jumps out here is the racial difference. So non-Hispanic black has a higher BMD for both men and women than non-Hispanic white, which has a higher BMD than Mexican, or Hispanic in this case, Mexican American. So again, slight differences in race. Truthfully, I don't know why that is, but it is what it is. So to your earlier question, are there differences? Yeah, there are differences on average. I've never to be honest with you, factored this into my risk assessment except for the male female one. So in other words, if I look at a patient whose black versus white versus Hispanic, I kind of have never assumed one is at more or less risk. I've just said, let's do the kitchen sink on everybody. But I think in females I'm more worried for the reasons that we are obviously talking about. Yeah. And in looking at this too and one of thEQuestions we received is, you know, when when should people do their first bone mineral density scan? You know, when do you want to know that baseline? Because what's interesting when you look at this and you talked about it is, you know, from eight to about 20, 22, you see that huge jump and then it kind of levels off. So what was your recommendation be for when people should get their first one done? Going to get into a lot of hot water here, Nick. So, but I'm used to it, right? I've got very unusual recommendations for a lot of things and this is no different. So, I think in the spirit of fairness, I'm going to communicate the standard recommendations first. So when you look at the American Association of Family Physicians, the American College of obstetricians and gynecologists, the American College of Preventative Medicine, the International Society of Clinical, Densiometry, the National Osteoparosis Foundation, and more. The typical recommendation is for high-risk people to be 50, but typically 65 is sort of when they want to start screening people. And that's for women and for men it's typically 70. It's a lot of credentials you just light out there. You sure you want to get in hot water with all of those different people? No, I'm just simply stating what they're recommending and if I've misrepresented that, I feel free to correct us. But, you know, it's typically recommended as I said, women at 65, men at 70 follow-up scans no more than every two years. Now, for someone who is at serious risk of osteoporosis, which includes men and women over the age of 50, you know, we can adjust those and come down a little bit. Now, the WHO, I think, is a little bit more aggressive and recommends screening women by the age of 40 if I'm not mistaken. As you can guess, I tend to be closer in my thinking to the WHO. And I certainly believe women in their 30s, where we're doing DXS scans for many reasons. I'm just as interested in their bone mineral density. In fact, when I'm reporting the DXS results to patients, we have a template that we've made that I really like that lays all of the DXS information out. So, segmental BMD, that FMI, ALMI, FMI, all of these things body fat for what it's worth. I always tell them out of the gate. The one number you care about is your body fat. That's the one I care least about. And yeah, so when we're looking at a 35-year-old patient and their Z score is already minus one. IMean, that's just as concerning to me as if their OGTT shows, you know, very elevated post-prandial glucose and insulin levels. And I'm really happy that I'm seeing that at the age of 35 and not 65. I think a natural follow-up there is, you know, because one of thEQuestions we got from a subscriber was, you know, how does bone mineral density change throughout the life of the man and woman? And we kind of saw a little bit there, but is anything you want to double-click on or dive deeper on as it relates to that? Yeah, this is, this is an area where men and women do differ quite a bit. So, let's just kind of go back to the beginning, right? So, so you've got most of the growth in the length of a bone and the size of the bone is happening during childhood and adolescence. And that's also when you're really accumulating the bulk, the bulk of this, the BMD. So if you remember the graph we showed a moment ago, figure 5, we don't have to pull it up again, but remember how I said between about the ages of like 8 and 20, like BMD was doubling, right? Yeah. So that doesn't just mean that the size of the bones are increasing, which of course it is, as you go from being 8 years old to 20, you're all getting taller, your bones are getting bigger. But that graph was showing you BMD. So that means the density of those bones is also increasing dramatically. So BMD will actually potentially improve up to about the age of 30, but it really peaks in the early 20s. It can stay quite flat. Certainly in both sexes, tell you about 40 or 50. And then bone loss effectively sinks in. But for women, it is much more pronounced. So for women, about 7 to 10 years around the onset of menopause, bone loss can be 3 to 7 percent annually. And by the time they reach 65, it starts to slow down a bit. So it might be you know, half a percent to 2 percent per year. Whereas in men over 65, it's actually a higher rate of bone loss, but they're starting at a much higher point because they didn't suffer that precipitous loss the way women did after menopause. So for men, at the ages 65, it's usually more typically about 1 to 2 percent per year. So pull up figure 6 because when I came across this figure, one of our analysts pulled this up, I was really surprised. So this is for women, this is showing bone mass by age. So what stands out? So again, two things really stand out to me. We've already discussed one, which is you have this pretty significant rise in bone density between birth and age 20. It then remains relatively plateaued. In this case, menopause kicks in around 50 and then you really start to see the fall. That's the first thing that stands out and we've talked about that. But look at the other thing, Nick. Look at the dotted line. The dotted line tells you that there's really a totally separate trajectory for this woman, which is if she didn't reach her full genetic potential by the age of 20, she's missed an enormous opportunity later in life. And remember at the outset, I said, this is a podcast you should care about even if you're a parent of a 10 year old child. This is why, right? You want to make sure that your kids doing the right things when they're 10 to 20, so that they reach their full genetic potential. Now the good news is that let's say you're on that dotted line and you're 30 years old and I see these patients. So I see the 30 year old woman who's got the Z score of minus two and she's 15 years away from menopause. Well, the good news is we can get her closer to that solid line by working really, really hard. Now I don't know if we can get her all the way to that line. But we have this window in time before menopause when we can go through all this stuff we're going to talk about later on minus the pharmacology and try to ratchet up that bone mass so that you get to the highest point when menopause kicks in and you see that reduction of estrogen. And of course, we'll talk about the opportunities there as far as estrogen is wrong. If you're the next slide, Nick, I want to just kind of talk about one other thing and it really shows where the bone loss is occurring. So in slide seven here, you're seeing for both male and female the difference between cortical and trabecular bone. Again remember cortical is the long shaft part of the bone, the trabecular eye are the end. And you're seeing the the cline for men and women in both of these segments. And I guess what stands out here is where females are losing this BMD. They're losing it primarily in the trabecular or spongy part of the bone. So interestingly women are no different than men when it comes to the cortical section of bone. But obviously a significant reduction at the spongy part of the bone. So yeah, I'm super interested in the look at those graphs and I think you pointed it out but it's another one of those things. Yeah, where it's like no matter what age you are, why you should think about this because especially with people who have children and I know you and I have kids around that age where you think about okay, like that 8 to 20 window and what you can do because if you look at that original graph and the full genetic potential where they fell off was still higher than the inadequate line of where they plateaued, which is pretty crazy to see is you know, four people with kids. It's the biggest thing they can do is in that younger age. And you've mentioned this a few different times and why don't we double click on it here which is and we did get a lot of questions about this too which is you know what is it about menopause that creates issues in bone health, why can it lower bone mineral density. So what do you want to say about that? Yeah, so bone cells are really interesting. They're what we call mechanocensory cells. So they actually can sense forces. So if you think of like what I get, I was going, I was about to explain what a stren gauge is but I realized that's like way more complicated than necessary. So forget stren gauges. I was going to say I think you'd have to also explain what that is. Yeah, we're going to have a detail. Yeah, okay, so so I'll say it more simply right. So think about how muscles act. Right? So a muscle by definition has to have attachments to bones. Right? That's how the system works. And a muscle's never attached to the same bone because then it wouldn't do anything contracting a muscle on the same bone doesn't do anything. So muscles have to go across joints. Right? So you're bicep actually crosses a couple of joints, right? So you have a bicep that is attached to the bones of the lower arm and then attached to the bones of the upper arm. And so then when it contracts, it actually closes that angle of the arm. Okay. So muscles are attached the attendons to bones. And think about like what we do with our muscles. Think about the load we put on those muscles. Well, the very simple laws of physics tell you that the bones have to feel that load. And we often don't think about that, right? We think about, you know, if you're doing a curl with 40 pounds, obviously your bicep muscle is exposed to that. But guess what? The tendon that is attaching the bicep above and below the joint of the elbow is also feeling that. And the bone cells actually sense that load. So if you're lifting something heavy, when you're climbing stairs, your bone senses that they need to support a greater force. And in response to that, it remodels by depositing more and more bone tissue. So bone mass increases in the presence of stress. So it turns out that that signaling process is regulated very heavily by estrogen. Now, I think this is just so fascinating. You know, when you think of like, the importance that estrogen plays in reproduction, it's, I don't, I don't have a great answer as to why it's estrogen that is the dominant hormone here as opposed to another hormone. But for what it's worth, that stress signal of stress that is basically being relayed by the stren gauge functionally within the muscle, to say, hey, it's time to deposit more bone here. That's modulated by estrogen. And so in the absence of estrogen, that signal gets reduced. And that's effectively why menopause, which is a sudden withdrawal of estrogen, is such a devastating thing for women who don't have their hormones replaced. And that's why BMD loss is significant in the post-menopausal women. Now, to be clear, men are also losing estrogen as they age because for men, estrogen comes primarily from testosterone conversion. Right? So testosterone is a romanticized into estrogen. And so, you know, a man with a testosterone of 800 nanograms per deciliter, all things equal is going to have a higher estrogen level than one with 300 nanograms per deciliter. And that's easily could be explained by an aging phenotype to go from 800 to 300. Now, there are other factors that go into that. Atoposity can give you more estrogen, et cetera. This might be one example by the way of where atoposity helps, because you have the additional weight and load that is a stren signal and you have more estrogen, all things equal. So, but men lose estrogen at a far more gradual rate than women. And that's why women experience this loss or significantly. And that's why women are at greater risk for osteopopinion osteoporosis. Yeah. And one of thEQuestions we received, which I think is a really good follow-up here, is that, you know, someone asked, knowing estrogen's role in bone health for postmenopausal women should bone health be a factor to consider and women who are thinking about starting HRT. Well, I'm about to get into a whole bunch more trouble, Nick. I'll give you the consensus answer. The consensus answer, I believe is still no. I believe the consensus answer is HRT is not considered standard of care for postmenopausal bone loss. And I'll tell you why that's the case. The reason for that is not because HRT was not found to decrease fracture risk, which by the way is the gold standard. Like that is the single most important metric if you're trying to evaluate if HRT would be beneficial. So, the women's health initiative, which was, you know, published over 20 years ago, was a seven-year study or so looking at the administration of hormone replacement therapy on postmenopausal women worth noting these women were far outside of menopausal. A hundred problems with this study, which will be going into, and I already went into, actually, I think in the podcast with Ava Blooming and Carol Tavris. So, people who want to get a better sense of HRT really need to go back to listen to that episode. And I think we have an upcoming episode where we'll go into this in more detail. But in that study, there was no ambiguity that the fracture risk was decreased in the women taking HRT. However, that study came to what I believe is an erroneous conclusion. And I think what many people now believe is an erroneous conclusion. But the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease went up. And those risks seem to outweigh the benefits of the reduced fracture risk. So, I think that the increase in the risk of breast cancer was virtually non-existent. It had an absolute risk, increase of 0.1%. And I think there are lots of reasons we discuss in that podcast as to why that's the case and why that I think today we can say with much more clarity that the risk of breast cancer from hormone replacement therapy is virtually non-existent. Secondly, the risk of cardiovascular disease has been completely ameliorated by the adoption of topical forms of estradiol as opposed to oral forms of estradiol. So, in that trial, they use oral estrogen, which actually does slightly increase the viscosity of blood. And in a susceptible woman, that would indeed increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But again, we don't use oral estrogen anymore. And so, that also becomes a moot point. And I think today, we actually know that hormone replacement therapy reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease in women and does not increase it. So, again, take an all together. These suggest to me that bone health should, in fact, be a consideration for women as they consider whether or not HRT makes sense for them. So, be to another follow-up is, you know, earlier you mentioned that there might be some risk factors for why someone might get screened for bone health earlier. So, kind of what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if there may be at risk and what are some of those red flags they should look out for. So, you know, it sounds cliche, but family history matters. And this is actually not something I appreciated until we were getting ready to do this podcast. I didn't realize genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. So, having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. There are other things we want to care about, right? So, we want to look at fractures related to mild or moderate trauma. So, you look at somebody who's had a fall from standing height or less. That's, you know, someone who's fallen from such a low height and still had a fracture, that's a huge problem. Another thing we look at is in female athletes. This is really common actually in female endurance athletes, especially runners, where weight is such an important part of the sport, right? You know, it's, you're, you're punished a lot in terms of performance for extra weight, the same as true in cycling, not as true in swimming. So, when you look at high end female endurance athletes, we care a lot about, you know, poor nutritional state, which can lead to a very low BMI, low body fat percent, and eventually estrogen deficiency. So, these interrelated conditions of the sort of low bone health hormone dysfunction and low BMI are kind of collectively known as the female athlete triad. So, that's another big risk factor, low BMI in general. So, anything below about 18 or 19. And then the other thing we look at is people who have had high exposure to drugs that affect bone metabolism. And I think the most common of these that we see is corticosteroids. Now, that's not always systemic corticosteroids, you know, it's not always people that have had to take lots of steroids for nois. It can also be inhaled corticosteroids. And we see this actually in a number of patients who had significant asthma as children and used a lot of inhaled corticosteroids. So, those are, that's not an exhaustive list, but that's a pretty good list to sort of get you thinking about who is at high risk here. Yeah. And you mentioned it a little bit at the end there and we did receive a lot of questions on it, which are around the various drugs that may impair bone deposition. So, anything more you want to say. I know you mentioned a few of them there, but anything you want to double click on. I think the last big risk factor we look for and we just saw a patient recently who didn't have any other risk factors except for the fact that they have a 20 pack your smokestory that is more than 15 years old. So, you barely think of this person as a former smoker because they've been so long without smoking, but you know, they did smoke for 20 years prior to quitting. And that is an independent risk factor for low BMD, which in this case, this patient had very low BMD, and we had to actually refer them to an endocrinologist. Do you see anything with patients? Because you know, we know that BMD, the 8 to 20 is such a big age range. And if you have someone who is smoking kind of in that age range, while BMD or density is really going up, do you see it become kind of even worse? Yeah, that's a great question Nick. So, I didn't know this until again, we got thinking about this study, but they're actually data looking at never smokers, early smokers and late smokers. Early smokers were defined as people who started smoking before the age of 16 and late smokers well, it's hard to believe late is considered after 16. But the early smokers were far more impacted. So when you look at these people later in life, the never smokers, not surprisingly, had the best bone density. The early smokers had the worst and the late smokers were in the middle. I don't know the stats about teenage smoking today. I kind of assumed it was on the decline, but this would certainly be yet another reason to avoid smoking at a young age. Even if that person goes on to stop at the age of 20. And even if their risk of lung cancer becomes relatively moot by the time they're 50, they may still pay a price for that with bone mineral density throughout their entire life. On the topic of what you talked about the second ago, we also did receive a lot of questions around various drugs that could impair bone deposition. You mentioned a few of them earlier, but is there anything you want to double click on there? So again, cortical steroids, I think have to be considered the first and most important one of these drugs you want to be considered about. And they do a couple of things, right? So they kind of impair the mineralization of bone by favoring bone reabsorption during the early phase. And then they kind of inhibit calcium absorption in the gut. This area comes up over and over again. Anything that impairs calcium absorption is going to be problematic. And it really doesn't need to be mega doses of steroids. People who are familiar with long-term use of steroids might recognize that a dose of prednisone of 5 milligrams a day is not enormous. A prednisone dose of 5 milligrams a day is, I think it's actually still up kind of big dose, because it's about the aphysiologic equivalent of how much cortisol a person makes. But nevertheless, that amount is associated with significant reductions in bone mineral density and increased risk fracture within as little as 3 to 6 months of initiation. Again, just as we saw in the figure that showed how women are primarily losing a tribacular bone, it's the same here with cortisol. So that doesn't mean you should never take corticosteroids. There are lots of conditions where corticosteroids are going to save your life. It means you have to be aware of these things and you're going to have to work a lot harder to counter their effects. And we'll talk about some of those things. Another class of drugs that I get asked about a lot is proton pump inhibitors, PPIs. And I would say the data here are less clear. So there are studies that have assessed the relationship between PPIs and they do show an increase in osteoporotic fracture. The most likely mechanism suggested is again intestinal calcium absorption. So anything that interrupts that, which then goes on to interrupt osteoclast formation and bone remodeling. But I want to be clear that this is not nearly as well understood as the case is for corticosteroids. So there are a number of observational studies that show an increase in the risk of fracture. But then we look at large meta analyses that don't find a statistically significant decline in BMD with PPIs. So again, I think you just have to be smart about this. There are lots of reasons we're going to put patients on PPIs. If a patient has significant reflux that is not amenable to other treatments, we're going to put them on a PPIs. If a patient has barracks a suffigus, we're putting them on a PPIs. It's non-negotiable. So it just means that we have to be thoughtful about is the drug really indicated? And if it is, what else can we do to reduce the risk down the line? I think the final class of drugs that tend to have a similar association, although probably from a different mechanism are some of the anti-epileptic drugs. And one in particular, which is phenatone. So a super common anti-seizure drug. Here, I think the mechanism might have more to do with the liver inducing an enzyme called cytokrome P450 that leads to increased catabolism of vitamin D. And that, of course, you'll may recall, will lead to decreased absorption of calcium in the gut. I don't know if anybody's done a study, but it seems to me that a no-brainer study would be taking patients on phenatone and supplementing them with lots of vitamin D to see if you can overcome that. But again, you know, phenatone is a common drug within the world of anti-seizure meds, but in the big picture, nowhere near as common as corticosterids and proton pump inhibitors. So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. I think we made a lot of the ground work that we need to do. And this next section will get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have somEQuestions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health. And we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, is there anything in particular any advice you would have for people who have kids on those very important ages, you know, that eight to 20 on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health? Yeah, I think this is very important. You know, when I stop to think about all of the things that, you know, a parents got on their plate to try to help their kids with during this relatively narrow window that your kids are in your house and and therefore somewhat amenable to your influence. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular being very active in things that load bones. So one of the things that was a bit surprising to me was that running didn't have a greater impact on BMD. So in a moment we'll pull up that figure neck that I think is pretty interesting that shows all of the different sports and how they impact BMD. Now I'm going to posit that running one has a confounder in there because if you think about it running puts a lot of force on muscles, right? IMean, especially when you think about the hips which are two of the three bones that are attached to muscles that feel experienced that experience great force during running. So why is it that running where you're potentially at least at the knees experiencing eight times your body weight with each impact? Why wouldn't that do more? And I've been thinking about this for some time and maybe somebody knows the answer but my suspicion is that the confounder here is body weight and BMI, right? And that when you talk about elite runners and usually these are studied in elite runners, they're very weight conscious, right? Running is running in cycling or the ultimate strength to weight ratio sports. And I do wonder if we're seeing basically mal-nourished runners. And what do IMean by that? Basically people that are BMI is too low, it might be perfect for being a runner but it's too low for optimizing bone mineral density. So I guess this is a long-winded way of saying running might not be enough. So obviously running is a great thing to do and it happens with a lot of benefit but you probably want to make sure that your kids, both boys and girls are doing other sports that involve more power. So probably things that involve jumping and actually lifting heavy things. This is kind of a great plug for rocking. You know, I've talked mentioned Michael Easter briefly at the outset. IMean one of the things that Michael writes about in his book the comfort crisis is the importance of just walking with heavy stuff. So either doing a farmer's carry doing a rock which I love, you know, I try to rock five days a week. So it's, you know, backpack with heavy weight in it and just walking around and always trying to find a hill to walk up and down, kind of loading myself without the knee joints being susceptible to that. So going back to the kids, I think we just want to make sure BMI is not too low. Cornbone dysfunction is not there. Energy availability is there. Body fats not too low. All of those things that tend to occur. Obviously smoking, you know, we obviously want to make sure nobody's smoking but as we just talked about, kids beneath the age of 16 are uniquely susceptible to this. So again, it's pretty straightforward. Lots of nutrition, lots of physical activity and specifically physical activity that builds muscular strength. And because I think that's going to apply the greatest force to the bone and the bones as we talked about our mechanical sensory entities that are going to remodel in proportion to how much mechanical stress they're under. So again, lifting heavy stuff matters and that doesn't mean that 12 year olds need to be deadlifting three times their body weight, but we also don't want to shy away from kids lifting things. Yeah, when you were talking there about the running, I don't think it came up on the Ryan Hall podcast but it would have been really fascinating if he ever had a dexis scan when he was in peak running shape to compare to his current body type just with all the muscle he put on just to see the difference in his BMD. You know, that's such a good question. I'm going to email Ryan as soon as we're done and ask him because you got to think at his level being one of the best runners in the in the world that they had a dexis scan of him at the time and yeah, I'd love to know what his, what his BMD was, you know, when he was 28 versus what it is today. That's a great question. Thanks for bringing that up. Yeah. So the next set of questions fit perfectly with where we're going which is, you know, a lot of questions on what is physical activity have to do with bone health. You know, you kind of hinted at it. We got a lot of questions on other certain types of physical activities that is better for bone health and not. We talked a little bit about it just now with kids but as people who are adults are also thinking about this, what would you say to them? Well, again, I just want to go back to what it is about muscles that have such an impact on bones and this is, this is not always clear, right? So the more force that a muscle is applying to a bone which is directly related to how much force you're trying to put on the muscle, you know, picking something up, contracting a muscle under an enormous external load. And by the way, I think that can be isometric. I don't think that has to be isotonic. In other words, I don't even think the muscle has to change in length necessarily for that force to be experienced. So there are lots of safe ways to do this. You're applying force to the receptors there. Those receptors are trenslating that tension into signals that say lay down more bone. Okay. So, you know, we look through some of the literature on this and I kind of tell you, this is one of those things where I was kind of surprised. I saw some things that I just didn't expect to see. I already mentioned one of them, right? I kind of thought running was going to be really great. It turned out that studies looking at resistance trening found them to be significantly better at retaining BMD when compared to anything erobic, you know, running swimming cycling and even impact things like pure jumping. So power lifting turned out to be more effective than just regular strength trening in maintaining BMD in postmenopausal women. So think about that for a second. When we talk about power lifting as a sport, we're talking about and I've seen women do this at all ages. We're talking about someone doing a squat, a deadlift, and a bench press. In the squat, and the deadlift, that is lumbar spine, that is hip. IMean, that is really stressing the lower body. More than just going into the gym and lifting. Okay. And then we talk about high force impacts sports such as football and MMA, we're associated with the highest BMD values. Now, again, I know you do MMA at least vis-a-vis jujitsu. So you can probably speak to this more about why it's exhausting. I was having dinner with Joe Rogan the other day and we actually talked about this because you know, such a big part of his life and I know nothing about it because he made a comment that nothing exhausts him more than his jujitsu workouts. And you know, Joe does so many things. I was kind of surprised that he said that that is the single most exhausting thing he does. But I'm guessing you can relate to this. Yeah. IMean, there's there is nothing more tiring than that, especially on hard rolls. And I don't mean, I don't know the physiology behind it, but it's you just have to go so hard. Your muscles are pushing pulling. Like, there's some like your mind is also going. So it's not like you can zone out. But there'll be days where you have really, really hard rolls and you just finish and you just kind of lay there and heep a sweat for about five minutes before you can do it. You know, I do get questions people who know you and know me there that I was like, I'm a surprise Peter doesn't do jujitsu because it seems like something you would love. I think if it wasn't for the injury aspect of it, because there is that is the huge concern. It's not really the most longevity friendly activity you can do. But I think a younger you would have been a killer out there. You would have loved it. Yeah, it's so funny. I think I just can't count the number of friends I have that are so obsessed with jujitsu and have been doing it for years. It's not like, IMean, even in high school, one of my closest friends who was a really good wrestler when I was a boxer. He was the first person I ever knew who did this. This was back when you were just starting to hear about the graces. We're talking early 90s. At least that was the first time I ever heard of the gracy brothers from him. It's probably like two jujitsu gyms in Toronto and he used to tren in this stuff. But yeah, I've had so many friends that have done this and it looks incredible, but it doesn't appeal to me on any way, shape or form. But that's another story. So on the flip side of that, these low weight bearing, low impact things like walking swimming cycling don't really seem to do a lot to improve BMD. Again, I don't know the studies, it hasn't been done, but my suspicion is that when you make those things a little bit harder, especially with walking with a rucksack and walking uphill, you're going to apply more stren, also walking downhill. So again, when I'm rocking, I'm always trying to find the maximum elevation change. And I actually, you know, the walking uphill is harder cardio, but the walking downhill puts more stren on the muscle. And again, the take home point here is the more this strens your muscles, the better this is for your bones. Yeah, I'm going to pull up that figure as well that you mentioned metrics and colors and graphs for people to see this too. Yeah, this is this is an interesting figure. So on the on the left here, you're just looking at the absolute BMDs. You may also recall just where these units sit, right? So all of these athletes have very high BMDs compared to, you know, what we were looking at is the average man in the average woman. We don't have to flip back to that, but I just unfamiliar with the numbers. 1.2 grams per centimeter squared was considered a really good BMD for a middle-aged man or woman. Do you remember how we've seen that that number 1.2 is pretty common, right? Yeah. Okay. So when you're looking at this, just to put in perspective, even the swimmers, or, you know, the resistance trening females and females are tend to be a little bit lower than men, they still have excellent BMDs. So I, you know, we do not want to be suggesting that some sports are bad for BMD. That's not the take home message here. The take home message here is if you really have to juice it, what do you want to be doing? Again, even the distance runners here, all of them. So you're in the brown one, in the black one, you know, you have to look at which one's separate men versus women, right? So for example, like red versus green is showing you the difference between male and female resistance trening, whereas all the swimmers, all the distance runners, all the track and field athletes are in the same bucket. Now again, compare distance the track and field, what's the difference? Track and field, more power, right? A sprinter has more force being applied than a distance runner. What I find amazing is the MMA and the football, like, just staggering, right? Now, I'm going to say something else that's kind of unpopular. Not really sure playing college football is a great strategy for increasing your BMD when it comes with so many other injuries, not to mention all the head trauma. So the purpose of this analysis is not to say, you got to go be a college football player. No, it's to just give you a sense of what types of forces are involved in generating higher BMD. And I think most people who have even watched a football game can appreciate the kind of forces that those athletes are experiencing. And as you talked about with MMA, you know, incredibly strong forces apply to cross muscles trensmitted to bones. Yeah. No, yeah. Good for the bones, bad for the brain. Right. So what's the sweet spot here? To me, the sweet spot is resistance trening, right? All of these things come with risk if you don't do them correctly. IMean, hell, if you don't swim correctly, you're going to tear your shoulders apart. So we just have to think about this through a risk reward lens. MMA, I don't know anything about it, but I'm guessing it can be done safely. I'm guessing there were ways to do it and not be, you know, not put yourself at risk to tear your meniscus or tear your shoulder or, you know, have a lumbar spine disc blow up because you get folded into a, you know, half like a pretzel. You can hurt yourself resistance trening, but also you cannot. So if you're going to take one thing away from this, just notice that walking isn't on here. And gardening is not on here. And golf is not on here. So I just want people to understand that if they're in the business of trying to increase their BMD, they have to get wicked forces on their muscles. I feel like you didn't have to do golf like that. I feel like, I don't know. I just, I'm making enemies like non, I'm just, I'm just killing myself today here. I know, I feel like that has a potential to be the most thing that we get feedback for. It's like, you can insult the different organizations. But once you talk about golf like that, I'm not saying don't play golf. Look, race car driving is not on here. Okay. Our true reason not on here. My favorite things in the world aren't on here. Let's do that. All right. Is that, is that an appropriate, you know, me, a culpa? Like the things I love doing are not on here. So I just don't want to be diluted into thinking that all that time I'm in a race car, I'm increasing my BMD. It's not enough. You know? Yeah. That's a BMD gym. Got to be hitting it. That's a fair try. I'll be talking a little bit about early on the danger of low BMI or extremely low BMI for bumming or density. And then everything we just talked about on lifting weights, that's going to, you know, the more muscle you put on, you're potentially going to go up and wait. What about people who are overweight and they lose body weight? Does that have an impact on their BMD? It does. And this is actually super interesting stuff. So we know, for example, that when people lose significant amounts of weight, they're usually losing lean tissue as well. It's one of the trade-offs. And in some people, it's a totally reasonable trade-off. You know, you see somebody who's already got an appendicular lean mass index at the 90th percentile and their fat mass index at the you know, 99th percentile, you know, you're going to have them lift like crazy during weight loss, because you want to keep that lean mass up. Maybe it falls to 70th or 80th percentile. Well, you try to get fat mass index down to 60th or 70th percentile. So what about the impact on BMD? Well, there's no question that the correlation between weight loss and a decrease in BMD, exactly what we don't want to see in the obese and in particular in the elderly is very strong. But it turns out that there are two different strategies for how you can go about losing weight and the strategy may impact the outcome. Now, we know that any time you lose weight, there has to be a caloric deficit. You can't lose weight without a change in an stored energy. Losing weight is changing stored energy, stored energy requires caloric imbalance. But when you look at data for people who have lost weight purely through nutritional manipulations, IE purely through manners of reducing caloric intake. And you can do this a lot of ways, right? You can just directly and generally reduce calories. You can do it through time restricted feeding. You can do it through dietary restriction, meaning restricting various elements within the diet. Those people tend to lose bone mineral density. When you look at people who are doing it in combination with significant exercise, they actually tend to gain bone mineral density. So in other words, you can have people losing this same amount of weight. Some of them are losing BMD. Some of them are slightly gaining it. So what could be going on there? It's been suggested that the BMD reduction due to weight loss may be caused less by the mechanical loading of bones and more by a change in some of the adiposteryve factors like leptin and adipinectin and other hormones that move around when weight loss changes. So leptin goes down, adipinectin goes down. Obviously, we talked about the fact that especially in men when they lose weight, but potentially in women too, we see estrogen going down. So it could be that when you're loading the muscles and therefore trensmitting that load to bones, you're offsetting some of that. Now again, the study that I'm citing is relatively small and the group that was using exercise as their primary tool to lose weight didn't losEQuite as much weight. So even when that's corrected for, it could be a little bit of a confounder. But I would just say intuitively this makes sense and more importantly, from a longevity standpoint, it makes sense. IMean exercise, you've heard me say this a hundred times, it's the single most important tool we have anyway. So why wouldn't we employ it as an important part of a weight loss strategy? If this is just one of the other bonuses that comes with it, which is an ability to minimize the BMD loss that is almost inevitable with weight loss. Yeah, super interesting. And kind of on that, realm moving from exercise to nutrition and supplements, we do get a lot of questions on how nutrition supplements can impact BMD. One of the first kind of questions we got was what are some essential nutrients that are important for optimizing bone deposition that people should think about? Yeah, so if you don't mind, pull up figure 12 because I think one of our analysts put this together and I think it's a great way to lay all of this out. I think there were the big three you want to think about. So there were other things that matter, protein matters, total calories matter, all of those things other matter, but when we think about kind of the micronutrients side, the big three are calcium, vitamin D, and when I say vitamin D, IMean D3 and magnesium. So in the first column here, you can see the required daily amounts. And I consider this a minimum, right? So this is, you know, this would be like a letter grade C, right? So you might want to think about having a B or an A. So calcium, about a thousand to 1200 milligrams daily, vitamin D, 800 to 1000 IU daily, and magnesium 300 to 500 milligrams daily. Now these can be supplemented. So if you can't get this in food, if you're not sufficiently getting this, either through sunlight in the case of vitamin D in food, calcium carbonate, calcium, citrate, or reasonable options in the magnesium school, you know, it really depends on what your gut can tolerate, right? So magnesium citrate, glycinate, and oxide are fantastic if you're looking for a little speed up of the vowel. If you aren't, you want magnesium carbonate. It's also worth noting magnesium carbonate more fully absorbed than mag oxide citrate or glycinate, which is actually why those three help with vowel regularity. So personally, I like to mix them up. I'm sort of using three forms of magnesium. So I'm supplementing with mag carbonate in the mornings. I use mag oxide at night, and I also use a bit of mag glycinate with L3 and 8 as well. So, you know, I'm routinely hitting about a gram of magnesium supplemental. And then the final column here is you can sort of see the foods where these things reside. And you can see why I believe most people are magnesium deficient. You know, it's pretty hard. I think to get 500 grams predictably of absorbed magnesium every single day. And by the way, I think that's a real minimum, right? IMean, I think a gram is really where you want to be. It's you've got to, you've got to do a little bit of work to make sure you're getting that from your nutrition. The same, I think calcium's a bit easier to get if you consume dairy, but you know, look, a lot of plant-based people aren't going to eat dairy. They have to sort of look to other things. And some of those other things, I don't think you really want to be eating a bunch of, like look at how high figs are, dried figs. A cup of those is 300 milligrams of calcium. So that's, you know, a quarter of your daily minimum amount. But, you know, I don't know that I want to be in a cup of dried figs every day for other reasons. I love tofu, so, you know, but I'm not eating it every day. So, again, I think this is something we need to be paying reasonable attention to. Both from a dietary standpoint, and then for a number of us also from a supplementary standpoint. So Peter, we kind of talked about supplements there along with nutrition, but what about farm or drugs? We did receivEQuestions on one of the options, one of the benefits, one of the trade-offs, which people be thinking about there as they explore their options. Yes, so drugs are typically last line of defense, and just to give you a sense of how last line of defense that is, we personally in our practice do not prescribe these drugs. And the reason for that is we're just not expert enough to do it. Like I don't, you know, I like to send people to experts when something is out of our hands. So, you know, for example, we're, we completely run the gamut of all lipid lowering drugs because we have great expertise in that. When it comes to this class of drugs, we refer patients out who need them to endocrinologists. But, you know, basically, I think there's sort of three big classes, but the lion's share is one class, which are the best phosphonates. So, this is a class of drug that's strengthened bones by basically slowing the rate at which the osteoclasts remove bone. Remember osteoblast be for build, class being the opposite, that's why I don't, they just remove it, right? So, these kind of exist into subtypes, nitrogen containing versus non-nitrogen containing, but, you know, the lion's share of these, you know, there's kind of three big brands, or three big versions of these. So, the nitrogen containing ones are the much more common one. I would say people are probably familiar with some of these. So, Boniva, you know, Phosimax, Actanel, those are the big ones. And the studies are pretty clear, like these things work, right? They increase BMD by about 4 to 6% in the critical areas that matter, the femoral neck, the hip, the lumbar spine, and they reduce the risk of fractures. So, the drawback here is, you know, they're typically not used for, you know, in definite periods of time, so they're kind of discontinued after about five years. And the evidence suggests that that that might not increase the risk of fracture going forward. So, you know, there may be some might be that you, you, you, you, you get the value during that five-year window, you rebuild the bone and then you maintain some of that value. The other two classes of drugs here, personally, I don't have a lot of experience with. I haven't even seen my patients be prescribed these, but one of them are monoclonal antibodies in the other is just synthetic, a parathyroid hormone. So, I don't know a lot about those too, to be honest with you, but we do have some data, I think here. We have a pretty good meta-analysis that sort of shows the efficacy. I think it's wide-nine, Nick. Perfect. Got it. Yeah, so you're looking at the classes of drugs. Okay, so let me just, you know, help people read this a little bit. And it sort of first one, the first drug there on each of the list, that's synthetic, p-t-h. Anytime you see an a-b on something, at the end of it, that's the monoclonal antibody, the other drugs that end in a-t-e, those are all the best phosphonates and then the rest are pretty straightforward. Kelsey and vitamin D, et cetera. So, if you go over to the right, you're looking at odds ratios. Remember, anything that crosses that is on or crossing the unity line of one means it's not significant. And then anything that's to the left of that line if the confidence interval doesn't cross, the one is significant. So, what you can see here is nothing that's on this list is increasing the risk of fractures, about two thirds of these things, in their various formats are reducing the risk of fracture for either hip fractures, for tea-brill fractures or non-vertibial fractures. And for people who are looking at this and aren't familiar with this type of graph, when you say to the left of one, it's not the whole black bar, you're looking at the little white box, right? No, so the whole black line has to be to the left of one for it to be significant. The black line is your confidence interval. So, for example, let's look at the very first one. And you'll notice that the little white line is way to the left, right? In fact, it's like, you know, probably 0.4 or something. In fact, if you go and look, you can see it tells you it's 0.42. So, that's huge, right? That's like a 58% risk reduction. So, you think that's got to be great. But I can tell you right now, it doesn't matter, because the confidence interval is so wide that it crosses one. That tells me without looking at anything that the p-value is greater than 0.05 and the confidence interval crosses unity. So, when you look over, sure enough, lower limit 0.1, upper limit 1.82 p-value 0.24. Yeah, got it. Okay. Let's pick a winner. Let's go to down from there. Actually, these p-values are so small. They're less than 0.001. But again, so the one beneath that has a very similar little white dot. It's 0.45. So, it's not quite as low, but it's a 55% reduction. But I know it's going to be significant because the confidence interval doesn't cross one. And sure enough, it doesn't. It's 0.27 to 0.68. And the p-value is probably 0.00. It's less than 0.004. They only just show them to two significant figures here. Yeah. And IMean, again, for people interested in diving deeper into that, that AMA, UN Bob did on understanding studies and studying studies, dives way more into that. So, Peter, one of the things we haven't really talked about yet is what happens in like something like space or low gravity environments? What happens to your bones if you truly aren't using them? This is obviously not a subject that is relevant to a lot of people directly, but I think indirectly, it's relevant to a lot of people. So, this is space is just the most extreme version of what we would call disuse osteopeenia. So, as the name suggests, disuse osteopeenia occurs when bones are chronically unloaded, leaving to a very unfavorable combination of high-bone resourption and low-bone formation. So, it's the same thing that's happening with the osteopeenia from aging. It's just much more accelerated and much more extreme. So, again, the most extreme version of this is astronauts. And I don't know much about what they do in space, but I suspect that they go out of their way to figure out ways to load astronauts in space. So, you know, they don't have to deal with this in its highest form. But I think for most people where this is relevant is bed rest. So, lots of people have to undergo bed rest for all sorts of reasons. Right? Pregnant women often are placed on bed rest if they are experiencing fetal retardation. And IMean that not cognitively but grow three-tardation. Right? So, if in a third trimester, the fetus is in growing at the rate that is expected, not uncommon that the OB will ask the mother to gradually reduce her impact until more and more energy can be reserved for the fetus. You can also see, you know, bed rest being necessary for various types of injuries. Of course, we know today that we don't want to rest people nearly as much as we used to. IMean, there was a day 50 years ago when if somebody hurt their back, they were put on two weeks of strict bed rest. Today, we know that that's absolutely the last thing you want to do. So, bone law student, you know, disuse osteopeenia is incremental and it's progressive with time and it occurs more rapidly as you would guess in the trabecular bone than in the cortical bones. This is the, this is the, the tren we've seen over and over again. And frankly, it can be about 2% per month in microgravity partial paralysis, which I should have mentioned as well, right? So, paralysis based injuries or immobilization with injury. And in the most extreme setting with complete paralysis, it can be up to 7% per month. So, Peter, for people who are experiencing, like that type of immobility, is there anything in particular that they should be thinking about or they can do to kind of help with the BMD concern? Yeah, the first would be any form of PT that can actively load muscles. So, I don't know if there's, I actually don't know how much data exists on this, but that's one of the things that I think is interesting about cyclic BFR. And that's why the minute I was out of surgery, I got permission from my surgeon to put my, you know, catsucuffs on my arm and just start cycling the BFR. I wanted to put little bits of stress on that bicep just to have it moving. And again, keeping mine, I was very fortunate. I did not have a bicep tendon repair. And if I did, I would not have been allowed to do that. But, you know, I had to keep my arm completely immobilized, but I was still able to get sort of compression on the bicep. And, you know, basically, if you, let's say you're bedridden with a certain injury, there are still other muscles in your body that don't pertain to that injury that can still be moved and put under load. And even if you're doing these things isometrically, right? So a person is holding you and you're resisting against them without actually moving in the bed that's important. Now, there was a super interesting mouse study that we found that used a bicep phosphinate to inhibit the osteoclastic bone resorption in a mouse model where the mice were given bachelotoxin to basically prevent them from moving. I think one part of their leg. So if you, I think, I think we have this figure here as well. Yeah, it's figure 10. Yeah. So what you're looking at here is in the, the first bar on the left is just sort of the baseline and then you have control mice in black and then in white, you have what happens to the animal that we're just given bachelotoxin. So these were the animals that were basically immobilized because the, you know, bachelotoxin, of course, paralyzes their legs. And then the bachelotoxin plus the bicep phosphinate on the right. And I think there's a pretty profound result, right? You're looking at this in the femoral neck and in the middle of the upper part of the femoral bone. Below the neck and you can see that the bicep phosphinate plus the immobility really looks no different from the control. And it's a, you know, clear contrast to how the untreated animal looks. So, you know, look, these are 16 week old female mice. You know, is that's going to be true in humans? I have no idea, but I find this type of research very interesting and frankly, I hope more people are doing this type of research because I think immobility is a huge problem with everybody. But once you start to deal with an aging population, it becomes more significant. How many times have we talked about that study where, you know, a group of 65 year olds, I believe were immobilized for two weeks and lost. If I'm not mistaken, something of the neighborhood of abouT4 pounds of lean mass in two weeks. And that, you know, we talked about that through the lens of how much you lose lean mass. But think about what that's doing to be MD and think about how long people are immobilized beyond two weeks, especially as the older. I can't remember off hand, but I know you and in you go in the second podcast also talk about lactate as a relates to immobility for people on bed rest or in the ICU as well. We'll link to it in the show notes, but you also had a conversation about the importance of, you know, people in the hospital just moving for the lactate level. So we've seen it over and over across a lot of podcasts. Well, IMean, that was a pretty exhaustive tour of all things bone. But I don't know, I think this is super important stuff. I know it's not that sexy. I know that, you know, you're not going to see, you're not going to see too many Twitter wars about BMD. Although I did probably provide enough substrate for someone to get upset about something I said today, whether it be my position on golf, not being the perfect BMD boosting sport or my recommendations for earlier screening on BMD. And I think there was something else I said that will draw the eye or with critics. But yeah, we just better hope that one of those organizations doesn't sponsor and add in golf digest because then we'll just get it from all fronts. But no, IMean, I think it was good. And I think hopefully it answered a lot of questions. Again, we compiled thesEQuestions. We've gotten them a lot and we've never kind of tackled it at this level and kind of like what we did with muscle and looking at the importance of muscle strength, muscle mass and kind of what improves there and then looking on the other side of the bones too. So hopefully people enjoyed it until the next AMA will say it's good. Hopefully you don't stay up too late watching Ozark new season tonight. I don't get to even start it tonight. How do you have that soft control? No, Jill and Olivia are out of town for a volleyball tournament. So I'm so low with the boys this weekend and Jill would kill me if I started it without her. So yeah, something tells me you won't have a lot of solo time solo with two boys either. So you'll probably have your hands busy. All right. We'll get luck with that. Thanks, man. All right. Let's see. Thank you for listening to this week's episode of The Drive. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. And in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival hours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics of special interest to our members. They'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs, the spiel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, thEQualities, an additional member only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine nursing or other professional healthcare services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Near-death experiences： the psychological impact of surviving against overwhelming odds [9S7tInHCSRU].txt ===

Is there a sense of, I don't know what the right word is, it's not gratitude, that's a bit glib. Is there a sense of awe in that or is there a sense of, do you believe there's meaning in that or do you believe that there's no meaning in that and that it's just as fortunate, it's just as much luck as the world is full of bad luck, right? If I think of all the, you know, I'm much more familiar as I'm sure you and many people listening are, we're much more familiar with the opposite, right? It's like the person who did everything right and they just happened to get hit by some drunk idiot who ran a red light and there was, you know, virtually nothing they could have done to prevent it. It's purely a lightning strike. And how often does bad luck take a life just as remarkable luck saved a life? Do you process it like that at all? Yeah, I do, IMean, we all are sort of looking for meaning in the universe and, you know, nothing, you know, there are no coincidences and everything happens for a reason and all those sort of like narratives that we put on, I think a fairly random universe and, IMean, random but for the laws of physics, but in terms of the events of our life, like so, I was in an American outpost and Afghanistan and I was shocked to feel some sand flick into the side of my face, you know, bullets travel faster than sound, right? And the outpost would get attacked from about 500 meters out, which is quite a long shot for an AK-47 or a PKM and, and by the time those bullets arrived, the bullets arrived way before the sound does, right? So some sand flick into the side of my face, I just had time to think, what was that? I was standing against some sandbags. What was that? And then I heard, and I was, so that was the first verse of an hour-long firefight and the bullets had to have hit with me and an inch or two from my forehead, right? In my opinion, utterly random, right? I was blown up by an IED, it went off under the engine block instead of under us, the guy with the Clay, the Taliban guy with the clacker and the ravine, misted by a second, a second, right? But the whole rest of my life unfolded because of that, it's contained in that second, right, in some ways, and because we were spared. And so at one point I was at a reading early early on, you know, like, we were right when the book came out and a guy raised his hand at the end, he was quite agitated and he said, he said, I'm Christian, and you, you were alive because of God's grace and you have to come to Jesus and understand that it was only God's grace that saved you. And I said to him, you know, one of my best friends, my brother, my colleague, Tim Hutherington was killed in combat in Libya on an assignment I was supposed to be on. His death was what got me out of war reporting and then had a family, et cetera. And, you know, he, he bled out also, right? And then from a moon in his groin and but he was in a war zone and they couldn't save him. And so I said to the guy, I say, you know, my problem with that way of thinking that there's some purpose here, some meaning here, is why me, right? Like why me and not Tim? For that matter, why me and not some nine-year-old cancer? I'm sorry. Like, and if God is running a random lottery for his grace, I don't want any part of it, right? I think that the universe is run and, you know, it unfolds in random ways and I just got super, super lucky. But that, the fact that I got that lucky makes me profoundly grateful and is also incredibly depressing to me. And for some reason, for reasons that I can't quite understand, but I just sort of think about what was statistically supposed to happen by a factor of maybe 10 to 1 or something and or more. Probably more. Probably more. Right. And have you spoken with others? I'm just very curious about that Sebastian. I think the gratitude makes a lot of sense to me and I don't know how I would feel in your situation. So this is curiosity and not certainly not judgment. I'm curious though, if you've spoken with others who have survived, you know, similar experiences. I think in my friend Rick Elias, I should introduce you guys. So Rick was on that US airways flight that had to emergency land in the Hudson. Right. So again, you've got this guy, you know, Captain Salonberger who, like, you know, he's the one out of, you know, the dumprosky of, right? That's exactly right. He's the one out of 50 guys that could have actually make the right decision with enough time to spare and then carried it out. And again, I, that's, he wasn't supposed to live, right? And I'm just, I've never asked him this question. And I, but I'm, you know, this would be an interesting topic is how many other people on this planet who are alive only because of monumental luck. What is the balance between the gratitude and the heaviness of that that that that tips into sort of disthymia? You know, if I didn't have children, I think it would be a psychologically a little easier. But what it would have left them with with such a legacy of pain and absence and my poor wife that that made it sort of harder. And so every, the things that console, what would have consoled me like holding my daughter, like I survived and here I'm holding my daughter and my lap. But I immediately think, oh, but this wasn't supposed to happen. Right? She's supposed to be grieving right now. By odds of 101, she should, you know, like, and it's a miracle and then I would just spin out into what could have happened. And I eventually talked to her shrink, right? IMean, my wife was like, honey, you're getting a little hard to live with. Can you seek help? And it was a great thing to do and it really, really helped me. And my, my therapist was basically she was like, listen, if you keep telling yourself this narrative, they almost died. You're never going to escape this incredible anxiety and panic disorder and depression that you work yourself into. You have to stop telling yourself this story. She was absolutely right. And apparently this sort of negative storytelling is very, very common in people who almost died. And, and, and, and the, the sequence on really, really profound anxiety and fear, paramedical paranoia. It's going to happen again, any moment I'm going to bleed out again. You know, like that sort of paranoia. And then that finally eased off and I wound up in this like unbelievable depression. And I've never depressed it by life, right? And I'm not a particularly anxious person. And I was amazed at how debilitating depression was. And I finally got it because I've had friends who have struggled with depression. I lost a friend to suicide. And suddenly I was like, oh, this is what it's, what they're talking about. Like, why bother going through the rest of your life? Like that kind of thought, like, I had no idea. Like, it was a really open to door to like, oh, I had no idea. That's what when people say depression, this is what they're talking about. And, um, you know, it was quite it was quite frightening. One of the problems, so I had trouble, I know we have to get back to the nurse, who just, which is part of this problem, right? This reality problem that I had. I was having trouble understanding being confident about what reality was and what it wasn't. And part of that stem from this, um, somewhat clairvoyant dream that I had. So, um, I, and I just have to reiterate, I'm really not a spiritual mystical or bewooker person. I'm really not, right? Which is why this stuff unsettling me so much, much more your father than your mother, much more, right?

=== FILE: Nicotine vs. Tobacco： Is Nicotine Dangerous on Its Own？ ｜ Peter Attia [Rlx7clXetTI].txt ===

I would say that clearly the biggest risk of pure nicotine, and now I'm just talking about it through the lens of synthetically acquired nicotine, so you're getting rid of all the tobacco related processing, is in its addictive nature. And Magnumus take about it, nicotine is highly addictive. There are some other areas where depending on the dose, there may actually be a harm. Again, I think this is very important to understand. There are some mechanistic insights that suggest a negative impact on the endothelium, and it's certainly plausible that anything that negatively impacts the endothelium could increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But these are not studies that have been, these are not large studies, these are not studies that have been done in humans, and these are extrapolations typically from other animal models. So I guess we should probably just maybe spend a minute talking about nicotine again. And again, I go into, if people want more detail on this, I think it's covered four years ago. But nicotine activates, so nicotine is a molecule, and it activates something called the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Now, these receptors are not just in the brain, where we most frequently talk about them, but they can actually exist throughout the body. And if you look at certain mouse models and rodent models, such as other rodents like rats, it's been demonstrated that high doses of nicotine can actually increase tumor growth and even foster metastases, in addition to increasing atheroscerotic plaques. Now, that sounds pretty devastating. I just want to always point out, whenever we're talking about these rodent models, there's lots of daylight typically between what happens in that model, and what happens in humans. And I think it's important to kind of look at other ways to triangulate upon the answer. So we'll link to those studies in the show notes. But the closest thing that we could find in humans was 2024 Mendelian randomization. I know we talk about these a lot, but I always think it's worth explaining what an MR is. So a Mendelian randomization says, let's look at genes in the population, which we can assume are randomly assorted. That's the randomization part. And let's ask thEQuestion, will these genes be a proxy for a behavior that I want to study? Or something that I want to study, where I can now use effectively observational tools to see if there's a difference? So again, one example is Mendelian randomization consistently shows that LDL cholesterol is causally associated with heart disease. Why? Because LDL cholesterol is highly genetic, and you can look across a population and see different levels of LDL, even in people who are, you know, otherwise healthy, and you can examine the cardiovascular outcomes of these people, which would be the dependent variable, and that's how you could infer causality. By extension, by the way, HDL cholesterol turns out to be not causally related in the inverse. Nevertheless, so if you look at this Mendelian randomization, they wanted to look at the relationship of nicotine by itself on compromised lung function, lung cancer, COPD, CH, AACBD, et cetera. Okay. So the only, so I want to be clear, I don't think this was the world's best MR. I think it was clever, though. So what did they look at? Because what genes would you try to parse out to understand how much tobacco someone is consuming, which is what you actually want to be able to do? So what they looked at was they looked at genes that spoke to nicotine metabolism. And so just as caffeine, we've talked about this on the past, caffeine, metabolism is highly genetic, right? So people like me are wickedly fast at metabolizing caffeine, and therefore I seem to be able to drink it later in the day without a negative impact. Someone who's a very slow metabolizer is going to feel it more. Well, similarly with nicotine, you have high and low levels of nicotine, metabolism. And what the authors of this study postulated was people who are faster nicotine metabolizers are going to have lower levels of circulating nicotine and therefore less nicotine exposure. Now, that's possible. Technically, you could also argue that maybe someone who's a faster nicotine metabolizer would smoke more or consume more nicotine. So again, put that aside for the moment. But nevertheless, the authors used these genetic variants associated with nicotine metabolism to adjust for basically smoking heaviness. And again, we're not interested in the role of smoking. We're interested in the role of nicotine. Okay. So disease risk was increased with slower nicotine metabolism. But the added risk was abolished when adjusted for smoking heaviness. Because of course, if you do this, you have to adjust for smoking, indicating that the main drivers of the outcomes are the non-nicotinic components of cigarette smoke. Let me state that again. This is a complicated MR, but it is the closest thing I think we have to looking at humans. And it's looking at how much people smoked, how quickly they metabolize nicotine, trying to do an overlay of that to appreciate the nicotine exposure. And it came away basically saying that the harm of smoking is due to the tobacco and tobacco related products not due to the nicotine. I want to be clear, this is way, way far away from what you would want to be able to say as level one evidence. Right. If you wanted to do this in a level one fashion, you would actually have to randomize people to a whole bunch of different tobacco-free nicotine products and study the outcomes of interest. Now, of course, nobody is going to do that for hard outcomes like mortality, but I certainly think people could do that for softer outcomes. And my hope is that somewhere along there, people do that.

=== FILE: Nicotine： impact on cognition, performance, mood, health risks, and more (AMA 70 sneak peek) [sPOFrrfqWDg].txt ===

The safest things when it comes to anything other than nicotine are going to be the FDA approved products in the form of patches and gums. Right beneath that is what we just talked about. The nicotine pouches where they are not tobacco derived, I think I would take a big step down and then talk about e-sigarettes. What do we know about how a addictive nicotine itself can be? Boiler plate answer here is that nicotine is highly addictive and the discontinuation of nicotine will lead to withdrawal symptoms. The most prominent of these being irritability, anxiety, even anger, difficulty concentrating, sleep disturbances. What do we know about other chemicals that can be present in these products and the health implications of those so people can understand why they would want to avoid them? Most of the things that are added to nicotine replacement therapies, which have been approved by the are there to basically add flavor, texture, stabilization, and an adjust absorption. If your nicotine is tobacco derived as opposed to synthetic, you are still probably assuming risk. So let's kind of now go from risk down sides to potential benefits. A lot of people will talk about how, hey, when I use this stuff, I feel better. I feel sharper. Yes, but as you're increasing your dependency, you may actually end up losing that when you're deprived of nicotine. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? I'm doing really well. Thank you for having me back. IMean, we're always happy to have you. Whenever you would like, and again, it'd be very awkward if you weren't here, I think we do need to follow up based on one of our recent AMA's. Do you still have a liquid of some form in front of you? I do. What kind of cup is that in? You know, I'm actually drinking it in a glass. Did you listen to our micro plastics AMA? And that's why you made that change? Nick, I have made several changes following the AMA on micro plastics. I believe that they are all in the spirit of 8020, right? So I'm really kind of low on the sigmoidal curve of cost and energy with one exception. And yeah, I think I'm just taking what I think are the relatively easy steps to hopefully mitigate 80% of my exposure. And I'm going to spend no more time worrying about the last 20% which A, I have no idea if it matters. And even if it does, I don't think I could live my life and be concerned with it. That's great to hear it two things. First is, by the time this comes out, we'll most likely have a short video on what those changes were. So we'll link to that. If we don't have that video, something terribly went wrong. So we should have it. The second is, are you just so happy that you continue to join us for these AMA's? Otherwise, you would still be living so foolishly in your micro plastic life? I am looking forward to the day when someone else hosts an AMA for me. Maybe an avatar. That would be awesome. We could just have an AI Peter and it's just an ongoing AMA that never ends. All right, well, today's AMA is not going to be that. It will be you live. And it is on a single topic. We get asked a lot about there's so much more use of it. We initially did an AMA on it. I think like four years ago and at the time, you didn't see as much use as you do now. And that's nicotine. So we're going to talk all things nicotine today. This is going to look at benefits short-term, long-term around everything from cognition, exercise, whatever it may be. Risk of nicotine and things that people need to be aware of. We're going to look at different ways and vehicles that people can use nicotine and what are the pros and cons. And then we're also going to end this with something that we've get asked a lot about every now and then when it comes to smoking cessation. And I think we often say a lot of people on our audience, most likely are not smoking because if you are, you're probably not opting into this deep content, but some people are. But also we hear from people where it's, hey, my parents, significant other like children, friends, whatever it may be, are still doing this. How can I talk to them about quitting? So we'll cover that as well. So all that said, anything you want to say before we get rolling. Nope. The great insight that you had a grat there. So thank you for that. All right, start out. Can you explain just where the field of nicotine research currently stands? And kind of like even what's new and distinct from when we talked about this four years ago. Yeah, so I think one of the things that we appreciated, meaning that the team and I as we were kind of preparing for this was, you know, trying to appreciate how much of the research on nicotine is based on tobacco. And it's first application through obviously cigarettes. But then also the idea of using tobacco to extract nicotine for non smoke, but tobacco derived nicotine versus synthetic nicotine, which is honestly what a lot of people are thinking about in that context. And so I think that's just sort of important to understand that it is not always easy to tease out the impact of nicotine. And I'll foreshadow one example that we're going to talk about, which is infertility. You would think we would have legions of data that would explain the effective nicotine on fertility, both for males and females. It turns out that if you want to talk about it through the lens of smoking, that's true. But if you want to talk about it through the lens of vaping or nicotine pouches, that's not true. And so I think that's that's just kind of one of the issues that I think makes this difficult to talk about with complete clarity. So anyway, I guess that's the first thing I would say. I think the second thing I would say is, and you alluded to this four years ago, we did an AMA on nicotine. Don't worry, those of you that listen to that, there's very little overlap. I spent way more time talking about how nicotine worked, mechanisms of action. Today we're probably going to, I think, answer a lot more of the practical questions that people have. And I will also say thaT4 years later, there's frankly more research on some of the benefits of nicotine. And again, to be sure, we're going to talk about both the risks and benefits of nicotine today. So anyway, I would say that's, you know, that's probably a good place to start. And I think it'd be really helpful for people double clicking on kind of one thing you hinted at there, which is for a lot of people when they hear nicotine, there's just a negative connotation, right? And usually it's because they associate it with tobacco cigarettes. And so their mind initially goes to nicotine is maybe a negative harmful thing. So do you want to maybEQuickly kind of disentangle for people the health risks of tobacco from the effects of nicotine specifically? Yeah, this is something I think I didn't, maybe I didn't do a good job of this four years ago or maybe I did and at the end of the day, people just don't appreciate nuance. But I remember being very surprised at how a people thought that the takeaway from the podcasT4 years ago was we should all be using nicotine and be people were like, how can you advocate for this as a doctor? So my hope is to sort of untangle all of that for people. So nicotine is one of many compounds found within the leaves of the tobacco plant as such. It is in nicotine, pardon me, tobacco based products. But the major health concerns that are associated with tobacco, which are primarily cancer and cardiovascular disease, for reasons we can talk about another time and we're not going to talk about today are not caused by nicotine per se. But instead they are caused by several other components of tobacco itself and tobacco smoke such as, you know, everything from toxic metals from maldehyde, things called polycyclic aromac hydrocarbons, these are actually the things that are causing the harm. Now there are byproducts of nicotine that are produced in processing tobacco and they can be carcinogenic. So that means and this is a very important point. I want to make sure if you're trying to pay attention to the key points, this is one of them. This means that any tobacco derived nicotine product may contain carcinogens. This was actually something I did not appreciate prior. Okay, I thought that you could extract nicotine from tobacco and be completely free and clear of carcinogens. That is not the case. Now I want to be clear. It might be that and it likely is, in fact, it almost undoubtedly is that smoking tobacco is a much higher level of risk. But I want to make sure people understand that if your nicotine is tobacco derived as opposed to synthetic, you are still probably assuming risk. So the level of these compounds depends on the processing technique and the tobacco variety of course, right? So they're found in the highest concentrations in products that actually still look like tobacco. So I think that's kind of a nice way to think about it, right? So if you everybody can imagine what a cigarette looks like, well, if you take tobacco chewing leaves, right? People chew tobacco, that's going to have a lot of the negative properties. So the more closely you are to tobacco, the worse things are. So obviously, if you're sticking it in a cigarette or a cigar pipe, yep, you're getting plenty of it there. If you're chewing it or taking it in snooze, also a big problem. So this is why, and again, I don't think I fully appreciated this four years ago when you take a tobacco, when you take nicotine out of tobacco directly, you're still assuming that risk that risk that comes in curing and fermentation of the tobacco itself. And before we move on, we should just address something because I forget sometimes people get confused by it. And even earlier this week, we got an email to the website, which is Peter, for someone who cares so much about their health. Why did I see an Instagrammer YouTube video of you where on your hat or your t-shirt? There was the Marbaro logo. Do you support cigarette smoking? So while we have people, do you just want to explain why sometimes you're clothing has that and how you're not sponsored by Big Tobacco? And that is not a, you should be going and smoking marble rats on the regular. Yeah, boy, that's okay. So there's a philosophical issue, but as people, some people, listen to this podcast, no, I am an enormous fan of Formula One. And that goes way back for a long period of time. And up until 2005, Tobacco was a major sponsor of Formula One. In fact, the largest sponsor would have been Marbaro. And they were in the early 2000s all over the Ferraris and in the era that is my favorite era of Formula One in the 1980s and the early 90s, they were all over the McLaren car. And so you are correct from time to time, you will see me wearing something or memorabilia that I have that is a throwback to that era of Formula One. And I believe in the original delivery of those vehicles. In other words, I believe in era appropriate nods to things that we pay attention to. And so yes, if you're looking at a hat or a shirt or a car that is is a replica or pays homage to to something of that era, you're going to see the delivery of the sponsors of the time. And that would have been Hugo Boss, National Marbro. And so again, you know, I'm not, you know, anyway, there's nothing else I can say about it other than it has nothing to do with with a tacit or otherwise approval of these products. I want to be unambiguously clear. I think smoking is an absolute error. The arguably the single biggest unforced error you can make with respect to your health. And fortunately, big tobacco does not sponsor motorsport anymore. And you know, that's I think, I think they're better for it. Perfect. Back to the regular schedule program. Nicotine. Are there any harms associated with nicotine itself kind of based on what we just talked about them? Well, we're going to go into this in some detail. But I would say that clearly the biggest risk of pure nicotine. And now I'm just talking about it through the lens of synthetically acquired nicotine. So you're getting rid of all the tobacco related processing is in its addictive nature. And make no mistake about it. Nicotine is highly addictive. There are some other areas where depending on the dose, there may actually be a harm. Again, I think this is very important to understand. There are some mechanistic insights that suggest a negative impact on the endothelium. And it's certainly plausible that anything that negatively impacts the endothelium could increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But these are not studies that have been, you know, these are not large studies. These are not studies that have been done in humans. And these are extrapolations typically from other animal models. So, so, but I guess we should probably just maybe spend a minute kind of talking about nicotine again. And again, I go into, if people want more detail on this, I think it's covered four years ago. But nicotine activates. So nicotine is a molecule and it activates something called the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Now, these receptors are not just in the brain where we most frequently talk about them. But they can actually exist throughout the body. And if you look at certain mouse models and rodent models, such as other rodents like rip-like rats, it's been demonstrated that high doses of nicotine can actually increase tumor growth and even foster metastases in addition to increasing atheroscerotic plaques. Now, that sounds, you know, pretty devastating. I just want to always point out when it whenever we're talking about these rodent models, there are, you know, there's lots of daylight typically between what happens in that model and what happens in humans. And I think it's important to kind of look at other ways to triangulate upon the answer. So we're linked to those studies in the show notes. But the closest thing that we could find in humans was 2024 Mendelian randomization. I know we talk about these a lot, but I always think it's worth explaining what an MR is. So a Mendelian randomization says, let's look at genes in the population, which we can assume are randomly assorted. That's the randomization part. And let's ask thEQuestion, will these genes be a proxy for a behavior that I want to study or something that I want to study where I can now use effectively observational tools to see if there's a difference. So again, you know, one example is Mendelian randomization consistently shows that LDL cholesterol is causally associated with heart disease. Why? Because LDL cholesterol is highly genetic and you can look across a population and see different levels of LDL, even in people who are, you know, otherwise healthy. And you can examine the cardiovascular outcomes of these people, which would be the dependent variable. And that's how you could infer causality. By extension, by the way, HDL cholesterol turns out to be not causally related in the inverse. Nevertheless, so if you look at this Mendelian randomization, they wanted to look at the relationship of nicotine by itself on compromised lung function, lung cancer, COPD, CH, AACBD, et cetera. Okay. So the only, so I want to be clear, I don't think this was the world's best MR. I think it was clever, though. So what did they look at? Because like what genes would you try to parse out to understand how much tobacco someone is consuming, which is what you actually want to be able to do? So what they looked at was they looked at genes that spoke to nicotine metabolism. And so just as caffeine, we've talked about this on the past, caffeine, metabolism is highly genetic, right? So people like me are wickedly fast at metabolizing caffeine. And therefore I seem to be able to drink it later in the day without a negative impact. Someone who's a very slow metabolizer is going to feel it more. Well, similarly with nicotine, you have high and low levels of nicotine metabolism. And what the authors of this study postulated was people who are faster nicotine metabolizers are going to have lower levels of circulating nicotine and therefore less nicotine exposure. Now that's possible. Technically, you could also argue that maybe someone who's a faster nicotine metabolizer would smoke more or consume more nicotine. So again, I put that aside for the moment. But nevertheless, the authors used these genetic variants associated with nicotine metabolism to adjust for basically smoking heaviness. And again, we're not interested in the role of smoking. We're interested in the role of nicotine. So disease risk was increased with slower nicotine metabolism. But the added risk was abolished when adjusted for smoking heaviness. Because of course, if you do this, you have to adjust for smoking, indicating that the main drivers of the outcomes are the non-nicotinic components of cigarette smoke. Let me state that again. This is a complicated MR, but it is the closest thing I think we have to looking at humans. And it's looking at how much people smoked, how quickly they metabolize nicotine, trying to do an overlay of that to appreciate the nicotine exposure. And it came away, basically saying that the harm of smoking is due to the tobacco and tobacco related products, not due to the nicotine. I want to be clear. This is way, way far away from what you would want to be able to say as level one evidence. If you wanted to do this in a level one fashion, you would actually have to randomize people to a whole bunch of different tobacco-free nicotine products and study the outcomes of interest. Now, of course, nobody's going to do that for hard outcomes like mortality. But I certainly think people could do that for softer outcomes. And my hope is that somewhere along there, people do that. And what do we know about potential side effects of nicotine? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of The Drive. If you're interested, in hearing the complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. And in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So, if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person, and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions, typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's, songs, this feel you're listening to now, and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, thEQuality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight real, featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeterOTiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Not All DEXA Scans Are Equal—Here’s What to Look For  ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [ONyd2tQPRgQ].txt ===

Peter, you mentioned Dex said there a little bit ago and anyone who's listening to this podcast will be familiar with the Dex's scan because we talk about it a lot and looking at, you know, fat and like the benefits that you can get from that. Is that the best way for listeners to figure out what their BMD is? Is that how you're doing it in patients? Yes. So Dex is a super, super low radiation scan, nothing like a CT scan. It, you know, takes 10 minutes, you lay on a table, a little scanner moves over your body and it's using two very low dose x-rays that are absorbed differently by bones and soft tissues. And so it's able to differentiate between out-upose tissue, bone, and lean tissue or non-out-upose tissue. I will say this, not all Dex's scanners are created equal. So if you want to know your bone health, make sure before you go and get the Dex's scan, you confirm with the entity doing this that they are giving you segmental bone analysis for left hip, right hip, lumbar spine. A lot of Dex's places can only give you whole body BMD. So they'll just spit out the Z score for that one metric, but they won't give it to you segmentally. So, and that's sometimes okay. Like if a person's BMD is very high, you don't need the segmental analysis, but if you're doing this to screen for BMD, you have to make sure of course that the Dex is capable of doing that. And just a reminder for people, we talked about this in another episode, but we're always surprised at how easy it is to get a Dex's scan, right? You don't need a doctor to do it. So if you just Google the city or in and then Dex, you should be able to find different providers that do it for relatively cheap, I think, in most cities, it's around $150. So it has a lot of benefits, and just maybe remind people, if they are calling different places, what are the three things they want to look for? Yeah, you want to make sure when you're doing a Dex, again, if you care about knowing the full BMD, and you're going to pay more for that segmental analysis. So when you talk about those scans that are like in the hundred, 125, even up to 150, a lot of times they aren't showing everything, they're just giving you body composition. And usually visceral fat now. You'll say up to $400 typically if you want to see everything, but again, it's all like, you're going to pay more in New York and San Francisco than you're going to pay in Austin, Texas, for example. I probably pay like 125 for mine, but I'm not getting the full BMD analysis because I've already had it done and my BMD is high, so I don't need to screen that frequently. Not at the rate that I screen everything. The other things you want to look at, you obviously want to make sure you're getting full segmental lean tissue analysis, so you can look at. Appendicular lean mass index that you can calculate for yourself, obviously fat free mass index, you can calculate for yourself fat mass index, you can calculate, you need them to be able to give you that. And so those are those are kind of the things I want to see along with BMD. And let's say you have like you and a friend are going and getting your BMD done through a Dexas scan, is there going to be variability that exist in bone density between different people? Like let's say even if someone didn't have osteoporosis, can there just be natural variability between different types of people? Yeah, and it's also important to understand the number you're going to get, so they don't, at least to my knowledge. I don't recall seeing them typically report in grams per centimeter cubed, your BMD. Because what would you do with that information? Like it's not that helpful. What you really need to know is statistically where do you rank? And this is done via a T score and a Z score. And this is done to compare you to a young healthy adult and to an adult that is your age. So if you go back to statistics 101, I think many people may recall the idea of a normal distribution, which is a bell curve function. And a Z score is basically telling you where you lie on that distribution. So as Z score of zero means you are right in the middle of the distribution. And if you're in the middle of that distribution, it means you are, you have a higher bone mineral density than 50% of people and a lower bone density than 50% of people. If your Z score is plus one, it means you are one standard deviation above the mean, which means you are, you have a higher bone density than 82.5% of the population. And a lower bone density than 17 and a half percent of the population. If your Z score is plus point two, it means you are two standard deviations above the mean, which means you're 97.5% your higher than 97.5% of the population. Of course this works in reverse. So that's what Z score is due. I'm sorry, I'm a misspoke. The Z score is comparing you to your age when I say the population. The T score is comparing you to the young, healthy, individual. So in other words, for someone who's older, the Z score is always going to be more favorable than the T score. Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, because you're comparing to a 30, if you're 60, you want to compare yourself to not only a 30 year old, but also other 60 year olds. That's correct. And when you look at for yourself and even with your patients, their scores, is it kind of like how you do V02 Max, where you always want to be in the elite of the elite categories for like, you know, V02 Max, you want to be elite and a decade younger for like BMD, do you if someone is at that zero, that 50th percentile, does that worry you or is it a little different? How you look at this? Other things factor into this, Nick, IMean, family history factors into it, history of smoking factors into this current lifestyle. I hate the word lifestyle, but I think you know what IMean, you know, and sort of how active is that person, how much weight bearing activity or they doing. So being male versus female also factors into it a lot. So if I see a woman prior to menopause, let's say I'm talking about, you know, I got a 42 year old female patient who's, you know, IMight guess three to five years out from menopause and she already has a low Z score. But worries me a lot because of what we'll talk about shortly, vis-a-vis the effect of estrogen here and why women are disproportionately affected by estrogen withdrawal. But, you know, you've heard me make this my glib stupid joke right, never in the history of civilization has a 90 year old person ever been heard uttering. I wish I was less strong. I wish I had less muscle. I wish my bone density wasn't so high. Impossible. Yeah, you know how Tim Ferris always asked people on the podcast, you know what, Boba, they put on a billboard. Yeah, I think we've, we've come to the conclusion of what you would 100% put on your billboard. That's right, the Peter T. A. Billboard would just say, find me one example in the history of our species where a 90 year old said, I wish I had less strength. I wish I had less muscle. I wish I had weaker bones. Love it. Love it. All right, Nick, so pull up figure five. All right, got figure five pulled up. Okay, so you can see on this graph we're looking at males versus females top to bottom and then we're looking at Mexican American non-Hispanic white non-Hispanic black. So three races two sexes, six lines. But I just want to make one thing to the listener a little bit clear, which is on the y axis here, you're seeing units of grams per centimeter squared earlier. I said, grams per centimeter cubed. Why the difference? Well, the difference is even though density in real life is measured in grams per centimeter cubed because you need mass per unit volume. With bone density, it's actually done as grams per centimeter squared because it's a planar measurement. So the dexus scan is compressing everything to 2D. Does it make sense? Because the scanner is kind of looking at the area of the bone and imputing the density by what electron beam doesn't go through it. So I've always found this a bit confusing personally and I've always thought, I've always wondered why they just can't do this in grams per centimeter cubed. But I'll just point that out for the astute observer. Okay. I think there are two observations that one would pretty quickly take away from this. The first is that up until, you know, the 20s men and women are kind of similar, right? You go through a profound increase in BMD from the time you're eight years old until you're about 20 years old. Difference one is that, well, women maintain a reasonable plateau. They tend to fall quite precipitously in midlife. And that's obviously due to menopause. We'll talk about why in a moment. The second thing that jumps out here is the racial difference. So non-Hispanic black has a higher BMD for both men and women than non-Hispanic white, which has a higher BMD than Mexican or Hispanic in this case Mexican American. So again, slight differences in race. Truthfully, I don't know why that is. But it is what it is. So to your earlier question, are there differences? Yeah, there are differences on average. I've never, to be honest with you, factored this into my risk assessment except for the male female one. So in other words, if I look at a patient whose black versus white versus his Hispanic, I kind of have never assumed one is at more or less risk. I've just said, let's do the kitchen sink on everybody. But I think in females, I'm more worried for the reasons that we are obviously talking about. Yeah, and in looking at this too and one of thEQuestions we received is, you know, when, when should people do their first bone mineral density scan? You know, when do you want to know that baseline? Because what's interesting when you look at this and you talked about it is, you know, from eight to about 20, 22, you see that huge jump and then it kind of levels off. So what was your recommendation be for when people should get their first one done? Yeah, I'm not water here Nick. So what I'm used to it, right? I've got very unusual recommendations for a lot of things and this is no different. So I think in the spirit of fairness, I'm going to communicate the standard recommendations first. So when you look at the American Association of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American College of Preventative Medicine, the International Society of Clinical, Densiometry, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, and more. The typical recommendation is for high-risk people to be 50, but typically 65 is sort of when they want to start screening people. And that's for women and for men it's typically 70. It's a lot of credentials you just light out there. You sure you want to get in hot water with all of those different people. No, I'm just simply stating what they're recommending and if I've misrepresented that, I feel free to correct us, but you know, it's typically recommended as I said, women at 65, men at 70 follow up scans no more than every two years. Now, for someone who is at serious risk of osteoporosis, which includes men and women over the age of 50, you know, they can we can adjust those and come down a little bit. Now, the WHO, I think, is a little bit more aggressive and recommends screening women by the age of 40 if I'm not mistaken. As you can guess, I tend to be closer in my thinking to the WHO. And I certainly believe women in their 30s where we're doing dexas scans for many reasons. I'm just as interested in their bone mineral density. In fact, when I'm reporting the dexa results to patients, we have a template that we've made that I really like that lays all of the dexa information out, right? So, segmental BMD, you know, that FMI, ALMI, FMI, all of these things body fat for what it's worth. I always tell them out of the gate, like the one number you care about is your body fat. That's the one I care least about. And yeah, so when we, you know, when we're looking at a 35 year old patient and their Z score is already minus one. IMean, that's just as concerning to me as if their OGTT shows, you know, very elevated post-prandial glucose and insulin levels. And I'm really happy that I'm seeing that at the age of 35 and not 65. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Pain Tolerance： Not All Pain Is Equal ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [iwmcS3ODhlw].txt ===

don't we as a society just tend to look more favorably at people that have a very high pain tolerance. So when you go through that experiment you just did with the medical students. If everybody's being brutally honest aren't they kind of looking at the people who score zero one two more favorably than those that score eight nine and ten? Absolutely. Why do you think that is? Because that's what I'm being truthful I do it. Yeah. That's what society values. That's that was my home life growing up. That's what my father expected. I can't even very working class. You know my father had 12 brothers and sisters fighting for whatever scraps of food and he brought that into my world our world as kids and you just suck it up and deal with it and my father had back pain later in life and he would never talk about it would never ask my opinion and when I offered my opinion he would never follow it. Had bad consequences in the end but we value that. That is just the way our society is. Is that a male thing exclusively? I think you need to get some women on the show and ask them. I think I think it crosses actually I do think there is a masculinity aspects of that and I think I could be wrong here. I think that that thing is also attractive for women. I think there's a certain attractiveness because that person may be more likely to be a good provider than somebody who is weak and sensitive but you know we're getting a little out of my wheelhouse on that but you're absolutely right. I just think it's like a compatibility thing like I know when I do that type of an exercise compared to others I tend to just feel less pain. I also know my wife does as well and so I almost wonder if that's a compatibility like we both just have a high threshold for that when we're exercising when we're doing anything even recreationally that doesn't matter. My partner might fiance we're now engaged. Is a professor at Stanford Beth Darnell and she's an ex-altramarathon runner. And I've always admired the fact that she can sit there in front of a computer or work on something untold hours and not move and I'd ask her and like and she's just like listen I was really good with running with a pebble in my shoe putting one foot after another and just work in my way through it. And I similarly grew up in an environment where you know you learn to be tough and you learn to power through life-set versities. So what is the consequence of this? So we're acknowledging that it is an attractive trait. Yeah. You have a high tolerance of pain. Yeah. Society rewards it. And yet by definition as a significant subset of the part of the population, call it a third, call it a quarter if it's a normally distributed function. Yeah. Are going to be a standard deviation on the other side? Right. They're going to be on the side where hey they're relative to people who have a high tolerance for pain. These are people who are going to really perceive pain. And if we just did this through the lens of the responsibility of the medical community, there's a pretty significant consequence to that, right? Indeed. Now as with all things it gets a little bit more nuance. We talked about cold for instance. It turns out that some of the sensitivities are modalities specific. So just because you have a high threshold for cold, you could completely flip it on hot or pressure or pin prick or whatever the other modality is. As somebody who runs a pain lab, I've had everything done to me, imaginable. I take heat really well. My son, Ian, takes heat really well. I've had, you know, these thermal devices on me where I've been there and ended up with second degree burns to find my seven out of ten. I hate the cold. I hate the cold. I'm a worse one. It comes to the cold. That's why I live in California. That's why I lived in Arizona. I think there are genetic aspects of this. So we have to be mindful modality specific on top of it. These experimental protocols probably have little bearing on somebody's experience of chronic pain. I was going to say, is there any way to put together a set of experimental lab versions of this to basically generate predictive models of how people will respond to real world pain. And I think where you're going with chronic pain is even more relevant. So for example, why do some people have a discerneation that leads to, you know, manageable pain whereas for others, the exact same injury by every metric available to us produces a totally different set of consequences and what do we do about that? And because this is now where we move out of that decartion model, we appreciate the role of the brain and it's modular Tory capacity. It's ability to turn the amplifier down. And so if you're thinking about a stereo amplifier, we talked about how some people to a certain stimulus might be a zero or one on the dial, some might be a ten. But what we didn't talk about are people's capacity to now manage their pain cope with their pain, their level of self-affecacy around their pain. Athletes learn how to manage their pain and suffering. Where they run into problems is when the sports are over, they're retired. That's when I see them. So there are many factors that predict how well somebody is going to do with chronic pain. They align with a lot of the stuff in your book. So, you know, there's the level of person's self-appacacy plays a role. There is the presence or absence of whether they've got underlying depression, anger, anxiety, something called catastrophizing, terrible word, very important concept, probably one of the most predictive of amplified pain. What about other things you talked about sleep deprivation, any other physical things, exercising, not exercising insulin resistance, not insulin resistance, type of like what are the other things that might factor in this? Yes, yes, one of the biggest predictors of diabetic neuropathic pain is glucose control. So, you know, one of the first things we do if we have a person with diabetic neuropathy, which the diabetes, the high blood sugar, as you know much better than I, causes injury to those no susceptive fibers. And also causes injury to the abata inhibitory fibers. And so, we, that correlates with glucose control by way of example, diet plays a role because if you're eating things that are causing inflammation, we didn't talk about all of this stuff that amplifies or winds up those peripheral nocice sectors. We treated those as a static thing when they're not, they're dynamic. So, in the face of inflammation, that causes something called peripheral sensitization. You've turned up the amplifier on that nocice sector in the periphery.

=== FILE: Peter Attia's VO₂ Max Training Protocol [1t6JztkC0C0].txt ===

Let's just start with the VO2 Max trening. So you're having people go through a little bit of a workout before they get going. Yeah, and I'll tell you this. I do most of my VO2 Max testing out doors now. I use that VO2 master device, which I love. I'm going to leave from my house. I'm going to ride 10 to 15 minutes to the place where I do my hill repeat. So that's a warm up in and of itself. And by the way, getting there, there are a couple of short little climbs where I'll do 30 seconds of relatively high power just to get up over a little pitch. I will do two to three full runs of the hill at escalating power before I'm truly going to hit my max. So I'll do a four to five minute up at a maybe 85% of what my maximum power would be for that climb. Come down for the same amount of rest period. Go up again at maybe 90% of what my maximum power would be come back down. And then maybe I would go and give it. Like the third one would be out there. So by the time I've done it, I've really warmed up. And so the other day I was talking to a patient who did his VO2 Max test at a facility. Who's at a university that he went to do it. It was just like a place where you can go and pay to do it. And it was kind of surprised at what his number was. It was lower than I expected, given his trening. And I said, tell me about the protocol. And he's like, yeah, I just got on the treadmill. And they just started cranking it. And I was like, and how long after you started on the treadmill, did you hit VO2 Max? And he's like, I don't know, five minutes. And I was like, yeah, that's that's like garbage protocol. They, you were not warmed up and ready to do that. And you mentioned you have a VO2 Max coming up. When was the last time you tested prior to this? In the spring, it's about six, fish months. And the reason is like, because I like doing it outdoors, I have noticed because I live in Texas. How much of a performance hit I take in the summer like it's just, it's a, it's a, it's a noticeable difference in the summer. So I'm like, yeah, I just would rather do it in the spring, fall winter spring is when I prefer to test. And like, let's say the month leading up to it. So the past month, have you changed your trening at all? Are you doing anything in particular for it? No, not at all. I'm just, this is just a data check. It's just like, you know, I had my blood drawn this week. I had my dexa scan a couple of weeks ago. I'm doing a VO2 Max in general. So if you haven't changed anything, this is a reminder for people, what is your, like, VO2 Max trening look like in a typical week? Is that one day a week? Are you doing a multiple? Just one day a week. Yeah, it's three days a week of zone two and one day a week of, of, of interval trening. But interval trening at that specific sort of four, five upper limit eight minute intervals. And I always like when we talk VO2 Max trening, I think back to one of the actually first video podcasts we have a day with Alex Hutchinson. And do you kind of want to walk people through? I think a lot of times when you think of VO2 Max trening or to bother trening or like going all out, a lot of times people kind of like lose sight at how hard that actually is. Like do you kind of want to walk through, if you're doing actual intervals, real VO2 Max trening, like what that feels like once you're done. Well, VO2 Max trening hurts less than a true tabada. IMean a true tabada is, again, that's where I think people have a hard time understanding what all out means. IMean, technically I don't think the human body is capable of going all out for more than 10 seconds. So even at the level of a tabada, which is a 20 second effort followed by a 10 second rest repeated eight times or done eight times. Even at 20 second, there's just a governor that is like self regulating how hard you go. The reverse tabada where you go 10 seconds all out, 20 seconds rest for eight rounds. That's about the closest thing that I think we're capable of doing as a truly all out. And you will increase your VO2 Max doing that type of an exercise but not nearly as much as if you're doing intervals in the three to eight minute range. And by definition, if you're doing something for three to eight minutes, you're not going all out. What you're trying to do is go as hard as you can for that distance and for that time. So, it's a different animal. Obviously I think it hurts more because it's just, it's a lower level of peak pain but it's spread out over a longer period of time. So the area under the pain curve is greater but it's far from all out and at any moment in time, the pain is not the same. And can you remind people, like let's say you're doing a four minute interval, you're not starting aT4 minutes going as hard as you can and then trying to sustain it? Can you walk through kind of how you think about like the energy you put out spread across four minutes? Yeah, well, now technically the power is constant throughout the four minutes. So I know in my mind what I, how many watts I want to produce and what I want my average wattage to be over the five minutes. So let's just say I want to do five minutes at 300 watts. Of course, you're outdoors, so you don't have complete control. It's always jumping around but I'm really watching that the three second power tracing and the average power to keep it there. Well, after the first minute, I barely know I'm on the bike. Like it should be really easy after a minute. If you're dying after the first minute, you've set your target too high. Two minutes in, or two and a half minutes in when I'm halfway done, I still feel pretty good. My heart rate is now going to be within about five beats of what its maximum is, but I still feel pretty good. It's really at about minute three, three and a half that the pain tren starts to leave the station. And that's when it really starts to feel miserable. And that last minute is really, really difficult. And again, if you've done this right, when you finish this, you're really going to need thaT4 or five minutes of very, very easy pedaling to let your heart rate come back down to then repeat it. But again, the goal is not to have killed yourself in that five minutes, such that you can't do it again. Because what I'm trying to do is actually preserve that power across all the intervals. Last follow up on this is you talked about the consumption and the increase in performance as a result of what they're able to consume when they're performing. How much of a difference do you think that makes? Or how can you explain it to like, a lot of late people probably aren't thinking about that consumption or their mixture? I know a lot of endurance athletes are, but how much of a game changer do you think it is to have that increase in what they're able to put in their body during events? Well, again, for people like me and probably most people listening to this podcast, this is not something that should be on our radar. Like, I don't think there's ever going to be a day when I'm doing a 10 hour endurance event again. And therefore, I don't really need to worry about it. Like, it's, you know, if I'm exercising for two hours, that's kind of a long time. So again, at two hours, I'm fine with just water. And I'm living off my own glycogen and whatever. But it's very difficult now to think about people competing at a world class level in cycling. And Iron Man, because what all of and many others have now argued is the problem of peak endurance is effectively an energetic problem. It's basically a question of how much chemical energy in the form of food can you convert into electrical energy via the metabolism of food back into chemical energy in the form of ATP back into mechanical energy. Like, there's just an energy trensfer problem. And more energy input means more energy output. The more in the more logs you can put into the fire, the hotter the fire burns, the more steam it makes, the faster the wheel turns. That's basically what it comes down to. And what we've seen over the past decade is quite literally a more than doubling of the feet stock that goes into the furnace.

=== FILE: Peter Attia’s Definition of Longevity [xMoHsyd_mNc].txt ===

I think it'll be helpful to start talking about the actual word longevity because it can mean different things to different people. So when you talk about longevity, are you talking about living forever or how are you defining it? Definitely not living forever, although understandably that's probably what some people think of when they think of longevity. I'm talking about it in terms of two things. One of them is called lifespan and the other is called health span. And lifespan is the part that I think most people think of. It's the how long you live part. But then there's health span which is the how well you live part. And both of these things are important. I would argue that they're of equal importance and an extreme of one without the other is not ideal. In other words, I don't think there's anybody sitting here who says, I'd love to live to a hundred, but I want to spend the last 20 of those years unable to move. IMean, that wouldn't be ideal. And similarly, I think the idea of living an amazing healthy life, but that life being cut short prematurely at 50, nobody would think that that's ideal. So when I think of longevity, what I'm really thinking about is maximizing both the length of life and thEQuality of life. And again, quality could be further broken down into sort of a physical piece. So, you know, am I free of pain most of the time? Am I able to physically do the things I enjoy doing? And that could range from just the activities of daily living and self care to recreational activities. If you like to garden, how long do you want to be able to do that? If you play golf, if you like to go for walks and hikes or swim. And then there's a cognitive piece. So I don't think anybody would fully expect even at my age that my brain is kind of as sharp as hers is, but I still want to believe that my mind is pretty sharp. And I think we all sort of want that for as long as possible. And then the final piece is sort of an emotional piece that deals with happiness, sense of purpose, connection to others. And again, you can imagine a scenario where somebody has perfect physical health span, meaning they can do anything they want to do physically. Their brain is sharp, but they have no friends and no relationships. And I think we would all agree that that's also, that's not really an ideal life and I don't think anybody would aspire to that. So that's a lot there, but when you put all those things together to me, that's what lung jeopardy is. And if some people here are wondering, is it too late to start caring about longevity and living longer, what would you say to them? I would say that that's not the case. I would say that on the one hand, sure, the earlier a person begins to take steps to increase their longevity, the more opportunity they have. It's sort of like investing, right? One is the best time to start saving for retirement. Probably the minute you start earning your first paycheck and your teens or 20s. But does that mean you shouldn't save money when your older, no, it doesn't? There's also a lot of data that we have from clinical trials that are done with seniors that demonstrate that, for example, people who have never lifted weights in their life before who start lifting weights for the first time when they're in their 60s and 70s have a remarkable benefit. This is not just true of weight trening. It's true of any sort of exercise. So the short answer, I guess, is that no, it's never too late to really start thinking about this. But obviously, the best time to plant the tree is yesterday, if not today. Why do they have a benefit if they haven't done it before? Well, there's an effective trening, right? So specifically thinking of exercise, the body is really a user that are losing it, organ or collection of organs and the muscles are a great example of that. So it's actually true of young people and old people. The greatest effective exercise is generally seen in the person who goes from being completely sedentary to even a mild amount of trening. So if you look at somebody like me who exercises all the time or someone like you who exercises all the time, if we added three hours a week to your trening or to my trening, it actually wouldn't have an enormous impact. If you took an individual who did zero exercise and you took them to three hours a week, which let's be honest, guys, 30 minutes a day, six days a week is not a huge ask. The impact is enormous. That's strenge. That's not what you'd think. Can you talk about the importance of adding life to years rather than just years to life and what that means to you? Yeah, it means a lot to me and I think it will mean a lot to people here because, again, the metric that most people think of is life expectancy, right? How many times have you heard at life expectancy is increasing? Life expectancy is decreasing. And I think the reason for that is frankly, it's just the easiest thing to measure because it's objective, it's quantitative and it's a single number, right? It's a number that shows up and it can be measured from a death certificate. We know exactly how many years to the day that a person lived and if we keep track of that, we certainly know something about them. But my argument would be that it is not the most important thing. And again, I would challenge us to find an individual who would, if given the choice, and I don't think one ever has to make this choice, but for the purpose of the thought experiment, if you said, look, you could live to 80 in remarkable and perfect health. And then when your life is over, it ends very quickly and suddenly, versus you could live to 100, but you spend that last 20 years in a painful state of decline. I think very few people would choose the latter, even though they're living longer. And I think what most people want is quality of life over quantity, outside of these extreme examples, which are common and tragic where people die in their young. But I think when you really start to think about pushing those things, most people in my experience are more interested in quality of life.

=== FILE: Peter evaluates longevity drugs, aspirin for CVD, & strategies to improve muscle (AMA 76 sneak peek) [qD-LAgR-be4].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, Atia, Doctor, Podcaster, Author, Speaker, Bad Chest Player. How are you doing today? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, you could say Shepherd in there. You don't have to, you don't have to keep shots. Yeah, Shepherd of diabetic sheep, raised car driver, anything else missing. Oh, that's good. That's good. All right. You're just didn't, I didn't want to forget the diabetic sheep out there. That's true. That's true. How's the day going today? Started out good. Then took a little little, little dip with the follow-up chest match. But just the end of the time. I'm just wondering if you're here. I know you just love picking this scab. Well, I just, you know, sometimes you think about the feet like Tom Brady, right? Like what he did three days to all time. Right. Yeah, um, people who come back from injuries, right? Tomorrow, Hamlin, like almost died, came back and played. IMean, like you getting second in a four person in house chest tournament with two children has to be up there, right? Listen, like all started. I got you the same time. I got you our just won the tour again. That's right. Right. Went through. Tune it around. Grueling, not as mentally tough as what you went through, though, a month ago. Right. I would argue what I go through on the daily trying to just make sure I don't get beat by an eight year old in chess is at least on par mentally with some of the feats you're talking about. We need to have Tom on the podcast. You should ask them about it, which one was harder? All those harder to be down 28 to three, having thrown a pick six in the Super Bowl, or succumbing to an eight year old's gambit, which is tougher to be, do me fair. There is a real chance that eight year old might have talked more trash than what was going on in the Super Bowl, which that's something. Yep. All right. So today's AMA, not about chess. Gonna be a little different. So what we're going to do is cover a variety of topics, looking at it through a certain lens, which is we are going to take concepts and things that we've talked about before, some new things that we haven't talked about before that we can ask about a lot. And instead of going to Super Deepen them, we're going to kind of summarize them into how you think about them. And we're going to do it into five different buckets. And those buckets are proven promising fuzzy noise, not sense. People who have listened for a bit will remember this. We did this in episode 300 of the podcast, which was back in May 2024. So it's been a little bit, but people really liked it because it allowed us to cover a variety of topics, it allowed us to summarize them, and it allowed us to kind of look at them and apples to apples comparison with what we know about them and how people should be thinking about it. So in today's episode, we are going to look at some geo-protective drugs like GLP ones, things like Ozenbick, SGLT, two inhibitors, both of which we talked about before, we're going to look at Methane Blue and tell them your length and eat supplements. Those are kind of newer. We're going to look at what we know about low dose aspirin and cardiovascular disease prevention. And then we're going to look at interventions that can help improve muscle mass things like protein, fallostatin, gene therapy, etc. So hopefully a good variety of things for people, hopefully kind of a way to go through it where people can kind of look, get clear, clen takeaways. With that said, anything you want to add before we get wrong? No, but maybe I will just remind people or folks who are new to the program, what these categories mean. So you mentioned sort of five, and we're starting from kind of the most promising or the closest to quote unquote truth, which we're calling proven, although I put proven in quotes because technically nothing in biology is proven, right? It's not like mathematics where you prove something and writEQED at the end and never have to think about it again. So proven would be as close to well-established claim as you're going to find the implication for us, of course, as you've got lots of high quality consistent data. The category beneath that would be promising. This is a category where the claims look good, there are data to support it, but maybe we're still waiting on replication or maybe there's, you know, most of the data are moving in one direction, but not all of it or something like that. The category beneath that we call fuzzy. And this means there are some data around the claim, but they are really inconsistent and incomplete. So overall, you would say the data quality here is not that great, but there's probably a signal. Beneath that we have noise. So here we have something where there are just frankly no real meaningful results. So, you know, noise is something that it's not that I'm saying you shouldn't pay attention to it, but you clearly don't want to be distracted by it, and it's best to wait and see if noise declares itself by going up to fuzzy with the presence of some data as it works its way up the chain or whether data actually emerge that put it in the final category, which is actual nonsense. So again, nonsense means we actually have data, right? And the data refute the claim being made. So as far as we can tell, this is as close to disproven as you'll be. So again, those are the five categories. Just kind of keep that in mind as we apply our judgments to these things. And keep in mind as well that these are fluid things can move up and down these chains in the presence of new information. Yeah, and I think I always like to anchor people to this. And so we've talked about it before, but I do think it's helpful, which is sometimes I think in today's day and age where people are very confident in their opinions and usually kind of stick to them. You see it a lot in nutrition where it's like you just get in a camp and you stay with it. You just want to talk a little bit about your idea of like strong convictions loosely, how then why you think it might be counterintuitive when people like change mine and something goes from proven to promising or goes up and down. But just how you think about when new data comes, you just have to be an emotional to it and just take science for science. Yeah, like I think first and foremost, that's an attribute of great scientists. So if you look at what separates good scientists from great scientists, that would probably be one of the characteristics. Right? A great scientist is not married to being right. They're married to knowing what is right and they're going to go wherever the data take them. But honestly, the first time I heard that expression to have strong convictions loosely held was actually from a friend of mine who the time was running a hedge fund. He's he's since retired. But he said, look, that's the key to being a good investor. Is you have to have strong convictions because you're going to be putting a lot of capital at risk. But those convictions have to be loosely held. So the moment that data emerge, the change, your thesis for investment, you have to be flexible enough to move as opposed to double down. And the reason I think that this is such an important part of investing is in science if you're wrong, the price is not that severe. With out calling out or embarrassing anybody, there are lots of people who have taken positions on things that are just so patently incorrect, you know, 20 and 25 years later. And yet they just can't let go of their baby, right? They can't kill their baby. And so frankly, they just make fools out of themselves continuing to cling to ridiculous beliefs. But there's actually no real price they're paying for that, right? Other than within the scientific community, they're laughed at. But you can't be an investor. You can't be a money manager with that type of mentality, because you'll be out of business, right? And so in the final analysis, the dollars talk louder than anything else. And if you continue to double down on horrible positions, you will lose the money of your LPs and ultimately you will be broke. So I think that's sort of why it's a great idea to be thinking about through the lens of how an investor functions. And so I think we just have to all try to do that. It's hard to kill your babies. But that was the expression. Those were the exact words that were used when I first showed up in the lab and first started doing experiments. And first started getting my data and trying to put hypotheses together and make sense of what I was seeing. It was you can have the most beautiful, beautiful hypothesis ever. And it can be categorically slayed by ugly facts. And that's paraphrasing a quote. God, I don't remember who actually said that quote, but it's a sort of famous quote in science. Yeah, I think it's just good for people to kind of anchor that too. So starting off, if you had to put the following statement into one of those categories, where would it be, which is the next in-house tournament, Peter at the takes first place. You're not going to let this go. Listen, um, I believe I have the potential to beat my young boys in chess, provided I don't get distracted by the smack talk, right? I think in all, in my defense today, by the way, just I know you don't play chess, but just for you understand, I promoted upon to a second queen on the 25th move. Okay, do you understand what an advantage I had in this game today? I've got two queens on the board and I was ahead on material before that promotion. This was a blood bath. And then he starts yapping so much and makes what looks like an idiotic blender exposing his rook to one of my new to my newest queen. So of course, I take the free rook. But I was so dumb when I did it that I didn't notice that he moved his bishop out of the way what looked like a blender so he sacrificed his rook to put his bishop in a way to basically create what's called a battery against my king and the next move he checkmated me. So you know, you could say, okay, I got beat. Yes, I did, but part of it as I was distracted by how much he was yapping. So all I really need to do to up my game is just not get distracted and then I think I have a good chance to win the next in-house tournament. I do love your kryptonite. Is second graders who talk trash. Whether it's chess, whether it was the kid who has just given you tons of crap for drinking a diet soda at the school lunch. Wherever it is, there could literally be a sitcom of me going through my life just getting broken down by eight year olds just just getting put in my place. It's like the sign felled up a sod where like the shrimp comment were a day later he re-thinks of what the comeback should have been. I just anticipate that's you like going to sleep at night being like, oh man, when Eric said this, if I would have responded with this, I would have got him so bad. Next time, next time I'm not going to let that eight year whole talk that trash to me. So good. All right, well real thing we're going to start with geopertective drugs. So there's a lot of questions about drugs that have metabolic health effects and what that means for anti-aging. So instead of just looking at this improved metabolic health, is there something special about those that can also be anti-aging? And on a side note, just it'll be good to explain what geopertective drugs are we've done it before, but I think it's good for a quick reminder, but outside of that, the biggest drug that is in the news all day every day, geop ones. ozempic, TRUSEPA TIE, and wegovy, you name it, everyone's heard of it. We've done a lot about that. So thEQuestion is, do we know anything if they have a unique anti-aging effect that actually improves lifespan outside of the metabolic health effects they have? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an Ask Me Anything episode of the Drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today at Peter at teahamd.com forward slash subscribe. The two for professional medical advice diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should see the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's eye invest in or advise, please visit Peter at teahamd.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Peter's takeaways on sleep, chronic pain, cancer drugs, AI in healthcare, & more (QPS 5 sneak peek) [kHyEwDWBNZ0].txt ===

What's impressed me the most is the rate of change of AI. And when I look at how quickly it got there, I'm sort of thinking to myself, where is it going to be in two years? Where is it going to be in four years? For today's episode, we're going to look back at previous ones with Jeff English on all things mental emotional health. What Jeff talked about was that in trauma, too often people focus on the what happened, but he thinks that it's more important to focus on the how did I adapt? I've never met a person who's addressed their negative adaptations and come out on the other side and said I wish I didn't do that. Ashley Mason, all things related to getting better sleep. I can think of one example in particular if a guy who's sleep was so destroyed, even I was like, I'm not sure this is going to get fixed. And within six months, it's guys normal sleep now. This stuff works. We have Sanjay Menop looking at radiology, radiation. Very low or moderate dose exposures to radiation, seem to be completely negligible in terms of long-term health risks and maybe even beneficial. We have Sean Mackie. All things related to pain. It's not a signal from the body, right? But it's an experience that's influenced by many factors. And then Sue Desmond Helman, there are not many people who have experienced and done more, where we ended was really talking a lot about oncology and AI. She's on the board of open AI. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another quarterly podcast summary. Ask me anything episode with Peter Atia. How you doing? Very well. You excited to be here. I am? No place you'd rather be. No place I'd rather be. Nothing I'd rather be talking about. Even a race car. Mmm, maybe. Okay. Well, it's good. It's good to know you're still being honest. Ha! So today we're going to cover kind of looking back at recent episodes on the podcast. As a reminder for people, thesEQuarterly podcast summaries, they are away for us to kind of talk about and gather insights from you on what you learned from previous episodes, where you're behavior changed, where you're thinking about things differently. But they're not necessarily a replacement for these episodes. What we often find is people kind of use this accompanying listening to that episode or even going back and listening to some sections again based on these insights. And so for today's episode, we're going to look back at previous ones with Jeff Englisch on all things mental emotional health, trauma, therapy, Ashley Mason. All things related to getting better sleep and some, yeah, CBTI as it relates to it, improving sleep. We have Sanjay Menop looking at radiology, radiation, different ways to look at how that can be used to cure cancer and also interestingly arthritis. We have Sean Mackie, all things related to pain, chronic pain, and getting over pain. And then Sue Desmond Helman, which was an interesting episode kind of looking at her career, but ultimately looking at cancer oncology, drug development, and even an interesting segment on AI and medicine. A lot to talk about, a lot of different topics, which I think speaks to who we have on the podcast, which is a variety of people for a variety of angles. So I think it should be a good one. A lot of different things to chat through anything you want to say before we get started. No, what's dive in? Perfect. First one, Jeff Englisch, all things, trauma, mental health, therapy, etc. Do you kind of want to walk through your insights from that episode? This was an episode I was really looking forward to doing. We discussed in the episode, obviously known Jeff for many years, I owe him a great debt of gratitude. This is one of those episodes where between the time we recorded and the time it came out is probably 8 to 10 weeks. During that period of time, I sent the unedited straight audio file of it to know fewer than 15 to 20 people. I couldn't even wait for this episode to come out to be sharing it with people. So I think that probably tells you something, I will be completely comfortable stating that that will be a record that will last for some time. There's no scenario I can think of where taken a podcast before it comes out and shared it with so many people. I would say that most of the people I shared it with, not only found it to be incredibly valuable, but actually wanted to engage with Jeff on a personal level, a professional level after that. Again, that's one of those podcasts where if it resonates with you, it's really important, you're going to share it a lot. What was this episode about? It really was a great episode about understanding trauma. It's such a loaded word that I think it's understandable why people might have some skepticism around that. I think the word does get used a little bit too much. Jeff has a great definition for it and I jotted it down, which is that trauma is a moment of perceived helplessness that activates the limbic system. This can be a wounding event, a major event, or maybe a series of smaller events. And those typically get referred to as big tree and little tea traumas. So a big tea trauma is something really obvious, big the victim of a violent crime, for example, and little tea traumas are like a thousand paper cuts, like a parent that was there, but just really wasn't paying attention to their kid. And those can be damaging in different ways. So what Jeff talked about was that in trauma too often people focus on what happened, part of the equation, but he thinks that it's more important to focus on the how did I adapt part of the equation. And as he talked about it, you know, the sinquanon of trauma is that there's a disconnected version of a person that shows up to life relying on maladaptive strategies to replace connection with something else. I think that is a remarkably succinct way to explain things. And it's not judgmental, right? It's just saying that something happened a series of things there have been adaptations. Those adaptations have led to disconnection. And maladaptive strategies this could be things that are perceived of as quote unquote bad like alcohol, drugs, gambling, but it could be also things that are perceived of as good, such as work or perfectionism. All of those things replace the sense of connection. So again, I think, you know, this is just an episode that I think you have to go back and listen to. But you know, to me that was the most important takeaway. You know, he spoke about implicit and explicit memories. So people can sort of explicitly remember an event and think, well, it, you know, objectively as I think about that, it didn't really impact me. But implicitly, it is impacting them through anxiety or some other type of discomfort. He had a great saying, which is if it's hysterical, it's historical. So I think about this often when I overreact emotionally. When I calmed down, I'm usually asking myself, what was that really about? Like was it really about the thing that you blew up over or was there something deeper that this is sort of reminding you of in terms of a vulnerability or something like that? You know, very important distinctions here between guilt and shame. Guilt is about, you know, as he described it, making a mistake, shame is about being a mistake. Some people refer to this as healthy shame and unhealthy shame. Again, it's not necessarily one way to think about this. Okay, we talked about the trauma tree. And this is again, I've heard so many different people talk about trauma in so many different ways. I still think this is one of the better models. And it's a tree because it has roots and it has branches. And the roots are below the ground and the branches are above the ground. And that is a metaphor for the fact that the roots or the causes are not necessarily visible while the adaptations, the branches are indeed visible. So again, very important to understand in this model that intention is not a requirement for the roots of a tree. What do IMean by that? Sometimes the wounding events, I.e. the roots are not intentional. They weren't, you know, they're not driven by people who are intending to hurt. This is, I think, a very important thing for people dealing with trauma to understand because it's very easy to minimize an event that had an impact on you as a child. For example, if you believe that the person who was responsible for this wasn't trying to hurt you. And that's often the case. So keep that in mind. So what are these? So the five roots are broken down as abuse, which can be physical. Typically that is pretty deliberate. Emotional, sexual. Again, obviously these are generally quite deliberate religious. So there's an example where it might not be with a mal-intent, but of course it has, it has bad outcomes. The next would be abandonment. This can be physical abandonment, literally someone being abandoned by a parent, but it could also be emotional. A neglect, which is obviously distinct from abandonment, even that the care provider is still present, but is not paying attention to the child. In meshment, which is basically boundary violations, the emotional incest. This happens when kids have to grow up far too quickly to be emotionALCARegivers or peers with parents typically. And then tragic events. These are pretty obvious. Typically not subtle. Again, we talk about war. We talk about things of that nature, violent events. Okay, so then we have the branches. And again, the branches or the adaptations here. And the important thing to remember here, and I think this is really helpful for anybody thinking through this for themselves or for others is that adaptations typically work very well for the child that has been wounded. And again, I use the word wounded as kind of a broad emotional term. The problem is they tend to become maladaptive later in life. He gives a great example of a father who is physically abusing the mother of his child. And whenever this happened, the child would run into his bedroom out of fear, right, because dad is getting violent. He's hurting mom. But one day, the child's fear that his mother was going to be hurt was so great that he ran into the bathroom and pretended that he was sick as a way to distract the father. So the father, you know, screams at the mother and says, look what you're doing. You're your hysterical whining, his major son's sick. And this temporary distraction actually prevented his father from injuring the mother. So that was an amazing adoption. That child basically learned that he could be deceptive and manipulative and it actually worked. It was a really good adaptation. And it probably will serve that child well for some time. The problem is it will not serve that child well as an adult. So, you know, he describes these adaptations as old friends that serve you well. But lose their utility and become destructive as you age. And so again, what are these four branches? These four branches are co-dependency. So, you know, which, which he calls an outer reach for inner security, addictive patterns. Again, these are the most obvious in some ways, so substance is, but also work process obsession, things of that nature. Attachment issues where the common thread is sort of insecurity. So there's kind of an anxious attachment, a void into attachment, disorganized attachments. He goes into these in details. And then just kind of a bucket for all other maladaptive strategies here. And I'm sure people can think of many examples. So, you know, I think I've learned a lot over the past seven or eight years on this. But I think Jeff sums it up so well. And I've seen this over and over in myself and my patience. When you're working through trauma, or if you're on the fence about whether or not you should work through trauma, it's worth remembering. You're either going to deal with it or it's going to deal with you. These things cannot be, cannot be buried. They're going to always like a whack-a-mole thing, always show up at some point, and you can't play whack-a-mole indefinitely. So, you know, the first step, I think is just accepting that that's the case and that there's a better way to be and that these coping strategies well incredibly valuable are probably not helping you that you may indeed be passing on maladaptive behaviors to your kids if you're a parent. And, you know, dealing with, you know, something that he describes as putting the adaptive child out of the driver's seat and into the back of the car. So, yeah, I think, you know, those are, probably some of the important things I would take from that episode. And, again, I don't think that this summary even remotely serves as a substitute for listening to that. So, if you missed that episode and anything I said is even remotely peaks your curiosity. I think you've, you've kind of got to go back to it. Aside from the insights, are there any behaviors that you changed? Maybe from your relationship with Jeff even prior to this or even that like behaviors that after people listening to Jeff could start to apply in their own life if they're trying to kind of figure this out for themselves. You know, to practice, we've talked about this in other podcasts, but practicing or understanding what your practice looks like to expand your distressed tolerance window. I write about this quite a bit in the final chapter of outlive. But it's sort of knowing the things that you do that give you a greater operating window. So, for example, for many people, meditation is a great tool to increase the probability of responding as opposed to reacting when something happens. You know, learning the language of eye statements, you know, basically taking ownership for, for what you think, what you feel, what you do. Working, you know, kind of through this triad that he describes as the, the triangle of vulnerability. So, sadness, shame, and fear, and trying to be curious about where you are on that triangle and and being more responsive to your your own emotional vocabulary around these things, noticing what your coping skills are. Again, I, I, I talk and often joke about some of mine that still exists to this day. You know, e-shopping is an enormous coping skill for stress. I just can't stop buying stupid things online when I am stressed out. I feel fortunate in some ways, because there I know that, you know, I'm really glad that it's not drinking too much alcohol, but it's still a distraction. And, and even if it, even if the worst thing it does is set me back a few dollars, it's, it's preventing me from connecting and it's preventing me from accepting and dealing with what it is that's happening. So anyway, IMean, I think there are other things, but I think those would be, those would be a great place to sort of start and obviously we talk about so much more in this episode. And someone who, let's say, has listened to that episode and are listening to us and they're like, you know, this is something that I've maybe been ignoring in my own life or kind of pushed aside and decided to up to this point, not to deal with it. I know you also patients who are like that. And so when you're talking to people and trying to encourage them to take the first step and to figure out this journey from themselves, any advice you have for those people just in case they're on the other end listening here. I just can't say enough about it. And I, it's one of the things I enjoy talking about with patients more than anything, because even though patients come to our practice because they want to improve their lifespan, they also care about health span and it's easy to forget that emotional health is a piece of health span. And I think when a person is sort of caught in the vicious cycle of what's often the response to in the adaptation to traumatic events, not necessarily exclusively as children, but often as children, they're not, they're not living this connected life that Jeff talks about. And again, I can just share from personal experience that being disconnected versus being connected is all the difference in living. And it's not like you flip a switch and everything is fine. It's a process. It's a journey of course. But I've never met a person who's a dressed, their negative adaptations and come out on the other side and said, I wish I didn't do that. This is a question we get asked. A decent amount to the website. So it's here as well. In the book, I've openly talked podcast that you went to two centers to kind of like do in-depth work on this. Lough and times people just ask, hey, what are those calls? So they can look them up as well. Obviously, these aren't the only two. But do you just want to kind of state those where people are looking for a first place to start to that you found beneficial for you? Yeah, the first place was called the Bridge to Recovery. I went there in 2017. That's actually where IMet Jeff English. We talked about that a lot in the podcast. The second place I went in 2020 was called PCS Psychological Counseling Services. And I would recommend both of those places very, very highly. And I think PCS focuses on more than just trauma. But it's also, you know, it's very trauma-focused. The bridge is really, is really a trauma-based residential program. And again, I'm sure there are others out there that are maybe equally wonderful. I know that for many people, because I obviously I've encouraged a number of people to go to these locations. And many have everyone acknowledges as I did upfront. Like, are you kidding me? This is why don't I just, how about I just keep working with my therapist for, you know, an hour twice a month? That can work. But sometimes it doesn't. And sometimes you actually need to undergo kind of immersive therapy. I was going to have you kind of give this metaphor, because you've talked about it before, but I think it clicks with people, which is the idea if you want to learn a language like one hour a week, tutoring classes, good. But sometimes moving to that country and being forced into that is how you're going to learn better. Yeah, exactly. Last question on this, just because I need to do it, and there's probably people wondering, have you ever bought anything in one of those shopping stints? And you've thought a week later, like, oh, this was actually awesome. I'm glad I did and if so, what was like the best thing that came out of that? IMean, truthfully, and this is obviously terrible rationalization. I think most things I buy in my eShopaholic bursts. IMean, I'm pretty happy with them. Not all of them. I have bought some really stupid things. And what I tend to do is give them away so that I don't see them again, which is actually counter productive, because I should keep more of those things as a reminder of my bad behavior. In other words, I should surround myself with more of the consequences of those actions. It's a great answer. I spoke in like a true shop of Hollik in my spoken like, I'm actually, actually these things are all really awesome. And at the end of the damn really glad I have. Right. It's a horrible selection bias. I keep the things that are awesome. I give away the things that are not awesome. It's awful. Yes. So does that mean anyone who's ever gotten a gift from you should think that this is actually Peter getting rid of stuff that he doesn't want. Or it doesn't quite work that way. I give away much more than just my non-assum stuff. Okay. That's good. Good to know. Okay. Moving on, Ashley Mason. This was a great episode on sleep in Somnia, CBTI. How do we improve your sleep? Very, very interesting. I know we talked about already wanting her to come back for part two because we didn't get through near everything we're hoping to do. So do you want to start with walking through your biggest takeaways insights from the episode? Yeah. Boy, Ashley is a force in nature. She, yeah, we, we, again, we, we had sketched out a lot of things we were going to talk about. But we never got out of insomnia and CBTI because I felt like it was just too important to stay there and gather all that information. So yes, definitely we'll have to have Ashley back. So I learned a lot. And, and honestly, what I came away with is thinking that okay, I feel like I almost know enough to help people through part of the CBTI playbook without even having to refer out to CBTI. And I think that the takeaway from this episode should be that you can do a lot of CBTI on your own, which is not to say you shouldn't reach out to a practitioner if you're struggling. But, but the good news is so much of the heavy lifting was, was covered here. So, um, first of all, let's just start with the semantics, right? So insomnia must persist for months. It must interfere with life and it must cause distress. This isn't just a few nights of bad rest. So we don't want to sort of over pathologize this. So we're really trying to focus on a meaningful reduction in sleep. CBTI or cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is one of the most effective tools for addressing serious insomnia. Uh, 50 to 60 people who utilize this achieve a complete remission and 70% show improvement. There are lots of contributing factors to the development of insomnia. Um, so you have predisposing factors like genetics, past experiences, you have precipitating factors such as life crisis, divorce, enormous stressful experiences at work. And then you have perpetuating factors or coping strategies like what you do when you are in this state of insomnia. Now CBTI only focuses on the latter. It does not concern itself with what your predisposing factors are. Doesn't even care what the precipitating factor is and doesn't try to stratify people based on those things. It basically says, you're here. You're having significant insomnia. What are you doing to cope with it and how do we address that? Um, so in that sense, the treatment is independent of the first two. So, um, you also, of course, I should just sort of say this before we go on. You do need to address any sleep pathology like restless like sender merciless sleep apnea, um, before engaging in this. So you have to rule out that kind of stuff. Okay. So, um, CBTI is really about addressing this triangle of, like, thoughts to feelings to behaviors, so picture a triangle, thoughts, feelings, behaviors where each one is sort of influencing the next. And the, the discussion with Ashley was really a great way to kind of go through all of the behavioral changes to mitigate insomnia, um, which fall under the themes that are, I think kind of bucketed as sleep hygiene, stimulus control, time in bed restriction, cognitive techniques, and relaxation techniques. Um, so let's just talk about each of these. So sleep hygiene is something that, you know, listeners of this podcast are very familiar with. Um, these include things like keeping the room temperature cold in the mid 60s, even if you need to wear socks, keeping the room as dark as possible and using an eye mask if that's necessary. Um, it means not drinking too much fluid, after dinner to reduce the probability that you need to get up and pee at night. Um, this means, you know, addressing prostate issues if you're a male, things of that nature. Um, it means getting rid of down-comforters and heavy blankets, which disrupt the circadian temperature rhythm. Remember, when we're in bed, we're supposed to get into bed and rapidly begin a process of cooling to get into our deepest sleep before we begin to warm a couple of hours before we wake up and again, uh, really, really, uh, well, she had a discreet. She said anything with dovet and it should be banned, right? So basically anything that's going to keep too much heat in is a bad idea. Um, okay, what's stimulus control? Stimulus control means limiting the bed to only two things, sleep and sex. Everything else happens somewhere else. That means no phone. That means no reading. IMean, well, those are obvious. The other thing she made a really clear point about was no worrying. Now, you might say, well, IMean, who's who sets out to worry in bed? Um, but what she really means by that, and I think this is very important is that you don't want to spend time laying in bed awake. So if you're laying in bed and you're awake, especially if you're worrying, you need to get out of bed and do something else. Um, so she talks about people who suffer from insomnia. Um, one of the important things you have to do is get them out of bed for 20 to 30 minutes to do something really low key. She had a funny description of get out of bed and do something that you would be embarrassed if your colleagues at work saw you doing it. In other words, don't get out of bed aT3 in the morning to go and work for 30 minutes. Get out of bed for 30 minutes to read a, you know, some trashy magazine or watch some silly sitcom, but something that's not really activating. Um, and allow yourself to get a little bit sleepy and then come back to bed. By the way, I not long after the podcast with Ashley, and I rarely experience insomnia, but I went through a couple of days when I was kind of being jolted up at two or three in the morning and could not get back to sleep. And my inclination was sort of just sit there and just fight it and fight it and fight it. Um, and finally on the third night, I was like, why am I not just doing what Ashley said? So as soon as it happened, I got up, went out to the to the couch in the family room through through down an episode of Silicon Valley, which is, you know, even I talk about this all time, like one of the greatest shows of all time, and then just went back in and went to bed. So that's an example of something that's super low key that, you know, it kind of allowed me to get back into it. Okay. Um, the next one here is really, really hard for people to wrap their head around some time. Um, but it's called time and bed restriction. Previously, people refer to this as sleep restriction, which, you know, the name of that is obvious. So, um, why, why would, why would you do such a thing, right? Well, the problem is for many people within Psalmney, they're actually spending too much time in bed, and their sleep efficiency is really low. Um, they're spending a lot of time in bed because they're tired because they're not sleeping, and it becomes a vicious cycle. Now, anybody who's used a wearable for sleep, or uses anything that measures sleep, probably notices a calculation that gets spit out called sleep efficiency. Sleep efficiency is time-sleeping divided by time in bed. You want to be able to hit at least 85% here. Um, I should say you want to be able to hit about 85% here. So to be clear, if you're hitting 95%, uh, you're not giving yourself enough time in bed is almost assured, leave a case. And if you're, you know, hitting 75% you're probably spending too much time in bed. Um, so to restrict time in bed, you want to first understand your typical time asleep with a sleep diary. And then you add a 30-minute buffer to get your target time in bed. So you can also determine the ideal wake-up time and base your time in bed off this wake-up time. So if you base your wake-up time, so, so getting your wake-up time right is key. This is the thing that you want to be fixed. And then your bedtime starts to take care of itself as you build up sleep pressure over time. Um, you probably heard me talk about this on the podcast before the more consistent your wake-up time is even on weekends. The easier it is to control sleep hygiene. The term of, you know, people who let their sleep schedules move on weekends and they sleep in a lot later, which is understandable, right? Like if you work Monday through Friday and you're getting up at five in the morning, it is a real tempting on the weekends to sleep till 8 or 9 o'clock. The problem is that process of social jet lag is devastating for your circadian rhythm. So, um, you know, she, she describes focusing on process S, which is sleep pressure to, um, standardize what she calls process C or circadian rhythm. Um, and, um, we talked a little bit about sleep trackers. She does not recommend using them if you're struggling with insomnia and I couldn't agree more from our own practice. We, one of the first things we do when people are struggling with sleep is we get them to take their sleep trackers and at best put them away at worst throw them out. And because if you're, if, once this kind of gets in your head, it becomes a brutal cycle. So, so you don't need this to fix the problem. Okay. Cognitive techniques, I found this to be very interesting. Um, schedule time for worrying. Uh, again, for many people, the, the, the, the waking up part, then triggers the set of roominating thoughts. Um, and so ins, insomnia is, you know, sometimes arises from not processing information enough during the daytime and spending too much time in bed roominating. So she has her patients schedule worry time by intentionally putting something on the calendar where they literally write down all the things that they are worried about. And they, you know, they might have 20 minutes a day to do that. Um, and, uh, you know, then they, sort of don't have to feel the need to process this at night. So, you know, you know, he's thinking about the things that you would normally think about laying awake in bed. Um, and, and all of a sudden it gets a lot better. Um, tracking, she does something called tracking the degree of belief, which means asking yourself, how much do I believe this is true? So, um, a lot of times people will find the things that seem absolutely certain in the evening may turn out to be kind of unlikely during the day. Um, they just feel more certain of it before bed, which increases worrying. So, again, these are, these are, these are some of the, the techniques I won't go through all the other stuff. There's some stuff she talks about on relaxation, which I think is helpful. Um, and, and, you know, she also talked about AB testing other things that are probably less effective. She wasn't a huge proponent of blocking out blue light. Um, but she said it's always worth trying, right? If, if wearing, you know, red light or blue light glasses in the evening helps, she's like by all means great. Give it a shot. Um, obviously experimenting on timing of caffeine, medication, supplements, all great. Um, but, you know, her view is just test those things out. Um, so, um, yeah, I would say those are kind of the big things. And Peter, remind me, did she talk about anything on like sleep supplements, like sleep prescription drugs that people should think about potentially use if they're going through this? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an ask me anything episode of the drive. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's I invest in or advise, please visit Peter at EMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Peter’s takeaways on aerobic exercise and VO2 max, insulin resistance, and more (QPS 4 sneak peek) [z3_R_7gBU64].txt ===

by absolutely thing pharmaceutical advertising should be abolished. Today is gonna be another quarterly podcast summary episode. Huge variety of topics, whole off, talking about trening, performance, VR2 Max. It's very quick and tempting to just say, IMust be just using drugs we haven't figured out yet. Another explanation in the one that I find more appealing is that they literally figured out how to double the octane of the fuel. Ralph looking at insulin resistance, type two diabetes. For me, the biggest surprise by far. IMean, I had to pick my head up off the table when he said this was Piglidism. Some looking at healthcare. With all that is back to up, I said some. I still don't fully understand why the hell we pay two X per capita, what every other country pays. Traena looking at autism ADHD anxiety. She's like, look, I'm really not interested in the label. I'm interested in the impairment. Mike looking at resistance trening. Everybody needs to know what it feels like to go to failure. And everybody, therefore, needs to get familiar with what is it feel like when I was one rep before that. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Peter, thanks for joining us on another AMA on your own podcast. We appreciate you coming back. I always appreciate being here. Thank you for having me. Anytime, anytime. So today is going to be another quarterly podcast summary episode. Lot of words basically what it means is we look at past episodes, kind of cover what the main takeaways are, what your favorite insights were. Any changes you made based on like the behavior to yourself, how you work with patients, how you think about things, anything of that nature from those episodes. The other thing that says reminder, it's meant as more to like augment the episodes, not necessarily as a replacement. And we get a lot of feedback where people will listen to this and then read, listen to some of the original episodes and find a lot of value in it. So today we'll look at Olaf talking about trening performance, VR2 Max, Ralph looking at insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, but form in SGLT2 inhibitors, other drugs, some looking at healthcare, trying to understand why healthcare in the US is nearly two times per capita of any other development. And trying to look at autism ADHD, anxiety, we have Mike looking at resistance trening and kind of diving into everything revolving that. So huge variety of topics, a lot of different things. And I think people should find interest in and I think we'll get it started with Olaf. So do you kind of want to start going through? You're up so with Olaf. This was obviously the second time he was back on. Little behind the scenes we talked beforehand about, hey, let's try and make it a little less technical because the first one was pretty technical. And I think looking back, you probably made it more technical in the first. So I think that's just by nature how you and Olaf are always going to be. So maybe break down for people. What you learn and what your biggest insights were from that. Yeah, and before we dive into this, at least in as long as we've been doing quarterly podcasts some reason I will say this, this might end up being the longest because just by the nature of coincidence and which podcasts fall into the past quarter, this is probably the most voluminous set of notes I've ever taken across a set of podcasts. So in fact, I would say that two of the episodes that we've covered here, the one with Ralph and the one with some were easily kind of three to four X the volume of notes. I normally take and you know, in the input from that way you will, I've done my best to try to synthesize that, but nevertheless, there's just, there's a lot going on in this past quarter. Okay, you're right. I wanted to make the Olaf one at the outset just straight into less technical things and I could not resist the tractor pull of trying to at least explain subtechnical things. So we started the discussion by explaining the difference between things like functional threshold power and critical power. Again, I hesitate to bring these up now because I just don't think they're relevant unless you are a cyclist. But if you are interested, I'll just state it. The functional threshold power or FTP is the power that you can hold for one hour. That is one way to test it. You literally get on a bike, usually on an Erg, so it's a stationary bike. You ride as hard as you can without blowing up for one hour and whatever the average power is that you held as your FTP, much more typically, for example, when I was a cyclist, we would do this in a 20 minute test and we would discount it by typically 10% although Olaf suggested only 5% in my experience. 10% was necessary. There's something called critical power, which is very similar, but rather than it being the power you can hold for an hour, it's the power you can hold for 30 to 40 minutes. I think the more important distinction here is that you can calculate critical power much easier. You can do it from a set of curves that are derived from three to four individual tests that are much shorter. Why is this relevant? This is relevant because if you want to have other metrics beyond VO2 max for higher and a robe efficiency, you might want to know your FTP or critical power and critical power is much easier to measure. These days, in this ties into another insight, these days I don't spend a lot of time worrying about my FTP. In fact, I don't know what it is because I haven't done a 20 minute power test since none. Don't necessarily think I'm going to do one anytime soon, probably because I don't want to see how low it is. It made me realize maybe I ought to do a critical power test just so that I have another benchmark to be tracking. We talked about a few other things which I'm not going to go into and a robe-threshold and stuff. We covered a little bit of that in the first podcast. Another very interesting insight that came up for me in this podcast, which was really just a personal insight. Again, I hesitate to spend too much time on it. Because talking about the relationship between VO2 max and PVO2 max or VVO2 max. So if you're a cyclist, what does that mean? PVO2 max means what is your power when you are at VO2 max? Again, VO2 max just to make sure we're really no talking about. This is maximum ventilation, meaning maximum oxygen consumption. It's usually sustained for at least a minute when you're doing the test. So what's the highest amount of oxygen and leaders' permanent that can be consumed for? A minute and this has achieved during a ramp exercise. Again, almost exclusively done on a bike or on a treadmill stationary bike. And when you hit that VO2 max, if you're on a treadmill, you will note that, hey, there's a velocity assuming you're running flat. Or you might see, oh, actually, I'm on a bike and by PVO2 max is the power that I've achieved. Now some have argued that VO2 max or PVO2 max are actually more predictive of sport-specific performance than just the number VO2 max. And I think there might be something to that because I shared my numbers with all of. And the truth of it is, I have always had a very low PVO2 max to VO2 max. And I've stated in another way, I have always had a VO2 max that is higher than many people who are much better cyclist than me. What wasn't uncommon when I was trening that my VO2 max was 15 points higher than people who had a higher FTP than me, for example. And what all I've suggested there is it speaks to really inefficient, probably overtrening aerobically, under trening anaerobicly. So there's an inefficiency there and that inefficiency means that I am actually requiring more energy across the board to put out more power. Now, something very interesting that comes from that is there might be an association between people like that and a lesser propensity to gain weight. And it is true that every time I've done a resting metabolic expenditure test or any time I've done the more elaborate stuff, I've actually done the double labeled water test and the metabolic chambers. I always seem to have a through the roof energy expenditure for my body weight. So I guess for the first time that all kind of came together, which was, wow, on the one hand I have an advantage perhaps in that I have a very high energy expenditure. So relative to somebody else who eats as much as I do, I'm going to be leaner. Let the flip side of that is I'm actually quite inefficient at utilizing energy. So again, I found that very, very interesting. The thing that we talked about was, hey, is there anything that a person can do besides the obvious, which is trening to boost their VO2 max? He mentioned something about beat route wasn't familiar with this, but beat route concentrates. He said, is rich in nitrates. Body converts it into nitric oxide and that of course helps with vasodilation, opens up capillary beds. It should be stated then of course that anything that impairs nitric oxide synthase and there are many things that do from home assisting to insulin resistance is going to impede it. Again, he said at the elite level, this doesn't have much of a difference, but in amateur athletes like the rest of us can be about a 5% boost. The other thing he talked about that I thought was really interesting was, and again, this was to me just more gamesmanship than anything else. And I can't wait to try it the next time I do a VO2 max, which by the way is probably going to be this weekend or next. He said, as you approach failure, do a few breath holes, and he said that that produces a significant boost in VO2 max. Again, it's just a reactive overconsumption of oxygen. I don't know if that means anything. One of the other things that I asked him about was the use of acedaminophen. Again, there are some data that suggest that acedaminophen use can boost peak endurance performance by 1% to 2%. And so I asked, oh, if Christian or Gustav used acedaminophen themselves during Iron Man, and he said they did not. And he raised a point that I thought was interesting, which is, well, acedaminophen or Tylenol can obviously reduce the perception of pain, which has been one of the arguments for why it boost performance. It may impair the athlete from giving off heat, from heat dissipation. And so he just questioned whether or not that that might be a worthwhile tradeoff. Of course, for me, that begs the desire to do an experiment and find out. Another area that we talked about, which again, doesn't appeal to or doesn't relevant to me in the way I tren, but if any of you are listening and you are really high performance athletes, I think this is arguably probably the single most important takeaway from this podcast, is what the upper limits of carbohydrate consumption are well doing. Cardiode activity and racing. So again, if you're a triathlete, if you're a cyclist, if you're a runner, less applicable in running because the races are typically so short, but of course, if you're an ultra-marathon runner, that would not be the case. So again, everybody's kind of done this math, right, which is, okay, if you're running, if you're doing an Iron Man or something like that, you're probably depending on your level of fitness, expanding somewhere between 700 and 1000 calories per hour. Let's even be conservative and say you're really, really just kind of going easy. You'd be at 600 to 700 Kcal per hour. Now, we don't have that much stored glycogen, right? You've got maybe 50, 100, maybe 200 grams of glycogen if you have really big muscles stored, which you're going to run out of pretty quickly. That's going to supply you from maybe an hour and a half. So thereafter, you have to meet your needs from body fat and intake of carbohydrates. And the conventional thinking has always been that you can only consume about 60 grams of glucose per hour and 60 grams of glucose, of course, is only about 240 Kcal. This has always been one of my main arguments for why being fat adapted is very important, because if you're consuming that 60 of glucose and that's giving you whatever it's giving you, you have to get the balance from fat and you're only going to do that if you're heavily fat adapted. So you get into this cycle. Well, what we've seen unquestionably is, I think, the biggest, um, honestly, the biggest innovation in endurance sports like the Tour de France and Iron Man, over the past decade is the amount of glucose that these guys are able to consume. He talked about numbers I had never heard before, as some of you may recall, I interviewed Ted Day Pogatcha recently, the greatest cyclist on the planet. His numbers blew my mind of the type of carbohydrate intake that he was tolerating 150, 180 grams per hour. Well, I've said that they're now pushing triathletes at the world class level to 240 grams per hour. Again, this is unbelievable to me. And what that basically tells you is you can meet all of your glycolitic needs indefinitely through that. Now, again, just as Ted Day said, you have to tren this system. These are athletes that are required to now consume gels and eat carbohydrates at a 12% mixture. What does that mean? 12% mixture means 12, pardon me, 120 grams per liter. 10% mixture is 100 grams per liter, etc. Conventional wisdom is that we can't tolerate, meaning our gastrointestinal system cannot tolerate more than a 5% mixture. And I know from me personally when I used to be doing ultra-distance stuff, I had a hard time going above 5 to 6% myself. But what all of said and what Ted Day has also said separately is you can actually tren your GI system to double that. And so how these guys are drinking two liters per hour of a 12% mixture, which would be 240 grams, I simply can't fathom. But clearly that's what they're doing. Or they're doing it in some combination. So they're consuming gels plus water that amounts to that mixture. But I think when you look at the hyperbolic performance of endurance athletes today, it's very quick and tempting to just say, they must be just using drugs we haven't figured out yet. Yeah, it's also the fact that I think another explanation and the one that I find more appealing is that they literally figured out how to double the octane of the fuel. IMean, that's effectively what's happening. It's like a car that went from racing at 70 octane to 140 octane. And I'm not going to bother explaining what octane is. I'm not even sure if there's a 140, but you know what I'm getting at. So I would say those are probably the most important things. I guess the last thing that I would take away from this is kind of he offered a great protocol for how to make sure you're giving it your best when you do a VO2 Max test. This has already been something that I've started implementing a little bit more with our patients and making sure that for example, if they do a VO2 Max test, I've always asked people like describe the protocol and many times I'm not pleased with the protocol, but this was kind of like the the kind of I think really sort of super duper protocol, right? So you know, you want to do this at the time of day that is a normal time that you would be trening, so you want to be well-rested, et cetera, minimize traveling the day before. So we try to tell our patients the same thing if you're coming into Austin for a VO2 Max test, point it would be really great if it was just a short flight the day before and if it's international, please you know come in more than a day before if you want to maximize the test. The warmup should be basically six minutes, very, very easy, six minutes zone two, three minutes at threshold or FTP, two to three times at a 10 to 15 second burst at about what you expect your PVO2 Max is, then a relatively short rest of 10 to 15 minutes, get a drink and then get on with it. Yeah, so I would say that's those are probably the most important things that I took away from this podcast. So Peter, just a few follow-up questions there, let's just start with the VO2 Max trening. So in that protocol, it actually is like a decent warmup that you're having people do, right? Like I remember when I've been VO2 Max testing up, I don't know if I've even really had me do any type of warmup. You just kind of went, hit the treadmill and then started going. So you're having people go through a little bit of a workout before they get going. Yeah, and I'll tell you this, I do most of my VO2 Max testing out outdoors now. I use that VO2 master device, which I love. It would, I would. So I'm going to leave from my house. I'm going to ride 10 to 15 minutes to the place where I do my hill repeat. So that's a warmup in and of itself. And by the way, getting there, there are a couple of short little climbs where I'll do like 30 seconds of you know, relatively high power just to get up over a little pitch. I will do two to three full runs of the hill at escalating power before I'm truly going to hit my max. So I'll do like a four to five minute up at a, you know, like not like a, like maybe 85% of what my maximum power would be for that climb. Come down for the same amount of rest period, go up again at maybe 90% of what my maximum power would be come back down. And then maybe I would go and give it like that the third one would be out there. So by the time I've done it, I've really warmed up. And so the other day I was talking to a patient who did his VO2 max test at a facility. It was at a university that he went to do it. It was just like a place where you can go and pay to do it. And it was kind of surprised at what his number was. It was lower than I expected, given his trening. And I said, tell me about the protocol. And he's like, yeah, I just got on the treadmill and they just started cranking it. And I was like, and how long after you started on the treadmill, did you hit VO2 max? And he's like, I don't know, five minutes. And I was like, yeah, that's a garbage protocol. They, you were not warmed up and ready to do that. And you mentioned you have a VO2 max coming up. Um, when was the last time you tested prior to this? In the spring, it's about six fish months. And there in the reason is like, because I like doing it outdoors, I have, I have noticed because I live in Texas. Um, how much of a performance hit I take in the summer, like it's just, it's a, it's a, it's a noticeable difference in the summer. So I'm like, yeah, I just would rather do it in the spring, fall winter spring is when I prefer to test. And like, let's say the month leading up to it. So the past month, have you changed your trening at all? Are you doing anything in particular for it? No, not at all. I'm just, this is just a, a data check. It's just like, you know, I had my blood drawn this week, had my dexus scan a couple of weeks ago. I'm doing a VO2 max. In general. So if you haven't changed anything, this is a reminder for people, what is your, like, VO2 max trening look like in a typical week? Is that one day a week? Are you doing a multiple? Just one day a week. Yeah, it's three days a week of zone two and one day a week of, uh, of, of interval trening. But interval trening at that specific sort of four, five upper limit, eight minute intervals. And I always like when we talk VO2 max trening, I think back to one of the actually first video podcast we have a day with Alex Hutchinson. And do you kind of want to walk people through? I think a lot of times when you think of VO2 max trening or to body trening or like going all out, lot of times people kind of like lose sight at how hard that actually is like, do you kind of want to walk through? If you're doing actual intervals, real VO2 max trening, like what that feels like once you're done and well VO2 max trening hurts less than a true tabada. IMean, a true tabada is, again, that's where I think people have a hard time understanding what all out means. IMean, technically, I don't think the human body is capable of going all out for more than 10 seconds. So even at the level of a tabada, which is a 20 second effort followed by a 10 second rest repeated eight times or done eight times. Even a 22nd, there's just a governor that is like self regulating how hard you go. The reverse tabada where you go 10 seconds all out, 20 seconds rest for eight rounds. That's about the closest thing that I think we're capable of doing as a truly all out. And you will increase your VO2 max doing that type of an exercise, but not nearly, not nearly as much as if you're doing intervals in the 3 to 8 minute range. And by definition, if you're doing something for 3 to 8 minutes, you're not going all out. What you're trying to do is go as hard as you can for that distance and for that time. So, it's a different animal. Obviously, I think it hurts more because it's just, it's a lower level of peak pain, but it's spread out over a longer period of time. So the area under the pain curve is greater, but it's far from all out and at any moment in time, the pain is not the same. And can you remind people, like what's there doing a four minute interval? You're not starting aT4 minutes going as hard as you can and then trying to sustain it? Can you walk through kind of how you think about the energy you put out or spread across four minutes? Yeah. Well, now technically, the power is constant throughout the four minutes. So I know in my mind what I how many watts I want to produce and what I want my average wattage to be over the five minutes. So let's just say I want to do five minutes at 300 watts. Of course, you're outdoors, so you don't have complete control. It's always jumping around, but but I'm really watching the the three second power tracing and the average power to keep it there. Well, after the first minute, I barely know I'm on the bike. Like it's it should be really easy after a minute. If you're dying after the first minute, you've set your target too high. Two minutes in, you know, two and a half minutes in when I'm halfway done, I still feel pretty good. My heart rate is now going to be within about five beats of what its maximum is, but I still feel pretty good. It's really at about minute three, three and a half that the pain tren starts to leave the station and that's when it really starts to feel miserable. And that last minute is really, really difficult. And again, if you've done this right, when you when you finish this, you're really going to need thaT4 or five minutes of very, very easy pedaling to let your heart rate come back down to then repeat it. But again, the goal is not to have killed yourself in that five minutes, such that you can't do it again, because what I'm trying to do is actually preserve that power across all the intervals. Last follow up on this is you talked about the consumption and like the increase in performance as a result of like what they're able to consume when they're performing. How much of a difference like do you think that makes or how can you explain it to like a lot of lay people probably aren't thinking about that consumption or their mixture. I know a lot of endurance athletes are, but like how much of a game changer do you think it is to have that increase in what they're able to put in their body during events? Well, again, for people like me and probably most people listening to this podcast, this is not something that should be on our radar. Like I don't think there's ever going to be a day when I'm doing a 10 hour endurance event again. And therefore, I don't really need to worry about it. Like it's, you know, if I'm exercising for two hours, that's that's kind of a long time. So again, at two hours, I'm fine with just water and my, you know, and I'm living off my own glycogen and, you know, whatever. But it's very difficult now to think about people competing at a world class level in cycling and Iron Man, because what all of and many others have now argued is the problem of peak endurance is effectively an energetic problem. It's basically a question of how much chemical energy in the form of food can you convert into electrical energy via the metabolism of food back into chemical energy in the form of ATP back into mechanical energy. Like there's, it's just an energy trensfer problem. Okay. And more energy input means more energy output. Right. The more in the more logs you can put into the fire, the hotter the fire burns, the more steam it makes, the faster the wheel turns. That's basically what it comes down to and what we've seen over the past decade is quite literally a more than doubling of the feet stock that goes into the furnace. All right. Anything else on all of before we move on? No. Perfect. So next is Ralph on insulin resistance, which I think you said was one of the more interesting interviews you've ever done correct. Thank you for listening to today's sneak peak AMA episode of the drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this our work is made entirely possible by our members and in return we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail, every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word on the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions, typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs this feel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, thEQuality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) Treatment Most Women Never Hear About ｜ Paula Amato, M.D. [qz28W094110].txt ===

Let's talk about polycystic ovarian syndrome. So what's the prevalence of it in, let's say, women aged, call it 15 to 30? Yeah, super common. About six to eight percent of women will have polycystic ovarian syndrome. Most common symptoms are irregular periods. Also evidence of high-endrogen levels, and that could usually present with acne or excess hair growth. We call that here's a autism obesity or being overweight. That's also part of the syndrome, not everybody who has any other. And the origins are specifically testosterone. Could it be just testosterone just the HAA, DHTE? Both. Yeah, both, but typically elevated testosterone from the ovaries. Yeah. So is that the cause or the effect? We don't know. We don't know, but it's definitely seen in almost all women with PCOS that they have higher androgen levels. And why is PCOS seemingly also highly associated with insulin resistance? Again, we don't know exactly, but we think the endrogens play a role. We think there might be some genetic factors that play a role. I don't know that we understand why, but we certainly have recognized in the last several decades that most women with PCOS also happen to be insulin resistance. So then thEQuestion is, what do we need to do to treat PCOS? Right. So depends on the goal of the patient. Right. So if they're trying to get pregnant, there's one set of treatments. If they're not trying to get pregnant, but they have PCOS, then we usually focus on their cycles. It's generally not a good idea to go too long in between cycles because what can happen is the lining of the uterus can overgrow. If it overgrow too much, it can become what we call hyperplastic, worst case scenario, cancer, or so you definitely don't want that. So it's important to be shedding that lining or to be on hormonal suppression so that that doesn't happen. If the goal is to treat the hyper-endrogenic symptoms like the acne and the hercetism, again, hormonal treatments, usually effective for that. And when you say hormonal treatments, you mean like spironalactone and things like that. Well, usually start with birth control pills. Birth control pills, very effective for most symptoms of PCOS. It'll regulate the cycles, decrease androgen levels, help with hercetism and acne, etc. Okay. So women with PCOS doesn't want to get pregnant. Right. Just wants to reduce the androgen impact and protect her uterus. A constant oral contraceptive is a great strategy. It's a great strategy. Yeah, there are others. You know, it could be a progestin, IUD. That's a hormonal way of IUD. Yeah. So there are a number of different ones or just taking progesterone every few months that usually will help protect the lining, but probably won't decrease the antrogen levels. So now let's talk about the woman with PCOS, but who is also trying to conceive. Right. What is your playbook? So we always count as these patients as well. I should mention whether they're trying to get pregnant or not, especially if they're overweight or obese weight loss helps, you know, with all the symptoms of PCOS. So healthy diet, lifestyle, etc. And how much of a role are GLP1 agonist playing in this now? How much more success are you having with treating PCOS that way? Yeah, increasingly. And they're very successful as you know, for weight loss. And there've been some studies on PCOS patients specifically very effective. But yeah, do you know any of those data? I'm not familiar with it. Yeah, they work really well. Just like they work. Can people with diabetes or people who with obesity without diabetes? Problem is you can't get pregnant while you're taking them in the current recommendation is to stop for at least two months. And pardon my ignorance. Why? Because we don't have any data on why they're safe. Yeah. And so FDA is saying when FDA, I forget the FDA's classification for this is like ABCX or something like that for every drug. Yes. I haven't looked for that one specifically, but I'm sure it's like X because we have no data. OK. So that's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GLP1 agonist because we don't understand the impact of that. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. OK. Now having said that, there have been lots of you may have read about a Zempek baby. So like people getting pregnant on GLP1. So there is a registry. And so far to my knowledge, there haven't been reported birth defects in that type of thing. But obviously we're talking about small number. OK. So that's the other point. Now that you mentioned that, I now recall hearing about that. So presumably, these are women who have taken either semi-glutite, trisepotite, and presumably they get pregnant. Yes. Either intentionally or not. Right. OK. So that's a very interesting registry to follow. Right. Right. Now of course, once they find out, they're pregnant. Usually. There's just a council on this stuff. Yeah. So we don't know what would happen if you continue. I don't think anybody wants to do that. Study at the moment. Yeah. It doesn't make sense. We know. Certainly don't want women who are pregnant to not want to eat. Understanding that a woman who's got PCOS is going to be first counsel to make these changes that effectively help her lose weight and increase her metabolic health. Let's say she is somewhat successful, but still unable to address the concern. Right. So luckily, they're very good. Obulation and docy medications available. So what we would typically recommend for someone to PCOS to help them ovulate more regularly is a medication called lettrousal. The brand name is fromara. And it's just a medication you take for five days in your cycle. And then we can usually assess ovulation with the ultrasound. And what does it do? Basically it's category of medication called aromatase inhibitors, which blocks the... To virgin testosterone to the... Right. Androgynous to estrogen, that lower estrogen, somehow triggers the pituitary to increase the secretion of FSH and LH and that stimulates the ovary to again get one of those follicles. So you give the full dose of endometrial progesterone for five days. The second you take it off, it's the withdrawal of progesterone that causes the lining to shed. Right. And then we call that day one. And then you set on day five, we go ahead and start ripening the follicle, right right, right, putting the follicle with the aromatase inhibitor. Three to seven. Yeah. For five days. Okay. Wow. Yeah. And then we usually do an ultrasound around day 12-ish. And you could see one of those follicles starting to grow. Usually not all patients will respond. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or sometimes we have to try a different medication. But most patients with PCOS will respond to that medication. So would you say that every single woman out there with PCOS who wants to get pregnant has access to a doctor that understands what you just described and can do that for her? Or do you worry that too many women are being shunted to IVF too soon without an attempted something like this? I definitely think they're probably not enough people who totally understand management of PCOS, especially in the context of fertility treatment for sure. And even in the context of non-infertily treatment often what I hear from patients is they had irregular periods. Somebody told them to start going on the birth control pill. They never told them why. They didn't even know what they had PCOS, right? Happens to be correct treatments. So great. They've gone years now not understanding that they have PCOS and the implications of that, which as we talked about their metabolic implications, etc. So that's a problem. But once they want to become pregnant, very few general gynecologists are set up to be able to treat patients with either climate or electros, some of them do, but it's not like a fertility clinic with reproductive and chronologists because we're set up to do monitoring seven days a week in that type of thing. But not everybody has access to it for totally specialist kind of very dependent on where you live a little bit better now with telehealth, but still access to the salon. You have to do the salon Graham when you're doing this. You don't have to, but you want to know whether the woman's responding meaning that she's actually ovulating. There are other ways to assess that. If she gets a period at the right time, that she probably ovulated or if she gets pregnant, of course, or you can check a progesterone level in the Ludio phase, the second half of the cycle, if it's elevated, she probably ovulated. Yeah, we just happen to use ultrasound. It's just easier. And so you kind of alluded to it, but I'm guessing you're saying, look, we would give this three tries. Would that be a fair assessment? Usually. So we'd go through three consecutive cycles of this. And it's interesting. So there's two ways that this treatment could fail. The first is, each time we did the ultrasound, we just didn't see an egg. So not responding to the follicle stimulation. Let's talk about what the implication is there. Alternatively, you could say, God, three out of three months, we actually got ovulation. But we didn't get fertilization. If you were three months of that, I assume in parallel, you're doing the male work up. Because nothing would be a greater crime than going to a regular job. And then you figured out the sperm was the problem. But let's assume you have that box, check. Would you be more inclined to continue that treatment for another three to six months? Yeah. And someone who hasn't been ovulating, they haven't tried for a year, even. Have anything met the criteria for total? Exactly. So there's nothing magic abouT3 months, but at least a check-in point where we say, hey, do we continue doing this? Or do we move onto something else? So if it's a young person, and this is like the first time they're ovulating in their life, then yeah, we give them more time on a less invasive treatment, less expensive treatment. Okay. If they're like 38-40, we probably move on to something else. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Pros & cons of GLP-1 weight loss drugs ｜  Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [QGIFdakceHM].txt ===

Do you have any concerns with long-term safety or anything other than simply the economics of the GLP ones in this current generation? Again, huge leap forward between Lira Glutide and Semiclutide. Yeah. And I've discussed briefly elsewhere on the podcast, what the roadmap looks like for how many of these drugs are in the pipeline. Oh, yeah. There seems to be no end in sight. We're going to look back at Semiclutide and say, God, that thing was pedestrian. That's going to happen. So what give us the bear case? Yeah. What should we be concerned with? What should we at least looking out for it? Yeah. I would say, overall at the present time, I would consider these drugs to bEQuite safe. The major issues, Jeff, they'll go slow because of the GI toxicity. Where is the controversy involved? And it's something that I'm involved with myself. When you lose 20 or 30% of your body weight, you lose muscle mass. Now, I just gave a talk on this to one of the pharmaceutical companies that involved in this area. I'm not going to name the name of the pharmaceutical company. But I started off by saying, look, here is now a study with real data. This is a gastric bypass surgery study, room-wide bypass. When the people lost, I think it was 33% of their body weight. And their lean body mass came down quite significantly. One of the problems is people make sure lean body mass, and that's not a real measure of muscle mass. In fact, it can be a very bad measure. You should measure muscle mass. But let's assume that the lean body mass largely reflects the reasonable assumption, muscle mass. So muscle mass came down. Okay? So why is that so bad? How much did it come down? Because if your total body mass came down by 33% buT3Quarters of that mass was fat. And only onEQuarter of that was lean, we would consider that acceptable. And this is where the controversy is. Because no one is really measured muscle mass. That's right. We're doing it. Okay. We will have it definitively. And you're doing that with MR. MRI. Yeah. Okay? So it's gold standard. Now I said, look, in this study, they measured absolute strength. You can do grip strength or leg strength. And absolute strength went down a little bit. Okay? Maybe 25%. Were these patients exercising during the period? No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. No. Then they said, let's express strength for weight loss. Weight. Yeah. Up by 50%. Per app in particular goes up by 50%. And then they said, how far can they walk? They went from walking 200 yards to miles. And then they said, one of the things is how many times can you get up out of a chair in a certain period of time? And it increased like three or fourfold. And they measured your VO2 max. Yeah. Yeah. Of course, which is heavily dependent on weight as well. Yeah, it all got better. But in absolute terms, the VO2 max get better, not necessarily. Yeah. The total VO2, not normalized per kilogram. No, everything got better. Okay. So I said, so why you guys? So it's counterintuitive, by the way. Normally when you lose weight, VO2 max and leaders per minute does not improve, because you have less metabolic tissue. But here, for whatever the reasons are, maybe all of the fat that's pushing on your lungs, so you can't oxygenate the epocardial fat that's not allowed in the heart that contract the fat that's in the heart is causing myocardial lipotoxics, which I believe is real. These things are all changing in a positive way. So again, it's a balance. Yeah. Yeah. So of course, they don't like this. Because if the people in the head all kinds of psychological questionnaires, why weren't they happy with these results? Well, because they, now the companies are all looking at developing drugs that will preserve the muscle mass or increase the muscle mass. But basically what I'm saying is that look, there's a huge, it's lean body mass. We have to say it's reflecting muscle mass. Everything gets better. The patient feels better. They can walk better, they feel stronger, et cetera, et cetera. Why are you so worried about muscle mass? Like I look all these gloomy faces, because they're all developing mice that inhibitors are event. And so then the next slide comes up and says, retort. Here's a good thing. So now if you lose all of this body weight and you improve insulin sensitivity and muscle and you improve it in the heart and they're cardiovascular benefits and you correctly improvement in all of the cardiovascular risk factors, now even though you lost muscle mass, if you've improved insulin sensitivity, there may be an enormous benefit of seeing the improvement in the muscle insulin sensitivity, even though you've lost muscle mass. And they do have some concerns about these drugs, these mice that inhibitors that actually may have some negative effects in the heart. My suggestion is actually you may find a big improvement in my cardiovascular function from these, where are myostat and inhibitors in their development, right? Yes, yes, yes. And of course, I think we've talked about myostat and before on the podcast, when you inhibit myostat and you increase the expression of striated muscle of which cardiac is striated muscle. It was through the event to A and to B system. Do you think that's a more promising pathway than the follow stat and pathway where follow stat and yes, I do. Increasing follow stat and inhibits myostat, but this is a more direct way to go about it. So you can either have their antibodies by my group of to myostat and or you can interfere with the signaling receptor itself. And we think that this can still be effective in a fully developed and mature adult. IMean, clearly this would be effective during development. And we see that in the animal. Yes. How effective is it? Because a lot of the animal work is sort of a character sure stuff. It's knockouts, right? Take myostat and knockouts and they look like body builders. But if you take a mature chicken or a mouse that's two years old and you give it a milestone and antibody, how robust is the response? Even more so, what about in a human? Yeah, exactly. We don't know the answer to that. What the phase two studies, obviously the toxicity passed in fast and phase one. Yes, yeah. I'm not concerned. There doesn't seem to be any adverse effect of these drugs. They wouldn't got through phase two. There are actually some fairly large phase. What's the indication? The indication? The circopenia? I don't know. You know, the FDA, if you have a sarcopenic disease, there are criteria that the FDA has established. If you want to develop a drug that you have to meet certain criteria, I'm not an expert in this. So I can't tell you exactly what these criteria are. But they're pretty well established. Let's say I put you on a gelp1 receptor, agonist in U-Loss 25% of your body weight. And I put you on a mice that inhibitor and that prevented the muscle loss. Didn't increase it, but just prevented it. So relatively. That would be ridiculous. IMean, if you took a 200 pound individual, who's 30% body fat. So they've got 60 pounds of adipose tissue on them. Yep. If you took 25% of their body weight off, you take them down to 150 pounds. But you're telling me, potentially, we prevent any deterioration of lean mass. Yeah. That means they're down to 10 pounds of fat mass on a 150 pound frame. So I'm making an assumption. This is pretty rare. This is remarkable. So let's say that happened. What would be the FDA's criteria? I'm going to give you a approval for this drug. I think the FDA would ask that you've also improved function in some way. Yes. And the function would probably be, have to be determined through absolute strength, not relative strength. It would be my guess. So I don't know the answer to this question. Because the way I think about these drugs is less about that situation. It's more in the, it's more in the sarcopheneic adult. This is the lead, particularly the older person. That's right. That's right. This is the elderly individual who's sarcopheneic, who's fall risk is enormous. Yes. And their risk of fall and morbidity and mortality is very high. And in that individual, I don't think the FDA will be satisfied with simply an increase in lean body mass unless it is accompanied by strength. Now, I think that some of the tests that are used here are silly. I think the six minute walk test should be folded up. This card put in the waist basket and never discussed again. It is such a stupid test. They do it all the time. I know they do. And kind of just makes me want to scream. Yeah. We need much more rigorous tests than a six minute walk test. We need a test that is actually more of a sub maximal test. So if we're testing cardiovascular fitness or some sort of peak aerobic fitness, we have to do more than walking. And if we're testing strength, IMuch prefer grip strength, leg extension, bench press. Again, these can be done with machines. They can be done very safely. But we really need to test strength. Well, you see, you're raising very important in critical issues. Because there are many, many companies that are going ahead with these drugs. That increase muscle mass. But to me, okay, increasing muscle mass, what does that mean? It needs to be some functional trenslation of that. And by the way, there could be other functional benefits that exceed strength. For example, glucose disposal could be a function. It's not that specific. That's the one to put it at the top of the list. That's right. Get rid of the insulin resistance. That they have to, they won't give them credit for that. I don't think. Yeah, but I think that, again, it's harder to tease out because there's more moving pieces. And they might argue there are easier ways to increase insulin sensitivity in glucose disposal. But one way to think about this is to go back to what if you did it the old fashion way? But if you got in the gym and lifted a bunch of weights, that's been done. Yeah. And it increases insulin sensitivity and functional strength. And so thEQuestion is, can we replicate that pharmacologically? And that is actually exactly the way I ended my discussion to these people. I showed them what resistance trening did. And if you could show what resistance trening did with your muscle mass increase, then you'd have something. You need to design this that is appropriately. And as I said, as you said, I don't know what the criteria are going to be that the FDA uses to judge these things. They do have a sarcopenia set of criteria. But that's a very different group of people that we're talking about. But this comes and hits on one of the things you asked me earlier. What about the lean person who's 80 years of age? Is this the right drug for that person? I don't know. Maybe not. But now let's say you have a healthy 80 year old person and everybody in the family lives to be 105. And they have diabetes. Well, they're at risk to, you know, the toxic effects of hyperlaseemia would it be reasonable to treat that person? We know this powerful effects on the beta cell. I would say it would bEQuite reasonable, but I think you need to monitor what's happening to their weight in other features.

=== FILE: Prostate Cancer： Radiation vs. Surgery ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [Mok14TQkTs8].txt ===

Let's talk about prostate, which is obviously also the sort of the bread and butter of the field. So first off, which patients are typically being radiated? So that, the answer to that has been evolving. There was a time as recently as probably 20 years ago where we only treated patients who were probably medically and operable that the neurologist would say, hey, you know, this is a high risk and it's the patient. Let's send them to Dr. Mata for radiation. And that's a big reason why a lot of the older data was not as good for radiation because of the patient selection criteria. But in the modern era as we've gotten more and more precise and our side effects have gone down and our cure rates have gone up. Now it's pretty much wide open. We're pretty much anybody who's eligible for surgery would also be eligible for radiation. So there's not that big of a divergence as their once was. So I know see you've gotten to know Ted Shafer. So let's talk about kind of a patient that comes in to see Ted for a biopsy. They've got a glisin 3 plus 4. And then another patient who's a glisin 4 plus 4 or 4 plus 5 or something like that. Right. How does that patient navigate their way through the system as to whether or not they need radiation or should they undergo surgery and does endrogen deprivation therapy necessarily come with radiation or is there a scenario where you undergo radiation. But you don't require endrogen deprivation sure. So to answer your last question first, endrogen deprivation for high risk disease is certainly standard of care. Glisin 8 or higher for sure. The glisin 7s are always a sort of a gray zone. So for 4 plus 3 with high volume disease typically also do get concurrent and adjuvant endrogen suppression along with radiation. But one of the things that's really changing now is I know Ted talked a lot about it with the decipher score where they can look at the chromosomes of the actual cancer cells and have a much more granular view of exactly are they are they truly high risk. I can you maybe say that this one 3 plus 4 is more like a 3 plus 3 so we can refer a lot of the 3 plus 4 is now with the decipher test and there's also an AI test. I knew you had a really interesting discussion with your AI expert and I wasn't too long ago called Artera and we're using that that's actually in the NCC and guidelines now so that Artera test can help us differentiate between a unfavorable and a favorable intermediate risk patient. And essentially actually I treated my own father not too long ago. He was the first person I did this on. The Artera test is essentially they just use the actual images of the H&E slides that were already done for the pathologist and it's interpreted by a machine machine learning computer that has been trened on hundreds of thousands of prostate images from the old RT OG studies the 94s all the all the stuff that was done back in the 90s. And it cannot come back and say okay very much like decipher it can say that this is a 3 plus 4 but it's a favorable or an unfavorable person and that's in that subgroup. And so because of that we can stratify better and actually tailor it to where maybe a 3 plus 4 doesn't need energy and ablation at all. And maybe even some 4 plus 3 so they come back low enough on the scale where you could make you also have to talk about the side effects and whatnot but the standard of care was always to give concurrent energy and ablation for intermediate risk. And now we're able to really take some of those people out of the equation with these new studies. And is the main selling point because most patients just want things taken out right I have cancer taken out. So is the reason that a person might select radiation therapy, especially if it comes with the endogen deprivation therapy. Because of the sexual function and you're in every like what's the main advantage those are number one and number two. And that's the lack of incontinence and lack of impotence but of course when you have energy and ablation that sort of clouds things a little bit. But typically the number one thing we see is a patients who don't want to deal with diapers. And for the most part although incontinence is still described to some degree in the literature and my personal experience I don't think I've seen a single patient who came in continent who left with anything less than that there's no pads there's no nothing. Also being you know with our as I talked about with breast cancer we can also focus very precisely on the prostate itself. So the dose to the pain I'll bulb the dose to the rectum the dose to the prostate to the bladder are so low now that the side effect profile is essentially zero from a radiation standpoint. Maybe having hot flashes from the endogen deprivation and decreased libido and fatigue as you know but on the radiation side because we have all these tricks now very much like with breast the way we can avoid the heart and the lungs. In the case of the prostate we can almost completely avoid the bladder and the rectum and even the the pain I'll bulb now. So thEQuality of life those are the reasons why people tend to choose radiation. And I know we've talked about this before you're just not seeing the proctatitis. Almost none in fact now I know I think a Ted and mentioned in his last talk there's a there's a gel spacer that that is often inserted. It's an injection that's done trensparently and it separates the the rectum from the from the bladder. But in my years of doing this when you're very diligent about how you do this very much like a you know you like a surgeon pays attention to the detail so to we. I can actually trim the dose off of the posterior prostate and just makes make sure the dose fall off between the posterior prostate and the anterior recto wall is so rapid that the anterior recto wall is always going to get some dose. But usually it's not clinically significant. And and what we do to to manifest to make sure that that is is a daily thing because we're talking about treating patients from multiple weeks. We actually coach the patient to come in with a full bladder and an empty bowel and by being diligent about that an imaging daily to double check that in fact the bowel is emptying the bladder is full that it that allows those two organs to separate from the prostate. And even a few millimeters of separation is all we need to take advantage of our modern focused radiation beams. What about patients that are inoperable. First of all, and you know what leads to a patient being inoperable. And how do they show up. So you know typically the urologists have already screened the patient because that everyone's first first exposure is going to be to what the urologist tells them and luckily in this day and age I'm lucky we have. People much like Ted who are very open and who are very. Open to not just doing surgery but you actually look at the other options present everything to the patient. But typically a patient who maybe was medically an operable will certainly come to me. But even somebody who maybe is on the borderline who wants to watch the both sides of the token. A general urologist will send them to a surgical specialist and to me and we'll go through all the pros and cons of everything and really what it comes down to to not to not to you know. Belabor the point it comes out of two things you want you want to be cured curators key. But quality of life is equally important if not more important for most people. And so now that cure rates with our modern focused radiation allow it to get such a high dose into the prostate. We can say that they're essentially equivalent to surgery so we don't have that deficit like we did 20 years ago when our fields weren't as precise it was sort of the shotgun approach versus our you know sniper approach now. Because the cure rates are better and it really comes down to thEQuality of life changes.

=== FILE: Protein Guidance： Amino Acids, Quality, & Intake ｜ Jeff Cavaliere, Mike Boyle & Gabrielle Lyon, D.O. [bJLUchygaUg].txt ===

What type of guidance are you giving your patients on protein? Is there any difference between men and women and are you differentiating it based on age? A. G. S. Men and Women. No. When we talk about protein, typically we talk about one thing, but it's 20 different amino acids, nine of which are essential. We actually eat for those nine essentials. There is a lot of nuance around protein in general and what it does, each of those amino acids do something different. For example, losing, which is, I know, our favorite amino acid is critical for muscle, for muscle protein synthesis, but something like three-ning is important for a mutant production in the gut. When you are eating a lower protein diet, the organs, well, I suppose I should start with why we eating protein. We need about 250 grams a day. We recycle much of that, we don't eat that. A portion of that probably the largest portion, maybe 75% of that goes towards this real tissue, for turnover and maintenance. Maybe 25% of that goes to muscle, but we have to continue to get these essential amino acids so that we can maintain rebuilding and repairing, which the efficiency of that changes as we age. Anabolic resistance, protein efficiency decreases. Those are, or that is one reason why we need dietary protein, just to maintain the tissue integrity in the structure. Women and men do not need, at this time, from what we know in the literature, a different amount of protein is not specific. It's body weight, specific. The minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be 100 grams at a minimum. Men or women, that would be the starting place, because if you are say 115 pound woman, and you are following the RDA at 20 grams per kg, what is that? 45 grams of protein or so? That's not enough. Part of the failure there is that we have to recognize protein is different amino acids. And so when we talk about muscle health, we need to get enough loose to support muscle health. And that is probably the recommendations through the three grams a day. It's probably four optimal health around eight or nine. And how do you get folks to think about that, right? Which is, because now all of a sudden you get into dramatic differences in terms of protein source. So if you, I don't really think we should go down the PDCAS pathway necessarily for everybody today, but just in terms of understanding that foods are created different, right? So you can look at an ingredient label of something that says 30 grams of protein, you can look at another thing that says 30 grams of protein, but they don't list out the amino acids. They don't tell you that this one has more loose seen or more methionine in this one doesn't. But there are certain themes that we know, right? We know that dairy-derived protein, beef-derived protein and egg-derived protein seem to have the highest amount of the right amino acids. Or let's just say the more important amino acids. So when you're saying to that person, hey, I want you to eat a minimum of 100 grams per day. Does it come with the caveat of assuming you're getting your protein sources here? And what you're pointing out is protein quality. The there are plants, horses of protein and there are animal sources of protein and just from hard-fast biological numbers, we consider a high-quality protein to be eggs and dairy-fish, chicken, any of the animal source proteins, the lower quality proteins would come from plants. When we educate our patients in the practice, we have them choose. And we really don't focus on plant proteins as a source of protein. While they do have amino acids and certainly a combination is wonderful, we like to focus on plant foods for fiber. And let's say we take out soy, but we really want to focus on high-quality animal source foods because listen, it makes up, let's say, makes up 30% of our diet, nearly 100% of our calcium are bio-available iron and zinc, selenium, come from these animal-based foods. And while we talk about protein, we should also talk about nutrient quality. Whether someone decides to get their protein from plants or animals, it isn't just about protein. It is also about those nutrients of concern for women like bio-available iron, for kids bio-available iron, nutrients that primarily come from animal sources. I just think are really important. I think I'm not talking about anything wrong with plant-based proteins, but we eat plants for fiber and phytonutrens. And so presumably you have some patients as I do who are vegetarians, and in some cases it's ethical, religious, whatever the reason is. What are some of the things that you, and let's go one step further, and let's go, because at least, most vegetarians will at least be able to consume the dairy, portion, but if you have someone who's vegan and who is purely looking at animal sources of protein, how much of an uphill battle is that? Well, the challenge is the carbohydrate consumption. So I was listening to what Jeff was saying, and who's absolutely right, he could have, you were saying that you have maybe 100 grams of carbs, and you have no problem with it. And in the end, did you say that? Well, IMean, you probably calculated it in your head, but yeah, that's, that I can do that. And for someone like him who is super active, he is able to dispose of those carbohydrates, but a normal person, our carbohydrate threshold, if you calculate the disposal from skeletal muscle organ systems, it is not much. It is about 40 grams in a two-hour period. Anything above, say 40 or 50 grams, in a non-exercising adult, will result in a robust insulin response. We do not want that, we do not want to be utilizing insulin to help support glucose. We want to use activity or have the health of our skeletal muscle to be able to balance that. And I suppose what we're talking about is carbohydrates, and unless you are highly active, like you are, then we also have to think about the carb portion of this. And designing a diet typically for us, we think a lot about a one-to-one ratio of protein to carbs at amel, depending. Let me think about that in myself. That's pretty tough. You have to be pretty deliberate about withholding carbohydrates. And IMean, I'm probably eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight, so it's not like I'm skipping on protein. Yeah, maybe I, maybe I, I don't know. I would, but you're not a balladly healthy. And that goes back to this hierarchy of how we should do. I think that's a longer leash if you're active. Absolutely. When we make protein decisions and the practice when we're designing a diet, it's age, it's activity, and it's metabolic health. If you are metabolically healthy, then you can tolerate, there's no problem, right? Carbs aren't the enemy. But once we find out someone is metabolically unhealthy, which you can see from blood work, then you have to begin, you know, you don't change your protein amount. Because as you restrict calories, you keep protein the same or higher, because you must protect lean tissue. And also, it's, it's, better. IMean, we've seen this in the data for a long period. What about overweight patients? So if you, let's say you're a patient who's, let's say it's a man, 250 pounds. And I know we're gonna talk about body fat, because I'm actually super interested in what you, what you have to say about that. But let's just assume you do a dex on this guy. You don't need to do a dex, by the way. You can look at him. You know, you know this guy's carrying way too much fat. But the dex it just gives you some numbers. The guy's 40% body fat, okay? So when you're trying to tell him how much protein to eat, are you doing it based on an ideal body weight, or are you doing it based on his 250 pounds that he's carrying around? It's target body weight. Okay. So you're gonna say, I'm targeting for you 16% body fat. Let's calculate how much lean tissue you have it. What would be your ideal body weight at 16% body fat? And that's what we're gonna target you at. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Radiation Dose from Medical Imaging： X-Rays, CTs, and Mammograms Explained ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [ipZHLIKcAqM].txt ===

So let's talk about some types of x-rays that people are familiar with and give a sense of radiation dose. And I'm also curious as to how much this depends on the size of the individual. In other words, does a person that is larger receive more radiation for this same test layer? Sure, and they certainly do because you have to use more energy to get into a larger person having said that there's two different things. And what we normally deal with when I'm talking about dose to a tumor is the dose actually at that spot versus a whole body dose, which is a very different metric. And so for someone who I'm treating with say eight weeks of radiation for prostate cancer, their prostate may get 80 gray in 1.82 gray fractions per day. But that's literally only to a small volume roughly the size of the prostate gland itself. And when you even get just a few millimeters away from that, that dose gets cut in half. And then it's exponentially lower because the intensity of the radiation varies with the square of the distance. So as you get even a couple of feet away that goes down significantly. But typically a patient who is getting 80 gray, if 80 gray was a whole body dose, that would obviously be lethal. But the whole body dose is more like a few milligrams in that sort of situation. So we typically don't see like full body sequelaire anything from doing even the heavy duty diagnostic treatment. Now for the CT scan, we almost consider that negligible in our area because again, I'm dealing with a mega voltage, high dose cancer, killing radiation. And so when they get a CT scan, which is going to be just a few millimeters or a milligray, that's almost considered rounding air versus what they're getting to the tumor. And let's take something like a chest X range. So chest X range, again, people should anchor to this idea for what it's worth. And we can come back to this. And our C says, hey, limit your annual radiation to 50 milly c-verns. You've got 2% of that just being alive because you've happened to go outside and exposed to the sun. So the other, you know, 98% might come through flying diagnostic. Let's say you fly a lot, that might get you up another 10%. So let's talk about a chest X rate. You've got a cough, you go to your doctor, they do a chest X rate. That's how many milly c-verns for a normal size person. Normal size person, it's a fraction is probably less than one milly c-vern actually. So it's significantly, it's something that where, you know, people who are concerned about things like diagnostic mammograms in all every year, you're still talking about maybe one milly c-vern, even a little bit less than that was some of the newer machines. And so you're in a zone where it is, you know, there's a principle we talk about it's called alara, a, a, a, a, a, which is as low as a reasonably achievable. And that's been the sort of the mantra for our radiation safety people, the nuclear regulatory commission and whatnot that you want to keep things as low as possible. But having said that when you're talking about numbers of less than 50 milly c-verns, that's kind of an arbitrary number. So it's not like getting, you know, people who've got, I should have maybe gotten a chest actually when I had my cough last time. But I just, I just don't want to do it. I don't want the exposure. But it's so minimal in terms of biological effect that we really don't even really worry about those, even if it's getting one of them a month or so. And a big reason for that is a lot of these numbers, especially the 50 milly c-verns number is extrapolated from higher exposure rates. And so it's so there's something called a linear, no threshold model or LNT. And that's been written about extensively. And that's what we're all taught in radiobiology and residency. One fourth of my radiation trening and residency was actually radiation biology in addition to clinical oncology and radiation physics. But so the linear, no threshold model is what states that even, you know, we know based on all the data from, you know, from a nuclear fallout from Chernobyl from three mile island of course from Hiroshima, Nagasaki from the bombs that at a certain dose exposure, there's a certain risk of developing a cancer or any other endpoint whether it be dermatitis or bone marrow suppression or all these numbers are well sorted. But when you try to extrapolate lower, so you take, maybe say a dose of say one full severt of the thousand milly c-vern, you start extrapolating that lower and lower to where you're looking at like 150 milly c-verns, the linear model assumes that there's some level of damage even if those lower levels. But in reality, there's actually a threshold. There is the LNT which is linear, no threshold has actually been proven to be actually erroneous. And so at very low dose is it's actually been shown that there's almost no incidence of any sort of biological damage. And there's also it's controversial, but there's animal studies, so there may be a hormesis effect at low low doses like that. So let me get down below. Don't be a little bit of what that means because that's sure. That's obviously going to come back later in our discussion. So, you know, regular listeners of your podcast and all about hormesis and you talk about that in the exercise realm and it called plunges and so on as and whatnot. But the whole idea is doing some degree, a small amount of cellular damage when the body repairs that it actually comes back stronger than it was without the exposure in the first place. And in animal studies, they've actually shown it very low dose as we're talking about single digit milliseverage here that they've seen in mouse bones, for example, increased osteoclast activity. Our excuse me, decreased osteoclast and increased osteoblastic activity. So the bones actually heal quicker. And some of the soft tissue as well has been has been shown to actually recuperate and much in the way you see and the hormesis from other causes. And that's not something that we're claiming is widely accepted, but there is a lot of data showing that that is certainly a possibility which goes against this classic LNT model. And the LNT model itself, the guy that won the Nobel Prize for it in the 1940s, did this all on fruit flies and his work was disproven over the years after that. And so a lot of this low dose radiation safety stuff we have is certainly a a noble goal to keep the dose as low as possible. And when we get down to these millisceverage, I think that they're probably a little bit overblown in terms of the actual negative effects on the human body. When I think about where, for example, something like a CT NGO gram used to be, right? So that that would easily have exposed a person to 25 millisevers to do CT scan of the heart. Sure. You're doing it, you know, slowing the heart down, getting the contrast in there, et cetera. Today, they're really fast scanners. The best of the best scanners are somewhere between one and three millisevers for that same procedure. Sure. Certainly favor having patients get it's, you know, getting a scan with that, acknowledging though that I don't have amazing data to point to to say that the 25 milliseverat one versus just to make the math easy, the 2.5 milliseverat one, right, tenfold difference, poses any difference in risk. Exactly. Um, what, yeah, how how do you think about that? Would you say what would be your confidence in saying that 2.5 is not actually better than 25 from a cancer risk standpoint? So again, going back to that, a lot of principle, there's not a whole lot of data at these levels. I certainly would strive to keep it as low as possible, which is what that mantra says. But I would go with the machine that has the best resolution. And if 25 is if the radiologist tells me that that image is significantly better than a 2.5 milliseverat exposure. Some of the older machines are just less efficient. You may get at better image with the, with the lower dose. I think that dose is pretty negligible. It's really wood. So you're saying, I don't really care if it's 25 or 2.5 is well. And the good news is these brand new scanners are faster, which is why they're giving you less radiate exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And they seem to have better resolution. And the same thing implies that's on the diagnostic side. And on the therapeutic side where I am, our machines are called linear accelerators. And there's a similar progression as, you know, we, as we've been able to focus the beams more and more precisely that actually caught, it's a modulation of the beam. And you have a lot of photons being showered in the general vicinity of a patient, but you're blocking out everything except for a small area to treat. And the same way the newer machines do definitely have a lower exposure to the, you know, Eastern the room in general. So what should people be thinking about in terms of extreneous radiation? When should people be saying to their doctors, hey, do I really need this? You know, for example, when you go to the dentist every year, right, typically want to do a set of X-rays, is that anything people should be worried about? Not at all. Not in the least. I would certainly not skimp on dental X-rays, mammograms, if it's someone that needs cardiac workups and things like that. The potential, the risk benefit ratio is so heavily in favor of doing these studies that I don't even think twice about them. And when, and I think part of this comes from, IMean, I've been doing this 25 years now. I have so many patients who've been through, when the vitamin come to me as a cancer patient, they've been through so many CT scans. And nowadays we do PET scans. We follow up with annual PET scans after the fact that in which are not only the CT, but you've got a radioactive isotope that's being injected into them. And we just really don't see now. There are certain situations where you are giving a, like, for example, an intravenous therapeutic dose of radiation, safer thyroid cancer or things like that. There's certain new, uh, thermostics that are out there. In those situations, you have to be concerned because they can get into the multiple, you know, again, to a seaver range. But when you're in these millisiever ranges, it's such, it's so important to do these studies. The benefits of mammograms are so proven. Dental X rays. I don't really think twice about them. Okay. Um, by the way, just on the PET scan, the rate, what is, so if you do a PET CT, for example, which again, these are not routinely done. These are typically done in oncology patients only. Um, but just for my own understanding, a retox, working 50 to 100 millisieverts if you're doing a whole body PET CT. I think you can be in that range, yes. Okay. That's exactly right. And so PET CT is a relatively new, but up until maybe a decade ago, the PET scan was independent of the CT. They would do them separately. But the data is so much better when you have the anatomical CT data overlay with the PET that whatever that extra dosage is, I think it's well worth it in terms of the resolution of what we're able to see and what we're able to gain from that information.

=== FILE: Radiation Fallacies： What Is Radiation, Understanding Risk, Exposure & Dose ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [fyFcv-_OXuU].txt ===

I don't think we can have this discussion without giving people some understanding of what radiation is. And I would like us to do it in a way that's both rigorous enough that we can really get into some of the science of this, but also get into it gently enough. Right. People that maybe don't remember high school physics well enough, can come along for the ride and not get lost. But once we absolutely get into grays and milly seaverts and all that stuff, I want everyone to be fluent when we start talking about doses. Right. Right. Right. So, radiation itself, the term itself has kind of got a bit of a negative connotation, but basically it's part of the electromagnetic spectrum. So, you know, we have everything on the one in the range of increasing energy of photons, which are just particles of light. On the one end you have radio waves and microwave and the other end you've got in for a head and I'm excuse me, you've got ultraviolet and then you get into x-rays and radio waves. And now in the middle of all that is the visible spectrum. So when you see, I'm sure everyone's seeing the graphs where you've got the rainbow red green blue that we can see, the human eye can only perceive a tiny little narrow spectrum. And then on the on the low end, the radio waves are wave lengths. These are actually wave lengths and energies which are, which are the very low end energies you have things like radio waves. And in that situation, both radio waves and microwave are what they call non-ionizing. And you've talked about this on some of your previous podcast and you had a really good one with Atari Walla from Pranuevo, where he went to really, it was really nice in-depth discussion, but essentially the bottom line is that the low energy stuff that is non-ionizing cannot damage tissue. And that goes all the way up to visible light. Then when you start going to the higher energy x-rays, that's when you get both x-rays as well as ultraviolet light. And then the high and then the higher particles stuff. But basically the higher you go in the energy, in the energy, in the energetics of the particles, the more likely the exposure to these packets of energy are going to cause damage to your DNA. And why is it that the shorter the wave length? Because that's what's changing as you go from radio waves to micro waves to visible waves to ultraviolet. Why is it that is the wave length gets shorter the energy gets bigger? Yeah, I'm not sure what the reason is they're just they are inversely proportional to each other. I don't know that I guess I'm probably not enough of a physicist to answer their question precisely. But having said that, that is the the the the characteristic of this. And in doing so that's one of the big reasons why all the fallacies about your cell phone giving a brain cancer and all are just that their their fallacies because even having a cell phone on your on your ear for hours a day that's it's non ionizing radiation and standing too close to micro wave oven again non ionizing radiation. So that cannot damage yourselves the way that the other radio wave is too long that's right. The microwave is too long. It doesn't have the energy you can stand on it all you want. It can heat but it can't damage. Correct, it can excite the molecules, but it won't actually eject an electron which is what what causes an ion to form which is why it's called ionizing. And that's where we deal with on the I'm on the therapeutic end. So diagnostic radiologists deal with lower energy x-rays than we do the very high energy x is what we use in our linear accelerators to treat cancer. So that's the big difference there is kilovoltege versus megavoltege, but all of these are ionizing. Okay. So let's talk about how these are measured, how do wEQuantify them? Because people on the podcast have heard me talk about this I suspect we talk a lot about calcium scores and CT angiograms and PET CT. And so I think the frequent listener will have been somewhat familiar with how we talk about how to dose those things. Right. So radiation dosage there's a couple of different terms that we've talked about. The main one we talk about when we're talking about patient treatment is the unit called the gray and that's an SI unit that essentially is jewels of energy per kilogram of tissue. So that's what they call absorbed dose. So that's in tissue. Whereas when you're talking about exposure in the general in the air and in general exposures in the air and that's we usually use the term sievered for that. And actually both those terms for the most part are equivalent. It's just that the sievered itself will take into account if you have different types of x-rays, different qualities of x-rays that have different degrees of potential to be ionizing that they have a quality factor you'll multiply by. But for the most part we use the term gray when we're talking about for example when I treat a prostate patient they're going to get somewhere between 70 and 80 gray. But it's fractionated into small daily doses as to be tolerable for the body. And then when we talk about like millisevers like we're going to that's really just measure of exposure not absorbed dose in tissue per say. And what's the relationship between a gray and a millisevered is at a one to one. Yeah. So a gray and a seaver to technically a lot of it. So the gray also if anyone's kind of old school you read you listen to older stuff you heard the term rads. What if you've heard a rads. So one rad is equal to one centigrey. 100 rad is a gray. It's just an SI unit versus the old the older terminology. And a seaver is the equivalent only it's in air not in tissue. But a seaver to is a gray correct correct. So when you give 70 gray right you're giving 70 severs or 70,000 millisevers over the course of the treatment. That's correct. Okay. Yeah. And just so people can kind of anchor this to things that are familiar. Living at sea level exposes us to one to two millisevers of ionizing radiation a year. That's exactly what I'm wanted. And then of course at the altitude it could be double that. That's really live in Denver. It's easily double that or triple that correct. Just another thing for comparison. A pilot who spends a lot of time traversing the north pole, right, which is typically how they're going to fly. They're not going to go all the way around the center of the earth. Might get another three or four millisevers. It's quite a bit quite a bit. That's right per trip actually. So that's that can add up. And I was actually talking to a pilot friend about this. And they don't really have any sort of a limitation in terms of total exposure that requires them to be to be out of the to be taken out of the air. A lot of them, they're forced to retire at 65. I think there's the commercial requirement. But there's really they don't really monitor the actual exposure to that level to where they it's that. And I think the reason they don't really use that as a limiting factor for the amount of work is really just that even though they get a higher dose there's been no proven increase in cancer and those types of populations even in flight attendants or anything like that the same way that the people in Denver of the people here in Texas don't have any higher incidence of cancer. Now the NRC recommends that a person not be exposed to more than 50, I believe 50 millisevers of radiation in a year. Correct. Now someone like me that that's easy right unless I'm out there getting a lot of diagnostic radiology or of course undergoing therapeutic radiation treatment. But for someone like you who has to set patients up or one of your text is that are you guys approaching that level of exposure? Not at all and so it depends on what type of radiation we do. Now typically for our external beam machines we're doing it all remotely from behind a shielded wall. So the vault in which the machine is placed is custom built just to shield based on the angles that the machine can move through if there's like a direct angle where the machine is hitting a wall that wall has to be built 10 times thicker than the walls where the beam can't reach. So essentially our dose went treating remotely as close to zero. So we keep film badges and we've been it's almost become kind of a joke that when we're not doing breaky therapy which is dealing with actual live radioactive sources, our exposures super low, almost negligible really. But back when I was in residency doing a lot of GYN implants and things like that where you're putting CZM or a radium actually into the body cavities and you're actually up there putting it in up close we had a ring badge on and we would certainly as a resonance we'd rotate every month but if we didn't rotate some of the faculty actually got pretty high doses. And any idea what the sequelae of that was? I know a couple of folks the ones who did a lot of GYN therapy especially in the older days were talking about in the 80s and the 70s where you could actually see dermatitis on their hands from doing that because from the hand exposure. One of my faculty members actually had a giant cell tumor of the bone in her finger and again this is after decades and decades of doing it. It was a benign growth but that was a real thing. There's a lot of data out there especially people who were dealing in x-ray for dentistry and stuff like that back in the day when they didn't have shielding or anything like that that they would get dermatitis. The most common thing you'd see is skin irritation in that sort of situation. And dermatitis and even some kind of chronic flaking and things like that.

=== FILE: Radiation Fear vs. Reality： What the Public Gets Wrong ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [hdloS9_1nrc].txt ===

So we've talked a lot about radiation. We've touched a little bit on the idea of radio phobia, but does it stem from nuclear accidents as that largely where radio phobia comes from? I've done a deep dive into this year, which goes along with all these benign cases that I'm treating now, they're essentially arthritis tendonized, which we'll talk about. And what's really interesting is that this radio phobia is largely a U.S. space phenomenon, because the first case is, the first X-rays were discovered in 1895 by Ranking. In 1898, there was the first case described of actually radiating a, both arthritis type things, our anklosing, spondylitis, or other arthritis, and also tumors, even back then we had no idea how to work, but the case is pre-1900, they were already being used for that. And then in the subsequent now 120 plus years, we have this divergence where Germany and the U.K. are using, and all of Europe really, are using radiation routinely for arthritis in tendonitis, but in the U.S., it seems to be a basic, there was a lot of a nuclear phobia, the Cold War, like you mentioned, but another thing that's been talked about, there's a guy named Jason Becht that has a really good podcast on the subject, he's out of Vermont. Standard oil, the Rockefeller's, and I'll actually had a massive lobby group that were actually actively promoting oil over nuclear power plants. And the amount of spread went from just an energy, an energy into the general zeitgeist of our entire country. And so at that time, the radio phobia just caught on, and it was, of course, bolstered by World War II and seeing what happened in Hiroshima, Nagasaki. And then on top of that, you have the, you probably heard about the Radium Dial workers. There was a movie, and it's actually that's called the Radium Girls. These are essentially women in the 1920s that were using radio luminescent phosphorous paint to paint the watch. Being a watch guy, you'll probably appreciate that. But they literally, that was the only source of elimination they had. So in order to keep the brush is very fine, they were literally dipping it in the radium paint and then after each brush, they were licking the brush to keep the tips real fine. And so they were ingesting bits of radium. And so there were a number of cases where they ended up getting the radium is metabolized like calcium. So it was actually incorporating into the mandible and they were getting osteoradiome and a process of the jaw and things like that. So all of these different phenomena kind of added together became a big deal because prior to that, people were using the radiation for all kinds of crazy things. I was in sun tan lotions and waters and there was something called the Goridine that they were using for ED that you could know, topical saves that had radiation in them. And there was literally no end to it. And then when all this sequela started to come out that, hey, maybe this isn't such a good idea, that's when things took off. But now that we look back, the reality of it is is that a lot of that was really overblown, even so much so that those radium dial painters, which we hear about this from day one in our residency trening, there was only a small percentage. I got in 50 out of 1,500 roughly that actually had toxic sequela. So most of them didn't. Is there a way to quantify how much exposure they had to raise? And that's the thing, you know, they've lived in different ways, but there have been some basic ideas. Again, we're talking about it was probably at that era, was probably a couple of millisever to that particular area, but it was daily for decades. And so part of the reason why they, if you actually look at the numbers, it was probably a super high exposure. When you spread that out, there was such a long period of time. That's sort of the general tren, like IMentioned earlier, it's not just the dose, it's the dose over time, it's, you know, the denominator matters a lot. And so that's why most of them actually did very well. They even used to use radium internal, the internal nasal applications in the 1920s to 1940s, essentially a radiation equivalent of a ton of cellulectomy radenoidectomy. And it was done in something like a half million to two million children in the US and even in the armed forces, it was done routinely back then. And there's been very few adverse sequela that were reported, I don't even know what the dose was, but it was high. So there's a lot of cases where the exposure based on our 50 millisever, where we talked about would just make people follow their chair, but the actual reality of it is is that many times the actual end results aren't as bad as we had expected. Again, hearing you say this, Andre, the listeners are gonna be thinking, what? Yes, because we're all so brainwashed into believing that radiation is horrible. Right. Right. I can tell you so many stories, I got patients who have had to treat, I had actually had a guy who was involved in nuclear testing at the Los Alamos in the 1940s. He's passed away now, but I saw him in his 80s, so this was in the early 2000s. This was 60 years after that. They had very little monitoring back then, but he was close enough to feel the heat from a thermonuclear bomb. And by the time I saw him, he had had thyroid cancer as you would expect. He'd had a one or two lymphoma, I think I ended up treating his prostate. So he'd had at leasT4 or five different malignancies, but the guy was as functional as most 80 year olds are. The guy was still walking and talking and doing just fine. And it's actually seems that when you look at the population studies that were done outside the blast at Hiroshima Nagasaki, when you've got the initial concentration, everyone dies from the thermonuclear energy. But as you get several miles out, not only are the cancer rates actually roughly the same as the background, you actually see again evidence of hormesis where you have some patients in whom, or maybe not hermesis, but some sort of radio protection where you actually have lower rates of leukemia and thyroid cancer when you get a few miles farther out, than you did in the general population. So it's all very much dose dependent, time dependent, but I think the human body, we were evolved really to handle this to a larger degree than we realized, because again, mammalian DNA, we came from the background of the animal kingdom where there was tons of exposure from natural cosmic rays and whatnot. And then our predecessors had to be able to survive. Our DNA had to be somewhat resilient in order to get to this point. And I think it's more resilient than a lot of people give it credit for.

=== FILE: Radiation for Arthritis, Tendonitis, and Injuries： The Unexpected Benefits ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [7ogQxzGKFDo].txt ===

Let's use that as a bridge to talking about using radiation to enhance tissue. So this first came up maybe a year or two ago when I was lamenting. It must have been two years ago, I guess, because I was kind of lamenting my Achilles tendon, which I wouldn't say it was injured. I just had a little bit of tendon, I guess. It was just bugging me a little bit, you and me both, brother. And I'm exactly what you mean. And so it was through that discussion that we got into what we're talking about now, which seemed crazy, you know, I just decided I didn't feel like driving to use them all the time to undergo therapy and my Achilles is fine now. I just been sort of standard therapy but. I've sent a few patients to you who have had similar injuries. Both high hamstring tendonopathy's Achilles tendonopathy's. So talk a little bit about this idea. Sure. How prevalent is this type of treatment in Europe? How prevalent is it here? Right. So prior to probably 1970 or maybe 1980, it was very prevalent, even in the US. It was very widely done. So this is kind of everyone that talked about it now. It sounds like I'm doing something experimental and radical. But if you go over to Germany, again, going back to Ankelosing, Spondylitis, Papers in 1988, they've done, they do something like I hair between 20 and 50,000 patients a year in Germany and there's tons of, it's mostly observational studies. It's a very few randomized trials. But low dose radiation for tendonitis, osteoarthritis, plantar fasciitis, all the entities you can think of, birthitis. A low dose of radiation has a similar anti-inflammatory effect to what you would get from a colonel. Let's define the dose. So now we're talking about very low dose, meaning 50 centigrey or 50 rads, given six times over two weeks. So three gray, 0.5 times six, it's three gray, two of the affected joint, and using a very low energy machine. So this is especially in the sick case, as someone who's got a hand you're talking about electron beam rate. We just make sure I got that straight. You were giving 40 gray total to a breast. And now for the Achilles, you're giving how much? Six, three gray, six fractions of half a gray each. Okay, got it. So all six fractions combined is about the dose of one fraction for a typical cancer. Got it. That'll kind of give you the idea. And giving it in a superficial fashion where especially if it's a hand, you only have a couple of send it maybe a couple of centimeters of thickness. So we use what's called electron beam therapy. The same linear accelerator when the electrons go and hit the tungsten target and make photons. If you remove the tungsten target, you just get direct electrons. And electron energy can be modulated to where you can treat a superficial skin cancer. You can treat a knuckle. I can treat a temple squamous cell and not go into the brain. So these superficial things, and in the old days before they had linear accelerates, I told this goes back to the turn of the previous century, they had ortho voltage machines. And these basically created kilo voltage x-rays, we use now. And all they could do was superficial stuff back then. And that's where it works very well. The dose it just changed tremendously. But these days with the modern, the biggest data comes at a Germany half a gray three times a week. Monday, Wednesday, Friday for two weeks just to the effect to joint. And it has an anti-inflammatory effect very similar to either a, either a court zone shot or an insect. How many weeks is the course? Two weeks. That's a Monday, Wednesday, Friday, six treatments. And the protocol is what we typically follow. The German protocol is to wait 12 weeks. And you usually see depending on the joint, summer between a 60 and 80 percent success rate where the pain is, if not zero, at least markedly decreased. And then after 12 weeks, the German protocol allows for a retreatment. And then that point you get up to 90 plus percent success in terms of reducing pain. And this is for joint arthritis. arthritis, tendonitis, bursitis, plantar fascia. This is a really big one now that we're doing a bunch of. I've done probably close to 70 cases across the board, which is a story markable because anybody who's had it, you know, I had it once back in med school. So about 25 years ago. Did you get it treated? It was it just, uh, not just resolved went to PT and rolled on golf balls and did the usual thing. But it, you know, it took months to get better. It's such a big deal. So you're saying, so of the patients that are coming to see you with plantar fasciitis, how many of these patients? How long have they been hurting first of all? Many times for years. And in fact, my biggest cohort recently which is still relatively new, haven't done thousands of patients like I can speak from decades of experience with cancer. We're talking about, you know, dozens to hundreds. A couple of surgeons that were having trouble standing and operating. They literally couldn't, you know, couldn't perform their normal duties. Six treatments to the to the fascia and they're walking like nothing ever happened. How long after the last treatment did it take for them to experience? In the case of plantar fasciitis, it was almost immediate. Like within within a week, I have other cases, especially when we do like knee arthritis. If there's a lot more pathology going on in a knee, uh, I treated my own achilles, which I can tell you about took two months or so. So it was almost, I was almost wondering if it was going to work or not. I was my own first patient before I offered anybody I treated my own treat. I was a physician heal myself, right? And so I literally jumped on the table because a colleague of mine had posted about it that he did his, he's a radiation I call it just been Florida. He tried it out. And so I was like, you know, I have the machine. I know this should work in theory. We've just never talked about it in residency. Then I look at all the German data. There's tons of it. It's like, why do we not do more of this? And it's sure enough. Like, I'm actually my own personal case control study because I did steroids and PRP and my left Achilles. And then later on this past year did the right side with only radiation and no steroids. And now I'm walking with that Olymp. And you obviously did the other side. Mm-hmm. No, I know actually I didn't. I didn't. I didn't. Because I did the PRP actually finally did because I had two cortisol shots and PRP in the left. And then a year later radiated the right. And so both of them are holding a pretty well so far. Got it. The other area that is a huge interest for me at least is the very, very high hamstring tendonopathy. So that that is chill tuberosity pain. Very, very common for runners. Sure. Seems to be anecdotally much more common in women than men. That's a pelvic an eye. I've only treated women for some reason. Yeah. And they've all had tremendous results. Yeah. Again, so it's still the same protocol. It's the three over six treatments over two weeks. Exactly. For any type of an arthritis, you're essentially lacing all the macrophages and all in your eliminate that cytokine storm that would have normally resulted. It's very similar to what cortisol does. But the difference is it seems to be based on the study we've seen as much longer lasting than a cortisol shot. Not to mention the fact that you're not necessarily violating the capsule and causing other, you know, in the case of an Achilles tendon, you run the risk of rupturing it with multiple injections. So totally non-invasive. You just get up on the table. Most of my patients go right back to whatever they were doing and many of them are actually quite athletic and they don't take any breaks during treatment. They just do what they do. They're still working out. And just I've seen obviously patients with debilitating kiloids. What does it look like after the treatment? So the treatment has to be adjuvant after a surgical resection. If you just radiate an intact kiloid, it's not going anywhere. Okay. Because you don't have the DNA mechanisms of, you know, a week cancer cell that can be wiped out. So it kind of like doing a non-brected. But obviously, if the surgeon just did the resection, the kiloids coming right back. They did the fiber blasts go crazy and they roar right back. So in order to do it right, a lot of people do it. And they have multiple recurrent to rate treatments, kiloids even after treatment. You have to do the first treatment the same day of surgery. So you just letting those fiber blasts get a chance to have any sort of a foothold. So I will literally arrange it with the dermatologist to do the resection, send them straight to me. So we get the first dose in that day. And ultimately the cosmetic outcome is as good as if they didn't have radiation. You'll see the scar wherever it is. We get sometimes kids that have had acne scars all over their chest that have these bumps everywhere and they're all reseected flat. And you're radiating, they just stay flat. You don't see any sort of dermatitis from radiation. I think what's amazing to me is I just think there's so many people that don't know this, right? I think there's too many people that are walking around sort of suffering right there from something that's cosmeticly upsetting like a huge kiloid, especially on a visible part of their body. Obviously, the people, everybody listening can relate to some nagging injury, tennis elbow, golfer, elbow, Achilles tendonopathy, hamstring tendonopathy. These things nag for years at times. Yeah, I think the day that I was showing some like one in seven people in the country are afflicted and the socioeconomic costs are massive. And there's also going to your wholEQuality of life and longevity bias. IMean, we're talking about something that can really affect some of the ability to exercise at all and it can lead to exacerbation of other medical problems. So it's a huge problem. And do we have a sense of the durability of this? So for example, I have a little bit of osteoarthritis at my AC joint right. It's barely bothers me, but everyone's in a while if I'm doing something really violent overhead, reaching for something or I play a ton of football with my son, it'll bug me for like three weeks. I'll take a little bit of ad villets fine. Right. If I did a treatment there, would it be done or am I doing this treatment annually? How would it work? And there's a lot of variability that depending on what the actual anatomy that's causing it, if it's literally just a straight-up osteoarthritis case with no physical structural issue, I've seen cases. Now again, I've only been doing this about a year. So I don't have the 25 years of experience I do with cancer. But I've talked to there's a couple of doctors who do this routinely. They've been doing it for 20 years in LA. One of them treated his own neck, shoulder, and spine. He's 15. I think he's at 15 years out. And it don't it, obviously, but never had to retreat himself. Typically, the German studies allow for two treatment, two retreat minutes. Because the dose is so low, radiobiologically, I don't see any reason why you couldn't do it. I don't know about annually, but maybe every few years or something like that. But there seems to be a fair bit of data that a lot of patients who don't have other struck like a knee that's bone on bone, it might only last a month or a man, I even work. But for the other ones, the hands and all it seems like it's certainly longer lasting than any sort of core zone shot. But I think months are very reasonable and probably years for most people. Now what about non-Austin arthritis like rheumatoid arthritis? Yes. Is there any reason to believe that this could help with sort of the debilitating injuries that those patients? So I've done three cases of rheumatoid arthritis in one guy that had a gaudi arthritis as well. Because again, it's a systemic disease. I'm not going to pretend to be able to cure that with a local treatment. But to a single knuckle that's driving them nuts, it's still an inflammatory process. And yes, it works great for that. So I've done that. So if a patient has rheumatoid arthritis where they're really experiencing a lot of deformation in the hands, you think you can help that patient with the local part of it? Yes, it won't reduce the deformation necessarily. A lot of that is long-standing. But if they've got, we're treated early enough in the course of disease. Yes, I think that there's no strong data to support that, but I don't see why it wouldn't work personally. And it definitely, if I'm a purely palliative standpoint, just to reduce pain, it does work. You just have to, you've to manage their expectations. What are some other examples of where this could be used in your experience so far in terms of reducing reliance on NSAIDs or opioids or other things like that? Tennis elbows become a big one doing several of those. And how much do you, how far down the arm do you irradiate? I would, I'd base it on where the patient might, they palpate. If they're getting pained down into the break, you're radiating allows. And if it's if it's sort of radiating further down, I'll treat a larger field because again, there's no reason not to bigger fields are better, no need to be bigger. And it's just six, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, so and again, that's three-grade locally. And it's in, it's to an area where there's no vital organs nearby. The total body dose is negligible. It's like getting a cat scan initially for the rest of the body. So I would treat definitely the joint capsule a little bit of the distal humorous and the proximal radius and whatever else. But if it's hurting larger, I'll just treat a larger field. And in that case, we use a posed lateral beam. So the patient will just lay there. The beam will come in from one side and rotate around from the other side and we treat them well because that way we get the same type of homogenous dose we do with our cancer patients. But if it was more disillivable, it's like we've actually done several piano players that have dequire veins, tendos and a virus and they're wrist. And because when you're stretching to play those notes, all my music, I'm a musician as well. IMean, my musician, friends are coming to me and the wrist pain is going away. And actually, again, very quickly, my biggest patient cohort so far are former patients because they don't have radio phobia. They're like, I've been through 80 grade, my prostate. This is a joke and I'm bringing my wife with me. And half the times the wives sit there for their daily treatment anyway. And they start chatting in the lobby. So we do the wives hand the same time during the husband's prostate. And for the most part, the hands, the wrist, the elbows, it's very rapid. In the case of the tendonitis like my Achilles, it was a couple of months, but that's not outside of the window of what we've been conditioned to expect from all the Germans studies. So it can be not as immediate of a relief as a steroid shot, but it does seem to be more durable.

=== FILE: Radiation for Breast Cancer： Side Effects, Support & What To Expect ｜ Sanjay Mehta, M.D. [sx3YoW41dpc].txt ===

Let's talk a little bit about breast cancer, given how common it is, how long after surgery can you begin radiation? Woon healing, given a little bit of time, we generally do our CT-based simulation and three-dimensional planning, maybe three, two to three weeks after their surgery. And then by the time it takes about a week to do all of our computer programming, and then we'll start the treatment within three to four weeks post-op. So tell me a little bit about that. I was completely unaware of that. So I'm a woman, I've had a lump back to me, sat no-node was negative. So I've got an incision about this long, the listener, you know, five centimeters, six centimeter incision, when I come and see you how many weeks after that. I usually will see patients for consultation, a lot of times the breast surgeon will send them prior to anything being done. So I'll see them for their initial consultation ahead of time. But then we plan on doing what's called a planning procedure or a simulation where we're going to put the patient on the table, and essentially do a dry run for their treatment, usually a couple of weeks after treatment. And that involves essentially positioning the patient's typically for a breast patient, they'll be prone with their arm behind their head. We call it the movie star pose. I'm going to get the arm out of the way of the excellus, essentially. And so by putting them in this position, and then putting them on a wingboard that'll slightly elevate their torso, we can, and there's a lot of different geometry here that we can use. Back in the old days, they had all kinds of ways of doing plaster casts and things like that. But we essentially do now, is we will use a, we'll be called a vacloc, essentially a bean bag with a vacuum port, and they, the patient sinks into the bag. We suck all the air out of the lock, it becomes a rigid cast of their body. And that way, they fit into the groove that we've made for them will actually, will kind of form it and mold it around their elbow, so they're comfortable. Many times with patients who've had an excelloid eye section, they may have a little bit of scarring a little decreased range of motion to be able to get their elbow back there. So we'll work with them the best we can. Whatever position we get them in, we do a CT in that position. And that's the position we have to reproduce for the daily. How long does each session take? When they're actually on treatment, it's about 15 minutes, sometimes even a little bit less than that. Some of the newer machines can deliver the bean even faster. But when I say 15 minutes, I'm talking about, I have four patients an hour typically, so in and out of the room in 15s, that includes getting them on the table. The key thing for accuracy and reproducibility is positioning. So the reason we made that mold, and we've, not only did we get them in position, but I've also got a couple of dots on their skin to use this reference marks to make sure that the patient is in the correct position. That whole process probably takes five minutes every day when the patient gets in the room, and then maybe another five to ten minutes for the actual beam to be on. And my favorite thing is to come in the room after the patient's first treatment, and then the most common question I get is, hey Doc, when do we start? And I'm like, no maim, that was, they're like, really? That was it because the patient feels nothing. So the machine will go through its various angles, its pre-program, the entire process is about 15 minutes a day, and they can leave feeling the same as when they got there, just like getting any x-ray, they jump in their car, and go right back to work, or to the gym or the golf course. What are the typical side effects that a woman experiences from this treatment? And by the way, was she typically getting 40 gray 25 years ago, or was that a little more I think you said, and now they've come down a bit, it was sort of 50, 60 gray? This brings up a point that I need to kind of emphasize. It's not so much the total dose, it's the dose per fraction. So how quickly are you getting it? So the standard of care was actually 50 gray, rather than today's 40-ish gray, but it was used to be given in two gray per fraction, dead-daleed dose is rather than the 2.6, 2.7 that we're using now. But with the modern treatment now with, in first-first-well, not using cobalt using linear accelerators, the energy of the photons is higher, which means the skin dose is slightly lower. So you're getting maybe 100% on the skin, rather than 150% like you once did. So we don't see anywhere near the skin reaction that we use to. It's more of a, maybe a grade one or a grade two-air-a-thema. So mild redness, or maybe sometimes a little bit of, like it's a sunburn, but nothing is severe as we use to. So these days patients do still get a sunburn. We give them some free samples of aquifor, or they can use an aloe vera plant if they have, but just your normal type of skin care stuff, as opposed to the old days when we were actually treating essentially burn victims with silver self-adysine and heavy duty, narcotics and things like that. The modern air, it's so much better than a lot of the patients, especially if it's someone that doesn't have a very large breast. There's less energy being put into a smaller size person. They don't get anywhere near the skin reaction. And that's why if you did have a very large patient, we actually still use the old 50-grey in 25, because you're giving less dose per day, and you do have a very large breast, where you're going to have areas that are going to have hot and cold spots, sometimes that still needed. So we have to tailor it to the individuals, as I guess my bottom line there. What is the impact of breast implants in this type of treatment, either saline implants or the older, actually they're not older now, they're back in the river. Back in the river, the silver consult on implant. Either way, the photons, the X-rays we use, they are not at all affected by that, that's essentially tissue equivalent. And pardoned by ignorance, I completely forget, are those implants typically under the pack or between the pack and the breast? So we see both. No, it's interesting how there's, I guess, some pretty current standard. I'm not sure what the current, I think most of them we see are actually under the muscle. That's right. I don't know, I've actually seen both. So we can easily, suddenly, pack. But I've seen them both, even even now, the plastic surgeons have different criteria for that. But regardless of what it is, our whole, if it's under the pack, then of course, it's really a little farther away. It's not a huge issue, but we still, the radiation will still affect that area. But typically these implants are pretty tolerant of that. The only issue down the road is they may have a capsule or contracture or something from fibrosis. The bigger challenge we run into is for our post-mastectomy patients who are going to be reconstructed, and they have expanders put in. And that's where the relationship between the radiation oncologist, the surgeon, and the plastic surgeon is key. Do women experience any systemic symptoms from radiation like nausea or vomiting or is that? Not at all. And the only time we see radiation patients who have nausea or vomiting, it's typically, a lot of times for other sites, they may get concurrent chemo radiation where the chemo could be responsible. But for rest, we don't do concurrents usually sequential. The only time I really see radiation induced nausea, if I'm treating an esophagus or a pancreas or something, that's in the abdomen or somewhere along the GI track, where nausea is more of an issue. Typically not for breast.

=== FILE: Real Symptoms, No Diagnosis – What It Could Mean ｜ Josh Spitalnick, Ph.D. [HlgkRwGNkP0].txt ===

Now we've opened a Pandora's box, which is this individual who's feeling a little fatigued. Can't figure out why. Some things wrong with them. They're fatigued. Maybe it's, you know, fill in the blank. I don't know what it is. First doctor they see does traditional work up and says, I, you know, you're all your hormones look great. I don't, you know, everything that I can see look at. But you're going to find that person within the firsT3, depending on which door you open, who's going to come up with an explanation. And they're typically going to have a solution for you that's pretty off the beaten path. If you go to a car mechanic and say your car squeaking in the engine, they're going to have a wonderful solution for your engine, even if it's not required. If you go to a psychiatrist and say, I think I need meds, guess what they're going to give you medication. And if you don't enough doctors, they're going to find some problem, recommend some intervention, whether it's homeopathic, whether it's diagnostic, you know, whether it's a prescription, something, they'll give you something because they want you to feel better. Yeah, I think part of it is that when you're a hammer, everything is an ale syndrome, but I, I think that, and that would be the most charitable explanation for what I think is going on, which is truly, there are just a lot of real charlatans out there that are, you know, just not not practicing any former reasonable medicine, not even evidence informed. Right. Like evidence based, I get this limitation. Yes. And I will fully acknowledge the limitations of evidence based medicine. I agree. But, but, but there is at least a threshold of evidence informed medicine. But when you start saying that the answer to your slightly elevated cesium level, which, by the way, no lab has ever documented what the upper limit of that should be anyway, but let's just assume that my arbitrary level is too high and you're slightly above it. So that's clearly the explanation of everything that's going wrong with you. And I'm going to hand you some supplement that, by the way, I happen to also sell happen to sell. How big are you? Look, it's your lucky day. It's right here. You found the office. You found the guy that knows how to cure elevated cesium levels. That's the challenge I suppose I have, right, which is, it's the challenge I have. You were wearing the same boat. You're asking me to, as a non-medical person, to make sure that someone's getting, you know, advocated for, spoken for and referred to by providers, they're going to go to find anyone. And I'm, I'm, above my pay grade to know whether that doctor knows what they're doing, whether recommending medications or off-label things that are, and how am I going to argue against that? So yeah, most things I specialize, like myself, who work in the space of a lot of health and medical and I have a career where we haven't talked about where I've done lots of medical trening, medical work in my career. I'm informed. I'm knowledgeable. I also have medical people my family. I can ask the right things, but I'm trusting the medical people around me. So I'm on faculty at a university in Atlanta. I'm a adjunct faculty there. I got colleagues there. I got medical people around me. I surround myself with people that I think are sharp, psychiatrist, physicians, oncologists, just in case. And still, my patients are going to go to other doctors because they're just looking for the answer to me. That sort of within that health-inside spectrum. If every doctor you've gone to, that I trust has given you the best medicine possible or the best assessment possible, and you're getting no answer and you go to the next person, you don't need the DSM to go. Maybe this is more than just a medical issue. I'm still going to advocate for the medical needs. I'm still going to support them and join them. And I'm still going to help them see that your physical symptoms are real. Physical symptoms are real. That doesn't mean they're indicative of or prognosticate a medical condition. Half the battle I'm doing is education around that topic. Yeah, I think that's worth stating that again. Right? So if a person says, I'm experiencing this pain, that's real. 100%. You're just saying, don't assume necessarily that that means that there is an underlying medical reason for that or even something that you would find on the total best case scenario diagnostic. More often than not, there's not a great medical diagnosis or category that fits into the things that someone like, IMean I see. IMean I don't specialize that much in FND or sort of that functional neurological space of pseudo seizures or tingling arms or body part 2 can go numb. That's a whole another space of conversion disorders. But I'm talking about people that have chronic headaches, tummy issues, leg cramps, bones that feel sore and they've had every work up you could imagine that would be considered for someone who has bones that are sore. And there's abouT3 or four conditions the most first of all, so I'm going to jump to and you say your bones are sore. When that's all been ruled out and they're trying to convince you, but my thigh, like I can feel the bone, I can feel the marrow feels like it's tearing itself up and we were talking about pain conditions. We're talking about, you know, neuropathic kind of conditions at some point the intervention, which is them doctor shopping becomes worse than the pain itself. At some point someone will prescribe you something and hopefully we're not doing with opiate to that point, but someone will prescribe you something, thinking that they have the magical cure to fix your distress, your pain. And that scares me. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real, the sensation is real, the symptom is real, but it may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. And by the way going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. And so there's really this wonderful space of social media wearable devices, which I'm a big believer of, and the access that we all have to our medical records scares that hell out of me because we are now patients being our own advocates and showing up to doctors saying, this is what I found out online, I think I have this or this is what this person said and I think I have this or my, my looking at my watch here, my heart my heart rate's been up all week, doesn't that mean something? Yeah, means your heart rates up period. Does that mean anything else except your heart rate is up? And so most people to assume that means you're, you know, a risk for a heart attack or stroke or means if you stare, you're watching long enough, you don't have hair on your head like I do what if we talk about lies, guess what's going to happen a few seconds? We're both going to do in this because that's what happens. And if IMention your left pinky toe, Peter, have you thought about your left pinky toe? This entire time we've been together because you are now, how is the toe next to it doing? And by the way, now how's the right pinky toe going? Now we get to think about that. So if you think about that long enough, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. It's going to be tactile and sticky and maybe sensory. It was there the whole time. Your brain didn't have to think about it. How is your breathing right now? We don't think about breathing and I treat people who get fixated on swallowing. Breathing is got to be something in here. I have thyroid cancer. I have a softened jaw cancer because I feel something in there. You probably do feel something in there. And by the way, if you do this all day long and you create some some bruising, you're going to feel a whole bunch of more stuff in there. You know that better than I do. But to come in someone that there may not be something in there because they've been scoped, entested, and blood checked. And there's no signs of anything that's anatomical or physical and a throat, but they can feel it. It's not my job to say it's fake. It's my job to say you're struggling with something. And what are we going to do about that? That is the message there. Do you go one step further and say like you're creating this? Or are you saying no? I don't need to go that far. I just need to get them to understand that there's another explanation for this. There's no need to do that. Because if I take that stance, I'm now the next person who's the naissayer. On the next one who's invalidating them. And almost no therapist that I know would ever basically weaponize that or blame them for that kind of thing. What I can say is you may not have created it. And it you probably didn't create it. Like leg pains not being created. But if you sit there and focus on your left pinky tail, if you talk about life long enough, it's going to create heads and stations of it. That's how it works. When you focus on something long enough, you pay attention to it. And if you pay attention to it, you're more aware of it. And you're from more aware of it. And your brain actually works. It'll feel it. Phantom Lim syndrome research has demonstrated that. People putting a dummy arm and a fake arm and a mirror and whacking an arm, we can feel that in our nerve endings because our brain's processing information. So do we have a dead arm that's not connected to that's actually causing pain? No. Do we have a pain reception or an information process something going on? Probably. That's fascinating research. The point is is I don't have to tell them it's your fault or that you're creating it. But I can tell them that the thing you're doing is keeping it active. It's keeping it prominent in your focus. And as long as you focus on that, you're not focusing on anything else. And if you're not focusing anything else, we have a whole other disease. Disease one, there's something wrong with your thigh. Maybe not medical. Disease two, you're fixated on it. You won't leave the house. You're demanding opiates. You're complaining to people. Your husband doesn't want to hear anymore. Your doctors have cut you off. And I've worked with patients. I'm an alanta that have been blacklisted from two or the three major hospital medical systems because it's done so much doctor shopping and so much fighting with your doctors that it's a stress on the system. But they have the wearables and the social media and the online and access to their patient portal that proves that something's wrong. And just as an example, what types of things would they actually be doctor shopping for? What is this? What's a symptom that's a real world example? The ones I usually see the most are memory loss or memory slip ups, which some people would actually put into the functional neurological disorder spectrum. A lot of chest pain that has had every EKG in medical work up you can imagine or sensations like ants crawling or physical pain or a pathoc pain for which it has no explanation. Those are the most common ones which is and let's just take each of those in as much as you know details. IMean, what would be triggering events? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Restoring Speech： Can AI Help the Paralyzed Communicate？ ｜ Edward Chang, M.D. [hza13Mm4NIA].txt ===

So let's go back to brain computer interface. How would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high tech, but what is it? OK. Well, OK. So let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer, and it's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things. But I think it a nutshell what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor. Or in the research that we've done is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. And so it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then trensform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak. Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis. And a phasia we typically refer to as someone who's got, let's say, a stroke in the language centers of the brain, where we've focused recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So they're the problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. And get the motor signal out. And get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tone, the jaw, the larynx. Those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and loseability to speak. And an important part of that is that they loseability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract in written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say, that's right. OK, let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, there are at least two broad ways to extract that information, a non-invasive way where, presumably, you're putting electrodes all over a head that's as well as shorn as mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasive weight. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. OK. So what we did in our clinical trial at UCSF? Was this the 2023 paper? Yes. OK. This is the nature paper. That's right. So we published a paper in 2023. We worked with an participant named Anne. She had a very severe brainstem stroke about 20 years ago. How old was Anne? She was in her 20s. It wasn't long after she had gone married. Actually, just a couple months after her second daughter was born. She was playing volleyball with her friends, collapsed, taken into the hospital. She survived the injury. She thought that was at a her T-blarter rease. That's a dissection. Yeah. OK. Peter, you're very, this is just a story. You're just from medical schools actually pretty good. This is impressive. Anne survived this stroke. She was left quadriplegic, meaning she couldn't move her arms or legs. But in addition to that, she couldn't speak. Because the nerves that come through the brain down through the brainstem and go to the cranial nerves would supply the vocal tract. Those were also directly affected. And was the paralysis or result of her cerebellum? Also having in-farks? No. It was all brainstem. Just brainstem. In the pruca. Yeah, precisely the part that we call the ponds. So, yeah. So, devastating. Devasting. So it was for 20 years and is now in her 40s in a wheelchair unable to speak. Right. And so what we did was we did a surgery where we implanted an array of 253 ECOG sensors. These are the sensors that are densely spaced. How many? 253. Right. So, we're talking about something about the surface area of a credit card. And it's filled with electro-ed sensors that are spaced abouT3 millimeters apart. Each sensor is about a millimeter and diameter. And so basically you've got this credit card sized array that was placed on the part of a brain that processes words. In particular, the motor production of the words. The parts that control the lips, the jaw, the larynx, the tongue. Eries that were functionally disconnected from her vocal tract because of this stroke and the brainstem, which connects the brain to those muscles. And so we did the surgery abouT3 weeks later. We started our research sessions with her. We connected the cable. It's basically an HDMI cable that is attached to a head stage. The head stage trensforms the analog signals from her brain. These are a small voltage. At the same time that we're doing all of this research Peter, AI is developing in parallel. All of these tools that we now are using every day, trenscribing our voice right now into text. We use that technology. We can actually use those same technologies that generate voices of speech synthesis. And so we've used a lot of the same tools, machine learning tools that are in modern day AI's. And we're now applying them on the brain activity and trying to use them to not trenslate, for example, text and synthesize speech. But now the equation is different. It's trenslate from brain activity into synthesize speech. The input is not text. The input is the ECOG activity across these 253 sensors. For days, what we would do is have a sentence on a screen. And we'd give her the start time and time. And during that, she would just look at the sentence. She could go to go cue and then try to say it. Nothing intelligible comes out. She may or may not be moving the lips job. But just try to say it. And that turns out to be very important. Oh my God. You can't just think about it. You can just hold it. Wow. You have to actually try to say it. And that's what she did. So we started with a very simple vocabulary of about 27 words. The words that we chose are the NATO code words. Alpha, probably, delta, echo. We did that because we could measure basically the accuracy of the decoder that was analyzing those brain signals and trenslating them into those 26 different code words. And on the first day, we were able to tren the algorithm on a data set of maybe about an hour and a half to get to about 50% accuracy. Does 50% accuracy mean she could get half of them right or anytime you showed her one, there was a 50% chance it would be correct. Both. Well, you just said in our sense identical. Like so she's looking and then trying to say. There was a bias towards the subset of them that she was always getting right and others that she was actually there. Actually, there was a bias. Okay. Yeah. Actually, if I get into details, yes. Some of them were more discriminable than others. And was it based on the number of syllables? Yes. Yes. Actually, it was based on that in some of the phonetic properties. But one of the reasons why NATO code words for us was a really useful trening, trening task for us is because NATO code words were developed in the first place by the military improved communication accuracy. The reason why we actually use those code words is because sometimes if you just say a, the, you know, like D, Z, there's a lot of confusion. So that's why we actually use those code words. It increases the discriminability and then tells us really work. A lot of those settings you just can't make those errors. For example, you know, pilots. Yep. You know, in the column numbers, for example. So we use that because it has high discrimability and on that first day, you know, I think we've got about 50%, and this is going straight to voice. No, this was going straight. This is going to text. This is straight to text. Okay. Yeah. And so we're just trying to figure out, could we, um, decode which word it was and it was displayed in text? Um, so that's pretty, me. That's the first day. That's the first day. Yeah. And then over the next, I would say about six days, uh, the performance just got better and better. And then by about, you know, like a weekend to this, she was up into the 95% range. Um, so that was unexpected. Um, there's incredible to see the performance increase, you know, so quickly. But that did take a full week to do that. Did you get a sense from Anne as to how her level of fatigue with this progressed? In other words, what becomes the bottleneck? Is it, does it get easier and easier for her to go through this talking motion as she practices more? Is it just like any other muscle that we think of that has sort of atrophied? And now she's sort of getting her talking back in shape. Yeah. It is a bit of that. And, um, we're trying to make that easier over time. I think in the beginning days, we were trying everything to get her to work. And, um, a lot of it, again, it has to do with this volitional intent to speak. That turns out to be the most critical thing. But one of the things that I thought was really interesting also was we were doing so much, um, decoding through these tasks that over time actually a couple months into this. And it reported to us actually the strength of our oral facial muscles through her job. The time. They were actually getting stronger through this constant therapy, constant rehabilitation. And so I think right now everything is about just decoding the brain activity, you know, two, an artificial, digital thing. But I do think that in the future BCIs are also going to be a way that we can do rehabilitation. Right? Like it's a way that we have this direct readout of what the brain is trying to do. You can essentially build a prosthetic that helps people speak. But in the process, someone who has been spoken for a while, regain some of that natural strength over time. So that's a new indication that we're thinking about in the future. How to use this technology actually to augment an accelerated rehabilitation. If Anne had that stroke today, how different if at all would this process look, if you were working with a person who hadn't spent 20 years or 18 years without speaking? Um, there's no question that I think it would work faster. There's less to learn. For her, not speaking for 18 years, basically meant that she basically had to relearn how to speak. And we had to keep up with her relearning. Her brain was probably re-organizing, relearning actually some of those fundamental things. And she could see the feedback of essentially whether or not she was trying to say was right or wrong. And it was very intense work. So we're trying to make that easier over time. But I think certainly the more preserved, the more recent, you know, that activity is, those memories, the synapses we talked about earlier, the more stable, the more functional they are, the easier it is to actually decode them. So what will be this ceiling for the current technology? How many words per minute? And at what resolution or accuracy do you think the current technology with, because this was ECOG in her case, correct? Where do you think it's going to go? Where do you think it, where will this asymptote? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Reversing Epigenetic Age with Alpha-Ketoglutarate？ ｜ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [3NJv_7PxGws].txt ===

So let's talk a little bit about Alfaqid a Glutorate. Walk us through the rationale for how that came to be something that you would put through this type of rigorous program. Yeah, so company full disclosure that I'm involved with a PDL health that have a product for June of it now. They came to us many years ago at the back and working with Gordon Lethgo and I and they were like, this green natural products that would have an impact on aging because the mindset of the CEO of the, what became the CEO of this company was that I can't get drugs but proof for aging at any time in the near future. This work with natural products and also things that the FDA just calls grass out of the gate. So we screened a lot of things in worms and AKG came out as one of the best things in worms. Send in in the mouth studies. We found that for male mice, there was a combined effect with vitamin A and vitamins are an interesting discussion too. And there was also a combined effect with both sexes with vitamin D and so that led to this product regimen which is AKG, time release AKG, very important because otherwise it's like, any it goes away in five minutes if you don't have a time release version. Tell folks what Alphacita Glutorate is and shows. It's a part of the, is it part of the crème cycle? It's yeah, it's a TCA cycle, crème cycle, central metabolite involved in hundreds of reactions. It's a lot like an AD. Yep. They're doing different things but they're both central metabolites. They're both going down with aging and organisms. Yep. And the idea is supplementing them back up would be beneficial. And so when we did that with AKG and mice, we see about a five to 10% increase in lifespan but a dramatic increase in frailty. So when we, meaning it's increasing for the eye nourishment. So that mice, I would argue that you're still encouraging the lung epidemic pervers we talk about. Yep. So, you know, if that trenslated to humans, it would be a big impact. And so that's what led to the human product. By the way, I think that if you did not extend lifespan by a day, yeah, but you just improved health span, yeah. That's a home run. Yeah, I agree. For most people, that is all they actually want. Yeah, I agree. I think if they get that, they'll want the other two. But that's not true. But yeah, I never the reverse. No, nobody wants more life spans without. We're doing now. I know. I know. I can't get it. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, I completely agree with that. So, you know, we're still excited about this product. There's been, we're about AKG, and especially the time release version. And there's been, you know, some studies that have been published one of which we helped analyze the data for using rudimentary methylation clocks showing that they reverse it. That they reverse his aging by a few years again. It's that oscillation thing we were talking about earlier. I think. And that's why we wanted to do a controlled placebo double-blighted clinical trial at the university. And that case we're just testing the time release AKG. We didn't include the vitamins because we're trying to get some mechanistic information. We know what confounders in there. But I think the data is still pretty good on AKG that it's going to have an impact in people. Did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well? We haven't published it yet, but I am happy to talk a little about it. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Running’s New Edge： Power Meter Shoe Tech ｜ Olav Aleksander Bu [q4YNeTCTxVM].txt ===

Is there some major disruption where we just have this dramatic change in technique to have a bigger positive impact on frontal surface area than the negative effect it might have on propulsion? Yeah, so this distance touches up on let's say one of my favorite hurry us and that's biofeedback. In cycling we have extremely good tools for biofeedback today. You have a palm meter and you have a GPS. So just these two combined for speed and power perfectly. Like we talked about last time when you were out riding 200 watts constant and basically you see you get in faster. So you have this direct biofeedback because as long as you ride enough you will basically start to get a very good feeling for when you sit at a certain power and you start doing different things. Some you creep up like half a kilometer power or one. Like for person when it starts cycling or it's cycling a little bit like for them. It doesn't become interesting enough yet because there are other things that are basically more challenging for them to master but for people that do a lot of biking like yourself. It's it's it's it's where you exactly start to pay and let's say attention to those let's say even half a kilometer power maybe even you're getting below that as well. Where you start to really pay attention to this And then over time simply because wind and not the fact is makes a difference to running. This is also a place where we have really good biofeedback tools. You have your watch you're running and you can have a look at it. And now we have also really good power meters in running as well. How does that work? So most of these are there are some of these parameters in running today that requires some of them requires an insult. So you put basically an insult inside and a basic and measure the forces. So it's a first plate. Yes inside you. Yes. And then you have other ones that are motion capture devices. So they basically you rather inputs your body weight. And since basically when you're touching on the ground with one foot, your basic occurring you whole weight there. So as long as you have a good enough motion capture device that a capable of less aid to attack or there are able to capture the three-dimensional accelerations you can then basic also say. Some well you know you know the force because you basically have to carry your weight. So that's hard. So you can directly measure this with a force plate insole or you could indirectly do it with motion capture. But I assume the motion capture only works on a treadmill. You're not going to be able to. No so the motion capture today there are become so small. There are basic or small devices that you attach to a shoe and they are when when when we validate these in this commercially available products. Yes. So if you if you if you go to a laboratory and you basic it test this, you will basically see that so we have been for a long time in working to get a bit stride. I started working with them and they were in beta stage and we've gone through that but basically they are so accurate today that when you when you measure first of all do you have any idea how much you just ruin my wife's life? Do you have done any so how many minutes do you think after this podcast am I going to be on my computer ordering these devices? Jemming them on her shoes. You know she's running the boss in marathon next year and I'm convinced she's actually going to run it faster than she did her first boss in marathon 20 years ago because she actually now works for the running coach and her qualifying time this year was only one minute slower than her qualifying time 19 years earlier. And again it's just because she's more structured in her trening not because she listens to a word I say she doesn't but she's like finally at least agreeing to use heart rate and velocity for tempo trening. So now she's not listening to this podcast obviously she went for friends will probably hear this and tell her to listen but she is now we're going to implement power trening for her running. Yes she's going to curse me all day long because she doesn't want day but how could you not do how is every runner not doing this? I think this has to do with a lot with tradition and also that even when Paul meters were introduces easy to look back and say like why why why why didn't we have this before or even how power there's so much information we can extract from a single Paul meter today which is I say beyond people's comprehension still be only used to Paul number days there and we use it even in a one-dimensional context FTP for example or critical power. The amount of information you can get out of this is crazy because we are not going to talk about this today. I still kind of use normalize power and other no. Oh wait we never use and no we only go by roll numbers I only work by roll numbers all the time so I don't condense it down to a single metric I use only roll numbers but the implication here is that even when you look at studies that are looking at gross efficiency for example in all days or even today there are like wanting you consider as a net mechanical power so the interface between basically looking at your gross or as a gross gross efficiency is where you take view to and we already dare most people understand that okay you have a difference between net net auction consumption and gross auction consumption you would ideally like to have the net auction consumption but there are other things there but in cycling actually also what we only consider there is a net mechanical power you don't consider gross mechanical power and should you really look at the let's say on your biochemical efficiency you should not look at the net mechanical power should look at the gross mechanical power but that's even before we start to get into vectors power vectors force vectors and other things even in a three-dimensional plane as you do cycling because this is something we can extract from the palm it is today so when running yes so one of the things you have you have more degrees of freedom there's more inefficiency there's probably a lower relationship or a more strened relationship between between gross and net power this is maybe one of the reasons for why it is not as widely adopted in running as it is in cycling because it is still debated what really is running power how do you really quantify it and this is something that even I even discuss with the team at the stride so when we are having a regular course and we are diving into the topic then even we also sometimes I would say I have our different opinions on how this really should be looked at because if you want to trenslate this into running then you have to look at only at a let's say the propulsive power I could imagine seeing this IMean have they put these in Olympic sprinters and seen the power numbers there yeah no it has let's say put this way commercially available this has his limitations because since you do motion capture you need to do a little bit of filtering you can't you can't take out because it's going to be so much noise exactly because as you said you have so many degrees of freedom yeah if you're going to output all as you all the vectors that basically you were able to measure with let's say just with stren gauge based palm it's on a bike today and people would be able to utilize that's why you condense it down to a single palm it's a single number that is there for most people but if you had that if you had that force plate chip in your insole you could at least capture force normalize to wait with each step right yes so what you what you can do and this is validated so if you for example run on a track a track which has force plates or you run on specialized treadmill that has force plates integrated in them you will basically see the curves are the same so this is the way that this is the external validation of the device is good both in terms of that it captures the the force curves but also here really when you're motion capture devices you can also capture the footpath as well so this is something we can visualize in treaty today after event when you're doing running we can see what happened there fresh fatigue throughout the race when it's technical and all the things but I think the reason why this is not as violent up that is because in science this is still debated on how do we really capture how and quantify mechanical power power for running. Stry'd have taken a smart approach this to make it as a commercially viable and it is that they quant out put it as a let's say call it a metabolic power so if you actually went on a treadmill and you went running and you looked at the advances your auction consumption you will basically see that this this measure perfectly with cycling that's without having a some bicycle near you at all so you could say the well this is what you expect so when you're at a certain power then with this would have an certain metabolic cost but what how I use I don't like it because I don't like less than modeled numbers I want to have a raw numbers so in my case I basically I'm extracting basically the that's it in net and the gross mechanical power or the positive and the negative mechanical power because these are the components I want because I have view to master I have metabolic devices so I don't need a metabolic equivalent I want to have the raw because I'm using as an interface to go to the difference like for example in a Formula 1 car what really matters in the end there what hits the ground yeah what really matters in the end there is how fast can you go around the track for the full event with a certain amount of fuel because there is a limitation to how much fuel can have in your car like that's the true input and the true output your engine output and this is actually secondary you see this is the thing that we want to have the biggest engine but big engine without efficiency is still bad so this is the engine it becomes more of device to measure let's say you look at the power and you look at how efficiently are you able to trenslate this fuel out into speed over let's say the event or velocity so for me having access to the net mechanical power and gross mechanical power and then you have the metabolic devices this allow me on the ones I look at when we change something in running so let's say you change for example your shoes or you change or you're trening you can now I can have a much more granular understanding of am I influencing the bio mechanical part of of of the trening or is it the biochemical part of the trening but in order to do so you have to have that interface that basically let's say distinguishes between gross mechanical power and net mechanical power and the interface between gross mechanical power and net mechanical power over power is only there let's say work efficiency how efficiently are you working but not metabolizing or or moving because you're in the end you have to take this power and and and be able to output into into velocity

=== FILE: Scrutinizing supplements： creatine, fish oil, vitamin D, and more (AMA 69 Sneak Peek) [U04FXYTIkD0].txt ===

I don't believe in taking any medicine just so you know, only natural supplements. My response to that is, tell me the difference. IMean, there is a difference, but I just want to make sure you as the consumer of this understand the difference. So, today we're hitting the topic, which is one we get asked about a lot, which is supplements. We tried to pick ones that we get asked about a lot for the case studies, which is creating, there's a reason about evidence to suggest and again, we'll link to lots of it that the creatine does help improve various parameters of muscle performance. And it's not that subtle. IMean, it's typically in the range of 5, 10, maybe even 15 percent. Fish oil. Yeah, IMean, obviously you have to watch out for poor quality rancid supplements. They are unfortunately common. The smaller the fish, the better. Vitamin D. In other words, it's not easy for me to say, Nick, if you go outside today with your shirt off for 20 minutes, it's the equivalent of taking this much vitamin D. B vitamins. These are typically more associated with B12 injections, rather than oral supplements. We tend to just rely on oral supplementation. You get a more smoothed out dose. Ash, we're gonna. So it's like an evergreen shrub that has historically been used in traditional Indian medicine for a variety of indications, such as sleep, stress, immune health. But I hope that people can use this framework, liberally as they try to kind of adjudicate and interrogate their own supplement list. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Bitter. Welcome to another MA. How you doing? Great. How are you? I'm doing good. I'm doing good. Thanks for thanks for joining us. You had some enthusiasm in that great. I could feel it. So today we're hitting a topic, which is one we get asked about a lot, which is supplements. And this can vary greatly depending on the person depending on the supplements. And the hard part with supplements is that, well, everyone is interested in it. It's so variable person to person. And not even all your patients are taking the same supplements or the same amount and all of that. And so it's really hard to talk about it in a way that makes it applicable to everyone without being like, take this, don't take this, which is something that you've never really done because of how you look at this topic. And so what we decided to do today was instead look at a framework for how you think about supplements and then go through case studies of a variety of supplements to talk through it, to hopefully allow the person listening or watching, to then be able to apply it in their own life. So they can just get a better understanding, be smarter when it comes to this topic. And so we tried to pick ones that we get asked about a lot for the case studies, which is creatine, fish oil, vitamin D, B vitamins, ashwaganda. So kind of a variety of supplements as well that will go through, which will hopefully kind of give a full picture of how to apply this in someone's own life. So with all that said, anything you want to add before we get wrong one. No, let's get started. So when patients come to you, like when they first start in the practice, how are you looking at their supplements? I'm sure there's a variety of some people have a lot of supplements, some not as much. So are you taking audit of that? How are you having that conversation with them when you first meet someone? You know, obviously any patients coming into the practice, we're trying to gather as much information about them as we can through, you know, their medical history and a important component of that is understanding all medications, supplements, hormones, anything they take. You know, I call this the bucket of exogenous molecules. So generally we know this on the way in and there's a ton of variety, right? There's people who come in who are taking nothing. They don't take any medicine. By prescription, they don't take any supplements. Conversely, there are patients who come in on no medications, but a list of supplements that might be two pages long and everything in between. Our view is generally to approach this kind of the way the kidney approaches the filtration of glucose, sodium and potassium, which is you dump everything out and then ask thEQuestion what should be added back in. And I don't mean we literally stop everything, but I'm saying that's kind of the mental model for how we how we go about thinking about it. Because a lot of times when we ask patients why are you taking this or why are you taking that, they don't know. They just say, you know, I started this a couple of years ago because I saw somebody on Instagram talking about it or, you know, I saw this doctor a few years ago who told me to take this, but I have no idea why. So, I think, you know, there's just a couple of things worth acknowledging before we jump into this and it comes from discussions that I've had many times which goes something like this. Hey, you know, I don't believe in taking any medicine just so you know only natural supplements. Now, my response to that is tell me the difference. IMean, there is a difference, but I just want to make sure you as the consumer of this understand the difference. And it's really a question of regulation, right? So supplements are not regulated by definition, the FDA has sort of tacitly referred to them as, you know, generally regarded as safe. But the process by which that's determined is not entirely that rigorous. And pharmaceutical products, well far from perfect, do have more in the way of regulation and oversight. There are places where these overlap. Again, I'll encounter a patient who says, listen, I will never take, you know, a statin to lower my A. BoB, but, you know, I will definitely happily take red rice yeast at which points you have to sort of explain to them that a very high dose of red yeast rice is effectively a modest dose of preface statin. So I think it's just helpful for patients not to get ideologically wrapped up in the idea of over-the-counter supplement versus pharmaceutical agent. And instead to just analyze the any molecule you put in your body through the framework we're going to talk about today. Today, we're going to limit it to over-the-counter supplements because these are the things we get asked the most questions about. And frankly, it's the area in which it's harder to do the type of analysis we're doing today. So the type of analysis we're doing today is so much easier to do in the pharma space because of the regulatory hurdles that must be cleared by a drug to be approved. So it's almost like shooting fish in a barrel. Still a great exercise to do. But doing it the way we're going to do it today is really how you develop the muscle for doing this type of work. And so I think with that said, do you just want to run over real quick kind of thEQuestions you asked to determine whether or not a supplement is worthwhile? And I think kind of just giving this overview will be helpful because as we said in the beginning when we go through the case studies, we'll kind of stick to thesEQuestions and answer them along the way. And so to kick it off, do you just want to run through what thosEQuestions are? I think this is the single most important thing. I'm hopefully trensmitting throughout this episode. IMean, the heavy lifting is actually showing you how we go through this. But this is the punch line, right? So anytime you're considering taking a supplement or someone is suggesting a supplement, you should ask, you know, the following questions or or something that approximates them. So the first question I'm asking is, are you taking this to correct a deficiency or are you trying to achieve super normal levels of fill in the blank? Okay. Second question, are you taking this molecule because you believe that it's going to improve your lifespan or your health span or potentially both? Third question is, if it is lifespan, is it because this this this molecule is targeting a specific disease and presumably reducing your risk of that disease or do we believe it's more broadly zero protective? Again, in the supplement landscape, that's pretty rare to find. But obviously you can see examples in the pharma space where we might see certain drugs that we think have zero protective benefits versus those that have lifespan benefits, but only on one disease. The, of course, the other question that is the corollary of that is, if you're taking it for health span, can you speak to which apparatus of health span? Do you think this is something that is improving physical performance cognitive performance or emotional health? The fourth question is, is there a biomarker that you can track to suggest that you are getting the appropriate amount of the supplement or that you might be in the therapeutic window? The fifth question is, do you understand the mechanism of action? Now again, I want to be clear, you don't have to answer every one of thesEQuestions in the affirmative for it to make sense. For example, there are countless things that we use for which we might not fully understand the mechanism of action, but we might feel confident enough on some of these other dimensions to move forward. The final question is, what is the balance of risk to reward? Including potential side effects, the magnitude of the effect, the confidence we have in the data that speak to its safety and thEQuality of the supplement itself. And this last point is especially important here. We know from previous podcasts that I've done, including the one with Katherine Eben, that even in the far more world, thEQuality of the drug is not to be taken as a given. That episode, which is several years old and will link to it, really called into question thEQuality of some of the pharmacologic agents out there, especially generic brands. But whatever amount of nefarious behavior exists over there, I think you're safe multiplying that by 10 or 100 to understand the magnitude by which that's happening in the supplement space. So, I guess before we jump into this neck, I just want to make sure we've pulled together a lot of information on the six supplements you mentioned. For the sake of time, flow, making this sort of conversational, I'm not going to go deep into each study that we talk about. Rather, I'm going to try to cover the important details, but we will heavily cite link to and explain the details of the studies in the show notes. So, if you're listening to this, because you just want to see how the framework works, great. But if you're like, actually, for those six supplements, I want to go deeper, the show notes is where to go. Perfect. So, I think let's get started with the first one, creatine. And so, kind of going through thEQuestions in the framework, are you using creatine to correct for deficiency or trying to achieve supermaximal levels? With creatine, it's clearly the latter. I'm sure there's somebody walking around out there with a creatine deficiency, but that's not really the use case. So, when people, like myself, and I do take creatine, take creatine, it's because we believe that superphysiologic levels are preferential. So, again, we take this primarily to improve athletic performance, potentially increasing lean mass slightly. There are some emerging studies that suggest that it may also ameliorate cognitive decline. And basically, research shows that once muscle stores are fully maximized, which can be achieved with 3 to 5 grams per day, you're sort of, you've flattened out that curve. So, you know, in other words, you don't need to go much beyond that, although as we've talked about on this podcast, there was a day for those of us that are old enough to remember when the zeitgeist was to do a period of loading at much, much higher doses in the neighborhood of 20 grams per day before falling to a maintenance dose of 5. But today, people that are taking it are usually just taking 3 to 5 grams per day. And then as far as taking it for lifespan, health span, which one are people usually taking it for? Well, we certainly see no direct evidence on lifespan. I think most people who would take this, if being confronted with the granularity of this question in this way, would say, look, I'm taking this for health span. I'm maximizing the benefits of my exercise, especially with respect to resistance trening. And maybe potentially warding off cognitive impairment. Now, of course, indirectly, I would say that those are also benefits on lifespan. But I would say that that's probably the way to think about this. And you kind of talked about this earlier on, but is there a specific biomarker that people can use to track to see if the supplements, quote, unquote, working or not? No, there's not a biomarker for this. And again, what do IMean by a biomarker? Well, you know, if you're taking a medication to lower your blood pressure, measuring your blood pressure actually becomes a biomarker for the thing you're taking. Am I taking enough or too much? If you're taking a drug that lowers your A, B, the A, B itself serves as the biomarker. We don't have a way outside of a lab, commercially to measure tissue, creatine levels. So we do not have a biomarker for this. And that's why people who take it are just sort of adhering to a protocol. And then on the mechanism of action, do we have any understanding of the mechanism of action for creatine, whether or let's to the physical or the cognitive side? On the physical side, meaning on the muscle performance side, it's certainly pretty clear. You know, again, people will recall how energy currency is delivered. So ATP adenosine tri-foss fate is the richest form of energy currency. And it liberates energy. So it's spent by liberating a phosphate. So ATP becomes adenosine die-foss-feet ADP. Of course, that process works in reverse. So as we want to build up and replenish our ATP stores, we need a phosphate donor. And this is where phosphocreatine comes in. So we do naturally have phosphocreatine. In fact, when you start to think about the various energy systems, if I asked you Nick to do something that was in all out effort for 10 seconds, that would not require oxygen. Right? You're not tapping into your VO2 max or your oxygen delivery It's frankly not even an anaerobic activity, meaning you're not actually turning glucose into pyruvate, into lactate, etc. If you're doing something that is such a short burst of activity, you are really relying on the phosphocreatine system to generate the ATP for that activity. So if you're doing a 40-yard dash, you're relying on phosphocreatine. But of course, phosphocreatine itself is a phosphate donor. And therefore anything that boosts the supply of phosphocreatine boosts the supply of ATP. And it's our belief that that's effectively what it is doing. And therefore that it's helpful with anything that requires bursts of activity. But even beyond just the super short extending into the anaerobic, I don't know that there are really any proven benefits that this augments aerobic performance. So once you get into the purely oxidative phosphorolation pathway, IMean, maybe someone will correct us. But I'm not really aware that there are benefits of creatine in that regard. I think it's more in the first two energy systems. The phosphocreatine system in the anaerobic system. On the cognitive side, we know that a small amount of creatine is synthesized in the brain and the creatine can cross the blood-brain barrier. But the brain certainly does not take up creatine to the same extent as the muscles do. So while we have, again, some evidence to suggest that creatine is efficacious for cognitive function, it might turn out to be the case that you need higher doses of it. I think that's still an open question as far as I'm concerned. You mentioned earlier that we'll put a lot of more detailed information on the data in the show notes, but kind of looking at a high level, what is the data around creatine say about efficacy of it? There's actually this is a supplement that has been quite readily studied. And there's a reasonable evidence to suggest. And again, we'll link to lots of it that creatine does help improve various parameters of muscle performance. And it's not that subtle. IMean, it's typically in the range of 5, 10, maybe even 15%. So these includes things like power and hypertrophy. Again, the power shouldn't be that surprising when you understand the mechanism of action. The hypertrophy seems to be due to the, you know, not just the increase in the myofibral thickness, but also in the retention of water within the muscle. And of course, that's still considered lean mass. As I alluded to, kind of physical performance in short intense burst activities and potentially some benefits in slowing down the aging phenotype of muscle mass. Again, like I said, it's really probably best suited for high intensity and anaerobic activities. But, you know, the one meta analysis will cite to found that creatine did not really improve endurance events in trened athletes. Again, you always could argue, well, maybe it's because they were really well trened and there might a congerier were well-honed. But, you know, it's possible that there's a study where you took completely untrened athletes, had them do in a row big task with them without creatine. And you might indeed see a benefit there. So again, I think we're still kind of in early days on some of this stuff. You know, there was a 2017 review that got quite a bit of attention that will link to that concluded that creatine may help with the prevention and recovery from injury. And there have been a number of meta analyses looking at cognition. The most recent one, which was this year, looked at 16 RCTs and found that creatine had a positive effect on memory. So again, I would say long and short of it is a lot of this stuff looks very promising. There's also some evidence that women in particular might benefit more than even men. Women have lower stores because muscle mass is the predominant store. Women have less muscle, therefore less stores. But there might also be less consumption through diet. So again, at least leads to the hypothesis that women may benefit even disproportionately to men. There was some, I think, rather weak data that suggests that it may help reduce dementia pardon me, it may help reduce depression in women. And there's some evidence to suggest that it may be helpful during periods of sort of rapid hormonal change. And that could be sort of within the monthly period of a menstrual cycle pregnancy, perimenopause and menopause. So you might ask why is that the case? Well, the creatine and foster creatine pathways are impacted by hormonal changes. And of course, during all of those periods that I just mentioned, you're seeing rapid hormonal changes. So it's not really that surprising that supplementing to supernormal levels of creatine could offset some of those impacts. You know, pregnancy is a question I get asked about a lot, Nick. I'm not, I would say I remain a little bit unclear and would probably suggest that there's probably safe during pregnancy, but we just don't have enough human data to form a strong point of view. So obviously, the, you know, in my mind, the wise thing to do is to avoid anything that is not absolutely necessary during pregnancy. So just to give an example, like when we have women in our practice that are preparing for pregnancy or pregnant themselves, IMean, no matter what they're taking, if they're taking, you know, medication for for something that isn't that they can live without for nine months, we would we would absolutely stop it. So yeah, I would say, women should probably dose it out about the same doses as men, but of course they'll get kind of more bang for that buck because they're on average smaller. So kind of rounding out everything we talked about with creatine, you know, what is the balance of risk or warmth? You see it, it seems like a lot of stuff we talked about was a lot of reward, but kind of how do you think about this to summarize it? I would put this in the low risk modest reward category. We do have, I think, really robust safety data here and it looks good. If the muscle stores are already full, the liver is probably going to metabolize the delta, the kidneys will clear the excess. There is, you know, one thing to kind of keep in mind, if you're a person who doesn't have perfect kidney function, you do probably want to talk with your doctor before you take it and this is very important. You want to make sure that they know you're taking it before they do any blood tests to measure your creatine because high doses of creatine can impact serum doses of creatine, which we would we would use as one of the metrics to determine kidney function. So in our patients that have anything but perfect kidney function, if they're taking creatine, we typically have them stop for a couple of weeks before we do a blood test. Creatine monohydrate really is the version to take. I don't even know if they sell anything else. They used to sell a creatine phosphate a long time ago. I don't think that there's anybody selling that anymore and I don't think it matters. But again, there's just no evidence that you need to be taking anything other than creatine monohydrate. It's wildly inexpensive and you should be looking for the purest product only that has nothing in it. The only ingredient should be creatine monohydrate. No fillers, no extra ingredients unless there's some flavoring agent that you want. But again, I just mix this in with an electrolyte drink so I want nothing in other than the creatine monohydrate in the sample. Perfect. Anything else you want to say on creatine before we move to the next one, which is fish oil? Nope. Perfect. Fish oil. Another supplement that we get asked about a ton. We've done some podcast on it. A lot of questions on it seems like a lot of people take it. So starting through again, going through thEQuestions with fish oil, first one is, are you correcting for deficiency or are you trying to achieve super maximal levels when it comes to fish oil? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of the drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members and in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word on the street is, nobody's show notes rival hours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscriber questions typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes, of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast theme that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs this feel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, thEQualities, an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice, no doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials link to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

=== FILE: Should We Pay Kids to Learn？ ｜ Joe Liemandt [MYGovWAS9dI].txt ===

will pay kids right coming in middle school $1,000 to get to top 1%. And the point of this is, you know, what's even more important than the academic knowledge, it's their internal view of themselves, that changes. That kids come in and say, I'm not a math science girl, I can't be top 1%. I can't do this. Whatever limits they have. And a lot of education when you talk about it is, you know, holistically you're trying to take limits in kids and release them, right? Have them understand your limitless, you can do all this. And this is the best way academically we've found to do it. And so they come in and the AI's going to say here is all the lessons you need to do to get top 1%. And just go through them. And that motivation will get all these kids to top 1%. And the number of stories we have, you know, I have one, my own daughter, but all, you know, the alpha families where their student is like, they come back and they're like, I didn't realize I could be top 1%. And my personal self confidence in view of myself that I had to do hard work, right? You had to do the work, right? Now I'm, you know, I, and then once you take a middle school kid, who's top 1%. As they go into high school, they're not going to give it up. Because, and there's this mental view of, oh, I guess I am a smart kid, right? Or I'm a capable kid, right? And that unlock is so valuable. And so for us, that's when, you know, we think, you know, juicing it with money. IMean, we spent 20 grand a kid in this country per student, right? And you're like, in middle school, give a kid a $1,000, in order to have them realize there is that the height, there's no limit. Why does, why would most people, I assume listening to us have sort of an uneasy feeling about that. Like, they can't reconcile what you just said, which is what we'll wait a minute. And on the one hand, I know we're spending $20,000 per year per kid on these kids and we're getting nothing for it. And you're proposing, we give them a couple of those thousands of dollars strategically to incentivize half of the equation, which is them having the motivation to do this. And yet that's going to make a lot of people feel uneasy. Why? So there's a view that there needs to be an intrinsic love of learning for it to be pure and that if you, it has to be intrinsic, not extrinsic and that if you're buying it, it's solid and not good. It's just it's wrong. It's fundamentally wrong. And that is a common view. Are there any data that would support one view being favorable to the other? How would that be time? There is a set of papers that have been written that show that if somebody is not intrinsically motivated or is intrinsically motivating you pay them, they lose intrinsic motivation. Now, that's not the case that we're sitting with. We're have kids who aren't motivated, who aren't intrinsically going through it, right? They need the boost. And if you actually ask alpha kids and maybe we'll do a study someday, no parent who has their kids at alpha thinks, my kids lost their intrinsic motivation. If anything, it's the opposite because now they think they're capable. And those papers don't talk about is how much of the issue was I didn't think I was capable. I now realize I am. And I get this crazy intrinsic boost around it, right? IMy younger star or again would be this example, which is, you know, she came in to middle school, you know, at, uh, she hit top 10 percent. And to lie the end of eighth grade, sorry, this was before, this is going in seventh grade. Okay. She was top 10 percent coming in. So she'd been there, but she's like that, I'm not like my older sister. I'm not top one percent, right? That's just not who I am, right? I'm ticked off girl. You know, if we're gonna end, I was like, you know, you know, you don't what I know, you know, love more than anything is shopping. And I'll bet you $1,000 that you can't get to top one percent. And so she literally would fill her a Amazon cart with $1,000 to stuff. And in the morning, she'd then look and look at the lessons she had to go through. And she'd do it. Right? She just grind through it. Now, back to this thing, it's, you know, we had a lot of family discussions around this because my wife, right? She was like, wait, there's two things. And this is most parents are, or like this, there's two things. You're one, you're setting one percent top one percent. And most parents are like, that's too hard, right? And you know, why are you putting that pressure, you know, for on the kid. And number two, it doesn't feel right to pay a thousand bucks to get this. This is just, we're all brought up that there's something wrong. And so, and back to the thing, so she does it. She has top one percent. Really buys everything. But then she sits down, right, with my wife and she's like, mom, I know you didn't like us doing this. But you need to understand what this is done for me, which is, I never thought I was a smart as my older sister. And now I realize I can do everything, right, that she can do. And it's totally changed my internal view. Right? And that element there of, right, her, and now back, she's also the one now, it was top one percent on the SAT trying to decide if she wants to do the extort to get perfect score. Right? That change in their view of their capability, that unlock is so valuable. And I believe we should do this for every kid in America, right? That, but that's the dynamics of why people don't like it. And it's, you then, just have to decide if you can use extrinsic motivation, whatever it is. I'm concert tickets. I'm, right, go shopping, whatever, whatever, mode of screen time, video game time, whatever it takes to get the kid to realize, I can go be and learn all this and be top one percent when I previously didn't think that. Right? And I go through that struggle fail sometimes cry at the road to success loop that then unlocks my human potential. And right, the point at a education beyond academic right, you're trying to unlock human potential. And this is just a great, easy way to do it. And it, it's not failed the time to get some. Yeah. That's the thing. You know, it does, is not necessarily something that has to happen indefinitely. It's, it's, what I, what I think makes sense here is that it's, it's an unlock that then creates a new state of awareness, that therefore becomes self-perpetuating. Right. So in many ways, it's like the kindling that leads to the fire. You don't need kindling indefinitely. Sometimes you need kindling. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Should You Ask for a Pain Doctor Before Surgery ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [7soj_KFcY9o].txt ===

You know, when we brought pain in for every case when I was in residency, was any time we did a thoracotomy, was a non-negotiable. Yeah. Pain was consulted before the case, just for people listening, a thoracotomy. We didn't do these often because a lot of times by the time I was in residency, we did minimally invasive surgery in the chest. Yeah. But sometimes you had to actually make a huge incision under the ribs. And that's very painful. We just, you know, you just know this from experience that that's such a painful experience. You cut this huge incision in the intercostal muscles. You put ribs, spreaders in, you crank these things open so you can do this big operation. We just know those patients are going to need an epidural catheter. And we want that in before surgery, not after. And it makes all the difference in the world. So pain was a part of that response. I don't remember us routinely bringing pain in, otherwise. But things have changed. I'm sure in 20 years. So today for a general abdominal case or a general orthopedic case, are you brought in preoperatively? Yeah. Yeah. These days there's a lot of movement towards these RS protocols. And enhanced recovery after surgery. And so fortunately, the field of medicine is moving more and more towards a team-based healthcare model where surgeons, pain, dox anesthesiologist, nursing, rehab, are all working on a collaborative manner. They're putting together protocols to what is the best optimal approach to prehab a patient before surgery, move them through the interoperative and then parioperative period. And it's gotten better and better and better. Can we still improve it? Yes. But the acute pain service does get involved, particularly as you alluded when we put in peripheral nerve catheters or epidural catheters. And this is where we're running that local anesthetic, the numbing medication that stops the nerve impulses to provide pain relief after surgery. And so yes, we do get deeply, deeply involved in that acute surgical pain space. And then also with internal medicine docs and the hot wind patient's admitted into the hospital for whatever cause. If someone's listening to us and they're going to have elected surgery at some point, I want to plant to seed in their head for someone who's going to have the knee replacement, the hip replacement, the colonis is stuck to me, the api, whatever. Yeah. Should they be requesting this of their surgeon? Should they say, hey, I want to be diligent about my recovery. I want to minimize my use of narcotics. Do you mind calling an a pain consult so that we can, I can just have a team of docs who are exclusively thinking about my pain because let's be honest. The surgeon, I got enough to worry about. I got to make sure you didn't leak that that anestemosus is fine, that you're not getting a wound infection. Your pain is literally like third or fourth on the list of my concerns for you to have the best outcome. You are right. And if patients listening to this person's listening and they have the ability, they have the word they'll to go to their doc, their surgeon and ask what will pain management be like? Is there an opportunity to interface with an acute pain service? Particularly if they're taking opioids now for a chronic pain problem or even if they're not taking opioids for a chronic pain problem. So we will see them in our clinic before surgery. We will put together a pre-surgical plan for them, which will often include a regional anesthetic approach, meaning those nerve blocks or the catheters. We sometimes involve intravenous ketamine to augment. We will put together the whole plan, communicate with the anesthesiologist, make sure there's a good hand-off after surgery. And then we will follow them afterwards. And then we will typically follow them outside the hospital and help the surgeon out with the medication management and the pain management. All of this is not just solely to reduce pain, but to put that person in optimal state for rehab, for functional coverage. How ubiquitous is the patient controlled anesthenyl, g-sic device, the PCA that we used to have. Okay, so it's still, so people are still typically getting out, fentanyl through a PCA immediate postoperative phase. Fentanyl, the morphine. Okay. Delotted. Yeah. Yeah. No, the PCA is a very common tool. And one, it puts pain control in the hands of the patient. Two studies have been shown that PCA delivered medication opioids, they end up taking less than if it's nursing delivered.

=== FILE: Should You Stop Deadlifting at a Certain Age？ ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [LQm_qB6qy1Q].txt ===

I have to tell you Stuart, I'm a bit conflicted personally and I'll explain why. I obviously have no desire to do anything that I deem stupid anymore, right? So my days of gritting through painful anything are long over. I know the difference between discomfort that is worth pushing through and pain that is not. But when I think about in particular squats and dead lifts, I'll tell you where, especially around the deadlift, which I is an exercise I really, really enjoy where I feel conflicted. On the one hand, I feel like now that I'm so tuned in to how to do this movement correctly, it's a really wonderful audit for my stability system, right? Again, I'm embarrassed to tell you how much I didn't know when I was deadlifting. At no point that I understand the importance of tension in the arms, interabdominal pressure, you know, the variability in foot pressure on the ground, like none of that stuff, right? It was just pure, but brute force stupidity. Today, as I know those things, it allows me to modulate force and to, on a good day, kind of push the envelope a little bit in what I perceive is safe. So in the one hand, I think, yeah, I should be deadlifting my whole life. Not, I don't need to deadlift 400 pounds anymore, but I should be deadlifting because it's this great audit. And on the days that I don't feel that I back off. And then on the other days, I say Peter, you don't need to do this anymore because honestly, you can still get the same or nearly the same activation for all of the muscles involved using other movements, single leg movements in particular where you don't have a fraction of the axial loadering loading. And yeah, you might need to do two exercises instead of one, but at the end of the day, there's a lower risk approach to get it. And in other words, deadlifting is valuable, but you have a narrow operating window in which you can potentially hurt yourself. So I continue to go back and forth on this Stewart and as such, here I am telling you, I still will go periods of my life where I'll deadlift every week and then I'll take three months off feeling like I don't want to push it. How would you advise a middle aged person or even a non-middle aged person who's sort of thinking through this particular issue? Again, I have so many thoughts going through my mind. It's interesting when we have a back pained fifth year old coming here and I'll say, what are your goals? Oh, I want to set a personal best and deadlift. And I said really, okay. Let me tell you some stories. Let's talk about Ed Colm. Do you know Ed Colm? I sure do. I heard it for a whole time. I was with Ed a couple of weeks ago. I'll tell you a funny story about him if you like in a minute. But anyway, Ed, when he would set a personal best, he'd take a couple of months off afterwards. It's to set a personal best is so demanding of your body. There are actually, if then you set a true personal best, most people experience micro fracturing just underneath the end plate of the trabecular bone. If you look at the great sprink-fast leaps, they tren deadlift. And again, if you go to our website, look at the testimonials at the bottom, the number of rural class deadlifters who are on there. So, you know, I've worked with quite a few of these people through their injuries. Now, those micro fractures would be a good thing or a bad thing. The professional hour lifter will take a week off. They tren heavy deadlifters, quads, once a week. Because it takes a week or the bone callous to not only attach through the chemical electro attraction, but to really scaffold on, take a week. If you deadlift it in another three or four days, the way some treners, they might deadlift a clienT3 times a week. That allows those micro fractures to accumulate until finally you've got a full bone-end plate fracture, why not? So, these are the people that come here. And then I say, how about this for a goal? Do you have kids? Yeah, do you have grandkids? Yeah, I'll vote this. And I've since learned about your centurion de Castleon, which I love, by the way. I'll say, what you rather as your goal have the ability to play with your grandchildren on the floor when you're eating, get off the floor and pick them up? And they pause for a minute. And they'll say, yeah, I like that goal. So, you can't have both. If you think you're going to continue having deadlift personal bests, you will not, you will have artificial haps. All of these other things because only old power lifters do you know. Do you really want to be like that group of athletes? So, I can talk them into changing their long-term goals. Now is the time to get on the program and make sure you get there. If that's the case, we eliminate deadlifts. We had an athlete here yesterday and they're at the end of their career. And I took the note and we went for a 10 minute walk to a hill that we have. And I'll say, here's what you're not going to do deadlifts, but here's what I want you to do. I showed them a monster walk. Okay, monster walk. Now we're going to the bottom of the hill and I want you to lean back into the hill and we're walking backwards. You're going to align your foot ankle knee and hip and push through the knee, through the knee, through the knee, backwards up the hill. Do you know, after 30 meters, they were absolutely done. Here they are doing all this deadlifting and they don't even have the leg strength and endurance to walk backwards, 30 meters. Totally inappropriate stimulation of their athleticism to make it through to 80. So good. For you, let's do it again. We walked down the hill. We did three sets like I've hardly walked and then we played the neurological grip, which I like to do a lot of. Now I said, walk forwards up the hill, but pretend you have $100 in your butt cheeks. Don't let anyone take it. Now walk forwards up the hills and they say, I've never felt this before. The brain proceeds exhausted quads. It now has to go and get the glutes. It's the only thing left. So quite often we'll do an exhaustion focus to stimulate the thing that we really want to stimulate and I convinced that person after that what they're going to do and tren now to get a well-rounded and sustainable athleticism that will spare their joints still have great trening capacity. But I think their athleticism is going to go through the roof and you know, I've taken some very accomplished hour lifters and we've taken it all the squats and just do a sled work. backwards walking up hills. Some of these old time techniques and their joints settle down. They get a sustainable fitness. They lose this idea of maximum effort, squats and dits. And now they're thinking of the word sufficient strength, sufficient mobility, sufficient endurance. And we've been doing this long enough now that we've trapped them and those are the ones that are getting through. You know, again, let's go get any one of our colleagues or orthopedic surgeons. Tell us who you're replacing the hips of. Well, 50 year old, Caucasian women who have done yoga for 30 years, okay? And men around 50 who've done devilish. Yeah. Or you're not the middle of the road moderates. Not the ones who've rusted out and not the ones who've worn out, but the ones in the middle are the ones who are so this idea of sufficient fitness. Because I still believe we are all called upon to do things in life at certain times. I hope we're already enabled. And it's more fun to just be able to continue to do those things. So I'm like you, I don't do dead lifts, but I pick up 100 pound bucked up locks as an example. Big O-clock. So that's my stolen lift. That's a little bit of that into the logs, splitter. And still, split my wood. People comment on my hands this afternoon. I see it came yesterday. I shook his hand when he came to the door and he couldn't fit his hand around mine. And he said, whoa! When we were young, we didn't have dumbbells. But dad would give us a cinder block. Cinder blocks. Yeah. That's all you develop. Anyway, as you know, the importance of grip strength, I will take any day over how much you deadlift. Yeah, people often ask me, Stuart, why do you think grip strength is such a great proxy for longevity? I say it's the same reason I think VO2 Max is a great proxy for longevity. Those are probably the two best biomarkers we have. It sounds crazy, by the way, that your VO2 Max and your grip strength are better predictors of how long you're going to live than whether or not you smoke, drink, what your family history is for cancer. Like those things all matter, but it's amazing how dwarf they are by those two. And my best explanation for it is that those are the best two integrators for the work you've done. Right? So you know, you can't cram for VO2 Max the week before. Like if you have a high VO2 Max, you have done the work to get it. If you have a strong grip, you didn't just buy little grip squeezers on Amazon and filter away it them while you were, you know, on calls on Zoom. Like you had to do the work. You had to be carrying heavy things, you know, whatever it be, chopping wood, carrying sander blocks, doing farmer carries. And of course, that also speaks to stability, right? That speaks to the stability that you have to be able to trensmit force from the torso right to the hand. So, um, so agree completely. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Should children be on GLP-1 weight loss drugs？ ｜  Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [loq4VCtncmc].txt ===

Here's a bigger issue. Childhood obesity. You are obese when you're four years of age. You're going to be obese when you're at out. And your life expectancy will be significantly shorter and your quality of life will be significantly reduced. Now, make it even better. At lessons, these young kids with diabetes. They don't respond to any of the drugs. What is the prevalence of type 2 diabetes in under 18? It's increasing, but I would say maybe around 4 or 5 percent something like that. 5, 120 teenagers have type 2 diabetes. Unbiased by San Antonio because we have more people with type 2 diabetes in our clinic. But you could say potentially in San Antonio, 1 out of 20 teenagers can be very high. That is in forage or pre-diabetes. And I'll tell you about the pre-diabetes that we did. So now they don't respond to metformin cell phone areas. They don't respond to any drugs very well. Even the GOP one I can use? The first study has just come out that respond better. It's a little good. They don't have any of the two. But if you're just clinically, if you're in the clinic and you're treating them without you're using the best drugs you have available. You can travel. And we know, why? Because you can't get them controlled. Why? There is an ink. There is so insulin resistant. So there are so many more so than adults. These are well published studies. Is this really a selection bias where 4-some-one to develop type 2 diabetes as a 16-year-old? The underlying genetics and pathology are so severe that the current crop of drugs are the problem as opposed to when you take the current crop of drugs and you apply them to people who are young they don't work. All three. Because I'm a regular more. Treated predisposition. So Hispanic population is problem. Obesity, all of these kids are huge. So you don't have the lean diabetic phenotype in the age. Nine of these people. And then the drugs don't work very well. So all three of these things. And what now is come. It's called the Rye study. As these kids have been followed up, they're starting to develop kidney disease. They're even, I'm told, a couple of people have had MIs and they're 20s. They have incredibly difficult to control. What do you think? IMean, yes, we're going to argue that these kids are, that this is due to what they're eating. But what is it in the environment that is so a B.S. agenic to these kids? I'll come back to this in a second. But I want to raise the issue now. Let's say you're 16 and you meT4 months of these drugs and you're a one-seous nine. You can put someone on my own jarrel and they're going to have to take this for the rest of their life. Because as soon as you stop the drug goes on. So this is what I treat the person, of course. I can't let the A would see nine. But if you take that 16 year old with a hemoglobin on 19 and you give them a jarrel, where are they going to year? I think that if they can afford the drug and they stay on the drug, the three big gifts, if the doctor knows what to do, I know what to do. If the patient will cooperate with you, if you don't, they'll lose every time. And if they can't afford. If you can satisfy those three Fs, that person we know from the studies be pretty well controlled. And insurance, what fraction of insured patients will have coverage on Mondarro if they're A1C is nine? I don't, I can't answer that. But does CMS cover it? Does Medicaid cover that? Yes, if you have diabetes. Okay. I don't know, the majority coverage, I think is pretty good if you have diabetes. Okay. If you have obesity, that's a different, if you have obesity without, that's a whole different issue. Sure. Should you be treating these young kids who are obesity is a disease. Okay. It got all kinds of problems. Should you put these young kids on these newer drugs and knowing that all I did is change you from food addiction to drug addiction. I didn't do anything else. It's almost like alcohol addiction. There are drugs that things I can give you that can help you, but it tends to relapse. Food addiction, I put you on the drug, you lose weight. You stop the drug, you regain the weight. This is a huge public health concern. It's almost way beyond my capacity because finances are involved here. Can we afford to treat 42% of the people in the US or obese? Or is there some way, amongst the 42%, we can define who are the people who are insulin resistant, who are the people of the metabolic syndrome that we know they're at risk, that we can treat them. My guess is that's the great majority of that 42% of the people. Can we treat all of those people? And moreover, they can stay on the drug. We know on average what the data is saying, I put you on the drug. We don't know all the reasons why, but within a year, half of the people stop the drug. Yeah, it's probably a combination of cost and side effects. Yeah. And my patients are very commonly tell me, you know, say, Ralph, enjoy eating. I can't eat anymore. And some people just tell me they just want to eat. And so I'm going to get fat against. So I'm going to eat some is GI side effects and some is cost. $1000 a month is a lot of money for some. Same.

=== FILE: Sleep Hygiene 101： The Best (and Worst) Habits for Better Sleep  ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [4xfX5DIticw].txt ===

Let's go back to sleep hygiene for a second. We have a temporal temperature. Yes. You know, nowadays we have these incredible devices that can cool our mattresses and things of that nature. Obviously we have air conditioning that can cool the room. Do you have a preference for one or the other? IMean, I clearly not everybody needs to buy a mattress cooling device if they can't afford it. That shouldn't be an impediment to sleep. So do you have a room temp set? We typically talk about the mid 60s as an ideal room temp do you adhere to that? Yes, mid 60s is terrific. And if people say, oh, if this is just too cold, I say, well, what's too cold that often they will say my feet? And we have wonderful solutions for that. They're called socks. And we can get really thick socks. And I'm also not opposed to, you know, there's tiny little heating pads. You can get there like this big. I'm like foot and a half by a foot or something. Putting one of those in the foot of your bed, it's got an auto shut off, shut off after like an hour or something to fall asleep with. I don't have a problem with that. There's no issue there. But yes, a cool room is definitely key. And you know, insert my refrain about down, comforters, duets, etc. Get cotton blankets, get cotton sheets. And then let's talk about light. Do we need to have it so pitch black? You can't see your hand in front of your face. Do we need to block the moonlight? How dark do we need it to be? Yeah. This is a common question. If you close your eyes right now, you'd be able to tell that it's light in this room. We can sense light through our closed eyelids. And many women would tell you that their eyelids seem to get thinner as they age. So I think an eye mask is a great addition. And this is for a lot of people early morning awakenings. Eye masks can be a game change because they don't realize that what's causing the early morning awakenings is a little bit of light getting into the wrong part of their eye. Indicating it's time to be awake right now. And I don't know the details on what wavelength of light that is or what necessarily the light is coming from, whether it's a light in outside from the sun or the moon or whatever it might be. But the point just is a lot of folks with early morning awakening can really benefit from having something covering their eyes, whether it's asleep mask or there's like hats that go down here now. I'm a big fan of making your room dark. I am one of those people who travels with a roll of black electrical tape because you go to a hotel room and there's like 50,000 lights everywhere. And you wouldn't you wouldn't just get really from the eye mask and the. I do but I'm one of those people who rips my eye mask off in the middle of the night. I've tried every single eye mask and it's coming off. So I like to wear it. I start with it. I try and keep it on as much as I can. But I also if there's a griegeous lights in the room, I cover the mudlock. Meaning like you're going to cover the alarm clock and over the bed. Oh, yeah, no, there's none of that in my room. Yeah, I don't do that. But back to the cool thing for me. My trick is I unplug alarm clocks because I realize sometimes they're so complicated that they just go off and they're all the night and I didn't realize it. Yeah. Oh, totally. And the microwaves are the worst. Those are the blinking time. I'll clocks in. But you mentioned the cooling mattress stuff, which I'm intrigued by, but I also am concerned about. It seems that a lot of these mattresses have settings where you can make it cooler. But also you could make it warmer. And I worry about two things. One is I worry about messing with our circadian temperature biology. Because you remember in the 1980s for a hot minute when electric blankets were really popular. And all of a sudden they're not. They were starting to see associations between electric blanket use and some cancers. And at the time, there was a lot of speculation that this was related to EMF. But the great thing that time does is it gives us more perspective. And there are some indications that actually that might have been messing with circadian temperature. And that might have been part of the issue. We know that night shift work is carcinogenic. Great. So all of these things that we do? Do we go? Yeah. Night shift works. Been declared a good question. Well, IMean, no disrespect to the WHO. I don't know what I believe that they say. But I know that there's an association between night shift work and cancer. Do we really know that it's causal? I think if we go Bradford Hill on this. And we look at temporality. I think that there are our age-matched case control studies where they can look at people going through different, to control for history effects, right? To see our people getting more and less cancers. We know it's it is tricky because, for example, you look at firefighters, right? There are more, way more likely to get cancer. They, way more technical. It's both, they've way more other things in the mix. But I think that some of the more classic studies have also been done with hospital workers, right? Also confounding effects. Yeah. And how do we get around the confounding effects of the diet, the obvious dietary shifts that occur in people when they're working under those conditions? IMean, if I think back to how I ate in residency or how I ate after a night of poor sleep, IMean, it's, yeah. To me, that's, that would be more the, the cause. I'd put more of that on kind of the metabolic ill health that might result. But Macarion. Yeah, I think that there's, it's, it's, it's often hard for people to sleep during the day, making that change from going to sleeping at night, to being a person who sleeps during the day, for some people it's not even possible. You talked to some night shift workers. They shift, they sleep very little because they just can't sleep during the day. They're not able to flip. They're circadian biology. But there's a whole history, and I know we'll probably talk about thermal stuff in a bit, but of looking at disruptions in circadian temperature as one of the most common, like circadian disruptions in mental health disorders. Going back to the cancer thing, what is the, what would be the belief to mechanism of action? I would talk to an oncologist about that, and I would probably talk to a circadian biology person about that. But what I can just speak to is just my understanding that electric blankets are no longer here with us and very common because there were these observed ill health effects, whether they're due to EMF or whether they're due to messing with your body temperature at night. What concerns me about some of the exogenous interventions like mattresses that might heat up is that there's supposed to be a normal circadian temperature rhythm that we do during the day and during the night. And when we start imposing things on that, managing some of these mattresses can actually be set to cycle at different temperatures during the night and all of these things. Yeah, I think so the one that I use, and just by full disclosure, I'm an advisor to that company, the one that I use, you change how cold it is throughout the night. So I think I run it as, I think the settings go from 0 to minus 10, like where my 10 is the absolute coldest. 0 is no temperature. Is that like a point skill or is that degrees? No, it's a point skill. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I think I get in and I have it at like minus five and I run it down to minus 10. Okay. And then I bring it up to minus five in the morning. Something to that. So I'm taking it from cold to really cold to cold. Right. Okay. So where my concern is just that my understanding of some of these things. Your saying people would heat themselves with these things. Yeah. But that gets to the point which we know we don't want to be warm. We don't want to do it. Right. But a lot of people get in bed and they don't like feeling cold because it is easier to fall asleep when your hands in your feet and your skin is warmer. Right. Maybe mistakenly do this for more of the nights than they should. And I'm just concerned that our circadian temperature rhythm is an exquisitely controlled system. And like a my a 10 point scale on a device. I think pales in comparison to the complexity of what our bodies need to do in terms of temperature. Well, IMean, I think that the good news is if you can keep your room at 65. Yes. None of this matters. Right. And the biggest challenge, honestly, is hotels for most people is where you have the hardest time controlling temperature hotels at the worst. And there are some mattresses now that are just they're just hot. And there's a whole, well, there's a short list of mattresses. So I just tell people like, look, that's going to be a hot mattress. Don't get that one. And you want to be really careful to make sure that you can be cool in your bed. And I think the easiest way to do that if you don't have the money to splurge on, you know, something that's going to be a mattress that's going to definitely be cool will be keeping your room cool. What about blue light for bed? So I've looked at these data quite a bit. And I would say that six years ago, I was in the camp of every light had to be red. So I had to have my phone shifted into a red light phase. I had all of these apps that managed all of this stuff. So as soon as the sun went down, blue light was being removed from my electronics. And I have to say, I sleep subjectively and objectively better today. I say objectively if you can believe what a sleep tracker tells you. But we can bracket that and come back to it. We should paying never taking blue light out of my devices, but instead paying attention to what I'm consuming. In other words, my new hypothesis has become it's not the blue light that is the problem. It's the stimulus that often comes with the blue light. In other words, not looking at social media, with regardless of light color is a far greater positive impact on my sleep than looking at those things, but just making sure that there's no blue light coming through. Yeah. So let's talk about that. What is the role of minimizing blue light when it comes to preparing for sleep? That's an excellent question. Well, first, I want to completely agree with you. We didn't evolve for the neural experience of Instagram. That's not, we're not ready for that. Right? And I think regardless of what color light you're getting your Instagram on, that's probably not helpful before you go to bed. So I think that you're entirely right. I think the larger problem is not necessarily the blue light, but is the thing that we're interacting with, whether it's an iPad or a phone or a computer. Because typically those things are going to involve social media, work, email, all of these other things. That I think are much more potent disruptors of sleep than the blue light itself. IMust caveat this though. I have had a few patients who have found they were not using Instagram before bed. They were not doing email before bed none of this. Not there anything stress forced in you now. No. But and I just finished with a patient recently like this who found that using orange colored glasses. And I'm talking orange colored glasses, not those beautiful blue light blocking glasses that are clear lenses that I'm not sure what they're really doing sometimes. Like I'm talking ugly, motorcycle, looking orange lenses. And I found that a handful of patients wearing these two hours before bed, it completely ameliorates their sleep on set and so on. Yeah, such that they were able to almost immediately banbean. The beauty of these interventions is if you can isolate them to one change at a time, you can be empirical about it and something like wearing glasses is benign. IMean, you're only out the money you spend on them and if it works, great. And if you really want to test it, take them off and see if your symptoms return. Exactly. And if they don't, maybe it fixed you, maybe it wasn't that who cares if they return and you can fix it. Yeah, like again, I don't I try not to be terribly dogmatic about this stuff. But I also sort of think that when people go to great lengths to remove blue light without removing stimulus, they're missing the boat a little bit. Right. And you know, for me, social media is not much of a stimulus. I actually don't pay that much attention to it, but work is. Yeah. So for me, the single worst thing I can do right before bed is look at email. Oh, yeah. If I like, you know, we're as watching TV, totally like it's a total beautiful way for me to be distracted by watching something mindless on Netflix for an hour. And as long as I don't go and check my email and see what got sent to me in the last hour. Right. It'll be great. Doesn't matter that I just finished watching a big bright screen of Netflix. Right. Doesn't seem too impack me. Totally. Because, well, one is much more interactive and stressful and one is very passive. And you're just watching a movie that has nothing to do with you, no bearing in your life. Right. And what I would say back to you, what I'm going to call AB testing, right? Whenever you want to test one of these individual, what I call low hanging fruit interventions, you want to collect your own data on a paper sleep diary for two weeks. Make the change. You must do it for two weeks. And there's a few more low hanging fruit pieces of sleep hygiene. By the way, do you have a nice template that people can like we have one that we give our patients. Again, it's super low tech. It's a piece of paper. Do you have one on your UCSF website? I can make it public. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe we'll link to it in the show now. It's just so folks. He's easy to do. And we're we get link ours as well. But yours is probably better. Arze is like boxes you color in. Oh, yeah. And it's like you put C when you had caffeine. You know, A when you had alcohol, E when you exercise. So we're documenting when did you exercise? When did you have food, alcohol, caffeine, and when were you in bed and when were you sleeping? By the shading. Yours might be even more high tech than mine. But what I will tell you is mine is just enough to get the information that I will definitely act on. That's okay. Nothing else. But I will tell you, can I go over a couple more pieces of low hanging. Yes. On sleep hygiene. Yeah. So okay. So back to the glasses. If you are a person who has trouble with what we call early insominius or difficulty falling asleep at the beginning of the night. And you're already not looking at your email, not doing Instagram. You're just annoyed that you cannot fall asleep at the beginning of the night. It's worth it to try these glasses for two hours and night for two weeks and see what happens. It's it's it's it's it's so easy to do, right? And to be clear what is our particular brand? IMean, I have no affiliations with any of these things. I can tell you there's some really nice ugly ones from low blue lights.com. I think. I still don't business. But they look like motorcycle goggles. I do think that the wrap around features is important because we're going for it. Let's go for it. Yeah. Right. So it's it's a worthy thing to do. Another important thing to do is to talk to your physician. I'm not a physician, but I work with a ton of them. And I learned this from an anesthesiologist. All medications have circadian effects. All of them. Somehow it's probably not known for all of them how they do. But they do. Make sure you are taking your medications at the same time every day. And at the right time of day. For example, I want side of patient coming in saying they were taking 450 milligrams of bupropion for depression before bed. No. Right. That's going to be a pretty stimulating dose. So make sure that you go over your medications with your doctor and that you're taking them at the optimal times of day and be really consistent with your medications. And another one that is a particularly low hanging piece of fruit is something called decafinated coffee. Turns out there are speculations that decaf coffee can have as much as 15 to 30 percent of the caffeine that regular coffee has. I haven't found that reference. I've dug. I've tried to find one that will show that. I haven't found exactly that. But there are some data from 2006 that were published saying that you know 15 ish percent. But then again, more recent data have shown that Starbucks, I think, says that their 12 ounce has 155 milligrams of caffeine. But outside laboratory testing found like 310 something like that. So when you're decafinating coffee that is much more caffeinated than you started with, this can make it an absolutely huge difference. I tell people were done with caffeine by 11. That's my 11am. That's my standard. Unless we've gotten extreme phase delay or phase advance, I should define those terms. A phase delay is when you go to bed really late and you wake up really late. A phase advance is when you wake up really early and you go to bed really early. So someone who's waking up at like 330 in the morning and going to bed at like 8 p.m. that would be like a phase advance. Phase delay would be like I'm going to bed at 3 a.m. and I'm waking up at 10 a.m. Right. So in those cases, IMight do something differential with the caffeine. But for most people who are neither of those, I'll cut it off at 11. And it's that includes your, your caffeinated coffee and your decafinated coffee. And I never take people's caffeine away. Caffeine withdrawal is not something I want to deal with in my clinic. And I don't think it's necessary. You can cause a lot of damage taking me by someone's coffee. People really don't like that. Really put some in a bad mood and it's not necessary. So I tell people do not change how much coffee you're drinking, put it all before 11. Right. Just move it all. What fraction of people are such rapid caffeine metabolizers that they seem immune to caffeine and sleep? I think that that person doesn't actually exist. I'm not, I need to be convinced that there are people, IMean, what the normal caffeine half-life is for to six hours. Right. So even if we take someone who's four hours, that means after four hours, you still have half of a cup of coffee. And after eight hours, you still have a quarter of a cup of coffee. And if you have that coffee at two PM and that coffee actually had three hundred and ten milligrams of caffeine in it. And it was only a tall coffee from Starbucks. There's a lot of contingencies to build in here. But I could tell you, people, someone just know, actually stops using the coffee after dinner and it's like a world of difference for their sleep quality. People will say, oh, no, I fall asleep. Just fine, doesn't affect me. Well, it is affecting you. It's affecting the electrical quality of your sleep throughout the whole night. And I would refer you to talking to like a sleep neurologist to interpret some of those sleep studies and talk with you more about that. For my purposes, all I need to know is the person who's trying to fix the insomnia is, oh, you're having two D.K.F. Coffee's after dinner every night. That could add up and that could be doing something and that could make your sleep less restful. Okay. So low hanging fruit. Just stop at 11. Like do the experiment at the minimum? Okay. So those are three. Anything. Is the key thing? Anything. Any other really obvious things to AB test for two weeks? So do you want to talk about getting off medications? Or do you want to leave that and put that in the next? Let's wrap up all of this. And then I want to do, I do want to talk about the weaning off, especially the ambience and the lune estes and the all that stuff. Yeah. No, I think that that's the major part. I will tell people also people like to fall asleep with podcasts on. Don't do that. Including this one, right? Right. Yeah. Well, this is an easy one to fall asleep too. But I don't know. I hope that people are falling asleep listening to this. Although if this helps them sleep, one of the things we want to talk about is on the real relaxation techniques. Where does mindfulness based practice come into it? So anyone who's done mindfulness based meditation probably appreciates how difficult it is. It's not like, you know, trenscendental meditation where you're focusing on a mantra, you're instead focusing on the sensation, typically breathing. But body awareness is a thing that you want to focus on. Is that counterproductive or is it productive as you're laying there awake? So my unsatisfying answer to so many questions is always going to be at depends, because there's moderator variables, right? And when it comes to CBTI, what we know is that what's been tested is progressive muscle relaxation, which you could argue is a form of a body scan, which is part of many mindfulness practices, right? Where you scan your whole body, you think about your hands, you notice how they're feeling, are they warm, are they soft, whatnot, and you move through your whole body? With progressive muscle relaxation, you squeeze your hands and you let them go, you squeeze them and you let them go. It's more of an active process that you're paying attention to throughout your body. Doing this in bed right before you fall asleep for a few minutes is fine. That's kind of the one exception to the sleep and sex rule. I tell people that it's also fine to practice this in other parts of your house. You don't have to just be in bed. But the body scan and mindfulness in general has been studied in combination with CBTI. And what the data have shown is somewhat fascinating. There's no actual differential improvement on sleep duration or metrics of sleep, but people like the mindfulness stuff. They report there's more, they're more happy with it. They like, they like doing that, right? But in terms of actual improvement on sleep outcomes, I don't think it really adds too much to CBTI. The effects with CBTI are pretty whopping. When it's done well, you know, 50 to 60% of people can get remission and 70% can get clinically meaningful improvement to their sleep. So that's, IMean, in the world of psychological treatments, that's really good. But to circle back to your question, mindfulness is great. I think there's a lot of practical uses for it for helping yourself. Put your encyclological states. You don't want to be in. It's a great way to be in life. But when it comes to sleep, do I need you to start a mindfulness practice to improve your sleep? No. So you mentioned 50 to 60% of people are going to have a remission. Closer to 50, but yeah, 70% will have a clinical, meaningful clinical improvement of the 30% that do not. Why when does the treatment fail? The treatment fails when people don't do it. So in other words, we're really saying it 30% of people are not able to adhere to the treatment. I wouldn't go that far. There are some people who are genetically short sleepers. And at some point, this may become distressing for them. I had a great, I had a story of a patient who wasn't her 70s and came to me saying, I have a huge problem. My sleep is not good. And I asked her, okay, tell me all about this. She was like, upper 70s had a volunteer job in Sanford, really active, full workout plan. I'm like, you're crushing it, lady. What's the problem exactly? She says, well, I joined the study and I had to wear this wearable device. And I woke up in the morning and it says that things are not going well every morning, morning after morning. And it says I'm at risk for different things. I'm not going to say which wearable company was. But and I said, okay, okay, so there's rips. There's an amazing treatment for that. Can I see the wearable device? Can I please just have that wearable device? Vice grips. Exactly. So, and this was a while ago, but I took it away from her because I think, you know, and the wearable devices now are not doing doing this. This was, oh gosh, 78 years ago. This is actually, I actually wanted to ask this is a, IMade a note to ask you this question, which is when do you tell people? Because we do this with our patients, which is take the tracker off. We're doing a six month tracker holiday. Yeah. Done with the tracker. So is that kind of mainstay part of your treatment is like, let's get all that anxiety out of there. For people with insomnia, I tell them, yes. And I do like with, we're coming to me in my clinic. The people who have bothered to wait a year and a half to get into the clinic, those people, yes, I am telling them that. And so to go back to your 30% of people, the genetically short sleepers who become distressed about their sleep are not going to be helped by CBTI. But maybe they shouldn't be helped. Maybe there's nothing to fix. Correct. Yeah. Correct. But they're presenting. So I'm putting them in the image group. I got it. And then, yes, we know that there are so, there's such a huge body of data on CBTI at this point. It's just wonderfully studied. And we know that when people don't do the treatment, it doesn't work. adherence is a major, major component. Duration of treatment also matters. It seems that if you do four or more sessions with a therapist doing the CBTI, your outcomes are going to be way better than if you try and cut it way short with one or two. My treatment is five sessions. I do an intake. You get five treatment sessions. And then I do a follow-up where we just tidy things up. And the space between them is a week. Always one week. I am militant about this. If you're going to miss a week, you can't be in it. You have to wait for the next cycle.

=== FILE: Social Jet Lag： How to Balance Sleep & Social Life  ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [i7UCz7QVND8].txt ===

What degree of social jet lag do you tolerate? Again, just for folks listening, social jet lag, meaning the experience of changing your sleep time during weekends, which could be akin to jet lag, if it differs by hours. In an ideal world, there would be zero. In an ideal world, I wake up at seven o'clock in the morning, every single day of the week. For an individual who says, oh, but God, on the weekends, it's just so nice to not have to get up at seven to do you say, look, give yourself a 30 minute grace, and that would still be considered perfectly healthy. Great question. So during treatment, I tell people, you need to wake up at the same time, every day that ends in DIY. So that means Monday, Saturday, Sunday, yeah, right. So that's all of it. That's, yeah, that's during treatment. I did check. Yeah, good. There is no room for negotiation during treatment. We're in the dictatorship, right? But what I do teach people at the end of treatment is how to cope with the fact that life is going to happen. When treatment ends, it happens during treatment. But there's a lot that pauses during treatment to be honest. But let's say that you've got a major event on a Friday night, you're going to a concert. Yes. And you're going to be out way later than usual. And what I tell people is, look, you need to pick which day of that weekend, do you want to suffer, and which day do you want to feel good? Because we can sleep in one day. You cannot sleep in two days in a row. That's going to take you off the wagon. We're not doing it. So let's say Friday night, you go to a concert. And you want to feel good on Saturday. Cool. Sleep in on Saturday. Sleep in by an hour on Saturday. OK, fine. Go to bed on Saturday night when you get tired. Spoiler alert, you're probably going to get tired. Path to usual bedtime because you slept in. But then Sunday, you have to wake up at your wake time, and Sunday you're going to suffer. But let's say you want to feel good Sunday. That means on Saturday, you're going to wake up at your usual time. Saturday is going to be a struggle of us. But you'll make it to your bedtime. You'll go to bed at your bedtime. They'll feel better Sunday. So you just have to choose. When do I want to do this stuff for you? OK. So basically force the stuff. The stuff, spring into the narrower place possible. But you can choose because sometimes people don't want the suffering to be the next day. They want it to be the day after. So you get to choose that. But I tell people, look, don't sleep in more than one day in a row. It's going to mess you up. And generally sleeping in past your bedtime. You're not really getting quality sleep when you sleep in past your bedtime. I'm sorry, wait a second. When it's been a pattern for a long time, when you sleep in past your wake time, you're probably getting some extra stage to sleep. You're not getting more deep sleep. That's for sure. That's not happening. We're recording this on a Tuesday. Sunday, two days ago, I was flying back to Austin from LA. And the flight got delayed over and over and over and over and over again. For reasons that are so assomined, they're not even worth describing. And then we finally got on the plane and taxied. And then the water was leaking out of the coffee machine. So we had to go back to get another plane. I'm not making this up. But I can only tell you how ridiculous this is. The punchline of the story is we didn't get home till two in the morning, which is long past my bedtime. So what would your strategy have been getting home at two in the morning? Prior to Monday, a work day, where you do have some leeway. You know, I don't have to get up at six, which would be my normal wake up time. Would you have said, just get up at six, stick with it and make it up by going to bed a lot earlier Monday night, or would you say sleep until eight? You'll probably feel better than if you woke up at six. How would you handle that situation? I'll say which day is more important for you to feel good on Monday or Tuesday. Let's say I said Tuesday because I'm sitting down with you. Well, then I would say probably try and not to sleep in too much so that you can go to bed at your regular wake time on Monday and not have to. If you sleep in horribly on Monday morning, you're going to stay up later Monday night. And then you'll get up at your wake time today and your do well if I had shorter sleep for today. It will have rolled all the way over. So I thought that's actually what I did. So I have not thought about this. I just slept until I think my wife tried to get me out of bed at seven and I said, can you let me sleep till eight? So I didn't get up till eight. But last night you're right. I had a very hard time going to bed and I was like 11 o'clock and I was still up me and doing around. So you just have to very carefully decide which day do you want to prioritize and that's how you make that decision. Yeah. So yeah. So you have more control than you think is what's what's beautiful about that. And I just remind people like you can never really make up for lost sleep that easily because sleep architecture really matters. And when you're sleeping in, you're not getting more deep sleep, you're getting some more maybe light sleep. And at worst, that's robbing you if maybe some of the deep sleep you would have gotten the following night because you're on a circadian plan here, right?

=== FILE: Social Media's Impact on Beauty Standards ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [MFDrptiROUE].txt ===

How much do you see even just speak about it through the length of your actuALCAReers? How much do you see trens that dramatically change what people are asking for? In other words, 25 years ago, did men or women come into your practice significantly looking for something different in terms of an appearance and an outcome that they wanted you to shape? Yeah, I would say that's such a loaded question because 25 years ago, if we think back, there was no social media. Television was very basic. The maybe there was some shows that had life people on there on different shows where they would talk about beauty or fashion, but you had to actually tune in and watch those shows to be able to see the trens. Magazine came out and that was the extent of it. Now you have social media and various channels on social media and then you have what we now know as influencers and they're changing what our patients are seeing on what's driving them and the biggest one that I can talk about is basically that very well-known family in California that has monetized their appearance and set a lot of trens for better or for worse. It's great to see that they're making it okay to talk about enhancing your appearance or fixing something up. But where I draw the line is when they start putting out their trensformations and this tren now is something that everyone wants to emulate and you're talking about young women changing, physically changing their body drastically to conform to what you said is a tren which is exactly it and trensess. The word says, I'm not permanent. So what happens when that tren ends? The celebrities have the money to go to the doctors and reverse all that. Now it will take surgery and they will have scars to show for it or hide for it from that. But the patients that follow them, these young women don't have all of that income to go back and then re-trensform their body and they don't know the implications of that. So I think we have a duty as doctors definitely to try to educate our patients about not following trens so strongly and look beyond the monetary aspect of it. And so from that standpoint I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trening and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves. Because I don't know in your practice but I know people want to come in for the enhanced products, the Brazilian botlifts and the small ways and you know that's something again that's being undone by that family now and you're going to see a whole tren that's coming out that doesn't look like that. So what are kind of the top above the neck tren? So what I see as I look around is I see lip size being something that's getting bigger smaller, bigger smaller. Where are we today by the way in lip size? So just to continue Susan's lines of line of thought there were in this again unusual era where the influencers that are affecting society are much more in our faces than they have been historically and they're affecting young people at much younger age which is why we just let my 16-year-old daughter have a social media account and that influence so these influencers is quite powerful because what happens is on social media which is the primary exposure that people are receiving these days about beauty. The images that are being posted are not real. They're filtered, they're unrealistic exaggerations of some of those three original factors that we're talking about, the symmetry proportion, people will photograph themselves in such a way with a look, they look more proportionate, they will you know they'll pull their jaw on certain way to make their proportions look better. Someone has to teach me how to do this because anytime I see a video of myself you know I'm like that is the worst looking thing I've ever seen. Like I need to learn these tricks. You need a 20-year-old. And a lot of this is subconscious posing that's a term that I have you know have used for this concept where people are subconsciously posing like for example if you like a lot of people when they walk past a shiny building will stop and look at themselves and kind of like adjusts themselves a little bit. And by the way is that new or is that something we would have all like in other words did our ancestors walk by a stream where the water was still and look at themselves? Do we IMean not that we can know that but possibly I think so but I think the it's becoming so much more exaggerated now to the point where we can you know confidently state that social media influencers are selling exaggerated forms of beauty ideals like the sexual dimorphism so we talked earlier about like larger lips or bigger eyes. One of the most popular procedures in northeast Asia is surdues to make the eyes wider. You actually cut into the canvas and perform tose surdues to make the eye look bigger and then of course this tren to have bigger lips you know fillers are being used left and right unfortunately to overdue lip volume and plump up lips and because the social media influencers are posting it it's becoming more exaggerated because these exaggerated gender traits are becoming normalized and so again the family that Susan's mentioning in California they'd normalized over overdone lips to the point where people come in asking for it and we have to say no I'm sorry this is not a good direction for us to take you in. I want to put a bow on the social media thing for a moment. What is the most concerning tren or what is the most concerning request you are getting from people that you believe is sort of unique to the social media phenomenon? What I'm seeing a lot more are teenagers now coming in asking for fillers and your imager leaders and their forehead fillers and your lips and that's sad because but why would IMean would a neuromodulator do anything when you're at that age anyway? No but they're now being told that even 18 for example it's okay to start preventative Botox you don't need that until you're a lot further along in age. So that's just an object lie that they're being told. Yes and unfortunately they're also being made to feel very poorly about their shape of their lips. They're being inundated with images unlike tenorial saying these are highly filtered images. We know a lot of people who will take in their ways, take in their thighs all of that change the proportions and then post that image and what I try to tell patients is that what you see in terms of images that are on social media, a are filtered, b are taken with certain angles of the camera to enhance someone's appearance and we will never at least in my practice take someone's photo that they took on their phone and then try to enhance them to look like their photo because what's happening is that you're going to make them look very different in life in real life. So how you photograph you're only going to photograph beautifully if you're the most symmetric person and that's why even the most beautiful form model on in a photograph if you look at them in person they're very pretty but you wouldn't think that they're super models sometimes but when they photograph they photograph beautifully because of their symmetry but for us with our forward facing cameras that we point at our self-suitic our selfies they're going to just sort our face if you tilt one way you elongate the face so they're different way you shorten the face and patients get hung up on that and that's really sad because in real life they look fabulous. Now is this a 95-5 female male problem that is arising from social media or other or the and is the I guess from the purpose of this discussion I would guess it's mostly female my guess is the male issue is probably much more on antibiotics deroyed abuse and things that that young men are being influenced by is that safe to assume. So what is it that you see tenures that is most disconcerting is there a particular product or particular procedure that is that is showing up that is would it been unheard of before social media? I was at two areas one is because fillers are non-surgical relatively accessible price points and low risk and are ubiquitous you can find a clinic within one mile if you live in a major city. I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks over a volumization has become an epidemic and it's a serious problem not only because it looks exaggerated and distorted and strenge but even when as a facial surgeon I go into perform surgeries I will find that filler has disrupted normal anatomy and so decades later the companies will tell you that filler only lasts one year in the face of the yet to refill it that's definitely not true really we see we have patients coming in who don't mention that they've had fillers in the past but then in surgery I will see filler in their cheek or in their face because they had eight or ten years ago and it's still there and it's stretching the ligaments it's changing the structure of the tissues it actually makes routine surgical procedures later more challenging so that's one area and by the way other biologic features of the individual that would make that more or less true are there some people in whom fillers go away after a year or are you saying that for the most part they last one that's also another whole complex topic is the metabolism of how ironic acid and some people are higher metabolizers some are slower metabolizers and we actually don't have a good sense of that we have some general concepts just based on experience but there's very little science on that we can't really predict who's one doesn't know one really doesn't know okay and I'm sorry you you're gonna get to a second point yeah no uh the second point is from a surgical standpoint there is a tren right now where people are asking for this high arched brow effect where it's a hyper exaggerated tail the brow comes up very high it's called a snatched look about once every week or two I've got someone who seriously wants to have their face distorted with a surgical procedure with me and I have to say I'm sorry we're not going to do that is it safe to say that anyone who walks into a physician's office to do this needs to be able to be over 18 to provide consent but is it safe to say or is it is it is it the case that people younger than 18 can do this in less reputable places without parent consent do we know this? It should be 18 it's like in the other medical procedure you have to be 18 years of age to consent there are rare instances where where I will treat someone who's 16 or 17 if the parent is there and if it's for something for example a patient has a hump on their nose that they don't like but they're not ready to commit to a rhinoplasty so I can use fillers in a creative way to help reduce their appearance of that but that's very far between the parent is there yes yeah absolutely I did have a very interesting incidents where I had an 18 year old though come in and she had just had a rhinoplasty and was coming to see me for fillers and for neuromodulators and I asked her I said your 18s is someone here with you from one of your parents and nobody was there with her and the interesting thing is though she is 18 thinking that she's an adult but she's only a junior in high school so I was very conflicted I kept referring back to something along the lines of you need to talk to your parents you need to tell them what we discussed here that really bothered me for a long time that here is this 18 year old who's still in high school that wants to do things and I don't see a parent there with her but I think I think it's done a huge problem probably across the board that people under 18 are getting treatments but they're getting fed all of this societal pressure I like to use the term beauty pressure they're getting like peer pressures beauty pressure that's now more extreme because of social media they're getting all this beauty pressure at a very young age 12 13 onwards and so by the time they get into their 20s they've been thinking about this for years and years and years and they're ready to dive into it I'm Peter Atia this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes you'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive every topic every study every resource from each episode carefully curated for you you'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone we can take these steps towards a better longer life together become a premium member today a Peter Atia MD dot com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

=== FILE: Sperm Banking： When, Why, and How Much ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [vuN6_LBYps4].txt ===

What advice do you give a guy who comes in your practice? Maybe you don't see a lot of these guys, but let's say you get a guy who comes in and says, hey, look, I want to I want to bank my sperm. I want to freeze my sperm. Now, presumably you'll get a lot of that if a guy is undergoing therapy for cancer or something like that. Is there anything a guy needs to know? And would you recommend a guy do that if he's 40 doesn't have a partner, but says look, I want to have kids and isn't there something to the idea that my sperm are better today than they will be in a decade? So huge issue, paternal age, paternal age and fertility, paternal age. So we can go there, but I don't pay value judgment, I say good idea. I am a disclosure, I'm on a board of legacy. I love their mission driven, the way their mission driven. And so I like the fact that going from military and exposed patients in this and that and VA. So, but I'm I'm for that. I think it's the lowest hanging fruit in the field, especially obviously for chemo for cancer survivors and things. It's like, I don't care what you think might happen with your cancer. I would still bank it. I started non-profit golf banking on the future. 16 year olds to 21 year olds with cancer will do it for you will pay for it five years. Just do this a sample. Because it's so much harder afterwards or not. So you would advise any male that hasn't reproduced and who might want to, who's undergoing any chemotherapy for any cancer, just play it safe, bank. For cancer, yes. Well, who should anyone do it for any reason, probably not, but again, I don't pass the judgment if they're worried about something that I'm worried then they should. Well, paternal age, do you worry about? So good question. And you look at like National Guidelines for sperm donation, 40 is considered older paternal age, 50 for sure. If you look at risks to offspring, miscarriages, stillborns, autism, birth defects, things immediately related to conception, prematurity. Those go up with paternal age, then you look at birth defects. When they're born, those go up, you know, one to twofold. And then the worry, some ones are the single gene defects and the epigenetics like psychiatric morbidity. So the autism skits of phenia dyslexia by polar disorder potentially Alzheimer's in offspring. And they're not detectable with young, so big issues. So I've written a lot about that, published on it. I was actually having my second child at 50 when I was writing this English in every tweet this, you know, writing a paper on all these risks called we put in with the island of Chenco from your first epitipur. But I think it's a hockey stick curve for risk to offspring. And you think the the the inflection is 40 or 50? I think it's more like 60. I think there's a slow linear increase in risk to offspring from 25 to 50 or 60. And then there's an inflection and then there's the blade of the stick. And I think that's logarithmic. Same curve as women. But they're formal. Yeah, but they're shifted 20 years earlier or something. Yes. So the shorter curve, but the same thing 40, 38 to 40 is kind of a point where things really ramp up with chromosomes. The men's stuff is not chromosomal. So if you take the curves together, they're different spans, same shape. But I think the female curve is on top of the male curve. This is not a the same relevant relative risk. Right. So women, you know, you go from 25 to 40, your your chance of a miscarriage. Oh, it's chromosomal. It goes up quite significantly after that, very significantly. And the end the consequence of women's issues with offspring related health is basically miscarriage. Yeah, I'm in many ways. It's almost easier to detect, right? Because so it's it's it's doing a figure. It can be more dramatic, but it usually now prevented with with pre-homotation genetic testing. Yeah. Man or different, you can't detect these things. There's single gene mutations. This is the the machinery is constantly working. It's getting old. ThEQuality control of the process goes down and little gene mutations get in there that are all we've been always being spun off in the heat of the engine and they're getting they're not vetted. So the machinery's not doing a good job. So they're getting through and they're not going to be they're not going to be lethal. They're going to be deleterious. So that's where you get things and autism's a classic one. They're turn on the age related. Looks like that's the biggest risk factor for it. And that worries me a lot, right? So I think it's interesting. The facts are that human evolution is entirely driven by sperm. Yeah. Because eggs are just seeing they're correcting the problem. It's entirely driven by sperm. And half and so 50 mutations a year, generation usually gets spit out for each teenager paper, probably between generations. And there's always mutations occurring in 14 year old fathers, but it goes way up with 60 year old fathers. So the rate of mutations goes way up with age. But average is 50 over a reproductive life. And most of them half of the mutations that we are throwing off as a species are not ears or hands or feet or height or I think it's all neurodevelopmental. It's like half neurodevelopmental. Yeah. So when you think about what we're seeing, you know the Martians from the 50s and the movies with big heads. Yeah, that's kind of where we're headed. Autism dyslexia by polar disorder. You know, these are neurodevelopmental neurogenitive issues. And why is that? Well, that's what's going on. IMean, that's where we're being stimulated. That's where we're being asked to evolve. Look at the last 30 years, right? Funny. One of the biggest investors in Salesforce said to me, I said to me, you know, I realized that was dyslexic when I when my son was born. And I said, really, he said, yeah, but you know what, it helped me be the man I am to realize that Salesforce is going to fly, given the first 500,000, given the first million they ever took anymore money. And he said, it let me focus. I was so autism as a disease where you put out, you ignore a lot of input and you find that the gift and it's amazing. If you go down the rabbit hole of what they're good at, it's like they're whole brain trust is there. So is that a disease? Or is that where we're headed? IMean, I think it exists on a spectrum. I think anyone who's probably spent time with kids, you know, using ASD as an example, boy, you know, you know, mild versions of it the way it can be defined. Because it really has three categories now in the DSM5. I think the mildest version probably comes with more superpowers than limitations or maybe equal amount, but clearly the more severe it gets. It's pretty debilitating. But this, this idea that's a tunnel. We're calling it disease though. Yeah. But maybe it's not disease. Maybe it's where we're headed. Maybe it's the future. Maybe the non-sequitors that come out of those brains. IMean, look at who's changing the world right now. These have been stuck in the valley. But again, I would argue most of those people would be in category, you know, my class one, no, not class three. What's the, what's the thought success rate? Right. So if a guy is 40, he goes ahead, he freezes and banks his sperm assuming they were good to go in. Right. Are they very high probability of thawing correctly? So when you freeze sperm, it's about a 200-year-old process. Right. Right. Well, the use for about 75. I forgot through the Italian science. This was who froze sperm and snow and then thought it in the live a couple hundred years later, after Lee Winho came up with a microscope. The found it was moving and it was possible. So egg falling is very new. Egg freezing and thawing is very new. This is very old. So everyone is thinking about sperm now because eggs are being frozen left and right. But this is much older technology. And this cell is much harder than an egg. So it does a lot better, typically. When you freeze it, it's the freezing process that kills sperm, be from icicles on the inside. Yes. And then while it's frozen, there's usually no issue. No issue. And then there's another problem when you thought rapid-to-temperature shift. So that's where the kill rate comes from. And a good sample half of it should survive. Okay. And so how much sperm would you tell a guy to bank if he has to do it? If it's the definitive samples for his life. So meaning he's 40 or he's about to undergo chemotherapy or some other exposure where he should just assume he will not have normal sperm again. What do you tell him? So I usually say depending on what technology you're going to use, but if you're sperm count normal, three to three ejaculates is one kid's worth of sperm within some of the combination technology where you would thought and then then turkey based it. So 10 ejaculates for three shots on goal for three kids. BuT3 kids with low technology, but 10 ejaculates will give you most of China with IVF. Got it. Oh, when you say low tech, oh, I'm leaving IUI or something. Right. So there's three levels. Sex, no tech. Yeah. High tech is IVF and in the middle is IUI. That's the stuff that turkey-based thing. It's relatively straightforward, relatively cheap. I straight kids for that, but plenty of sperm for IVF. So three ejaculates for two more than enough. If they're normal for IVF. Yes. So the population you're talking about maybe cancer survivors half of those will not be normal. They're really looking at IVF. So they don't need that many. Yep. But I think three is a good number, but it's in the trence policy. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Squats Vs. Single-Leg Training ｜ Jeff Cavaliere, Mike Boyle & Gabrielle Lyon, D.O. [CGajXgvsPB8].txt ===

I grew up powerlifting was one of the things I did on this side. It actually wasn't a sport. IMean, boxing was my life, but I became hooked on being in the gym. And the gym I belonged to was a dungeon. It was an old man dungeon, two stories underground with no windows. And I didn't realize how lucky I was at the time, but this happened to be like the power trening, the powerlifting epicenter, right? So you basically just had a bunch of middle-aged men who were machines. Like, you know, these are even the guys that weighed like, you know, everybody could bench press two times their body weight, squat, three times their body weight, deadlift, four times their body weight. So that's what I grew up doing. I was like, we benched, we squat, we deadlift. And we do it really, really heavy. And not surprisingly, over time, like, I started to get injured, right? I injured my back by the time I was in medical school. And kind of decided, like, I don't know if this is worth the risk. I don't really see that I need to have four plates on my back squat anymore. And almost through necessity had to discover single leg trening. So I want you to say more about that experience and help somebody, because I have patients who really can't believe that you can achieve optimal lower body hypertrophy without a barbell on your back or without picking a barbell up off the floor. Yeah, which is amazing. I had the same background as you. I got into competitive powerlifting in college just because I was no longer an athlete. And I was looking for an outlet and I was like, okay, I'm good at lifting weights. So I started competing in powerlifting, started hurting myself back problem, shoulder surgery. And athletic trening background, get to college as a strength coach, start to see the same things. I've got athletes with back problems. Everybody's back problem seems to come down to one thing, back squatting. Because we weren't, we didn't run deadlift. We were the old school like squat bench powerclen because that was the football mentality at that time. But the people with back pain had, it always related right back to back squat. We started to look at that and think, okay, if we're doing something that we know is hurting 20% of our population should we continue to do that. For a while we had to because the football coaches mandated it. But when I got to the point where I was kind of fully in control, I said, one, we're not going to do this anymore. And then we went the unilateral route. Sorry, when you say football coaches, are you saying even at the level of the NFL? At every level, the football coaches, you know, they want to know how many guys can bench press 400 pounds and how many guys can squat 500 pounds and how many guys can you know, they're, it's still a very old school mentality. It's getting better. And if the level is getting much better because it's still in the combine for any kind of quarterback. Everybody's still venturing and still benching in 225 as a strength to us. They do an endurance test for strength. But the, the foolishness of the combine too, but that's another the same combine that you know, the balance. And the same combat that I helped people for. Yes, it is not. I always tell people it's like getting the copy of the SAT and all you got to do is cheat. You just got to practice the event practice thEQuestions. You know the, you know, the answers practice. You'll get good at it. We develop that thought process. But so we started going just down this sort of unilateral rabbit hole. And then we, but then you start getting into the biggest thing that people have done to stand is when you get into the bilateral deficit research, your stronger on one leg, you have more strength capability on one leg than you do want to because your body, there's, and there's really so interesting story to interrupt you, Mike. It's so interesting how difficult it is to appreciate that when you're not doing unilateral exercises and people don't try it. And then it's very dogma oriented because we, we've all grown up around kind of the squat poems and all these things about you know, King of all lifts and all this bullshit that people spout and I'm always kind of spouting the anti of that. But the reality is we started seeing when we first started testing is what happened was one of my assistants, this guy Jeff Oliver who's been in Holy Cross for 25 years said to me, if we could test you one like it's strength, would you stop squatting and I was like, yes. So then we said, okay, let's try to figure out how we test. So we started making up these sort of path fast. One like squat test, you know, doing rap max is in different split squat variations and things. But when we did it, the results blew us away in terms of the difference between sides blew you away. No, the ability to be stronger than we were or as strong as we were bi-ladderly blew us away. So we had guys, the first year I did it with my hockey team, 2000 maybe six or seven somewhere in there. And everybody could split squat what they could front squat, seeing a month. So if I did a back split squat test, everybody that could back split squat, 300 pounds was a 300 pound front squatter. Everybody that could back split squat, you know, predicts that project up to a 400 pound max was a 400 pound squat. Right across the board, it was exactly dead even one like the two legs. And then people would say, that's because they're using their back like they were trying to couple of all these rationales for why it wasn't. But the numbers were just glaring. You know, then we went to a split squat test and we had one kid who did, did 240 pounds for 20 reps. You know, if you'd buy a ladder, or they'd out, it's 480 for 20. He's a 200 pound hockey player, 190 pound hockey player. They just, the numbers started to smack us in the face a little bit. And I started to look, and then you start looking at the bi-ladder like you look at the grip strength research, bi-ladder deficit. Right hand plus left hand will be more than combined to hand. You look at, you know, they've done it with like extension. They've done it with a bunch of different things. And what they realized, I think this is my own theory, but we never logically know that we are in a ladder. If I said to you, try to dunk a basketball. I'm going to guarantee you right hand. I'm going to jump off one foot. You're going to jump off your left foot. You're going to holdbol in your right hand. Everybody here is going to do it except 10% of us are lefty. So 10% of us are going to grab it in our left hand. But everybody knows if I say to you throw a baseball. I always say to somebody, if I say throw a baseball, everyone is going to throw it. If I say throw two baseballs, somebody would think, I'm not really sure how I'm supposed to do this right now. We understand neurology and then we deny it. When we start strengthening because we wanted to deny it. And I think it's actually limiting. I think I've said to people, I think I spend a lot of time of probably making people less athletic at the higher levels. One of the things that you think that you did that in the past and the past. Yes, because we had some of our really, some of our super elite like NFL wide receiver type guys would be very resistant to really heavy back squats and dead lifts and things like that. And they would always say, we're like cats. I don't like it. It makes my back so I don't feel right. I don't want you realize, is you are probably dampening their nervous system a little bit. Because the analogy I always use, if you think of like the mountain, the guy from Game of Thrones. He was a nice landing basketball player. Decent, mid-level, I slant a basketball player. When he became one of the world's strongest men, he was a worse basketball player. And I can remember, I went to, used to go to powerlifting meets, and I'd look at the powerlifting meets and I would be like, nobody here looks at let no one. And then I'd go to Olympic lifting meet. And I'd be like, oh, these cats are athletic. Like these guys can jump and they can sprint and they've got big traps and big asses. They look, so they look more like what I wanted my athletes to look like, whereas powerlifting it was sort of like a semi-mobile refrigerator imitation. You know, just people lumbering and even little people lumbering around. A little people lumbering just as bad as the big people. And then you go to a track meet and go watch the sprint and the jumps and you're like, wait, that's what I want. That's what I'm trying to get everybody to. So I became a big Charlie Francis guy in the 90s. You know, you start looking at this and saying, okay, let's look at how the fastest people in the world, the people at jump the highest and what are they doing for trening. And again, you started to see more unilateral work, unilateral player working, a lot of old strength work. So it was sort of this rabbit hole that I just, I went down and never came back from. So Jeff, in your world trening people the way you are, what are the exceptions to those rules for you? When are the times when you're saying, or are you saying, no, I still see that the risk reward trade off for someone in a certain position is there for, you know, a back, a barbell back squat or, you know, a sumo deadlift or something like that. How do you, how do you think about that? I think that if there's, there's always the argument of can you tren, see a lot of times, especially in Mike's world too, when people come to him, they've already learned bad mechanics for squats. So they're bad squatters when they come to him. So they're already demonstrating habits that are going to totally break down their body by continuing to just pile more and more weight on. I think when you can intervene with somebody in early age and teach them by a mechanically how to squat better, which Mike and I have discussed before at length, like it's not, it's not easy to really dissect that lift. It's a complicated lift. There's a lot of moving parts. So you have to be willing to spend a lot of time with that person to teach them from the ground up. In those instances when you can, I think you could probably teach somebody how to squat more safely. That doesn't take away the fact that if you can do it and not have to load that way, and especially as we talk about the aging population, then the benefits might still, right, the way the risks in terms of this is better single egg squat. But I think that you can probably teach that lift, but you have to be willing to teach that person to either unlearn the bad things that they've already learned, or if they're starting out early learn how to do it more properly. And you could do it in stages too. You can by squatting two a box. You can buy them a canclet. Fix a lot of people's issues because having the target or the safety net behind them is enough to sort of get them to actually move in a better way. But you don't want to tren that way. You know, without ultimately going to a freestanding squat, if they're going to be ultimately playing sports and needing to do something, let's say an offensive lineman coming off the line. But again, I'm actually in my camps in terms of the value of single egg trening. We do so much single egg trening with athlete and acts because I believe that it's not just the unloading that we get from the single egg squat. It's just as Mike said, how we're wired, how we're actually preferred to move. And I get, I took some shit along the way because any time you pick up a leg from the ground, it's functional trening. And then all of a sudden that has was a cool thing at one time. It's not a cool thing anymore. But you do pick up your leg and yes, that's functional for a reason. So I think doing lunging and step ups. We did, we built a whole program in art and with the mats around step ups and lunging because we knew how important. That was. And again, we did other forms of bilateral lifting. We would do trap bar dead lifting to clen up some of the issues that people had. I always say that if you want to learn how to squat, take a dumbbell, hold it between your hands or kettlebell and just let the ball let the dumbbell the weight go straight down to the ground. It will put you biomechanically, almost a perfect position because you're just letting the weight drop straight down your center of mass. That's a great tool for teaching what people are supposed to feel like. But when you then go put the bar in their back, as soon as the butt they don't have thoracic mobility, all the things that they're lacking, start to change that dramatically. From just, you think it's the same exercise because you're going straight up and down. But it's a very different exercise because now when your hands are up and again, thoracic extension is more required. They don't have that and the whole system gets thrown out of whack. So it's done. It's still done in certain circumstances and you're always going to still encounter people who I don't know. Mike might just tell me to go to a different gym, but like, you know, there's going to be people who will insist that they still have to squat and they want to learn how to do it and do it more safely. And I think having the, you know, the willingness or the ability to still coach them through that is important. But because of guys like Mike and because hopefully stuff that I talk about, like there, there people are less reliant on those as the, as the only things that they can do. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Strength Training for Women in Menopause ｜ Jeff Cavaliere, Mike Boyle & Gabrielle Lyon, D.O. [V3RI83Xorq4].txt ===

sort of pivot and talk a little bit about strength trening women across kind of the trensition from parrymenopause and to menopause. Do you have any experience with that? I'm guessing you do and Mike, you must just by the fact that they're coming in your, so start with you, Gabrielle, what do you, what are you noticing is the most important things as women are making the trensition from parrymenopause straight on into menopause? The first thing is to don't wait until they start to feel that their body composition is changing. The bitter they are going into parrymenopause and menopause, the better they're going to be both metabolically and just activities of daily life, everything. Those women seem to suffer much less. When hormones are changing, I think what I end up seeing is that maybe sleep is poor. They're tendons, you know, one of the signs of menopause is this frozen shoulder. So if someone is a candidate for HRT, we do certainly believe in that or menopause therapy, when it comes to trening in the literature, I haven't seen huge evidence or a variation evidence that good trening doesn't include, it's not sex specific. There is not something specific for women that needs to happen rather than following good foundational principles of strength trening, hypertrophy and cardiovascular activity. So you don't say, hey, now that you're making this trensition, we have to alter your periodization or change the way, change the amount of time you're spending doing one form of trening, say cardio versus resistance or even the number of reps you would do. We're not changing any of that stuff. One of the things that we do look at though is if they are at risk for injury for tendons or joints because we do see that that changes. But then once we treat them, I do not see a reason to change. Good programming is good programming, progressive stimulus is progressive stimulus. No, it was great because when I read your book, there was very reinforcing for me because we're getting that question more and more now from our female clients just because of people like you were talking about it more, people are more comfortable than talking to us about it. And it's exactly the whole thing. I always come back and always comes back to strength and conditioning. Get stronger, get in better shape, get them to challenge themselves more with weights and not be content. The females are very, I always think there's an ego component that's absent in females that is very present in males. Like males will look at, you know, if I look at what Jeff did, IMight think, I'm going to try that. Femaleists just don't have that. It's very internally driven. And sometimes that will cause them to underachieve in the weight room because they're not, they're not worried about being top dog and not worried about who lifted most weight. It just isn't making any sense. I believe it. It makes them better clients trust me. If I could, I would do nothing. I have a lot of really elite females that are great hockey players and the cross-play and stuff. And they're the best people to tren by far because they don't have a lot of the kind of extra baggage sometimes that the guys have. They're just way more compliant. They just listen to what you say. They don't argue with you. They don't, again, they don't worry about what Jeff is doing. But just encouraging them to continually get stronger and encouraging them to continue to. And we would look at it as conditioning versus cardiovascular work. I think it's kind of how we always use the term, but pushing them to do more intervals, pushing them to do. I want more aggressive intervals. So you have a lot of you two max work out. But I want to get that. I love the indie galpins idea. Like Andy Galpins thing was like, hey, you just want to get your heart rate up really high once a week. I think that's a really good concept. And starting to just get people to think, hey, get your heart rate up. Wear a heart rate monitor. Don't be afraid to push your heart rate to, to, to, to ax, you know, whatever that is. And don't be afraid to be, you know, out of breath or get off the bike and feel like you want to land the floor kind of thing because we're big assault bike, air dine people because it's just a, I think it's the most efficient way to, to hit your cardiovascular system with what I was called, no orthopedic costs. Like I can kill you on the bike. And nothing bad is going to happen. Even like you sing with the hamstring. I'm going to bet you can't be able to bite the hamstring. I'm trying it today. And then you'll be perfectly fine because you're not, you're not weight bearing and you're not getting a lot of aggressive hip extension and a lot of aggressive hip flexion. And you can probably torture yourself on there for a long time without having any negative effects. But the biggest thing, like I said, with women is just getting them over that. I'm going to get big. So I don't push myself kind of thing. And so it's funny. I film a lot of my women and ask them to talk about how much they weigh and how much weight they've haven't gained. So I've, I've two of the best lacrosse attackers on our US team that are in their mid 20s now. And they've been here for five years and they've gained no weight. They're stronger. They're faster. But females gaining lean mass is really difficult. You have to really be a super responder. And usually I always say apples end up like apples oranges end up like oranges. It's not like suddenly just one day the apple is going to wake up in the next day. Going to be an orange. Like you're going to be if you're an acto more if you're an acto more. You will get the occasional really mesomorphic female way you do think, oh, wow, she really does respond to weights, but they're rare. They're super rare. So Jeff, what about you? What are you seeing in women specifically the trening, especially during that trensition through menopause? I think as Gabber a pointed out, like the trening specifics are pretty much the same. What applies and what is good smart trening for for men is equally applicable to women. The only thing I would say from a PT standpoint, by on the canclet, there are some differences in terms of something called thEQ angle, right? The angle of the hip or the femur coming down to the knee, it does create a lot more valgus at the knee for women than it does for men. So I think you just have to be aware of those things. So what you're doing certain activities, you want to be able to coach better in terms of being aware of positioning. So like the tendency for a lot of women when they jump is to land in a much more valgus knee state, which could put more and more stress. And even if it's not, like we're not fearful of them blowing out in a trening session, but as we talked about before that cumulative stress of every time you land, you're getting more and more stress on the MCL, or the ACL, that would be something that you'd want to coach around and make them aware of because you could strengthen that. You could work on bio-imicaling, by amocaineclin, proving those things, you know, you put a band around their knees and have them jump that way and land that way. They're learning how to activate their abductors and their hip that is probably something that isn't even really a requirement. We all men can benefit from that, but it's not an additional requirement because we're not dealing with the same bio-imicanical angles. Also, because of hormones, women will have more laxity of hormones at different times of the month that will make them susceptible to different stresses. So I think you just have to be aware of the education side of it and coaching through that. But as far as the exercise is the programming, we also found that women tend to be much stronger than men in terms of their output pound for pound and given the differences in sex, they're able to proportionally push more weight, especially with their lower body than men can. So interesting. Yeah, very strong. Much, much stronger have you found that too? Like the women are incredibly strong in terms of their output and strength comparative to men. I really thought about it in terms of pound for pound. The one thing we found is that they're much stronger in their output body than they think they are. That's the one thing that we've seen is that we've got women doing weighted gyms with 45 pounds for five. And what? Our best one is that 45 for seven is the best I've seen. 45 pounds wrapped around her waist and she's doing seven. Yeah. And a palest car. How many men can do that? In our gym, we really emphasize it like most of ours. Wow. My son did 90 for two the other day. He weighs 180. He runs your kids in his team. We really push pulling that doesn't sound right. But we have emphasized pulling. Yeah, I'm leading the league in redundancy. I want to come back to something you said at the outset, Mike, you're talking about kids. The youngest you tren is 11. You drew a hard line in the sand. How come? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Testosterone for Women： Myths, Truths, and Real Benefits ｜ Rachel Rubin, M.D. [czA7AHaujKU].txt ===

There are two hormones we've talked a lot about. But there's a third that we haven't yet talked about that is very linked to these two hormones. Doesn't get enough attention in women, and of course that's testosterone. So before we get into how one should think about replacing hormones, can you talk about the relationship of testosterone to women's sexual health, and what's happening to testosterone levels during this trensition from Perry to men's opinion. Because of course this I want to bring this into the HRT discussion. So it's super interesting, and I'm very passionate about this topic. And so I think it comes from this idea that I do testosterone for men all the time. I'm very confident. I love prescribing testosterone for men's sexual health for, and actually very interesting. Enough. When we prescribe testosterone for men, remember their gas tank doesn't get empty. It gets low, right? It's off-label, right? We are doing off-label testosterone therapy, and men unless they have client filters or some significant medical problem, like we're doing off-label testosterone for men, and it's very understood. It's talked about the FDA jusT3 weeks ago, remove the labeling on testosterone therapy, saying it no longer is a cardiovascular disease risk. So that's a great news, right? So the thing about women in testosterone is it's actually not a menopause thing. Testosterone is an age-related decline. So in your 30s, you're starting to drop your testosterone. And I don't know who decided that men get testosterone and women have estrogen. We both have all of the hormones. Sorry to interrupt you. You probably heard me make this point before, because you alluded to it a few minutes ago. We measure testosterone in nanograms predestilator. We measure astrodial and peakograms per milliliter. If you normalize those to the same level, women are shocked to learn that they have ten times the amount of testosterone in their body that they do astrodial at peak astrodial. We way more, right? And I love sharing that, right? When you put everything in the same units, we are testosterone-driven beings. Both of us, right, are testosterone-driven beings. And so it's, you know, again, and we don't teach this to OBGYNs. No OBGYN knows what some do, but very few know about the role of testosterone in women's health. And so we love to gaslight women and say, well, if you have your period, your hormones are normal. It drives me insane. This women are told this all day every day is, well, you can't possibly have a hormone problem, because you're getting your period regularly. And the reality is, that's not true. Why? Because if no one taught that curve, that curve we were just talking about testosterone is nowhere on that curve. So we know there's a peak of testosterone around ovulation, right? That is nature's way of saying, let's make a baby. We know that we know that your libido goes up around ovulation because your testosterone goes up. And so there is this age-related decline in testosterone, and here's another big problem. We give women birth control pills all the time. How does birth control work? By the way, birth control is high dose hormone therapy. We love hormone therapy and birth control, but as soon as you become menopause, everybody's a afraid of hormone therapy, it makes no sense. So birth control is high dose. I would argue, you know, sort of the hormone therapy we're talking about the WHI that is more synthetic that has side effects that have issues like that. So birth control turns off your ovaries, and it adds back a final ester dial and a synthetic progestin. It doesn't add back testosterone. So we are botching testosterone for women, sort of, for along the life cycle to be honest. But if you take someone who's never been on birth control, their testosterone starts to drop in their 30s. So what are they complaining about? It's not just a libido thing. We know their testosterone receptors all throughout the genitals and the urinary tract. So we see women have an increased risk of UTIs. We see an increased risk of pain within our course, or pelvic pain conditions. We see there are some studies that indicate potentially depression and anxiety can increase because we do think there's a testosterone effects on the brain. But we have global consensus, and I don't know if you've read the news lately, Peter, but like we don't agree on too much as a globe, but there is global consensus that testosterone and women works for low libido. And so specifically the data is on postmenopausal women. That's where the global consensus is. But there is data in perimenopause and much smaller studies on before that. So but the consensus is it works. But everyone has emotions about testosterone. I don't think testosterone was a feeling, but apparently it is a feeling for people. Because people hate talking about it. And again, nobody taught you how to prescribe it. So people are, and there's no FDA-proof product for women, except in Australia. It's approved by their governing body. And so you have a lost art of knowing how to give people back to testosterone when they are symptomatic. And I think this is an area where women sometimes are also a bit concerned about what happens if I take testosterone because testosterone understandably has conjures up images of all sorts of things from large muscles, big moustaches, lots of other things. So how do you talk to women about this? We enjoy having these discussions. And also acknowledging side effects, right? The most common side effect we see in women is acne, right? And I don't think I've ever gotten to the point where I've seen any of the really dramatic side effects. But I do tell women, I say, look, there's a decent chance if you were shaving your legs every five days. You're going to be shaving them every three days. That's a chance. If you were kind of susceptible to acne growing up, you might get a little bit more, but it will have to back off. How do you talk about the risks of testosterone therapy? I love talking about this and I'm actually grateful for celebrities because just in the news in the past few weeks, Halle Berry says she's on testosterone, Kate Winslet says she's on testosterone therapy. And they look pretty amazing to me and they don't look androgenized at all. And so I actually want to do this study. It's something my research team's working on is I think I have more patients who never start to testosterone therapy because of the fear of side effects than actually stop testosterone therapy because of the side effects. That's my sort of observation in doing a lot of this. Now, when we talk about side effects, I tell them think about a 14-year-old teenager. They have these great libidos, but they have some oily skin acne. But that's when you get really high with your doses. We really don't see it clinically. Yes, could you? I tell them to put the, I use FDA-proof testosterone for men, just a doses kind of 110th the dose in a way. They rub it on their leg because if they do get hair on their leg, people are used to having hair on their leg. And so they shave it, they wax it, they laser it, whatever it is that they do with hair would leg hair. I don't have that many patients stop for acne oily skin. Again, I think there's that fear when you get really high in the dose. So I'm not a pellet, a promoter or user because you get super physiologic levels. And I can't take it out if you get a pellet put in. And so if you have deepening voice or clitoromegally or, you know, a hair, issues, these are the challenges with some of these super physiologic levels. But when we're using sort of reasonably dosed, like, topicals, we really see magic happen. And I can't tell you when we get estrogen and progesterone right for our patients, it is by adding that third piece that testosterone because your ovary does three, it probably does more than three things, but at this point estrogen, progesterone and testosterone. When we add that testosterone piece, I, it's wild. Although the patients come back and they say me, wow, I feel like me again. It's wild, right? That's the piece, wow, I didn't realize how badly I felt. Wow, that was the missing piece. I hear it over and over and over again. I can't not want that for all women, right? I can't not want to give them that as an option on the menu. I'm Peter at here. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The 3 Best Exercises for Back Pain Relief  ｜ Stuart McGill, Ph.D. [j2qppqLKEi0].txt ===

Let's talk about those three exercises, Stewart. There are three exercises. There's two of them that I've done consistently for quite some time. I really fancy them a bit. The third one, the bird dog. I only do occasionally. But let's go through the three of them. And is it safe to say that you, and just for the listener, we're going to link to videos of these, right? So you're going to do your best to explain them and provide the rationale for them. But ultimately a demonstration will be forthcoming through videos we'll link to in the show notes. But this is kind of like your, I don't know, your core nutrition, right? This is sort of the, everybody should be doing this. You don't wait till you have back pain to do this. Is that safe to say? No, it is. No, that's that. This is a bit of a myth and something that I've been fighting basically my whole career. Oh, my guilt is the, Miguel, big three. OK. There are some people that are far too stiff. And this is not the mechanism of their back pain. And we don't need to go there. Have you ever seen the type of body build where they have a huge, pneumatic cushion in front, called the belly? Slaps on their thighs. It's that angelist of this. Do you ever see spine instability in that type of architecture? I don't. Interesting. So probably those people have difficulty getting on and off the floor. The big three is not for them. So there might be, again, the assessment always leads us to the solution. And so, no, the big three. Well, let me, let me, I need to have a discussion of what stability is in terms of creating resilience and performance. Then why are those particular exercises important? And then how to do them? If I could follow that logic line, you know? Absolutely. Yeah. Let's do it. And then the other thing, Stuart, if you want to throw it in there, do you want to talk about some of the hallmarks of your assessment wherever it fits into that, into those three things? So take it away. Yeah. All right. So remind me, we're going to talk about non-specific low back pain and how I think it's a myth and it doesn't exist. That will take us into the assessment. Okay. So let's go back to a basic discussion of stability. So if I was, IMight use the example of a back hole. So a back hole is a machine with a tractor and it hasn't ar on the back to dig earth. The first thing the operator does is put down the stabilizer bars to lock the tractor into the ground because if you don't do that, you can't pull earth. You just pull the machine around. So let's see, she went equivalent of that. We live in a linkage, just like machinery. In other words, let's take the bench press muscle, peck major. Peck major originates on my ribcage, spans my ball and socket joint of the shoulder and inserts on the humorous. So when I contract and shorten the peck major, it flexes my arm. So if I wanted to do a push or a punch, there it is. That's on the distal side of the joint. Spock slowly, that same muscle shortening collapses my ribcage towards my shoulder joint. So all I use was the muscle that spans the joint that isn't a very effective push. All I'm doing is collapsing my own linkage or as an engineer we would say, well, we just created an energy leak. So I'm now going to build possible stiffness. I'm going to lock my core for each stiffness through my torso, which is possible to the joint. So now when I contract the muscle, 100% of the motion is directed distally. Now I've got my push. So what is the best, most efficient way to create a proximal stiffness? We searched for years doing all kinds of tests of every abdominal exercise. You could think of back exercises, twisting, how off presses, throwing things, et cetera. The three exercises that kept bubbling up to the top in the criteria of sparing the spine while you're doing them, because these people are hurting. You don't have cart blanche to load up their spine. A guaranteed stability or proximal stiffness. And it was later in my career that we found there is a residual stiffness that occur. So if you do the big three, and you are an NFL football team, if you do the big three prior to practice, you will run and cut just a little bit faster. So you're on the field, you run and you cut. The stiffer, the core, when the hips explode into external rotation, you're now creating a faster directional change. So what were the muscles or what were the exercises? A modified curl up, which remember, I know I'm just gonna start a little bit of assessment. I'm gonna take a patient, I'm gonna have them sit on the stool and I say, do you have symptoms right now? A human being, let's say, no, no. Now I'm going to say drop him chest down, because oh yeah, my left toe is going numb, and I've got that pain. I'm gonna bring your chin down, and they might say that'll increase your pain or decrease it. But the point is that, fiveth year created their pain. If that is true, when they lay on their back and they imprinted their back into the floor, doing a pull-out is roll up, for example, that would be their specific pain trigger. So it's not much of a therapeutic answer size, but we can say put your hands under your low back as you're laying on the ground, lift your elbows, now hover up your head, neck and shoulders. And we're going to propel the abdominal contraction with some press flips, and allow the diaphragm to become the athlete inside this barrel. So that was the foundation of the modified curl up. Now the person has a rotator cuffed by issue, or we will hack it and make it tolerable. Then I would see people, well, let's take a dumbbell or a kettlebell and we're going to raise it up while I'm only in the sample plane, like this for the side of the core. When trigger pain in a lot of controls, but I'll demonstrate all this if you want, but we could then do a side plank on the floor. The beauty of the side plank is only past the musculature is heavily challenged. The downside is heavily challenged. The upside is not. You've only got to pass the load on this fine. Very spine-sparing. We prescribe it on 10 second intervals. Why? We use the rushing trening science to show you build endurance through repeated 10 second exposures, not getting tired to the point where you break from. No, no, no, no, you develop a neuro fatigue and you get a much higher tolerable trening level with this, what we call the rushing descending pyramid. And then for the back muscles, look at the beauty of the bird, we're in one leg, the opposite. One half of my low back is active. One half is my upper back is active on the other side. We developing a nice D&F pattern. We're creating stiffness and stability in the core. We're teaching the brain to disassociate ball and socket joint motion of the shoulders and hips. We only have the spine load of say a Roman chair extension or something like that. So that bubble got to be a fabulous exercise. Then we did experiments where we would tren people. We would just have a single session exposure. We would measure the core stiffness prior to doing the big three. They do the big three on the rushing descending pyramid and then we would re-measure their torso stiffness. Peter, they were stiffer and some of my muscle physiology colleagues said, well, you've added a turganist to the muscle. I don't think so. I think the brain created a lasting neural stiffness. And it's some people at last, it's about 20 minutes. Some people at last longer. So you will see some patients who say, you know what I do the big three, I don't have pain for the next hour. Babulous, what you're going to do is mid-morning do a 12 minute big three session, mid-after and into a 12. So these are the little tricks and hacks to slowly wind a person down out of pain. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Biggest Lessons Learned in the last 5 Years ｜ Jeff Cavaliere, Mike Boyle & Gabrielle Lyon, D.O. [LCJoAcSZw3c].txt ===

So I want to ask you guys each the samEQuestion. If you think back to the last five years, you're obviously all in a constant state of learning, is there something you have changed your mind on? Something significant that you've changed your mind on, and not just changed your mind on, but it's changed the way you behave, the way you help other people. I'll start with you, get real. This is a big one. I don't think body fat percentage is nearly as important as we think it is. I think that it is going to be somewhat of an outdated metric. I believe that intermuscular out of post tissue, this IMAT is going to be much more predictive of disease. And this came from, I interviewed on my podcast, Melanie Cree, and we're talking about PCOS. And I'm thinking, metabolic PCOS, what is the body fat percentage that's going to change the outcome? And until it's going to be because Gabrielle has nothing to do with body fat percent, it had to do with their intermuscular out of post tissue, and that I think is going to be an upcoming theme. It's much more specific to insulin resistance and these metabolic outcomes that we care about. And commercially, obviously it can be measured quite easily with CT scans and with MRIs to my knowledge, it's very difficult for Dexa to approximate it. So that's right. So how is ultrasound viable? IMean, so you wouldn't be able to get whole body, but you could sample thEQuads, which is where it would be most, that would probably be the canary in the coal mine, is if you're accumulating muscle in your quads. Yes, and I think it's also very different. I guess right, you're turning fat. Yes, very difficult to test. MRI seems to be where a lot of the data is. We're not there to measure it. But this is something that I think we are going to see so much more of. And you know, we're all focused on a muscle-centric approach. And for the last 50 years, it's been all about obesity. And this is the same thing. It's almost that we're looking where it's obvious, but it doesn't mean that that's where it's effective. I really agree with you, actually. And I think pharmacologically for what it's worth, I think that's the next frontier, right? So I think what the GLP1 Agnes have done over the past five years with the introduction of the third and fourth generations of those drugs, the first two were largely failures, but because of how successful the third and fourth generations were, it were really at a point where I think people can see that you can address the crisis of over abundance from a nutrition standpoint, but what people realize the new problem that is yet to be addressed to sarcopenia. And when I'm looking at what's at the leading edge in the frontier of biotech right now, it's all around anti-sarcopenia drugs. Now, of course, we have another great drug that works against sarcopenia. It involves holding iron and eating certain types of foods. But if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if where billions of dollars are being invested is any indication of what people realize is the next frontier, I think people are waking up to the idea that it's not enough to solve the, at a positive problem, you must address the sarcopenic problem. Yes, I couldn't agree more. What about you, Mike? What have you changed your mind on? Well, I did this one. I, I, I'm glad you gave me a head start to think about this. You know, some digestive health. I had a bowel resection done nine months ago. So they took a photo of my colonel. And, uh, and I realized, I actually did a really good presentation for our staff, called you don't know shit. And, um, it, because I think that's the most neglected area of health right now because we don't talk about it. And people, it's uncomfortable. And until you experience it firsthand, you don't realize how important fiber is, how important water is, how badly like most of us are. Chronic dehydration seems like a, oh, it's a big deal. But it's really not a big deal, but it suddenly is a big deal. I, I liken it to, like you have a dumpster your whole life that's out in the back of your house and it just gets emptied all the time. And then suddenly one day you realize they can't empty the dumpster anymore. Like I'm, I'm in trouble. And that's us, like we, we're worried about our musculosystem, we're worried about our nervous system, we're worried about our endocrine system. And our digestive system is just this thing that's supposed to be this dependable system that's just going to take care of us forever. And then suddenly in our 50s and 60s, it starts to fail. And we don't want to talk about it. And IMean, I ended up, I was in the hospital. I like, I was sick. And then guy was like, yeah, we got it. And this is a major surgery. We got to take foot of your colonel and put you back together again. I won't go into the real, gory specifics, but it made me realize it. IMean, I take a five or self mental out time. I put five or self, you know, five or in my shakes all the time. Now, I look at how much fibers and everything that I eat now. Be used to how about protein numbers. Look at the five or numbers. Our people are way more five or deficient than protein deficient, but they're not. They're going to suffer the effects way down the road. And it'll be too late for them to realize. So if I would say to anybody, I'd be like, drink more water, eat more fiber. Because you don't want to bother you, section. All right. What about you, Jeff? I'm breaking the rules. I have a couple, but personally, I think I have to twin nine-year-old boys. And so in the last five years, they've gone from four to nine, which for a dad is sort of the phase where the, where mom was definitely the favorite for the firsT4 years. And then, you know, I sort of stepped in and become the fun guy. So I've realized through their intri-tivity with me number one to appreciate things I didn't appreciate before. I think, you know, in the first half of my adult life, I was so focused on professionally achieving whatever I could, whether it be working for the meds, or then starting this business and really going, you know, all hours of the night to try to build a business, that I just still don't do that. But I really have learned to better prioritize my time with my kids. To the point where it's difficult for me to make travels out to do podcasts because I really try to be around them. And I've learned to appreciate because of, they're on the spectrum. I've learned to appreciate their, their wins every day. Right. So it's like, wow, I don't take anything for granted. That's a thing that I am so grateful for that being able to benefit from because if I, if I don't think if the situation was different, I probably would just continue to work work work the way I did. But I think from a professional standpoint, kind of oddly, one of the things that I think is really overlooked is balance trening. And I think that it's an area that people are going to probably have to spend a little bit more time focusing on because it's like, like we just talked about, that's just of health. Like it's, it's another one of those things that's going to get worse as you get older for a number of reasons. Number one, your reaction times will get worse. Number two, your proprioceptive sense is going to get worse, which is essentially your sense of body position. Number three, your strength is going to get worse as we talked about inevitably decade by decade. When we consider what all that leads to ultimately falling, we talked about these fears. I don't have the fear of falling right now. I'm sure if you don't have the fear of falling right now. We have the Achilles tendon stage right now, but 20 years from now, 30 years from now, our biggest fear should be falling because when you do, you're likely going to live a pretty difficult end of your life and it might lead to a much faster end of life. And I think that actually trening balance is another one of those things that's going to have to get sectioned into that five minutes of extra work that you're going to want to have to do for yourself. And the most important thing when you're trening your balance, even if it's just simple standing on one leg and drawing an alphabet with your other foot is to close your eyes. Because I think that when you don't close your eyes, you're actually, you're just one dimensionally creating an environment that's not actually what we're going to face. Most people fall in the dark because they don't have that visual feedback to correct. By the time you send that signal down to your ankle to make an adaptation, it's too late. And again, if our reaction times are delayed too, it's going to be even worse. So it's just the thing that I think people that are already older should start working on because as a skill you can improve it. And as somebody who is looking down the line here and seeing things change, including my eyesight, which used to be so perfect up close, you know, that changes. I know all these things are happening under the hood and making a dedicated effort to something I think people should probably invest some time and took it as well worth the investment for that long range safety. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Difference Between Palliative and Hospice Care ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [2_di2UOiyKI].txt ===

Let's take the step back and help people understand the difference between palliative care and hospice care. Yeah, great. So I sort of think of it as like palliative medicine is the big umbrella, palliative care is the big umbrella, and hospice care is sort of like the very end or the sort of backside of the umbrella. And palliative care is a medical specialty usually provided by a team for folks with a serious illness. Serious illness can be defined lots of ways and is defined differently in different health systems, kind of depending on how they're staffed and how their palliative care programs are kind of created to function, what purposes they're serving. But some of the BJU jump and at any point, but some of the big differences is that with palliative care generally, there's no limitation around any disease directed or modifying therapies you might be pursuing. And you don't have to be dying inherently or even clear that you're facing death. You could be diagnosed with a very serious cancer that actually has pretty robust treatments, and you could look for quite a long time. IMean, many, many years. Many, many years. In that situation, what is the objective of the palliative care team? To think really holistically about who is this person? Where are they in their lives? How do they make sense of what's going on? What do they understand about their illness, who's supporting them? All really grounded in this, are there ways that we can help this person feel sort of as well as possible to treat the symptoms related to serious illness, to treat the symptoms related to the treatments of different serious illnesses. But in the context of whole life, which means you could have an onoclinic day, you could be seeing two people that seem on paper generally the same, similar age, demographic backgrounds, diagnoses, and be dealing with really different things when you walk in the room. What would you like to say? No matter how you slice it, the goal is the focus is quality of life. Period. Whether it's kind of care hospice. And by the way, for both Bridges, so it's inherently interdisciplinary as Bridges saying that's why Bridges, social worker, I'm a medical doctor, but we work with chaplains, nurses, music, and autologist, potentially art there as funters. When the subject matters, suffering and quality of life, there's no one discipline that has a lock on that stuff. But whether it's pad of care or hospice, the focus is really on helping someone feel as well as possible. And that is an inherently holistic question because it gets at their identity. It gets at their ability. It's possible as defined by them. And so for someone, that could mean very aggressive paid management. And for someone else, it could have a different relationship to the experience of pain. And they wouldn't put that at the top of the priority list. They might put more concrete or relational kind of supports, you know, higher up on their list. So our, you know, the beauty of our jobs and our work is to meet this person in this moment in time and identify what's up for them, what's most important and sort of where where it is that we get to meet them to work towards quality of life as defined by them. So what is the trensition then for an individual from being under the broad umbrella of palliative care into a more narrow, defined level of care as hospice? Yeah. IMean, I think there's some, you know, there's some like a world of ideals in that and then there's what actually happens. And the reality in this country is that folks are admitted to hospice very, very late, you know, the length of stay on a hospice program. This country is something like three week average. And so it's actually quite little bit of time. And when I think about when hospice is a good fit for folks, I think about wanting to stay out of the hospital, being in a place where they are ready to or being forced to grapple with the reality that there is not anything left to do to change what is happening in their body, to change the cancer to delay the neurologicalness. And or folks that are more explicitly ready to be supported in their end of life care or in their trensition. And just done with chasing the treatment done with chemo. Yeah. Maybe there's maybe a chemo might have something more to offer them in terms of life spent, but they are just electing to be done with that. So whether the weather, chemo and other things have run out of run their courts and there's nothing left to try, which is often the case, or they feel done with what's left to try. They are just telling us that they're just, they don't want to try anything else. Either way, they would bit much more likely to be hospice ready. Now you're saying the average length of stay in hospice. And really there are, as I'm aware of it and so correct me if this is not correct, there seem to be three paths to hospice. There's hospice in your home where you go back to your home and a hospice team comes there and cares for you in your home. There is a palliative care ward inside a physical hospital that provides hospice care, but it's still within a hospital. And then there are outpatient hospice facilities dedicated facilities for hospice that are not hospitals. With those three encompass the, the, how hospice care is delivered, or is there another one? Sort of in terms of sites of care. Okay. This is where it starts to get real good. Top kit and you can shut us up. Peter, so many different, so many tributaries. But to kind of back up a little bit, it may be orienting for audience here. So as bridges, I'm totally correct. Palipcares the larger umbrella. Hospices, this sort of subset of Palipcares devoted to the final months of life. So to be real clear, same philosophy in a lot of ways, but by insurance and reimbursement lines and by policy designation, you can get out of care alongside curative and tend to care. You cannot do so in hospice. When you go on to hospice, you have to give up that curative intended care. I can not just that. IMean, you can't have an IV line. Generally speaking. Yeah. Generally speaking. So there is, the way it's set up is a crossroads. We'll make the point that dying and living look a lot alike. But in the man-made world of policy and health care structure, there are some important forks in the road. So one of them to go on to hospice is you no longer have access to or don't want curative intended care and things to go with it. And also someone somewhere has to certify that should nature run its course. You likely have six months or less to live. So those are the two forks in road to qualify for hospice. Pout of care, those are neither of those applies for out of care. So that's a really important distinction. So I'm trying to kind of, in one other point to make there as well. Pout of care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is the older one. So we started in this country with hospice. And since the 1982, when Medicare got in the business, we had those restrictions. And then people in the 1980s and 90s realized, why are we waiting to the final weeks and months alive to deliver this kind of loving care? And so that Pout of care was born as a younger, bigger sibling to come to get outside of those restrictions. So it's a, wonky. Well, what's interesting is you just said that hospice care was the original. Yeah. And it was six months of life expectancy. And today we're at a point where median or mean is three weeks in hospice. Yeah. Well, if that's true, and we think about what we know about what an individual looks like when they have three weeks left of life, this is usually a person who's already in delirium already in the early stages of organ failure. This is a person who probably is already spending more than 50% of their time sleeping. And what I guess I'm hearing you say, or maybe I'm imputing, is should they have moved into hospice sooner? Have they, have they been unnecessarily disconfirited by pursuing therapeutic intent until thaT3 week mark on average? Brad, you want to jump in there? I think I first, yeah. I would say as in broad strokes, unequivocally, in general, the answer is yes. I think we know that patients and families wait too long. They're suffering more than they need to and taking on treatments that are no longer helping them for a longer period of time. But there's a, what can feel like a charade portion of care? And there's a lot of reasons. Like the patients and families not wanting to look at that piece of the puzzle yet. Denial is a thing, you know? And also referring physicians, perhaps is the, the bigger reason that they are not seeing the writing on the wall or don't want to or whatever else. So it's very often that the physicians don't bring up hospice until way late in the game. So for many reasons, I think it is a generally true statement that we wait too long to invoke hospice. We wait too long based it based on our own state of goals of feeling at peace and having some comfort towards the end and not wasting our time doing things that don't help us. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Difference Between Shame and Guilt ｜ Jeff English [M9qQ0P4EnxY].txt ===

How do you differentiate for folks the difference between shame and guilt? Because for many people, when you show up at the bridge, there's a component of something that you've done that's wrong. Right? You've hurt people along the way. Again, that's I think part of the hitting rock bottom that gets you there. It's not just that you've hurt yourself. You've probably injured others. Right. Now, and that's a part of this maladaptive behavior that's now kind of spiraling out of just being adaptive. So, how how do you talk about the difference between guilt and shame and how do you work somebody out of that? Well, guilt's about making a mistake. Shame's about being a mistake. Right? You know, guilt. I did something. IMade a mistake. I did something that I'd wish I had not done. I need to make an apology. Right? And there's a way back from that. I'm thinking of this classic John Bradshaw. We're talking about healthy shame versus toxic shame. And when you talk about a difference between guilt and shame, we're talking about toxic shame. Right? That there's something flawed. This flawed defective core, if you will, my identity. There's something wrong with me. There's a way back from the guilt. Shame registers so differently. So, when we talk about folks being wounded and shame, and that's how the shame gets registered. Somebody once told me that that my father never had to get sober because he had me and my mother, my sister, to carry a shame for. Okay? So, it can be a generational thing and it comes from some where else. But shame can play out two different ways. Some of us out of when we're living from our shame, we live out of superiority. Right? So, grandiose shame. Grandiosity. I control, I perfect, I judge, I criticize, out of my wound, it's out of my shame. That can be the me that you see on the outside. In some folks, the other side of that coin, of course, is inferiority. Right? Broken, worthless. My pathology. Why do you think one chooses preferentially one of those? IMean, I know that my tendency is always more towards a grandiosity than inferiority. What do you think it is in some individuals that steer them one way or the other when they're in that? And by the way, I love that these are, I don't even say this to be judgmental. I just think that this is a really interesting way to observe. But I know that when my inner monologue becomes more judgmental, that's a great yellow light for me. Right? It's like, oh, look at the judgey word you're using. Look at the black and white thinking that permeates every statement that you're making. But again, that's just the tends to be the gravitational pull. Why do you think certain people have them? The thing you just said is the thing, though, that I can't not hold focus on, like that little conversation that you just had with self. Now, you've done the work. You're still doing the work. I'm looking at the journals sitting in front of me. That's just a portion of the work, right? But having that voice that you've obviously cultivated, that's where the hope is because again, to live in simplicity. I say, I hate to over simple fight, but I don't. At the end of the day, I got bad news for the folks up there who think that there's going to come a time through my healing that I just never get triggered. Again, especially those of us who have experienced trauma, bad news, you will be triggered again. In this whole integration game is about starting to live a life where I tell stories that go like this, I noticed that I was starting to be really judgmental. I noticed I was getting triggered. I had this little short, subtle thought conversation, whatever that looked like. Maybe there was something somatic that happened with my body that I did, but I had this thing that I cultivated, this new muscle that gave me enough space to choose my next step. When so many of us, especially out of our shame, out of our trauma, have lived a life telling so many stories that go like this. I got triggered and then I did this. And that's the reaction versus the response. Simple goal. Right? Complex process.

=== FILE: The Evolution of Beauty ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [9JViescma2s].txt ===

Is there an evolutionary explanation for any of this? IMean, I don't know if aesthetics, if you think about this through an evolutionary lens, but IMean, historically we didn't need to look good beyond our 20s, if looking, if the purpose of looking good was to attract a mate. So again, none of us sitting around this table need to look good into our winning terms because we're not reproducing. Do you think that factors into any of these observations? 100%. Yes. And so I think it's also good for the sake of the overall podcast for us to talk about the evolutionary aspects of beauty for just a moment, which could be a whole separate podcast. You could invite Nancy Etkov from Harvard to come talk to you about the psychology of beauty. She wrote the definitive book on it and summarizes all of evolutionary beauty science. I have all of my fellow's read her book because I think it's just a beautiful compendium. And evolution of beauty is a fascinating topic because when you think back to the evolution of humans, why do we even care about beauty? And so the interesting fact is that we're actually genetically hardwired to appreciate beauty. And so there's this famous study from the University of Texas in the 1980s, Judith Langlaw is sort of a well-known name in psychology. She did what's called a preferential looking study of infants. I don't know if you heard of this study, but it's fascinating. She took newborn infants who were literally weeks old, barely able to see six inches away from their face. And she showed them pictures that were considered beautiful, faces of the beautiful, and faces that are less beautiful. And these newborn infants who have not yet been influenced by society preferentially we're looking at the beautiful faces. And so that natural drive for us to appreciate beauty is present even at birth. Does that suggest that there is a definition of beauty that arcs time? Because I was actually going to ask a question which would be a great, you know, detour for us to take after this point about how much is the definition of beauty changing. In other words, if you took Matthew McConaughey and trensported him back 10,000 years ago, would he still be a hunk? Is sort of where I was going. But can you with this point, then let's come back. Yeah, I think that's the evolution. That's a great question. And I would say that the answer is generally yes. There's two layers here. The first layer is the genetic biologic drive that we have to appreciate beauty in men and women. And then of course, there is a societal impact that conditions us to appreciate certain versions of that beauty. But the fundamentals are a heaven studied in the 90s. And the fundamentals are that all humans across ethnicities all over the world have been studied and they appreciate certain features of beauty. So there's symmetry of the face, facial proportion. And then they also appreciate sexual dimorphisms. Those are kind of the three categories. And so symmetry, when it faces symmetric, it's sort of connotes if you're out there in the reproductive world looking at the pool of your options. The symmetry means that this individual most likely has had good development nourishment and is most likely going to have good genetics for me to potentially connect with and pass on genetics together with. Facial proportion is similar. In fact, to go a little deeper into that, averageness is really what people are looking for. And that on the surface that doesn't sound so attractive to be average. If you take 100 faces of men, 100 faces of women and average them all down to a single composite, you will average someone who has a little bit of a big nose or a small jaw or some aspect of their forehead shape. And all that gets averaged down into a composite that is considered universally beautiful across cultures. And again, that sort of unconsciously in the mating pool from an evolutionary standpoint is connoting healthy genetics, again, to be able to pass on your genetics with. And then the third area, which is sexual dimorphism, we're talking here about strong jaws and med, full lips or big eyes and women, these tend to connote either higher estrogen levels or higher testosterone levels depending on what are you're looking at women or men. And again, that's fertility. That's subconscious communication of fertility. So those are the genetic absolutes that exist in all of us on the planet. And then on top of that, as you're bringing up social media, in this culture, this particular wave wearing your hair is considered beautiful. Those are conditioned upon us based on society. But it overlaps on top of that underlying genetic basis. And how much can those things override? Again, I'll just use examples that we can all appreciate. Like, you know, I was talking with my daughter about Cindy Crawford. We were going, and I was like, look at a picture of Cindy today, look at a picture of Cindy in the mid 1990s. IMean, there's simply no way to describe beauty in any other way. Like, you, it doesn't matter what your type is, everybody would acknowledge Cindy is absurdly beautiful. And so you're saying she is hitting it out of the park on those three things, independent of what the invogue look of the moment is, right? So if, if it becomes the case that blondes are really attractive, it doesn't matter. Like, Cindy will override that. If it becomes the thing that women who a 30 pounds are attractive, it doesn't matter. Cindy will override that. I think it can be interesting. If you look at even different vases, beautiful person in each of those, they actually all have similar measurements. So there are these masks that you can superimpose onto any image. And really dissect down every single angle, whether it's the cheek angle, the jawline angle, the shape of the nose, the eyes. And all of you, if you look at that across different vases, they all have that same kind of measurement that they hit, talking about the same, the symmetry, the upper, the middle, third, lower, the face, the fifths going across the face. All of that, if you look at a beautiful person, no matter what race they are, they all have kind of hit those measurements. Now then there are nuances. Like you said, you change your hair, you change your makeup, you can trensform yourself. But if you take someone without makeup and just look at them that way, they all kind of conform to those measurements. Doesn't this apply that over time, beauty should be one of the most preserved, concentrated traits of our evolution, given the presumably the difficulty in acquiring a mate, absent beauty. In other words, does it suggest that if you compared what we as a population look like today in 2025 to what we looked like 2,000 years ago, 10,000 years ago, 100,000 years ago, are we monotonically getting more attractive as a species? Can I jump in on one thing on this? You would think so, right? Because we're, so that's the direction. Yes. Should be ramping it up. Exactly. So we should be marrying someone that looks better or mating with someone that looks better and having our marginally look better. But what's different is our diet. So, go back 100 years, 200 years, 1,000 years, we had to chew a lot more. To really digest our food. We were working our massitors, we were working our jawline. Our palates were not as high, our jawline was a lot wider, our teeth were stronger. And then as we have changed our diet and everything is cooked and we don't have to make as much effort to chew it, you actually get more crowding in your teeth, your jawline is a little bit less strong, your palate changes, more people become nose free, mouth free. There's as opposed to nose free. There's that changes the shape of your face. And that has been measured anthropologically. And so it's interesting because there's a whole book on breath. They go through the anthropology of all that and the changes in the skeletons that they've gone back and studied. And so that does fundamentally change. Now we have kids that have to have teeth extracted or we have to have palate expanderers. Now because we realize when we extracted teeth before, we made the faces more narrow. And so now the thinking is, let's preserve the teeth, expand the palate when the child is 10, allow those teeth to come in. So there's less grinding. I'm sorry, crowding. And then that face will be better and stronger jawline. So it is something that we've changed. And then just kind of head into the area of sociology for just a moment, 10,000 years ago, if you were born in some place on earth, Peter, the pool of the genetic pool that you'd be interacting with was tiny. You know, there's some fact that I'm probably going to miss state, but somewhere around 1900, most people on this planet had not moved within 10 miles of where they were born. And now it's totally different. And with social media and the way that we can connect with people around the world, not only because we can fly all around the world. But we're also seeing people on screens. The apparent genetic pool of faces that we're looking at has, as an exponent, potentially blown up into this very strenge world that we're putting in in 2025 compared to where our evolutionary biology has taken us. And I wonder also at what point in our development did other, I don't want to say higher order, but other things became priorities in finding a mate. Like, I think for most all of us, I think when we were looking for our mate, appearance was probably not the top of the list. It was one of the factors you had to be attracted to the person, but I would guess for all of us it was, will this person be a great spouse? Will this person be a great parent? Does this person share my goals and values and blah, blah, blah? It's hard to imagine our ancestors were, had the luxury of maybe thinking about those things. So yeah, all of this is to say it's way more complex today. But it is, it is just to hear you guys describe this, it's entirely fascinating to play the thought experiment of trensport, a hyper-attractive person today, back in time, 10,000 years, and I would just be so curious as to how they would react to that individual. I think it's a fascinating thought experiment. And I think that if they meet those criteria that we're defining, they would be considered a honk or a beauty. Yeah. And then one last thing, and then we can certainly move on to the next topic. But in terms of timing, it is important for us to be evolutionarily attractive, historically, not in the modern era, until you're about 20 or 25. Because we weren't supposed to live this long. One of the issues that comes up with longevity and trying to maximize our health span is that we were not really supposed to be living this long and healthy this long. And so evolutionarily, modern nature is not helping us with our appearance. Our appearance was supposed to carry us through until about 20 or 25, at which point your kids are old. Most people were procreating at 14. And then at 25, their kids were at the point where they were getting ready to procreate. And then you're let out to pasture at that point, basically. But evolutionarily, what we do every day with our patients is really fighting biology, we're fighting genetics, we're fighting the environmental. The environmental existence that we have as a luxury of being born in this era. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com, forward slash subscribe, to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Future of Glioblastoma Treatment ｜ Edward Chang, M.D. [56hRRr_B7kg].txt ===

Whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors, which I guess for the listener, we can explain what that is. So maybe Telphogs, what a GBM is, why a GBM is truly one of the cancers that gives cancer a bad name. And I guess my real question for you is, given that traditional surgery has historically never worked for this tumor, you simply can't resolve it. And you think about the trensition away from craniumy, big, open procedure. Is there anything on the horizon for GBMs to render them less lethal? Yeah, it's a great question. So GBM stands for Glyll Blastoma, multiformy, and it's a mouthful of a horn. But if you break it down, what it's referring to, the Glyll part of that word refers to the cell origin, the brain has different types of cells. And if you look in the big buckets, there's neurons, which are the ones that primarily are the ones that allow us to do thinking and function. And then there's a large population of support cells. They're called Glyll, and that's that first part, Glyll Blastoma originates from those support cell population. Multiforma refers to, you know, these original descriptions, histologically of the tumors that really showed, multiple form, multiple histology, some of the key features of it are the necrosis, the tumor grows so quickly that it outstrips its blood supply. And in its wake, it leaves cell death, what we call necrosis. So like you alluded to, it really is, you know, a terrible kind of disease and condition. We are making progress, and specifically, around understanding what causes. So, you know, just 10 years ago, you would remove one of these tumors, and you send this to the lab, and you could get the diagnosis of, that this is a global estomal. Now, it most academic medical centers, you'll also get a genetic profile of the tumor. So nowadays, we actually know specifically what kind of mutations are involved in the tumor, and that's going to be really critical for this next chapter, which is using those genetic alterations actually to tailor and personalize, you know, chemotherapy and more. So this has big implications, because we're now moving from narrower, we use a visualization of the histology. Now to this molecular profiling, which is more mechanistic, the new chemo agents are really going to be targeting mechanisms, as opposed to general things like cell cycle, metabolism, and things like that. So these are things that are changing, you know, and we needed to change faster. They're also really exciting things that we're seeing around new ways to tren the immune cells, to target things. It turns out that glierblastom was actually suppressed parts of the immune system, so they're kind of like growing and stealth, and they activate molecules and cells in a cloak way that can't be recognized by immune cells anymore. And so if we can basically allow the tumors to be recognized by the immune system, that could be something that really unlocks therapy in the future, too. But the things that we do know that work pretty well right now, at least in terms of prolonging survival for patients, it really meaningful, survival. Actually still is around the surgery. We do know that the more extensive the resection, the longer the survival is, and that's been really well-characterized now, but it's not curative, like you said. We can remove 99% or even 100 in beyond what we see on the MRI. Unfortunately, there's usually microscopic cells that go beyond what we can see on the MRI that are still there and over time, or we populate, you know, the tumor. And so it is a really complicated and tough disease, but we're working really hard on it. Do we have any idea what predisposes an individual to this from a risk perspective? Short answer is now. Because it clicks young, it clicks old, a knife watch, children die of this, teenagers, people in mid-life, people at the end of life. It seems to have no apparent pattern. Yeah, and part of that has to do with its mechanisms. It's not something that we consider as a heritable kind of risk. But what it does rely on is a set of mutations. And it's rarely the same set, which is a very polygyogenic condition. Exactly. And that's what makes it really tricky to treat. When we talk about gluteblastoma, we're actually not talking about one thing. We're talking about a system of genetic alterations that together have cascaded into the form that we see. And I suspect we'll come back to this, Eddie, but you've alluded to chemotherapy occasions that can be used, whether it's the treat gluteblastoma or anything else, including meds of other epithelial cancers that spread to the brain. The blood brain barrier poses a challenge for treatment. Do you think the future lies in treatment within the CMS? The CSF, so treating directly inside, an interferethically or directly into the central nervous system, or do you think it's designing drugs that cross the blood brain barrier? IMean, what do you think the future looks like? I think it's going to look like all of the buff, actually. And this is a situation where we do need to look at all possible options. This is not like the kind of thing where we're thinking, like non-invasive or minimally invasive, like really something that will work as the first priority. One of the technologies I'm really interested in following how this develops and we're doing research on this at UCSF, is using focus ultrasound. So most people know about ultrasound to diagnose, but if you change the energy profile of it, you can actually use acoustic energy through an ultrasound to actually open up the blood brain barrier and targeted parts of the brain. And so there is a lot of development on using that as a way to do delivery as opposed to putting a catheter or something directly in the brain. And then with that set of new agents that can be really molecularly specific to get to targets once you open up that blood brain barrier. I want to back up and just have people understand how you even do a wake surgery because the traditional way that surgery is done requires general anesthesia. In general anesthesia, typically requires three things. It requires one type of medication to blunt pain. Another type of medication to block memory. And another type of medication to paralyze you. Now, of course, if things go wrong and things have gone wrong, sometimes patients are paralyzed, but they feel pain, but they can't communicate it. And these are these catastrophic, but fortunately, very rare events that occur in anesthesia. But correct anesthesia is done where a patient has no sense of time or memory of anything. They can't feel anything and they can't move, which means they're actually safe. Right? It's to save them as well. So help us understand how it is that you can do surgery without all three of those conditions being present. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Hidden Factors That Predict Long-Term Opioid Use ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [7U2ay6hRZ30].txt ===

And the goal is we want to get you off an opioid even oral before you go home. Is that generally the state of objective with a medical system now? Is whatever opioids you're going to need. Let's try to deliver that to you in the hospital. I wouldn't say necessarily because I think there are some surgeries that are going to clearly require prescribing an opioid after surgery. Remember the name of the game is get people out of the hospital and have the care take place in their home. And people are going to need some degree of pain management and analgesics. And those analgesics can be Tylenol NSAIDs if it's more than mild moderate pain that may involve an opioid. So how are you thinking about that? How are you thinking about extracting the value of the opioid and minimizing the risk of long-term dependence? What we have learned is that there are vulnerabilities that people bring to an injury or surgery and being placed on opioids that set them up for more likelihood of persistent opioid use. And we've characterized we and others through research studies of characterized many of these factors. So some of these factors include preoperative depression and anxiety, higher levels of catastrophizing. I early adverse child events, so history of PTSD, history of physical sexual psychological trauma. All of these sets someone up to have a higher likelihood of persistent pain and persistent opioid use. Now you will note, all these things I said, most of these things I said people would normally put under the psychological umbrella. The key message that I want to give people and I think everyone's getting this is, when we talk about psychology and psychological factors, we're talking about neurosciences, we're talking about the brain and we're talking about specific brain systems, regions, networks. So we did a study several years ago. This was led by Jennifer Ha, Ian Carroll was a key player, leader on this, and we found that higher depression scores preoperatively predicted much more likelihood of persistent opioid use after surgery. And how are you screening for this? What tests are you using? Back then we used something called the back depression inventory which standard instrument, we don't use that anymore. There's more modern tools. I thought what was cool about this. We did a factor analysis on the original paper and you can break the back down into different components of depression. And had donia cognitive level, what we found is it was a particular factor that drove almost entirely that prediction of depression, self-loathing. It was feeling like really bad about yours. So if you have someone who just suffers from not that anodonia is anything but unpleasant, but if they're only experiencing anodonia but no self-loathing, you would say, well, the risk isn't as high. Yeah, you know, conceptually your argument holds, but now I'm going to come back to a lot of the things that you write about, which is the danger of drawing inferences from small population studies and generalizing that to the rest of the world. Yeah, especially with that randomization because what you really would like to be able to see is you take a whole bunch of people in. You get their incoming metrics of anodonia, disthymia, self-loathing. You categorize all the arms and tentacles of depression and then you randomize within each of those to with and without opioid strategies. Yeah, and then you, IMean, this is a very complicated thing to do, but if you want to know the answer, that's kind of the way you want to do it. That's exactly it. Unfortunately, there's not much will to do that in society these days. Even in the world we live in today where we understand that for a non-zero, potentially non-trivial segment of the population, the introduction to opioids that ultimately destroys people's lives is delivered by the medical system. I was on the Institute of Medicine panel, now the National Academy panel called Relie and we did a report called Relieving Pain in America and I remember sitting around back in 2010 and we were talking about the state of pain in the country and where we needed to go identify a perfect vision and also identify what are the biggest research questions to ask an answer? And I remember really vigorous discussion here and the one that I put forward and others put forward is we need to better understand what is the long term effectiveness and safety of prescribing opioids to people with chronic pain, meaning we need to figure out for whom opioids work. Today we still don't have an answer to that and there's very little will to do it because the whole message in the scientific community is basically fine non-opioid choices. So there's not a lot of interest in funding the studies to figure out for whom it works. There is a lot of active interest still mainly through data driven studies to find out who's at risk. But that type of study that you're talking about and others that are of longer term and bigger consequences. I just don't know when they're going to get done who's going to fund us.

=== FILE: The Invisible Patterns That Shape Your Decisions ｜ Charles Duhigg [-x3VV_H6ZZ4].txt ===

We've talked a lot about behavioral habits today, but most of the habits that exist in our lives are mental habits. There are habits that we don't even recognize as habits because they're happening inside our brain. And they are incredibly powerful. These mental habits make me believe that when someone cuts me off in traffic, a perfectly appropriate response is to get angry, which does not benefit me, does not change the situation. I know that I should be zen about it, but it compels me to behave a certain way. So let's say more about that. Let's say more about the mental habits. And I read something the other day, which didn't surprise me one bit because anybody who has meditated will know this. We have an average of, I believe, 47 thoughts per minute. Wow, yeah, that's it. All right, that's one per second. Right. And again, if you don't meditate, or you haven't spent some time doing mindfulness meditation, you would think that's impossible. But if you've ever done the exercise of sitting there, focusing on your breath, watching every single time you are distracted by a thought, you'll be like, yeah, I can believe it's 47 times a minute. So that actually sounds small to me. Yeah, basically some of my meditated. So we've got this crazy thing that is just a thought generating machine that we can't control. Yeah. But thoughts are not thinking. So what trenslates us from thoughts to thinking, how do we form better habits or reformat maladaptive habits around that? You give a great example, by the way, of the reaction to getting cut off, like an anger reaction. That's absolutely right. So the way that we can influence our mental habits is that we have to deliberately choose to figure out what the cue is. And then we have to give ourselves a reward afterwards. They operate by the same principle as behavioral habits or physical habits. But it's a little bit more tricky, right? So oftentimes, let's take innovation. The innovation is one of the mental habits that's studied. Why do some people manage to innovate on demand much better than others? We all be innovative, but some people they need the muse to strike. It takes them years. And other people you walk in and you say, hey, look, I need 30 great ideas by tonight and they can sit down and they knock them out. So what's happening there? When researchers have looked at the lives of serial innovators, what they found is that the most important part of that is that oftentimes the people who are really good at it have filled up what's known as a contemplative routine to spur that innovation. Now, these contemplative routines can be something like, every week I sit down and I reflect on all the good ideas I had last week, just for 30 minutes. And I try and think of good ideas for next week. Or the contemplative routine can be, whenever anyone asks me to come up with 30 ideas, the first thing I do is I go take a walk. Then I just think about it in my head. I'm not writing anything down. I'm not committing myself to anything. I'm just letting it percolate a little bit. I have a routine that I know works for me to spark a contemplation. Because when you think about it, when it comes to mental routines and when it comes mental habits and when it comes to success, the most successful people throughout history are that people who can get themselves to think most deeply. Right? Making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. So thEQuestion is, particularly in a fast-paced world like today, how do we get ourselves to think more deeply? This is the killer app for our brain. And the way that we get ourselves to think more deeply is to build these contemplative routines that we automatically fall into. Because those contemplative routines push us to think more deeply. And I can give you an example of this, if you like. Of course, which is, and again, we describe this and, or I describe this in smarter faster better, there was a planEQuantist flight 32, was a plane, an airbus A380 that took off from Singapore to Sydney in the early 2000s. And it perfect take off. The captain was a great captain. About 10 minutes into the flight. One of the fan blades and one of the jet engines attaches and it punches this enormous hole in the wing. It also hits another fan blade. And that fan blade explodes. And it was like the shrapnel from a bomb going off inside the plane wing. So within about 12 seconds, there's 14 major systems that are needed to keep a plane off within about 12 seconds. 12 of those systems had gone offline. No hydraulics, no fuel, no measurements on anything. So the captain, a guy named Richard DeCrebney, he has to figure out how to land this plane safely. This is the worst mid-air mechanical disaster in modern aviation. So what does he do at that moment? What he does at that moment is, there's all these alarms going off and said, the cockpit, there's all these red flashing things on his board. The computer is telling him, you have to do these 10 things. And as soon as you do those 10 things, you have to do five more things. You have to do 13 more things. What he does is he takes his hands off the controls for a second. He closes his eyes. And he says to himself, I'm telling myself a story about the plane that I'm flying. And the story in my head is the Airbus A380. And it's really complicated. Because I have to think about fuel lines. I have to think about hydraulics. I have to think about brakes. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to change the story inside my head. I'm going to change the mental model that I'm using on where to focus. And I'm going to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. Now a Sessna is the plane that he learned to fly on. It's the plane he feels most comfortable in. And he actually sort of announces this to air traffic and troll into his other pilots. And they freak out. Because they're like, what is this guy talking about flying a Sessna? He's in an Airbus A380. But that moment of contemplation allowed him to access that muscle memory, those habits of flying. And he lands the plane safely. They touch down all 469 passengers get off about half an hour later. There's not one injury on board. Now they've tried to recreate this landing again and again in simulators. Almost every single time it crashes. So what did Richard decrepney do differently? Why was he able to land that plane? And I've asked him. And what he'll tell you is he'll tell you he actually doesn't know or remember exactly what he did in the moment. But by changing that mental model in his head, by engaging in this contemplative routine, which felt supernatural to him to say, I need to be in charge here. I need to stop reacting. I'm going to choose to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. That unlocked all of these learned habits of safe flying that allowed him to land that plane. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Key to Managing Anxiety： Thoughts vs. Thinking ｜ Josh Spitalnick, Ph.D. [n8nXCfurzqE].txt ===

help people understand what you mean about the distinction between thoughts and thinking. It is important. I think it's uniquely important when we talk about anxiety. I like to talk about the W's of that level two thinking. I'm going to break into three categories. We haven't gotten to the third one yet, which is any real scary in just a second here. But I like to talk about the W's, the who what where when, why, how ends in a W, and what if? When I hear someone asking a question that starts with a W, and whenever the statement is, ends with a question mark. In my work, if it's about their anxiety court issue. So if someone is social anxiety, the fear of public speaking. If someone has a fear of snakes, the fear of being bitten by a snake. When they're asking questions about, is that snake going to be there? Does that garden have snakes? Is that public speaking event tomorrow? And when am I going to do about it? What if they laugh at me? When I hear thosEQuestions, most of it's just something that someone's worried. But that looks productive. It looks like you're trying to figure something out. And for most of us, we just move on with our day. For the anxiety sufferer, it is an attempt to resolve uncertainty. It is an attempt to figure out something that you don't have the chance to figure out because that time has not happened yet. It's a fortune telling mindset of mental action. And so worrying the verb is an activity. And most of us do it and move on with our lives. It's like Teflon is slides off of us. But for the anxiety sufferer, worrying looks like they're trying to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. And that's the epidemic of anxiety that whether you do a ritual that looks more behavioral, like scrubbing your hands, praying excessively, asking the police officer if they got a report if anyone got run over in the intersection, which is called hidden runo CD, rereading your email 17 times or wondering about your email. Questioning, did I send that out? Was there a typo in there? Are they judging me? What if they say something back to me? Those don't look like rituals or compulsions. But it's our ability to resolve anxiety to solve uncertainty, to deal with this interfering that is killing us on the inside. And it is its own designation of symptoms. So maybe just to step back, the first thing I'm doing in therapy with almost anyone I work with is breaking down symptoms into three categories. And there's two acronyms I'll use. It doesn't matter for me amongst all the anxiety disorders. And I can get kind of Q2 with this, but it's category one, category two, and category three. Very basic. When he's letters, it's T's O's and C's. If I'm dealing with OCD, which stands for triggers, obsessions, and compulsions. And for almost every other anxiety disorder, it's T, F, and S, B triggers, fears, and safety behaviors. And every DSM, every anxiety specialist, and every treat's anxiety, and any who battles anxiety should know those three levels of symptoms. Triggers are the things that bother you, the events, the people, the places, the things that are out of your control. It's God messing with us. Sometimes just you're using around and I thought pops in your head can be a trigger, unfortunately. Sometimes a physical symptom can be a trigger. The middle column, which I use the letter O or fear, O for obsession, F for fear, is the internal experiences you're having. And I use it when having, not doing, that are out of your control. Breathing, heart rate, yucky thoughts, upset tummy, a twitch, a feeling, an aura. For most of us, we call those worries or fears or obsessions. Sometimes it's an urge. And those are not up to us. That means your body's working. Sometimes it's working in overdrive. Sometimes it means your prefrontal cortex and your limbic region. We'll talk about brain stuff in a few minutes. I'm sure are not communicating properly. But that means that something went off in your body as a signal of, uh, oh, there might be danger. And so it's happening to you. The next thing that happens in the most basic behavioral paradigm Peter is stimulus and response. And what happens between stimulus and response is we're all the magic happens. And one's ability to make decisions effectively between stimulus and response is where therapy really takes takes action. That response and all the anxiety disorders is avoidance. Rituals behavioral or mental. And so it's a therapist job to figure out those symptoms, the T's, O's and C's, tagging the patient on what they are because most patients and honestly probably most therapists confuse worries from worrying thoughts from thinking. And most therapists are going to put anything between your ears in category two. And in the last 10 to 15 years online, there's been language and descriptions of something called pure OCD. P-U-R-E, pure O-C-D. And what that was was people thinking that I just have obsessions. I'm a purely obsessional subcategory of OCD. And I have pure O-O-C down my website. I write about it. I blog about it. Because I want people who think they have that to find our website and to find us. Because I want to reverse engineer what they think is going on. They think they're just having obsessions because it's all happening up here. Which really going on is they're having obsessions. And then spending all day long up here trying to solve an existential crisis. Which I would call meant to ritual. So let's help people understand that. And we can either use, in fact, I'd like to do both. I'd like to use thoughts versus thinking. And I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support. Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Leading Causes of Death - The 4 Horsemen of Chronic Disease [4_djjZewu4M].txt ===

When it comes to someone's risk of dying, you characterize the biggest risks as the forehorsesmen. So could you explain what those are? Yeah, IMean, you can't have a discussion on this topic without talking about the forehorsesmen, which you know, might seem a bit grim, but there's no reason to avoid talking about the inevitable, which is every one of us in this room is not going to be alive at some point. And I think to confront the how is important, right? So statistically speaking, all of us in this room are going to succumb to one of four processes or disease processes. So in rank order, the first of those would be cardiovascular and cerebral vascular disease. That's the leading cause of death in the United States. That's the leading cause of death globally. It's the leading cause of death for men and it's the leading cause of death for women. Full stop. So that's a heart attack, a stroke. The number two, and it's not that far behind in the United States, is cancer. And of course cancer isn't just one disease. We lump it all together, but of course prostate cancer and breast cancer are, you know, frankly as as as different as, you know, a pickup truck and a Karola. They're, you know, they both have four wheels, but that's about where the similarity ends. Number three would be the diseases of dementia and the neurodegenerative diseases. And there's a lot of things in here, right? So you have Alzheimer's disease, which is the most common form of dementia, but you also have lots of other types of dementia that are, that are not neurodegeneratives, such as vascular dementia. And then you have the fourth horsemen is kind of a spectrum of diseases that we call metabolic diseases. The, the most extreme version of this would be type two diabetes. But of course all along the way, you have conditions like fatty liver disease and insulin resistance. And all of these conditions form a continuum and the most important thing to know about them is while not that many people will die directly from those diseases. If you have anything along that continuum, it's increasing your risk of about by about 50% of the other three horsemen. So we, we really want to think about a strategy at mitigating all four of these conditions and delaying them as long as possible. But what do you say to someone that may already be navigating these chronic diseases that come with aging and what advice would you give them on how to manage a high quality of life and keep hope during these times? You know, it would matter very specifically on which one we're talking about, right? So I certainly won't ask for a show of hands, but just based on the age of everyone in this room, it's impossible for me to imagine that nobody in this room hasn't already faced some of these diseases, right? So if you're sitting in this room and you already had a stent placed in your coronary arteries, that says, look, you've already had a brush with coronary artery disease. Maybe someone in this audience has already had a heart attack and you're fortunate enough to have survived it. Well, the short answer is look, the fact that you've survived it is great and that means you get a second chance. Many people don't, right? So many people's first brush with heart disease is death. In fact, on average, about 50% of people, one in two people that have a heart attack, it's immediately fatal. So if you're in that group where you've had that heart attack or you know somebody who has and they've lived to tell about it, they're in the lucky camp and what they should be doing is everything in their power to not only prevent it from happening again, but to strengthen their body. And so, you know, the first thing I do is I ask myself, what were the conditions that I had that led to this heart attack in the first place? Now, some of these conditions, you don't have a lot of control over. Genetics play a strong role here, but there are many things that can be controlled, such as cholesterol levels, blood pressure, smoking. Those would be the big three. And we have ways to manage all of those things. Also, we know that exercise plays a very important role as does metabolic health. So, you know, I've met many people who have had that near brush with death from that standpoint of a first heart attack, they survive it. And what do they do? They turn it around and they say, look, I'm going to lose 30 pounds. I'm going to stop smoking or I'm going to manage my blood pressure cholesterol better. I'm going to take up exercise. And I know people that have gone on to live 30 years after that event that might have happened when they were 60 and they live until they're in their 90s. So, I guess I would always frame it through the lens of, hey, am I fortunate enough to have survived this thing? And if so, what am I going to do going forward?

=== FILE: The Longevity Toolkit： Peter Attia’s 5 Tactics to Improve Longevity [ghTCvGimadE].txt ===

Do you want to quickly walk through the tactics and your longevity toolkit? And then from there, we can go into detail on each of them. Yeah, IMean, I think broadly speaking, there are five buckets of things that we have control over to impact all of these things we're talking about. So one, we just talked about exercise. And you can probably tell my bias is that that's the single most important one for the most part. So the second, in no particular order, would be nutrition. So what you eat matters? And we'll talk about that. I'm sure in more detail. The third one would be sleep. So the difference between sleeping well and not sleeping well has an enormous impact on your brain, but also on your metabolic health, which then indirectly plays a great role in other diseases. The fourth would be all of the sort of medications and supplements, drugs, anything that your doctor prescribes or that you can buy over the counter. And these are of varying degrees of efficacy. Some of them are incredibly dubious. Some of them can be life-saving. But again, all of those things we'd want to think about. And then the final bucket would be all the tools that we would have at our disposal to improve our emotional health and well-being. So we've already touched a little bit about why exercise is important. But for people in this audience, how can they start just safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? It's hard to provide a blanket statement on that because everybody's going to be different. But I think it's safe to say that people are less fragile than they believe. And IMeet many people, for example, who have back injuries. And say, look, I have a back injury. I can't really do anything. And the reality of it is when you sort of probe a little bit further, what you realize is nothing tends to make their back hurt more than inactivity. I don't remember who made the statement, but I loved it. And I've paraphrased it or plagiarized it many times. Sitting is to lower back pain, what bourbon is to alcoholism. So any of you who's back has hurt will probably think about that and go, you know, he's kind of right. When my back hurts, sitting is the one thing I don't like to do, or after a long drive it hurts worse. And, you know, for most people, actually being active makes them feel better. Now, let's be clear. There are certain activities. Like if you have no cartilage left in your knee, more walking won't make you feel better. And so you've got, you're going to have to see an orthopedic surgeon. They might need to do a knee replacement. But boy, I will tell you in this day and age, in 2025, what can be done with a knee replacement, a hip replacement, even a shoulder replacement? IMean, these operations have come along so far. And they have restored so much quality of life to individuals. So, every one of these cases has to be managed individually. But if you have a really good PT or rehab professional who knows what's fixable with more trening or more conditioning versus, hey, this actually does need some medical attention, I think the aspiration should be, what can I do to get as active as possible? Moving from exercise into nutrition, we saw questions come through that different diets are being talked about and they aren't sure which one they should follow. So, is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? I don't think there's a diet that is best. I think there are principles that matter and everyone should find the diet that best allows them to adhere to the principles. So, what are the principles? The principles are not to eat too much and not to eat too little. That sounds dumb, but it's just the reality of it. And I think everyone struggles with a different end of that spectrum. There are some people who just don't like to eat that much. They're like little birds. And as they get older, that becomes a huge problem. They are too frail. At the other end of the spectrum, you have people like me who like to eat too much. And we will spend most of our life fighting against the urge to eat too much. And that also becomes a problem as you get older because the heavier you are, the more weight you're putting on each and every one of those joints. And again, we're thinking about all these things that are working against us as we age, not to mention other complications that come from eating too much. But I would say that in an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. First of all, I just think for many people, it's kind of hard to get enough protein in. Even I have to pay attention to it. And I don't have a problem eating. But I need to be mindful of, hey, that I get enough protein. It's really easy for me to get all the carbs in the world. It's not, I don't have to go out of my way to eat more fat. But I do have to be cognizant of getting enough protein. And enough protein is a pretty big number. It's about one gram per pound of body weight. So I would challenge each of you to pay attention to, hey, if you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? And I would bet that especially for the women here, that's even harder. Now, if you follow a little bit short of that, it's OK. But if you're at half of that, you're really not getting the optimal amount of protein. And as we age, we develop something called anabolic resistance, which means that it is harder and harder for our muscles to synthesize and grow new muscle cells with the given amount of amino acids, which are the building blocks in protein that we get by eating protein. And therefore, we actually need more and more protein to overcome that. So we talk a lot about obesity. We talk a lot about osteoporosis in osteopenia. But there's another condition of aging called sarcopenia, which is the condition of muscle loss. And that's a huge problem. And there's really two ways to, in concert, two ways to address that. One is consuming enough protein, and the other is doing enough resistance trening. So again, doesn't matter if you're a vegetarian, doesn't matter if you like a Mediterranean diet, doesn't matter if you like steak and potatoes. If you can adhere to those principles, that's going to make your life easier. Is it harder to adhere to those principles if you're a vegan? Yeah, it's a lot harder. But it's not impossible. I know lots of people who have done it. But looking at a food tracking app in your phone is a great way to spend a week evaluating how many grams of protein you're getting. And I think you'll be surprised that for many of us, it's we're probably underdoing it. Now, I'm moving on to sleep. Sleep is something that you've written a lot about. And you said that you didn't use to take it very seriously. But now you do take it very seriously. And that's true. He goes to bed at eight every night. So why do you think it's so important? I think I'm up till nine these days. Yes, sleep is important. And you're right. I used to probably until 12 years ago. I think my mantra was all sleep when I'm dead. And I, you know, just would try to sleep as little as possible. But but the evidence are pretty overwhelming, especially for for for both near-term and long-term function of the brain that sleep is very important. Now, I think at your age, a couple of unique challenges emerge. I, again, I think most people, once they're over 65 or 70, they're not fighting the will to sleep because they want to be out partying all night. It's more that other things are getting in the way, right? So we know that as a person ages, they tend to sleep a little bit lighter and their sleep architecture tends to change a little bit. We also know that other things get in the way, especially for men, which is it gets harder and harder to make it through a night without having to get up to pee. And, IMean, you know, I'm already at that stage where at least two out of the seven nights a week. If I am not mindful about when I had my last glass of water, I'm going to be up at two or three in the morning to pee and sometimes that's harder to go back to bed after. So what are the things that we have under our control? Well, one of them is absolutely timing of water. Now again, water is super important. The older a person gets, the more susceptible they are to dehydration. The older a person gets, the less reliable thirst is as an indicator for fluid status. So at a livias age, you don't really, we do not need to pay attention to how much you're drinking. First will be the guide. But that becomes less and less true as you age. So you're juggling a narrow problem, which is on the one hand, you have to be mindful about drinking enough. But at the other hand, you can't drink too much too close to bed and that's going to keep you awake. Another thing that makes a huge difference in sleep quality is timing a food. So the longer you can have between when you have dinner and when you go to bed, the better. So we eat dinner really early because we have young kids in our house and that's why I can get away with going to bed at nine because it's still been three and a half hours or three hours since I ate. Another thing is alcohol. So some of you probably drink alcohol and the less alcohol you have in your system when you sleep, the better you're going to sleep. Having a super dark room, having a super cold room is going to make a big difference. And perhaps the biggest thing to sort of make a point about here is consistency of timing, especially on the wake up. So if you could head through yourself to one time, it's what time do I wake up? And if you force yourself to wake up at the same time every day and don't allow yourself to take a nap during the day, and this is a big ask because I know naps can be tempting, it's going to regulate when you end up going to bed by building up enough sleep pressure. So if a person tells me I'm struggling to sleep at night and I find out they're napping during the day, the first thing I want to do is get rid of the nap. I want them to, and then I want to fix the wake up time, eliminate the nap, and then actually let them get into a better sleep cycle that way. Are there any good sleep supplements that you recommend taking and that are not damaging to you? Yeah, there are. IMean, I think one has to be very careful with this stuff. There's certainly evidence to suggest that as we age, melatonin levels go down, and therefore melatonin can aid, at least with sleep initiation. But it's important to know that melatonin really is only the signal to initiate sleep. It's not going to necessarily keep you asleep all night. So if you're not doing all of the other things correctly, melatonin is going to be limited in its efficacy. So before I go down the route of supplements, I want to get everything we just talked about, vis-a-vis the hygiene completely dialed in. And then yeah, if there's still an issue falling asleep, I think melatonin can be viable tool. Although I really want to make sure it's the lowest dose you can buy. They tend to sell this stuff in high enough doses to kill horses. Not necessary. The lowest dose, which is maybe 300 micrograms is probably all you need at most twice that dose, but you don't need anything north of a milligrams. I think one has to experiment a little bit with other things. I find Ashwaganda a little bit helpful for others maybe not so much. Okay, and then we'll quickly touch on the last one, which is emotional health. And a lot of people think that this is not really something that kind of matters in longevity, but you talked about this in the last chapter of Outlive and how it's really important to you and that you've recently discovered it. So do you want to talk a little bit about that and how it's important as people are aging? Well, I think it's actually important at any age. And I think that what I imagine is so appealing about living at a place like this is you have a built-in system of friendship. And I would imagine that that's probably a great source of well-being that many of your peers would be missing out on if they were living alone. I think about how little I see my parents because we live in a different country. So I can imagine that things that we take for granted when we're young like being close to our children or our grandchildren aren't guaranteed when we grow older. And of course, she's signed a contract that says she can't leave Austin. So this won't be a problem for me, but I think social support network and some sense of purpose might be the single most important part of the emotional health toolkit as it pertains to living longer. One of us knows the story of the couple that have been married for 70 years. One of them passes away and then the other one has dies within a year. I don't think these are just anecdotal. I really think there's an understanding of why that happens. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet. You can sleep right. You can exercise, but if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible, but I would say even more than that regardless of how long you live, it's if it's unhappy, why bother? You know what IMean? So let's say you do live a long time, but you're alone or you're miserable. In some ways, that would be the ultimate purgatory. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: The Opioid Crisis： The Perfect Storm ｜ Sean Mackey, M.D., Ph.D. [fUnXhZuaYEs].txt ===

There's no question that opioids have been overused and abused. And there's no question that elicit use of these things has had a devastating impact on our society. But it would be difficult to say that the field of medicine would be better off having never had an opioid to, you know, we just talked about surgery, for example, very challenging to deliver medicALCARe in a hospital without opioids. So thEQuestion becomes, what is the most responsible case for oral opioids, which by definition are meant to be used outside of a hospital, not inside a hospital? And as a pain specialist, I would imagine few people are better equipped to navigate the nuance of that question. Yeah, it is a very nuanced question. I think a little preamble first. I don't take money from either the opioid companies. I don't take money from the litigation that's ongoing because there are tens and tens of billions of dollars that play right now. Yeah, I don't take money. And I am not pro-alpioid. I am not anti-opioid. I am pro-patient. I view them as a tool. I view them as a tool much like the other medications, interventions, mind-body, physical rehabilitative complementary tools that we use. They have a particular place. I have a personal deep appreciation for the destruction that these agents can cause. I come from a family, very deep in addiction, very deep. I've lost close family members to opioid overdose. I've lost close family members to alcoholism. I am personally petrified of these drugs. And I have gone through surgeries that the surgeon said, you can't get through this without an opioid and I'm like, I'll be fine. Because my approach is avoidance. With that said, I have learned a long time ago not to project my personal experiences onto my patients. That had to come through age, wisdom, whatever. It is true. Prescription opioids were over prescribed. They were over marketed. They were, you know, there were bad actors doing bad things. It came at a time, but it's not that simple a story. I sometimes get frustrated because I feel like you can make really simple sound bites out of this complex societal issue when it was a perfect storm that hit. Yes, you had a letter to the editor of New England Journal saying that nobody got addicted to on a 38 patients or some nonsense and Purdue and others ran with this and I get that and they did bad things. You also have to put things in the context of what was going on in society. There was growing awareness of pain as there should be. There was growing pressures to do something about it. People have brought up the pain as a fifth vital sign is an example and people have different opinions about that. Did it have bad consequences? Yes, did it have good consequences? Hell yes. Run the counterfactual. Do you want to go back to a time when we're not asking patients after surgery they're paying? Do you want your mother, your daughter? Back in that time, I think the answer is clearly not. But also there was other pressures and Peter, you were witness those first hand. What was going on back in the 90s and the 2000s? After surgery, there was this massive push to get people out of the hospital and put them in their home. We were replacing care in a hospital with care in the home. In the hospital, we had time to see their trajectory. We could tie trade their opioids or whatever or get them tuned up dialed in and then send them home. Now surgery overnight, your home, let's give you a bucket of whatever and the reason for that was surgeons and docks don't like getting called at 3 a.m. for pain control. So pressure to put people out in the home environment on top of it docks get lousy trening for pain. Like what is the average seven hours I think in medical school? That's by the way 40 hours of pain. So great if you've got a dog, not so great for patient. So you've got this pressure and by the way not only that on top of that, but now you've got the introduction of patient satisfaction scores. I have to imagine in your private practice you don't have to measure press gaining in patient satisfaction scores but in hospitals everybody does. Or at least they did. I think they're coming to their senses and so one way of addressing the satisfaction give more opioids. So there's and there's more. There's many, many, many pressures that came to bear that helped create this problem of which there were bad actors out there. By the way the perfect analogy to this is the mortgage crisis in 2006 to 2008. If you took a zero-th order view it would be really easy to blame one of the entities. But it is actually a perfect storm, right? I have a slide yet on the open crisis I call it the perfect storm. Yeah. You're absolutely right and in the end and here I'm going to be a little bit reductive when it comes to the docks roles in this. I'm going to borrow from my friend professor Keith Humphrey's. There are three kinds of physicians in the out there. There are the majority of the physicians doing the right thing for the right reasons. There are the next group which is a much smaller group physicians doing the wrong thing for the right reasons. And at the very top of that pyramid, a little group you got physicians doing the wrong thing for the wrong reasons. Bad, those people at the top take away their license, put them in jail. But you had a group of people here in the middle that were doing the wrong thing for the right reasons that they either didn't have the right education. They thought they were helping people. They did they contribute to the problem. Yes, have they gotten educated? Have we, yes, I didn't answer your question though. And let me now circle back and I hope you'll forgive that little bit of saliliqui on my perspective of that 20 years. I don't use opioids as a first line age I never, almost never, end of life, cancer. But usually by then they've tried other things before they're getting to us.

=== FILE: The definition of trauma ｜ Jeff English [qPm8iQ_Xj-8].txt ===

Maybe the easiest way to start is just to kind of talk a little bit about this loaded word of trauma. When I first was introduced to this idea of trauma, I didn't know what it meant. And I think today it's become such a catchy buzzword that everybody is traumatized by something. And I don't know if that represents a pendulum, swing, or a normalization, or what. Why don't we just start with kind of how you describe trauma as a trauma therapist and as someone who's been doing trauma therapy for many years not just in the, you know, in the recent treny years for whatever that means. But how do you describe this to people? Well, I would have described the same way that you described it initially, you know, back in the day, you know, trauma. I have to have been at Vietnam for a time, 9-11. These are those big tea traumas you hear some folks use that type of terminology. But within the spirit of the work, the need and the work, really embracing a definition, moments of perceived helplessness. Okay. So, you know, that's what's going to activate the limbic system. Right. So, who is to say what one limbic system evaluates as helplessness versus another? Right. So, that's when we get into this, I think, discovery of most of the people that IMeet have been meeting over the last several years are the ones, wow. Like, I think I did experience trauma. You mentioned it's much more popular thing. And now are we trening in a different direction. So, and a lot of my work with clients individually or groups, you know, I say, I hate to over-simple five things, but I think sometimes we just make things to damn complex. Okay. And so, you know, a lot of what I do is try to depolarize for folks, you know, and we get into these situations to where, you know, we live in this world of get over it. It doesn't matter versus, like you mentioned, perhaps, stay stuck in it. Right. So, but yeah, moments of perceived helplessness, you know, activating that limbic system. And these things can happen, you know, sometimes at the bridge, you remember we talked about wounding events. And one of those would be a tragic event. You know, life seems to be going one way before this thing happens. And then this thing happens in life changes. And everything is different on the other side of that. Right. A big T event versus someone again who maybe you could describe it as a thousand paper cuts. Right. Someone growing up going through childhood daily, being limbically activated. But moments of perceived helplessness, that stuck for me. And it stuck for a lot of clients. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about my own life. I'm talking about my own life. I'm talking about my own life.

=== FILE: The importance of nutrition, protein intake, and consistency in training and diet for muscle growth [ERvWx3b9eH0].txt ===

The most important factor other than time spent in the gym, about how jacked and lean you gonna get, is genetics. And it is a hugely hugely important factor. And so you have to understand that your goals have to be referenced to what your genetic likelihood of achieving them are. The only way you'll find that out is if you work at it for a while and see what happens. But some people work at resistance trening for three years, they'll accrue five pounds of muscle, burn three pounds of fat, and they'll be like, this next year, I want to gain 10 pounds of muscle and you go, that's not how hyperbolic curves and asymptotic curves work. You got it backwards. If in three years you gain 10 pounds of muscle, in the nexT3 years maybe you gain five, that's realistic. It does not work in reverse. So it's really, really important to contextualize multiplEQualities. One is how much recovery and rest and relaxation time do you get compared to work and being underselect, another is genetics, and the other is age. And so if people say I want to get more jacked and I've, the reason I'm ranting about this, Peter is because I've had many clients who were willing to put in whatever work it was going to be necessary to put in. But they were older, they did not have particularly great genetics. And they had already gotten most of the muscle gain that they were going to get, not all, but most. And they requested a formulation for me of their exercise plan that would get them categorically better gains. And outside of pharmaceutical enhancement, I had to tell them in some way another that was impossible. I ended up telling them that after many years of struggling myself to try to optimize for them and get them those gains, because I'm a little bit of a science guy. I know things I think, I've been fairly successful in my own body, why can't I get these people to gain muscle? And those that trifecto of age, genetics, and how much of a professional bodybuilder or fitness person do you want to be from the next several months, they are the biggest factors for results. And people seem to think that you can just kind of like hack your way to the best plan. And if you just do the right things, you'll get amazing results. It has to be in context unless you like setting yourself up for really unfortunate experiences where you get quite upset. You couldn't do the thing. People will arbitrarily assign themselves an amount of muscle they want. It does not work like that. Put in the diligence, put in the time, see how it goes. Things are going well. You can crank it up a little bit and get a little bit better gains. And just it's going to take time. If things are not going so well, you have to optimize to make them go a little better. But there's outside of the basics. Nothing you're going to be able to do that is going to be a category leap of results. Short of what I estimate in the early 2030s will be the great pharmaceutical Renaissance. Then you can just turn my austat and off and get as jacked as you want. Until we get that realism can be a painful build as well. Well, it'll be interesting to see if even if we can turn my austat and off as adults, if it will have the same impact that it has in the cartoons. When we look at the animals that have my austat and knockouts which are just some of the most enjoyable things to look at. Truthfully it's like, you know, our favorite things in med school were looking at the my austat and knockout chickens and cows. But it's not clear if you took a mature adult and inhibited my austat and if you would get the same benefits. But let's go back to out of the gym. One more thing we didn't discuss. I just kind of want to hear your thoughts on when when something out of the gym is playing a role in your unjackedness is nutrition, off and a factor or is that generally not in other words, is it so rare that someone is not getting enough protein or not getting enough calories that that's the problem is that just not something you see much. It's a thing. Okay. I would assume it's more a thing with women than with men and maybe more with older women than men and maybe even older men when you just see more antibiotic resistance. All of those are true. Okay. It's not difficult to align your nutrition well. Eat mostly healthy foods, some junk here and there is totally fine. Getting it enough protein if you want to be real serious about optimizing your muscle gains, something I can grant per pound protein per day. So if you weigh 150 pounds, 150 grams of relatively high quality protein. If it's difficult for you to meet those goals. If you're a Amazon sells your bars already, don't they? I don't know if I don't think they're an Amazon yet. I don't know if they're a Amazon. IMight have gotten there if they are soon. So get you a couple boxes of David bars and put them between meals. And that kind of takes care of protein. The other thing is muscle size is philosophically concordant with being bigger. I know that sounds crazy, but muscles made of stuff. So when someone wants to be 165 pounds jacked at 150 pounds, it's curious how they think that's ever going to happen. Some people just don't eat enough. And what I would say is the biggest problem I've seen with what I assume is your target demographic for this podcast is intermitency, lack of consistency. I've had so many clients in the professional realm older folks that are practicing doctors, lawyers, so on and so forth. Tell me, hey, listen, last couple days, every three or four hours I'll be getting in high protein meals. I've been getting good sleep, dope. See him a week later, you go, hey, how was last week? And they're like, the parts I remember were fun. I think. Then I was throwing up a lot on the toilet. And it you realize that they're going to cook good. It's not beneficial to moralize these things, but they're on track for a few days here and there. They fall completely off the wagon for days at a time. That is a sure fireware to guarantee that you don't get very good gains as if you lack consistency. So if you want to get as jacked as possible within the realm of several months time, seek to eat enough food to get the scale to go up about half a pound per week. So if you're trening hard for 12 weeks, should game maybe six pounds or so, consistent six pounds. And if you're eating a grand per pound per day of protein, spread into roughly three to four evenly spaced meals, roughly very roughly a lot of wiggle room there, that really is kind of all you need to know about an attrition for how to get jacked that covers probably 90% of the variance. So I'll tell you this, if you'd describe to me a scenario where you were trening for 12 weeks, you gained seven pounds. Almost every day had a grand per pound per protein, almost every day it was three or four meals. And your leg look, I know it's my nutrition, that's the problem, I'd be like, it's probably not. It's probably something else. That great thing about what we talked about earlier with drawing eights and how we could do so few sets of get so many results is that 80, 20 type of rule applies to almost everything else in the human body, including nutrition. So if you're getting enough protein regularly and you're getting enough calories to gain body weight, if you don't get really the muscle gains that you're expecting, there aren't a lot of knobs and lovers for us to pull that are going to get these enormous results. Right. That's kind of the situation for nutrition, but consistency is I cannot say enough things about because you ask people, hey how's your diet? Especially if you're a personal trener or diet coach, there's this kind of halo effect situation where they want to be seen as a good person, a diligent and worthy of your time. So well yeah, you know, breakfast or live egg whites and for lunch, I'll have a chicken sandwich and for dinner, it's usually piece of fish and then I have a protein shake and go to sleep, shut up. That's one day a week, you lying asshole and he's like, oh damn it, you got me. Okay, that was Tuesday, but Wednesday, I don't think I ate anything until we closed that one business deal and I got really drunk with their CMO. It was a great time. I think we had chicken fingers, but I was they I can't remember. In consistency, especially when you're older, especially when you have lots of stress from your professional endeavors. In consistency is something that professional bodybuilders cannot afford. You for sure cannot afford it. Now, if you do everything right five or six days a week and one day is kind of mad, you'll do great. But if the good days are outnumbered by the, I sure hope my trener doesn't find out about these days, you're not doing doodilchum.

=== FILE: The limitations of using HDL cholesterol as a marker for heart health ｜ Tom Dayspring [hxtPuBCXW_Y].txt ===

Let's talk about HDLs. The most confusing of the lot. Now, we've already done dedicated podcasts on this topic. We've spoken at length about this. So we're not going to be able to obviously cover this in too much detail. And we'll point people back towards the previous podcasts where I've done this. But you've already alluded to the fact that HDLs can be protective. This has led many people to refer to HDL as the so-called good cholesterol. And if you'rEQuote unquote, good cholesterol is high, you don't need to worry about anything. I'm not going to ask you to debunk that because the tone of my question already suggests that that's nonsensical. So let's have a modest but brief discussion on how HDLs work. And why is it that when they're functioning, they can bEQuite protective. But at the same time, maybe say a word about why, unfortunately, we can't figure this out or discern this from blood tests. Yep, and it's so important. And it's so unknown out there in the real world. And in the layman's world, it's probably not known at all. Because they keep reading these idiotic missiles and newspapers and magazines that boy, check your good cholesterol. And even if it's all, you don't have to worry about your bad cholesterol, LDL. It's so sad. It's even sadder that some providers still believe this until their patients that. All right. So it'll basically what we say very quickly to any patients is, as we're teaching them about lipoproteins and what they do, what they carry. We get to a point where we're saying we're not going to talk about HDLs anymore. Now, don't get me wrong. HDL particles are incredibly important to both your cardiovascular system and probably many other tissues in their your body. And that means HDLs perform a lot of functions that, especially with the heart, may be very cardiovascular protective. We also know that some people have the type of HDLs that don't perform those cardiovascular protective functions. They actually perform bad functions to the artery, wall, and plaque, and the heart. So the important thing is you can understand boy. So it's what HDLs do. Let's call that HDL functionality and to make a long story short. Whether your HDLs are doing those cardiovascular functions or they're doing bad things to your vasculature, whatever they're doing has zero relationship to their cholesterol cargo, meaning your HDL cholesterol level in the blood. There are people with low HDL cholesterol, often a signal for a high cardiovascular risk, but not everybody. And there are people with very high HDL cholesterol been told they're protected and we know they are not. A group of them gets at their scorotic disease. A group of them have been described with breast cancer, dementia. So obviously you can't look at an HDL cholesterol in an individual patient and make extrapolations on what the HDLs are doing in that person. The reason HDLs have these either miraculous or disastrous properties comes down not to their lipid content. Certainly not their cholesterol content, but to their two things. Their protein content over 150 proteins have been found to be associated with various HDL particles. And they perform an immense number of likely very necessary actions that need to go on in certain tissues where things may be going wrong. We also know that the coat of an HDL apart from its proteins is virtually all phosphomalypids. So the exact phospholipid concentration of an HDL surface has tremendous amount of what to do can an HDL do wonderful things or bad things. Those phospholipids depend really determined what an HDL can bind to in various tissues. Now of course we can't measure HDL phospholipid content. There are hundreds of phospholipids. You would get a lipid dome coming back that you could pronounce after the phospholipids or at least the fatty acids that are in those phospholipids. And same with the protein. If there's 150 of my guaranteed average doctor might be familiar with about 10 of those proteins and not with the rest of them. So I don't know how to determine a patient's HDL functionality. Clearly the people having adverse effects with high HDL cholesterol have dysfunctional HDLs probably related to that proteome or their phospholipid content and vice versa. So what we tell a person right now is in the year 2024. We didn't always believe this. This bad cholesterol had an origin that everybody believed way back when framing him this to 50 or earlier observational trials. Nobody ever adjusted for APOD in those trials. It wasn't even available when they were doing it. So we now know that the people with low HDL cholesterol who do get after scroases always have high APOB and why? Why do those people have low HDL cholesterol? I've already told you it's the tricks that knock the HDL and the tricks may not be 400 and the tricks may only be 130 which are being ignored. So and what is high in MAPOB? So the proper treatment of low HDL cholesterol in the person you believe has cardiovascular risk is just like Tricks lower APOB. Lower non HDL cholesterol if you can't get an APOB. I don't know what if somebody has a high HDL cholesterol. I don't know what blood test it tell you. I would always check an APOB. We do that 100% of people and if it was high we would treat APOB regardless of an HDL cholesterol level. But I can't look at a man or a woman and say oh my god you're the one with high HDL see who might wind up with dementia or some cancer or something. I don't know. So we'll track those other diseases with other modalities that we have at our Beckon call. I don't know what to tell you about your cardiovascular health if you have high HDL see but I can guarantee you it is not a declaration of cardiac immortality. So it's HDL functionality. And you recall the we had an IC male exchange about a friend of mine who's I've known for many years. He's always had a very high HDL cholesterol and a very low LDL cholesterol. In fact his HDL has routinely been above 100 milligrams per desoliter and his LDL cholesterol has always been below 100 milligrams per desoliter. So this is a guy that by anybody's metric looks like he's in tip top shape. But I did suggest to him at one point you know it would be reasonable to at least do a calcium score because you know I've seen these case studies of individuals with high HDL see low LDL see who still end up having atherosclerosis and it can bEQuite aggressive because it could be that that high HDL cholesterol is actually a marker of dysfunctional HDL that are having a difficult time clearing it to make a long story short he ended up having quite a high calcium score. And so now he's on very aggressive treatment to take any residual risk out of that ApoB. So he's on double therapy now and he walks around with an ApoB in the 20 to 30 range and hopefully that's going to be sufficient to retard this. But again always a great story. I remember you sharing it I remember you sharing that case with me and I I got why did you do a CAC and because you heard me spout enough you learned your lesson I don't use HDL C to make any decision. Yeah it it distinctly remember reading a case study 10 years ago about a woman who looked just like that and ended up having a very advanced atherosclerosis.

=== FILE: The top drugs for diabetics ｜ Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [_CWDr8qo0dQ].txt ===

If you tied my hands behind my back and said, Ralph, you can only pick one drug. I would pick one of the newer GLP ones. They're incredible drugs. Now, but that's not what I'm going to do. Even for a lean diabetic? They're a little bit different story, but the answer is basically yes. Okay. But let me narrow that down a little bit. If I had to pick two drugs, I would pick peeled lidsone with one of the newer drugs. And for sure, if you had any kind of renal of cardiac disease, I'm going to pick an STLT2 inhibitor. But I would say, although this study will never be done, if you're a newly diagnosed diabetic, you don't have any cardiac symptoms. Why do you think that the STLT2 inhibitor is not doing all of the beneficial things in that newly diagnosed diabetic that it's doing? And the people who get into these studies already have cardiac disease. So if you have a cardiac problem, I put you on the STLT2 inhibitor. You're less likely to have MI stroke, et cetera. It's doing good things. It's doing, in my opinion, the exact same good thing. And someone who I'm just diagnosing for the first time when I put them on the STLT2 inhibitor. But no one is ever going to do a study. It's impossible. I'm going to take 1,000 people, you have to take 5,000, probably have to take 20,000 people. Nulli diagnosed and then 10,000 going, STLT2 and 10,000 on placebo. I'm going to follow them for 20 years to see who's going to have their heart attack. No one's going to do that study. Are they going to get all kinds of drugs? So no one is going to be able to show. But that's sort of like, yeah, that's never going to happen. But I also don't think it needs to happen in the same way that I agree with you. In the same way that we saw, for example, you know, PCSK9 inhibitors reduced mace in people with secondary prevention. Yeah. Take people who had already suffered mace, put them on a PSPSK9 inhibitor. You secondary prevention reduce subsequent. Well, of course, everybody's using these for primary prevention. Now that's effectively what you're saying. Sure. We already know the STLT2 works for secondary prevention. That may never get approval for primary prevention. But it probably justifies it. It's a way of putting it. Yeah. I agree with you 100%. So just to make sure I'm synthesizing what you're saying, Ralph, if you only get one drug and your price Ignostic, GOP one agonist. Yeah. If you get to add a second drug, you're going to add PO. Yeah. If you get a third drug, especially if you care about your heart. Yes. Yes, yes, yes. And what's amazing is metformin didn't even make the top three in your list. But it's never for it. But it's really my question. Given the metformin is free, yeah. Should we just be adding it the second we put on the GOP one? I don't have any problem with that. Yeah. And also we have to be cognizant of the fact, you know, these new GOP ones. Which is so important. Yeah. But there are $1000 a month. Yeah. So, you know, I want to ask you about that. So, so the just again for the listeners, right? The semi-glutide's Gen 3. The triusepotide is Gen 4. Reddit TrueTide is coming out assuming the phase 3 goes according to plan. Yeah. And Kagee Sema is the new Nova one. Yeah. So here, let's go back to Reddit TrueTide. Yeah. GOP one. Yeah. GOP one. Yeah. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP. GOP one. GOP on. GOP on. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GoP one. GOP one. GoP one. GOP one. No one. GOP on. GOP has a bipolar wing con. GoP one. GOPOne. the best drugs in the world, for losing weight. These are the best drugs in the world for saving your beta cell. People have told you that when you eat a meal, 70% of the insulin that's secreted is coming from the GLP-1 and the GIP. People are not talking about this effect on the beta cell. If you want to look at type 2 diabetes, big problems, beta cell failure, insulin resistance. These GLP-1s, they're saving your beta cell. We've forgotten about, we've come so enamored with the weight loss. I don't want to downplay that at all because the weight loss and the lipo-tox is a huge problem that's causing the insulin resistance. But people are forgotten how powerful these drugs are on the beta cell. When I give you this drug and work on the beta cell in the kick out insulin, any negative thing that GLP-1s will be tolering the gated. Now, you may see some good things that GLP-1s are doing that we couldn't appreciate before. So, what are the good things? Some people have suggested that the increase is thermogenesis energy expenditure. I don't believe that. There are animal data. I don't believe this in human. I believe that it's exerting an inorectic effect in the central nervous system. That is, I think, yet to be established. Pretty sure there's studies going on now at the Pennington Institute and maybe also in Orlando where they have these chambers where you can see our eye. Yeah. Yeah. So, I think we'll get an answer about energy expenditure. I would be surprised if they're going to see a clinically meaningful increase in non-involentary energy expenditure. I'm with you. I think it's all appetite. And here's another issue. So, it is very interesting if you look at all these big GLP-1s studies, cardiovascular. What's the reduction in cardiovascular events? Almost uniformly 20%. Old dudes, ex-enitide, etc. Lyricaly-type, new dudes, 20%. Even though the weight loss with the new ones is much greater. Much greater. I suspect in terms of cardiovascular benefit, there is a cap. That once you've lost a certain amount of weight, and you've gotten a certain amount of lipotoxicity, and all the good things that these drugs are doing, you don't go beyond that. Even though you're losing more weight. And also, if you look at the A1C, you know, yes, MontGiro does drop the A1C a little bit more than semigluitide. But they're both pretty powerful. And the other type does a little bit more than cardiovascular. I do a little bit more. But they don't do a lot more. So, I also think there's also going to be a somewhat of a cap on how much you drop the A1C. You know, you get two or a half percent drop. Can you drop iT3? Do you need to drop iT3?

=== FILE: The trauma tree： four types of trauma & the five ways they manifest ｜ Jeff English [zByAyJsw644].txt ===

You talked about the trauma tree, maybe we can describe the roots and branches of that tree in some detail, because that is kind of the meta structure that I think that story gets told. It's the cause and effect piece of it, at least that's how I sort of came to understand it. I've seen many different ways that trauma is described. Obviously, since I left the bridge, I'm a topic, I'm personally very interested in for myself for patients, et cetera. But I'll say, Jeff, I always come back to that structure and I think it is the single best one I've seen. And that doesn't mean that it is the best one. It's just the one that resonates the most with me, because causality means so much in my world. And I like the idea that even though it's not a one-to-one mapping, you know, everyone who experiences this trauma will have this manifestation, clearly not. But if you accept a little bit of the randomness in the system, it's pretty powerful. So maybe walk people through the five roots and the four branches of the trauma tree. The five roots of the trauma tree, that's the what happened to me. So this can be seen through the lens of trauma. And for folks where trauma is just too big of a word, I can't I can you believe I'm saying that on this podcast, but okay, then lose it, right? Highly stressful events. So abuse tends to be the one that we talk really the least about at the bridge, because that's the one that folks tend to know the most about. That's not to mean that we minimize it. There's just so many different forms of abuse, physical, emotional, object, social. So you move over from abuse and you look at something like neglect, which can be very tricky. So many folks that have experience neglect. It's an eye opening experience, because while something like abuse is something that happened to me, neglect is something that failed to happen for me. And so to see that through the lens of high stress or pain, so many different ways one can be neglected. You know, an example that's used there is the little boy that is going to school and he's being bullied, okay? And he's got these parents who are professionals and they're successful and they're busy and they've got the best of intentions, but they're missing it. They're missing the look on this kid's face when he comes in every day and before he gets on that bus every morning, that question's not being asked, what's happening? And so every day, this little person's being required to go to this place where this thing's going to happen and evidently these folks at my house don't have time. Right? And it's important to emphasize, I think the word intention, because intention is not required. Right? How many times have I said, have I heard, well they had the best of intentions that tried that it still happened or in the case of neglect. It failed to happen, okay? In measurement, that's a wounding experience where you've got a boundary violation, right? So that can happen within the spirit of what we call emotional incest, where a child is put in an inappropriate and age in appropriate position. Maybe the child becomes best friend, counselor, and confidant for a mom or dad. And then you've just got this in golfing and measurement, which happens a lot of times in successful families where outcomes and expectations are celebrated and they're not so much the journey. And so that in golfing and measurement can be one of those situations where this is the way to be more of a me minIMe relationship between a parent and a child instead of that eye-val relationship. And so in those situations with with the measurement, what typically happens is either drink the kool-aid, get on board with it or what do we do? We rebel. And I'm not going to do anything that looks anything like this. Neither of those things is probably who I was meant to develop into. Yes? I think probably in my opinion the umbrella wound or we're talking about the tree, the root of the tree would be abandonment, okay? And physical desertion or abandonment, that's low hanging fruit as far as I think the general public and knowledge is when somebody leaves, no, a permanent abandonment obviously someone passes away, there's death, there's seasonal, folks leave for work, military deployment, folks go to prison, parents get separated, parents leave, come back. Now emotional abandonment, that's that situation where someone's there, but they're really not there. And this emotional self gets denied. And a lot of times when you're emotionally abandoned, it can be a situation where it's emotionally cut back, meaning the house I grew up in, we did anger, that's what we did. What no k to be sad, what no k to be scared, but we did anger, okay? So it wasn't like we were emotion free. It was just we were cut back to that one, that's the one that I saw the most. And then sometimes it's just the situation where it's cut off and it's splank in no emotion. And IMentioned already the tragic event route of that trauma tree. And so I guess what IMean by the abandonment for me being this umbrella wound is when you abuse me, you abandon me. I keep going to parents because those are the folks that we spend the most of our time within those formative years, but any of these wounds can happen with anybody in our life. And they can also happen any time in life. It's not limited to childhood. When you get something happening when the brain and the body's developing, right? You get something what I call, it gets concrete. That gets cemented. It gets burnt in. And that thing that I'm talking about getting burnt in is how I adapted. All right. IMentioned that thEQuestion is what happened to me, but I believe the most important discovery is how I adapted. Okay. We talk about that tree and we're talking about the roots being the wounding experiences. And then that's top of that tree is the manifestations if you will of the woundingness. Right? This is how I survived. Okay. And so you have codependence. You have addictive patterns. You have attachment issues. And a whole slew of just survival strategies. Mala-daptive survival strategies. And as I say that word, maladaptive, I want to wash my mouth out with soap. Okay? Because they are ingenious, damaged control strategies. The way I describe them, it's an old friend that served me well. And perhaps now it's making life hard. And the best example of I can give is that a four-year-old boy, spending a lot of time in his bedroom, playing with the doorclothes, playing loud. So that he doesn't have to hear what's going on in the rest of the house. And then one particular day, he hears his mother in a voice he's has never heard before. Tell his father that she thinks her arms are going to be broken and he has to open the door. And when he opens the door, he sees his mother up against the refrigerator. And in her father, the boy's father, he's got her in a hammer lock, arms behind her. And the little boy's got to do something. Right? And he's really outgunned. Because let's say dad's 35 and he's four. So he starts walking towards them. And the first room on the right is a bathroom. And he goes into the bathroom and he lifts the lid on the toilet and he faints, fakes, acts as if he's vomiting. And the next thing he hears is, do you hear that's your son's getting sick? And dad lets mom go. Now, there's the boy go back into his bedroom and get out a little journal and write down manipulation and deception or very effective in life, probably not. But I say he learned a powerful lesson that day about deception and manipulation. Right? He got him out of trouble. He got his mom out of trouble that day. Right? And old friend that served him well, perhaps has made him life hard. Because healthy folks in adult relationships, Peter, they don't dig deception in manipulation. So that's where my old friend can get in my driver's seat. You could say and make life hard for me. But a very adaptive skill. I would call it a skill. Some folks would use the language of a character defect, not against that language. I just prefer a skill.

=== FILE: The triple therapy： three free drugs that work better for diabetics ｜ Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [MPsLGrBR2EE].txt ===

The classic study which we'll talk about, which to me should change the entire approach to treating diabetes, it's called the E-DIC study. And in the E-DIC study, what we did is we used triple therapy right from the beginning. And my point of the Banting lecture, the ominous octet, if you have eight problems, why in the world you think one drug is going to correct eight problems? And it could happen in our lifetime. So the point was you need to use drugs in combination. So we said we're going to use what we think are the best drugs at the time. So we started with metformin with Exenitite, an old-time GLP1. It isn't not the Kingpin. This is the pre-Liriglu-type. Yeah, exactly. Because that's what was available. That drug was useless, wasn't it? No, it's a good drug. Wait, short, it's not some of the good times. Yeah, it's okay. But you have to start some of it, right? Let's pay it. It's due as being the Gen 1 OG version of that drug. Without which we might not have. We wouldn't have some of GLP2's appetite. Yes, so it's kind of an old-time. And P.O. Lidso, that was the triple therapy. Okay. And then we said every diabetic patient, they're 315 people in this study. They're having insulin clamps, hyperglycemic clamps, muscle biceps, no one in the world can do this study. 315 people, followed for six years. Okay. So we said, this is what we believe is the appropriate therapy. And then we said, we use the ADA approach. The ADA approach is you start a metformant. Okay. And when you fail, it even not explicitly said the next drug that you use this cell phone you're using is. And then the third drug that's added is insulin. And we said that the goal of therapy was an A1C of six and a half. Six years later, okay. 29% of the people with the ADA approach have failed. The A1C is above six and a half. Six years later, with our approach, 70% of the people have an A1C. It's less than six and a half. Why? insulin clamp. Huge improvement with our therapy. Okay. This is the EDX study. The three-year data published the six-year data we're writing it up. How much improvement in insulin sensitivity with the ADA approach? Zero. How fun? You have almost a normal beta cell. Ralph, why the disconnect between what you're seeing in the EDX study and what the ADA is promoting? You have to ask the ADA. What's their answer? If I'm a patient, and I'm a physician who's treating these patients and I'm saying guys, I'm confused. I'm looking at the literature. I'm seeing this. I'm looking at your... I'm by the way, I see this with the AHA and cardiovascular guidance. I'm not singling out you or you. But is this simply a question of the pace at which medicine moves is so glacial? That's part of it. Plus, remember, to do three or fifteen people, follow them for sixteen years and do all the stuff we did. It's not equivocal. And why has there not been political pressure? Because the cost of insulin is enormous. And your approach is going to be less expensive. They finally said in 2022, this is statement. The ADA approach is not based on pathophysiology. I view myself as a scientist, as well as a clinician. As a good clinician, I take care of hundreds of thousands of patients and I've done at eight hundred fifty publications. I do clinical research. I work in people. When I do an insulin clamp study and I see an improvement in insulin sensitivity, I do a hyperglycemic clamp. And I see in three hundred fifteen people, your base I'll function. I don't need five thousand people. I don't need, I can't do this study in five thousand people. No one can do this study. But the tools that we're using are so powerful. Look, if I normalize your insulin sensitivity, and I give you a normal beta cell, and your A when C is less than six and a half. And it's, well, it's half of the three hundred fifteen people. Why you, not think that's the best therapy. And now on the other side, I have this metformin issue insulin. And that 71% of the people have failed. There's zero improvement in insulin sensitivity. Zero improvement in beta cell function. Why you think that's a good regimen. And now above and beyond all that, I didn't do this study. This is the great study. GRAD. It's sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. And what the great study said is, and I have to say, this is the third study that's shown when I'm going to tell you. Dr. Robert Turner's United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes. That showed this in year 1990. Stephen Kahn showed this in the adopt study in year 2005. And now we have the great study, 2020. I called this the 15 year revolution. Revelation. We saw what didn't work 1990. Stephen Kahn did it again. Oh, it didn't work in 2005. And now 2020. And I did it. You know what? All show the same thing. And this was a sequential approach. You had to fail on metformin to get into this study. Okay. So you failed in metformin. Then you entered the study. Then we go single agent. I can they they want to know what's the best next drug to add to metformin. I can add a cell phone area. And when see when down in year one. Up straight. I can add. Tell folks how a cell phone area works. Cell phone areas are all time drugs. They bind to the cell phone area receptor on the beta cell and the kick out insulin. And they're very good drugs in the first year. And then they burn out the pancreas. And well, they stop working. Yeah. IMean, basically they don't they kick the can down the road without addressing the pathophysiology. It that I like that way. Yes. Then other drug DPP for inhibitor. Tell people how those work. So a DPP for inhibitor increases your GLP one in your GIP level. And dodgously, it makes your gastrointestinal cells decay in the L cells that secrete the GLP one in GIP. Makes them make more GLP one in GIP. But it doesn't increase the GLP one in GIP enough to really give you a knockout punch. I give you an injection. You all people are out there. Mongero or some of gluteide. That's the knockout punch. Okay. When I give you the DPP for inhibitors. Yeah, they they do increase GLP one in GIP a little bit, but not powerful enough to give you a long lasting effect. So first year, a when C comes down, shhh, a when C goes up. Third drug that this was very surprising to me. This was lyricaly. This is one of the earlier GLP one receptor. I thought that was going to work the best. It failed. It worked in the first year and then failed. And then the fourth drug was insulin. And the the docs just didn't type to ate the insulin enough. So A1C it out and then they failed. So five years later, all four of those regimens added to metphondment failed. Triple therapy, exendotype, an old time GLP one. P.L. litison which people don't appreciate. The only true insulin sets thizer and metphondment. Six years later, you're 70% of the people have an A1C less than seven. And let's just go back. Metphondment is free. The gen one. Exeditize. Exeditize. Basically free. It's basically free now. P.L. litison is five dollars a month. Okay. So we have three free drugs that work better. Correct. Now it's interesting. When you talk about today's triple therapy, which is way more efficacious. Different two of those three drugs are very expensive. Yes. Yes, GLT2 inhibitors are very expensive and the modern day gen three gen four and soon will have a gen five. Yeah. GLP one. They're very pricey. $1000 a month for the. Yeah. Yeah. Now are they great drugs? So thEQuestion is of course. Yeah. But I guess thEQuestion is, do they do you need to be on those drugs? If your old version of triple therapy? Our old version is incredibly effective. The problem is you can't get people to use P.L. litison. And the reason is the patients are frustrated with the fact that they're retaining water? No. More that they wait game weight. How much weight do they gain typically? How many kilos? 10, something else? I don't go to the 45 milligrams. So at the end of the year, they may gain two or two and a half kilos at the 15 and 30 milligrams. Dose. Okay. If you give P.L. Plus a modern day, G.O.C.1, we've done offset the weekend. We cannot believe. Oh, you lose all the weight you lose with the G.L.P one receptor. So if a patient is willing to go down the path of a modern day G.L.P.1, that's a completely eliminate. Absolutely. And he also gets rid of the edema. Yeah. And believe me, there are anyone sees her down in the normal range. A person shows up with a, let me go up in a one, see, of nine and a half percent. This is a person who hasn't come to medical attention soon enough. And I'm going to give you the answer definitively, but I'm going to let you ask thEQuestion. You're happy if they only go from nine and a half percent to seven percent. If they only had a two and a half percent drop, you wouldn't try to get them down to six percent. I would. Okay. What drives me as science? If you understand pathophysiology and this in abnormality and you correct the abnormality, things get better. Okay. So in thEQatar study, and there are 220 people who are so in the study. To get into thEQatar study, you had to be poorly controlled in that form in cell following real. So you had to have failed on this. And the average A1C was about 10. And about a third of these people were symptomatic, meaning they had polyuretholic dips here. They were losing weight. And so the current concept is, and those people, you would put them on a mixed split insulin regimen. You would get rid of the glucotoxicity. You would get rid of the lipotoxicity. And you get their A1C down to six and a half. And then now you could put them back on the oral medications or whatever. And now they respond because you got rid of the glucotoxicity in lipotoxicity. Well, that may or may not be true. So we said, well, half of these people are starting with an A1C above 10 will go on a mixed split insulin regimen. Okay. With a large unit of rapid acting insulin. And the other half, I'm going to go on that old dude, ex-editite, MPO-Ledizo. One that people don't like to use. Okay. Three years later, the A1C in the group with a mixed split insulin regimen is 7.1. And we're very good at insulin. Why couldn't we go lower because we got into trouble with hypoglycemia? Okay. The A1C in the group, treated with ex-editite and PO-Ledizo is 6.1. And so then we said, okay, look, we'll do a subgroup analysis. And so about one-third of the people were, we'll just look at the people who are symptomatic. The starting A1C is 12.2. Three years later, their A1C is 6.1. How long? 6.1. Three years later? 12.2 symptomatic. On which combination? Ex-editite and PO-Ledizo. Without even metformin. Without they had failed, they had failed. But they had failed. To get into the study. Okay. So what we were saying, look, if you have drugs that correct the insulin resistance, that's PO-Ledizo. Again, Ralph, this is almost impossible for me to imagine. I can send you all the papers. I'll publish. But I just, I hope every single family medicine internist, everyone who ever takes care of somebody with diabetes is listening. I also do. Because you're basically saying, we can take these two old sheep drugs and take someone from the most brittle type two diabetes. IMean, a hemoglobin A1C of 12. Very bad. That's door. Correct. You're going to go blind. You're going to have your toes amputated. You're not ever going to have an erection again. And you're going to die of cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or Alzheimer's diseasEQuickly. These numbers, I don't tell you they're right from the paper, and it's a lie. It's over 200 people. And in a couple of years, on two old, cheap drugs, you're normal. Yep. And what makes these studies so solid is we have very sophisticated pathophysiologic measurements. No one can do what we do. So the only way back is those patients are going to have to gain a couple of kilograms of, but of course, if you're willing to now spend a bit more money and switch them from Gen 1 to Gen 3 to Gen 4, GLP 1, Agnist and GIP, then all of a sudden you ameliorate that and you get all the benefits. This becomes an on-issue. If it puts us the sat.

=== FILE: The urgent need for reform in medical education and research ｜ Peter Attia and Marty Makary [_yD0Z57BYyo].txt ===

I think the danger in medicine in one of the poisons today is the absolutism. That's out there. And when we go through medical school, it's a, you're just memorizing and regurgitating. And it's this terrible robotic dogmatic, you're still that way. It's still that way. You might even think, say, it's worse. So I was talking this morning that Dr. Will Bruno just graduated, you met him, buddy of mine I'm working with on the appropriateness work. And he just graduated from Oklahoma University School of Medicine. We were talking about all the useless, dumb, remote memorization stuff. He said it was like 50% of his medical education. This bacteria is catalyzed positive, catalyzed negative. It says a branch chain, bacteria. This is a straight chain. It's just, it's my numbing, memorizing the names of enzymes. He says was like 20% of his medical education. What are we doing to these kids? They come to us in medical school, bright, creative, altruistic, they want to do good. Social justice is a generational value. And we beat them with the road memorization of these enzymes and stuff you can look up. We have phones nowadays. You don't have to know the crebs cycle on demand and the trauma bay. And we do this to this incredible generation. We spit them out seven, eight years later. There are different people. The robotic. There are sometimes emotionally disconnected. They've learned to reflex as a survival mechanism in order to do what we tell them to do, which is get through the exams. And the thing that kills me and a lot of students, they see the tension, they feel it, they hate it. They're fighting it. And we do have incredible students that are able to stay normal through the process. But it's a struggle because the culture of medicine says obey. And it's one private company that controls the medical education in every medical school in America. The WMC, a small group of people, get to decide what every doctor learns in their medical education. And these people are dinosaurs, they're forcing these kids to memorize the names of all these. And what's the relationship between the AMC and the company that administers the USMLE and the accreditation? Are they linked in some way, presumably? Yes. Yeah. So that is the private organization, WMC. Small group of people. Is the entity that also regulates the USMLE for licensing and exams? Yes. They collect a lot of money from these students. It's a private organization. So I know I was talking to one of the cool things that we get to do is talk to a lot of people out there in America and get a bit of a bird's eye view on things. And I was talking to conference of medical school deans. And later on, I had met the dean of medical school in San Antonio University of the Incarnate Word. UIW. It's called Great Medical School San Antonio. And she's like, gosh, Marty, you're so right. Why do we have to teach all this wrote memorization and just beat them to regurgitate? I would love, she's told me, to teach self-awareness and understanding uncertainty and focus on applied statistics and the critical appraisal of research. And the fact that there are nerves that extend to every aspect of the hand without having to name 50 nerves in the hand, you know, and regurgitate on the exam. I would love to have a modern day education. But I can't because the WMC dictates what we teach and we have to teach to a test in our test score pass rate. So is this terrible system? And it's connected to the American Board of Medical Specialties, which issues board certification. And recently, they've basically said, in order to keep your board certification, you got to pay us to $300 every two years or so and take a quiz, so we give you, and they're out there like making a ton of money off this new thing. Now they're telling hospitals, you have to require current board certification unless they've paid us or private company. They're not currently board certified. Imagine your college, do you see a staffer? No, Berkeley. Where'd you go to college? I went to Paul King, Canada. Okay, imagine your college college, you and said, hey, you're degree, you don't have it anymore. You got to pay us every year to keep your degree. That's exactly what the American Board of Medical Specialties is doing. They're private organizations, monopoly. My buddy Will was telling me at Oklahoma University's School of Medicine. I probably shouldn't say this, but what the heck? Eight hours on trensgender sensitivity trening, two hours on nutrition. The two hours on nutrition, he said, we're so pathetic, it might have been better to have zero hours. You know, HDL is good. And I was like the most basic. And I see this awareness among a generation of doctors and students that they know something is missing. That's in right to just be memorizing. There's smart people. That's why you've got a huge number of people. Doctors who are learning from you as you learn, tell you about evolving your position. You're out there learning, reading, talking to people. People are learning with you. And they're hungry for this kind of honesty with where medicine's going. Maybe we should be talking about more chronic diseases differently. Maybe we should be talking more about treating diabetes with cooking classes than just throwing insulin at people. Maybe we should talk about school lunch programs, not just putting kids on a zempit. Maybe we should talk about sleep medicine when we treat eye blood pressure, not just throwing anti-hypertensives at people. First line, second line, third line. Maybe we should talk about ice and physical therapy instead of just surgery and opioids when somebody comes in with pain. Food is medicine, the microbiome, general body inflammation. These are the topics that a generation of doctors aren't starving to talk about. We need more research in them. They want to think differently. But who would fund this research, Marty? IMean, I think when I talk about the pillars of medicine, right, we have nutrition and exercise and sleep and emotional health and then molecules. So let's roughly five things. And you could really add a sixth pillar which would be a waste bucket of everything else that may or may not have benefit. Like sauna, cold plunge, red light therapy, all that kind of stuff. Now, one of those buckets is really taught well in medical school. We really do learn. And by medical school, IMean medical school and residency, right? So you learn about procedures and medications very well. That's what we learned. And I think we do learn that quite well. But to your point, we learn nothing about exercise, sleep, nutrition, and emotional health and well-being. But part of that, if you're not trying to be, if you're trying to be as un-synical as possible, is at least when it comes to molecules and procedures, the way to study it is straightforward. The interventions are easy. You take this pillar, you don't take this pillar, you take the placebo. And then on top of that, there's a financial engine that supports the use of that which justifies the cost of the studies. But when it comes to doing research on many of these other things, outside of philanthropic and government causes, such as the NIH, it's very difficult to get any of that research funded. So how would we create a new medicine around something for which it would be so difficult to really gather the right evidence? Or would you argue, look, we already know enough today that we could teach off the current practice? The NIH could not be more broken. They've got these siloed funding centers as you suggested. And on, let's your research falls under kidney, you know, cardiovascular disease, and it's what the old Belt and Sospenders professors there want to fund. It's a legacy system where if the senior guys who've done the research and made a name for themselves on an idea like it, they throw money your way. I think the disruption is happening right now. Private industry, you're seeing private industry fund research on different probiotics and bacteria you can introduce. We're seeing private industry fund research. They funded our research on price gouging and predatory billing and other big blindspot and medicine. I do think a lot of our work is not funded by the NIH and people come up and say, my gosh, it makes sense what you're saying. Why don't we have a big study on natural immunity? And we could draw the blood of these people. IMean, how many studies have you put out there where you've said, this study needs to be done? It's not what falls in line with the NIH silos, but it needs to be done. The classic example, a practice right now that is surging in the United States is taking a newborn and cutting the frangulum under their tongue, either routinely or if it's a foreshortened tongue. Some people believe in routine and other people believe and only in foreshortened and other people believe never should be done. I don't know what the truth is. I've goodie and teeth friends. What is the rationale for doing this? The rationale, the claim, is that it'll improve breastfeeding and lactation rates, that it may help. There's claims out there that it may help with sleep, apnea, with speech impediments. I think they're outrageous claims when it goes that far. These are people who are also cutting the frangulum under the upper inside, lit, and sometimes the side of the tongue and the frangulum under the tongue as all. Yeah, so there's been babies that don't breastfeed because they're in pain from this. And this practice is taking off like crazy. It's driven a lot in dentistry. It's in that lactation world of lactation consultants could refer you to some, but this dogma that has never had any scientific evidence to support the claim. Now, I'm not saying it's being tested. No. I'm not saying it's bad or wrong, but I'm saying this desperately needs a randomized control trial. Desperately, just like the peanut allergy study, just like the antibiotic study, do it in a cohort of a couple hundred randomization, follow-um, take a look, five years, or whatever that study design is needed. Who's going to fund that study? Big pharma? No, fat chance. The NIH, not one of their clinical centers. The American Academy of Pediatrics, with their $1,000 year membership of all these $130 million in revenue they take in the year. No, no, they haven't. Possibly, no interest. This is the brimuda triangle of healthcare in the United States and worldwide. We desperately need to fund things where there are ideas, people are doing things, and they're doing them in a black hole with no scientific evidence. We need to do the appropriate study. We could answer the controversy in less than a year. I hate to mention COVID. We saw this during COVID. All those COVID controversies could have been answered in three weeks, or a month or two. They could have done the clinical study immediately, done the randomization answer thEQuestion. Instead, they have one went on TV and oh pine about it. It's easier. The NIH controls $80 billion. What are they funding? They were funding this cruel dog experiment at the University of Iowa, trapping these dogs and having these sandflies bite their heads in these cages and concluding in the article that is published, Leschbonius is from dog to dog via sandfly bites. Who gives a shit? Okay, this is where our tax dollars are going, and then we're not funding basic clinical research out there. Why do you think that is? I think it's just, I don't think it's diabolical, I think people can't set in their ways. I think it's Leon Festinger's cognitive distance. I think people think, oh, this would be interesting. Find out whether or not, what's the average diameter of stones on the substrate? Oh, be interesting. No, it's not interesting. I'm seeing it a lot now with health equity. I think describing disparities in health equity in my personal opinion is not interesting at all. We know there are massive disparities in health equity. Saying, oh, there's also a health disparity and chronic myloginous leukemia, according to health. That's not interesting. We've that's known. What's interesting is what you're doing to reduce disparities in health equity. And yet half of the papers now, and I go to these conferences are on differences and so and so by race and socioeconomic set, yeah, it's been known since the beginning of time, the number one driver of health status overall and the population is the socioeconomic status of that community. So I think it's just, I don't know, intellectual laziness, the old guard, there are fresh ideas in medicine. But when you show up in medicine and you've done this, you show up in the academic world as a resident or you get a peek of it as a student. You have big ideas. Hey, this thing about the microbiome and the rates of this and all fits and maybe chronic diseases have gone up with antibiotics. Whatever the big idea is, you're told no, no. You need to pick one narrow area and work on an incremental little scientific paper that'll go to the abstract of this, Southern surgical society or whatever it is. And that's how the NIH funds their research, little small ideas. We need big ideas. They don't fund that. We need new ideas on cancer. What's the ROI on our cancer funding? Paper at Ask Go showed that a vast end increased at Cleo Blastomas survival rates by two months. Well, patients want to know what's the cure? Did you cure anyone else that you haven't cured before? If that's the top paper at Ask Go our investment on research has a terrible ROI and I think it's because we're not funding big ideas. We need Ben Franklin thinkers. Ben Franklin intellectually curious starts thinking about ophthalmology, and then it's the events by-focals, is interested in electricity, events the lightning rod, events a stove called the Pennsylvania stove, which is an amazing invention. He's a size, it true scientists. We don't have Ben Franklin thinkers today in medicine. I think the NIPRESOT is one thing. If you don't have them or you think we don't have a vehicle to fund them. We don't have a vehicle to encourage them. I think, and I'm just saying this because I've said this to other people, you're one of those Ben Franklin type thinkers. You think broadly about healthcare. That's what we do on our research team is, you're told in MedSchool day one, hey, here's the netter textbook of anatomy, pick an organ. You're gonna have to focus on just one, which one do you like? Do you like kidney, do you like brain, heart, you have to pick one. You're like, well, what if I'm interested in the whole body or the system or the way we deliver care or the way we fund research or approve drugs or what if I'm interested in all of it? What if I'm interested in gun control and violence prevention and I'm interested in trauma and all everything? You're basically told, no, no, stop thinking like that. You got a pick an organ. IMean, I went to the gym as a medical student and there were some docs there where I'll see you's the gym and they would ask me every day. What are you going into again? And I want to be like, I'm a second year medical student I don't know, is that okay? I don't know. And I think you can get a specialization and then come around and get off the hamster wheel. There's a lot of these docs down saying, I don't care about my RVU bonus. I want to do something more meaningful and there's start in businesses. 50% of our medical students at Johns Hopkins are getting a second degree with their medical degree. They don't want to live the life that they see, with these guys who are like, I goT4 NIH grants and presented, and I got 60 papers. IMean, I hit that point where I was like, okay, I've published 300 scientific peer review articles. Nobody's reading them. I don't think I've made beyond maybe a couple meaningful contributions. Like, what are we doing? We've got a focus on impact. So everything we do now and our research group focuses on impact. And that's how we got into the science of medical errors, frailty as a condition, predatory billing and price gouging in medicine. You know, 62% of Americans say, and I've heard so right, they don't trust the medical profession to build them fairly and they avoid care or delay it for fear of the bill. So you can now have the cure for pancreas cancer, but that cure is only instead of being 100% effective, but it's only 38% effective because you've lost, you've lost that connection, right? So rebuilding trust is the hottest topic right now in medical journals essays.

=== FILE: Time-in-Bed Restriction Explained： How to Reprogram Your Sleep  ｜ Ashley Mason, Ph.D. [jgyuoQ_j8yQ].txt ===

I think the time-in-bed restrictions pretty interesting and talking with sleep physicians who also implement this, it seems quite draconian at the outset. It can be remarkably difficult. They're giving people five hours in bed, max, and they're really trying to force sleep pressure. How do you navigate that and how do you decide how hard to squeeze the tube at toothpaste? Let me draw a line in the sand between what CBTI says broadly as a treatment and then how I've actually implemented it in my clinic. So what CBTI will have you do is they will have you as a, and I say you as the Royal you, your patient. They will have you felt something called a sleep diary, and this is a paper diary that covers seven days. We have it, but because if I asked you how well you slepT4 nights ago, you have a food frequency questionnaire and epidemiology. Totally. Totally waste the time. So you have to every morning. Okay, and of course, I'm not obsessed with it being exact because I'm much more interested in the picture pattern of it. Right, if you asked someone to fill it out for just one day and then worked with that, you'd have a totally distorted picture. You wouldn't know what you're working with, but what classic CBTI does is they'll take that seven day sleep diary. And then they will actually use the time you got in bed, time you fell asleep, how many times you woke up, how long you were awake, what time you woke up. It does a bunch of, it has all of these different questions in it, and you can use that to calculate how much time a person was sleeping on average over the course of the week. And what CBTI does is it says you patient, why don't you pick what time you want to get up every day and then you would ostensibly pick a time. And then the CBTI clinician would say you're sleep log said you were naturally sleeping six hours a night, right? The clinician would add 30 minutes to that and make it six and a half hours and then work backwards from your chosen wake time. So let's say you chose a wake time of 7 a.m. I would work back six and a half hours to get to a bedtime for you of 12 30 a.m. And of course, that's the bedtime of your childhood dreams, right? Imagine going to sleep over and your friend's mom saying, all right kids, you can't go to bed until after 12 30 a.m. Right kids love it adults think this is torture, right? Because it is. So that's what classic CBTI would do. But six hours being the number six and a half. Yeah, right. You get the half hour of race. Great. And as far as I know in CBTI, almost nobody's restricting less than five and a half hours. Five and a half seems to be the floor. Okay. So I've not seen people restricting to five. There are a subset of people and I don't know the data on this because I don't even know if the data exist on this, who are what we call genetically short sleepers. Yep. And these people know who they are. They have always been like this. They've, they've, it's not, and it's not upsetting and distressing and causing them grief, right? Yeah. Those are, we're not talking about those people. Okay. So that's what CBTI will do. And just to be clear, let's say five and a half is the floor six is typically what you would do. So six and a half in bed. So we'll know if, if your body is producing six hours of sleep, I add 30 and I get six and a half. Yep. If your body is producing only five and a half, I add 30 and you get six. So I do this computationally for each person. I see. So when I bring my sleep log to you and you've seen that for the past week, I've been spending 12 hours in bed. Uh-huh. But by my recollection, because I'm looking at the clock when I'm not sleeping, I'm only getting six and a half hours of sleep in the ten or 12 hours I'm laying there. You're going to say, oh, okay. That's your sleep time. Take that, add 30. That's your time in bed, working back. I got it. Yes. And here's where, um, what I do slightly different, but also keeps the, the whole theoretical underpinning is not disturbed at all by the way that I do this. So how many times have you had a patient come to you and say, oh, you know, I really want to be that person who wakes up at five and gets a go on my day. I want to get my exercise in. I want to get my meal prep in and do all this stuff. And you're like, oh, okay, cool, cool. So you want to be a five and prison. What time you get up now? All like 11. And I'm like, oh, okay. All right. Okay. So this whole part in CBTI where people choose their wake time. That's not a thing for me. In my clinic, we play a game called Democracy within a dictatorship. And what that just means is that instead of just letting patients cart blanche choose their wake time, I actually look at their sleep. Dairy and I let them think they're choosing their wake time. And if I agree with it, they will have chosen. If I don't, the dictator comes in. And I look at their diary and if they are getting up at seven a.m. Six a.m. Seven a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. And they say, oh, I want to wake up at eight thirty. I will say, well, we have no evidence that you can sleep until eight thirty. That's not realistic. But we have evidence that you can sleep until six because four of the last seven days you made it until six. So six o'clock is your wake time. And this is not anywhere in CBTI. I've spoken with a lot of my colleagues who do CBTI and asked them how do you choose a wake time. And there is no standardized method. But by using this method, I'm definitely making sure that I'm at least gating the patients sleep at a reasonable time. Because if I let that patient just choose eight thirty a.m. as their wake time. And they were only producing six and a half hours of sleep. They're going to bed at one in the morning. They're going to bed at two in the morning. And they're getting up at eight thirty because they chose their wake time is eight thirty. But really they're going to wake up at like six or seven. And then I'm not even going to cash in on the full six and a half hours that they should be getting a bed. So I've added in this component of my own of setting their wake time to be a much more reasonable time. And then what I do before giving them a bedtime, I give them a week at that wake time. And I see how much sleep is your body producing with this new wake time. Now, let's say you're doing this sleep log. And they're spending eight hours in bed getting four hours of sleep. Let's say they're getting five hours of sleep, eight hours in bed, and then they're taking an hour nap a day. So they're removing all their sleep pressure during the day by taking that nap. But they kind of need to take the nap because they're not getting enough sleep. So they're in this vicious cycle. So do you add the hour of nap time back to sleep and say actually you're getting six hours of sleep. Let's do the exercise based on five plus one plus a half six point five. No, no, no, no, no. We want to extinguish that sleeping during the day thing. So there's a difference between a person without insomnia, healthfully using naps and there's a person, and then there's a person with insomnia who's tapping, tapping to compensate for what's not happening at night. So I think that, to best explain this, I should just finish this example of the wake time thing. So if people, because this directly ties in, if I'm setting their wake time and then I'm seeing how much time they're actually producing sleep at that first week when I give them the wake time, I don't give them a bedtime. I don't even do time in bed restriction that first week because for some people, setting a wake time solves the issue, which is kind of nuts, but one or two of every eight patients who I see because I see patients and groups of eight, will have a huge improvement from just having a consistent wake time because their body actually recalibrates and they start getting sleepy at a more consistent time each night because they're not doing that. And I do say in that first week, I take away the naps as I don't care how you slept last night. You need to just stay awake until you're ready to go to sleep, no naps for now. Now, when I have patients, probably older patients like 80 and up, I'll be okay with an app, but I'll often, at this stage, I'll say, look, nap, you have a nap opportunity of 25 minutes. And a 25 minute nap opportunity means you set the alarm for 25 minutes, you get in bed and it's going to go off 25 minutes later and that's when you get up. I don't care how long you actually slept during that time because I don't want you going into phase three or phase four, slow wave, deep sleep during the day because that's what's going to really mess you up at night. Right? A stage two sleep nap is not really an issue during the day as much. It's not going to be so bad, but at this stage of the person with the zombie that we're talking about, I don't want them taking one hour nap in the day. And they come back that second week having done the wake time that I said, and I then recompute how much time and bad they're spending, and then I still use that wake time, and I then calculate their bedtime. And then the true time of every restriction begins week two. Okay, but just to be clear, if you have someone who is using a nap to compensate for their insomnia, yeah. Step one is just kill the nap. Kill the nap. Then let the cards settle where they may be for a week. Recalculate actual sleep time and then go through the exercise as described. Exactly.

=== FILE: Top Risk Factors for Osteoporosis  ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [xYX188THLCw].txt ===

So, be to another follow up is, you know, earlier you mentioned that there might be some risk factors for why someone might get screened for bone health earlier. So, kind of what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if there may be at risk and what are some of those red flags they should look out for. So, you know, it sounds cliche, but family history matters. And this is actually not something I appreciated until we were getting ready to do this podcast. I realized genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. So, having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. There are other things we want to care about, right? So, we want to look at fractures related to mild or moderate trauma. So, you look at somebody who's had a fall from standing height or less. That's, you know, someone who's fallen from such a low height and still had a fracture. That's a huge problem. Another thing we look at is in female athletes. This is really common actually in female endurance athletes, especially runners, where weight is such an important part of the sport, right? You know, it's, you're, you're punished a lot in terms of performance for extra weight, same as true in cycling, not as true in swimming. So, when you look at high end female endurance athletes, we care a lot about, you know, poor nutritional state, which can lead to a very low BMI, low body fat percent, and eventually estrogen deficiency. So, these interrelated conditions of the sort of low bone health hormone dysfunction and low BMI are kind of collectively known as the female athlete triad. So, that's another big risk factor, low BMI in general. So, anything below about 18 or 19. And then the other thing we look at is, is people who have had high exposure to drugs that affect bone metabolism. And I think the most common of these that we see is corticosteroids. Now, that's not always systemic corticosteroids, you know, it's not always people that have had to take lots of steroids for no less. It can also be inhaled corticosteroids. And we see this actually in a number of patients who had significant asthma as children and used a lot of inhaled corticosteroids. So, those are, that's not an exhaustive list, but that's a pretty good list to sort of get you thinking about who is at high risk here. Yeah, and you mentioned it a little bit at the end there, and we did receive a lot of questions on it, which are around the various drugs that may impair bone deposition. So, anything more you want to say, I know you mentioned a few of them there, but anything you want to double click on. I think the last big risk factor we look for, and we just saw a patient recently who didn't have any other risk factors except for the fact that they have a 20 pack your smokestory that is more than 15 years. So, he barely think of this person as a former smoker because they've been so long without smoking, but you know, they did smoke for 20 years prior to quitting. And that is an independent risk factor for low BMD, which in this case, this patient had very low BMD, and we had to get to refer them to an endocrinologist. Do you see anything with patients? Because you know, we know that BMD, the 8 to 20 is such a big age range. And if you have someone who is smoking kind of in that age range while bum mineral density is really going up, do you see it become kind of even worse? Yeah, that's a great question Nick. So, I didn't know this until again, we got thinking about this study, but there are actually data looking at never smokers. So, we have some smokers, early smokers and late smokers. Early smokers were defined as people who started smoking before the age of 16 and late smokers. Well, it's hard to believe late is considered after 16. But the early smokers were far more impacted. So, when you look at these people later in life, the never smokers, not surprisingly had the best bone density. The early smokers had the worst and the late smokers were in the middle. I don't know the stats about teenage smoking today. I kind of assumed it was on the decline, but you know, this would certainly be yet another reason to avoid smoking at a young age. Even if, you know, that person goes on to stop at the age of 20. And even if their risk of lung cancer becomes relatively moot by the time they're, you know, 50, they may still pay a price for that with bone mineral density throughout their entire life. Yeah. And on the topic of what you talked about a second ago, we also did receive a lot of questions around various drugs that could impair bone deposition. You mentioned a few of them earlier, but is there anything you want to double click on there? So again, you know, corticosteroids, I think have to be considered the first and most important one of these drugs you want to be considered about. And they, you know, I think they, they do a couple of things, right? So they kind of impair the mineralization of bone by favoring bone reabsorption during the early phase. And then they kind of inhibit calcium absorption in the gut. But this, this area comes up, this, this, this comes up over and over again, right? Anything that impairs calcium absorption is going to be problematic. And it really doesn't need to be mega doses of steroids. People who are familiar with long-term use of steroids might recognize that a dose of prednisone of five milligrams a day is not enormous. You know, a prednisone dose of five milligrams a day is, IMean, I think it's actually still up kind of big dose because it's about the a physiologic equivalent of how much hydrochloroid, you know, how much cortisol a person makes. But nevertheless, you know, that amount is associated with significant reductions in bone mineral density and increased risk fracture within as little as three to six months of initiation. Again, just as we saw in the figure that showed how women are primarily losing a trabecular bone, it's the same here with with cortisol. So that doesn't mean you should never take corticosteroids. Or lots of conditions where corticosteroids are going to save your life. It means you have to be aware of these things and you're going to have to work a lot harder to counter their effects. And we'll talk about some of those things. Another class of drugs that I get asked about a lot is proton pump inhibitors. PPI's. And, you know, I would say the data here are less clear. So there are studies that have assessed the relationship between PPI's and they do show an increase in osteoporotic fracture. And the most likely mechanism suggested is again intestinal calcium absorption. So anything that interrupts that which then goes on to interrupt osteoclast formation and bone remodeling. But I want to be clear that this is not nearly as well understood as the case is for corticosteroids. So there are a number of observational studies that show an increase in the risk of fracture. And then we look at large meta analyses that don't find a statistically significant decline in BMD with PPI use. So again, I think you just have to be smart about this right. There are lots of reasons we're going to put patients on PPI's. If a patient has significant reflux that is not amenable to other treatments, we're going to put them on a PPI. If a patient has barat's asophagus, we're putting them on a PPI. It's non-negotiable, right? So it just means that we have to be thoughtful about is the drug really indicated. And if it is, what else can we do to reduce the risk down the line? I think the final class of drugs that tend to have a similar association, although probably from a different mechanism, are some of the anti-epileptic drugs. And one in particular, which is phenatone. So a super common anti-seizure drug. Here I think the mechanism might have more to do with the liver inducing an enzyme called cytokrome P450 that leads to increased catabolism of vitamin D. And that, of course, you'll may recall, will lead to decreased absorption of calcium in the gut. I don't know if anybody's done a study, but it seems to me that a no-brainer study would be taking patients on phenatone and supplementing them with lots of vitamin D to see if you can overcome that. But again, you know, phenatone is a common drug within the world of anti-seizure meds, but in the big picture, no-where near is common as corticosterids and proton pump inhibitors. So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve the bone out. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Train Smarter, Not Harder： Understanding Central Nervous System Fatigue ｜ Mike Israetel [INcIStIWPmc].txt ===

Can you say more about the neural part of this? I find this to be a very interesting piece. And all the pieces you've described, and I agree with everything you've said, I know the least about that component. Yet I've heard people talk about this, right, which is you cannot discount the CNS fatigue, literally that comes from doing this type of work. And I remember as an example, watching sprinters tren. And obviously people understand that sprinters, I shouldn't say obviously. But if you study the mechanics of sprinter, you realize it really comes down to force per unit mass. It's how hard they can hit the ground with their foot relative to their mass. And so these are athletes who need to be almost comically strong without gaining any excess weight. So even though we look at sprinters and we think gosh, they're very muscular, it's their strength to weight ratio that's really profound. And so they have to tren in a way that minimizes hypertrophy and maximizes strength. So for example, they'll focus heavily on exercises where they can push the eccentric phase, and it taught me the concentric phase and not the eccentric phase. And it was explained to me once that doing this allowed them to also spare themselves from some of the neurologic fatigue. Is there any validity to that, or is that just true, true and unrelated? And what is actually happening in both the central and peripheral nervous system during the recovery phase between those say three day or six day bouts when you're trying to recover a system after the set, you just described. Yeah, I'm glad you brought the peripheral. One of the big misconceptions is that there's muscular fatigue, connective tissue, systemic fatigue, blood vessels, and everything, still after hard has to pump. But then people just say, oh, and then the central nervous system, the peripheral nervous system is a thing too. And it also takes substantial amount of fatigue. So I would just say the nervous system takes fatigue. And it takes fatigue in the same way you would expect any system that's pushed to this limit to take, various components of it, experience, wear and tear, various substrates, deplete, and need to be repleated. So I can bring up two examples. And in the just generally kind of the axon of any single given nerve, you have a balance of electrolytes in an inside and outside, which allows the excitation contraction, or sorry, which allows the proliferation of the electrical signal. But you run that system long and hard enough. And it starts to get out of whack to where you try to get another impulse going. And it's like, ugh. So it needs to do a lot of pumping to take what is supposed to be inside the cell. There's now outside the cell to get back in there to a level of concentration that would you would be fully recovered, not typically, that happens quickly. But if you run that system a lot, there are various points at which some of the structures that are supposed to do that. There are also proteins. You use them enough, and they start to kind of break a little bit. And you need to produce more proteins to replace the channels themselves that do that pumping back and forth. And so that, typically, protein construction is measured on the order of minutes hours and days, not seconds. So that is a very good imagine. It is like a trensatlantic cable. And like you throw enough current through a cable and the fish nibble at the cable enough, you need to restart replacing the cable. Now, if you're really, really using the crap out of that cable, yeah, it's going to like undergo some not-so-great things. And then closer to neuron-trener on junctions or the neuromuscular junction between the neuron and the muscle itself, you have vesicles of neurotrensmitter. You pump enough of those in, you get the cool stuff of communication. You can run low under a trensmitter, and then like the electrical signal arrives and the neurotrensmitters are like, sorry, not enough of us to do anything. And see you experience profound weakness, which is expressed as fatigue, expressed as weakness. And you need time to reconstruct a lot of those neurotrensmitters, place them into vesicles, have those vesicles trenslate to the synaptic cleft and then like sit there and get ready. And that is a process that typically happens rapidly, but if you really exhaust it, can happen over some time, really a steer illustration of that is, and I've never done this, I've just heard about it. I will take credit for doing many other drugs, but I've never tried ecstasy, but if you clear enough of that neurotrensmitter, you don't feel the same the next day, you feel different. And it takes a day or two to get back up to those levels. The similar types of mechanisms are at work when you are going to very close to true failure and let's say a squat or a leg press. IMean, you're cooking your muscles, but every single capacity of the nervous system to say push, push, push is at maximum. And see you end up doing quite a bit of homestatic disruption all the way along the axon, all the way through the cell body, and in the synaptic cleft, neurotrensmitters get everywhere, dunk, building up. That's going to take some time to fix, which is why we see typically that people don't regain their prior strength after fatigue and resistance exercise for depending on a hard you go, anywhere from several hours to several days. And so if you have really, really hard workouts, it just might take several days for you to be able to have a really, really hard workout again for that same muscle group. Luckily, because a lot of this is peripheral nervous system based and local musculature based, if you tren the living crap out of your chest one day and your triceps, you can tren back and back steps which have nothing much to do with those movements, pretty robustly the next day, much of the fatigue is local. It's not all local. The central nervous system, brain and spinal cord, specifically the brain, has a variety of mechanisms by which it controls your central fatigue. I remember I think Tim Nooks was a big proponent of the central government of the world. And though in the explicit terms, which he described it might not be the case or somewhat close, there's absolutely central governing going on. And when your body can tell through a variety of mechanisms that like, you know, pretty messed up here, it's gonna pull back on how hard you can do anything. And some of those neural structures might even be operating at full bore, but they're just degrading enough to where full capacity isn't full capacity anymore. And so in all those variety of ways and many others, your body after a humiliating ceremony for tea will need to back off. And if you think you can tren ultra-hard for the same muscles twice a day every day, you are welcome to try it. In medical supervised context, you won't last. So it's a really good that we have brake planned in, but it's also really cool because weight trening is one of those things where you get a dose of it. And for days after, under the hood, it's upgrading your body. And your nervous system and your muscles and your tendons. So it's really neat that you can do 20 to 30 minutes of intense physical activity and resistance trening. And then for days later, be experiencing the actual accrued benefits. Not a lot of things in life like that. It's kind of like getting a college degree for what you pay money. And then earning money with it years later, ostensibly anyway, I've never earned a new money or had a college degree. But that's kind of how it works and you have to understand that when you're entering the gym, if you're trening properly, you are asking a lot of your physiology, you are pushing it to its limits. If you're not, you're not using your time best and you're not getting the best outcomes because a lot of the absolute best results come from pushing very, very hard. Not necessarily to limits, but you have to test the limits. Like, from what I understand, you have a history of boxing as that correct? So like, if you just shadow box, it's nice. It helps, but going hard rounds against multiple fresh opponents, even if you're not like collapsing on the floor after, you know that like you're looking at the clock and you're like, if you don't push it to that level at some point, you're not fight ready. So in order to be your best boxing version, every now and again, you have to push it to discomfort, grow, test, discomfort, same with the body. It's nice that you get to do that every now and again, and then you collect the benefits afterwards. So interesting how what we could do up to a certain age, and I don't know what that limit was because I really stopped pushing to those limits at about the age of 19. So I don't know if the limit was actually 20 or 21 or 24, but I never trened maniacally after the age of 19. Every time I've done since 19, has been smoking and joking. Okay, but what I could get away with then was ridiculous. And I attribute it only to two things, right? Youth, obviously with youth, IMean, stupidity and inexperience and all the things that come with youths, but also like, having started very young. So age 13 to 19, I was trening literally six hours every day except Sunday, Sunday, as I only trened two hours per day. And I look back at the workouts I did and I think like, I don't know how I did it. And more importantly, like how much better could I have been if I didn't tren that much? But it's a good question. It wouldn't be uncommon for me to do six super hard rounds of sparring with three fresh opponents. Yeah, one guy, a weight, class below me, one guy in my weight class, and then one guy for two rounds, a weight class above me. In sequence? Yes. Six straight rounds. You definitely do that backwards, but you probably know that now. No, well, I kind of wanted, yes. And I would make it up sometimes. But actually, it was much harder and more dangerous to do it in that way. And I kind of liked that. Oh, I did it. But idea that the guy that could hit the hardest was my last year. Yeah, when you were the most fatigued, yeah, I just had it at the last act. Yeah, geez. But I would be in the weight room six days a week. Sure. Like it was just running hard. Anyway, it was kind of crazy. But I want to go back and just put a bow on something you said before, because I think it's so important. And it's going to come up again, again. I want to make sure people understand the point. Because your example was great, by the way, the non-linearity of force is very counterintuitive. It is not obvious why, for example, being on a bike, even if you were riding at a very high level of power. So remember on a bike, your leg is going around at 90 times per minute. So even if you did a one minute all out, that's 90 reps or call it 45 reps. That's nothing compared to when you're doing an all-out set for 10 reps in the gym. It's such a difference in force. And I love the example of the wifful ball going by you versus a 50 cow. The 50 cow could kill you without hitting you. The wifful ball you wouldn't notice. So I think this idea of the profound level of difference in tissue destruction is a very important one. I think this idea of the profound level of difference is a very important one. So I think this idea of the profound level of difference is a very important one.

=== FILE: Training Intensity & Volume to Balance Gains and Fatigue ｜ Mike Israetel [_0McpRI0ZJc].txt ===

are most people even capable of pushing that hard. And because I want to bring it back to where we were a minimum, a moment ago, which was, hey, for a person who just wants to tren 30 minutes twice a day, they can get all the benefit in the world. But there's an asterisk there, right? Which is that 30 minutes twice a week is going to be the most difficult 60 minutes total of your week. So going back to Dorian for a second, you know, what is what has to be true to be able to only tren that much in terms of total hours, volume, however you want to measure it, how much work needs to be done in that window of time. For the, not the Dorian, he eats example for that. No, for the Dorian, let's start with Dorian. Like why, why could he produce such a massive physique? And again, let's just normalize all the drugs. We're going to talk about drugs later. So we'll explain where the drugs are and aren't helping. But all the drugs in the world aren't going to give you that physique. If you can't generate the destruction of the muscle. Like, is that just the sort of thing where virtually nobody can actually push that hard? That consistently, or was it just that nobody thought to do it the way he was doing it at the time? Plenty of people thought, that's how it works. Mike Menser did that. Only in a more extreme version and even Dorian did. Lots of Menser accolite did it. It's not the most efficient or the most effective way to tren. But it is quite effective because if you go very close to failure with heavier heavy loads, all of the subcomponents of your musculature, your motor units, which is the motor neuron and all of the cells that it activates, they'll get recruited and they will be asked to work to the limits. They'll take on a great deal of damage and disruption. They'll sense a ton of tension and they'll produce great results for you. The other thing is that the relationship between both intensity and volume of how much you do work in the gym, especially volume, is curvilinear and hyperbolic. So it looks like like this and if people are just listening to this, it means if you do one all-out heart set per muscle group per week, which is not what Dorian did roughly 14 of those per week per muscle group. You get maybe something like 30% of what you could have gotten with five sets. Why is that doesn't? Because your body has very good sensing mechanisms for tension and metabolites and all the other things that cause muscle growth. And when it detects that you're pushing on the pedal, it'll give you a real good wallup of result. You keep pushing on the same pedal over and over, and the systems are greatly de-sensitized to giving you more muscle growth. The biggest reason that is is probably because the human body is attuned and evolved almost entirely in hundreds of millions of years before we were even human of what isn't a matter of context called food insecurity. And so in order to make a real good case for allocating that much to muscle growth, you're going to have to have a real distinct signal to ask your body to put more and more into that process. So it kind of auto-caps itself. If you are my ostatin deficient, then actually just existing, you just grow muscle all the time. So it seems to be that for a variety of reasons, including that one, that if you do one set close to failure, you get a lot of gains. You do three sets close to failure. You get substantially more gains, but noT3 times as many games. Yes. You do five sets close to failure, and you do just a little bit better than three. You do seven or eight sets close to failure and one work out and it's statistically undifferentiable from five. So that's kind of how that chart looks. So Dorian from one I understand did roughly 14 sets per week per muscle groupish. And that gets into that territory of a very robust signal of growth to the muscle. It's not the highest signal of growth. If you decided not to tren your legs very hard or your back very hard, and the amount of systemic fatigue that's imparted to you week by week is much lower, because fatigue isn't just local. It spills over and everything else. You could push your arms, shoulders, and chest, not to 14 or 15 or 20 sets per week. But in many cases, 25, 30, 35 sets per week, and experience very meaningful growth and enhancements that you would never have seen. Only ever trening those 15 sets a week. But 15 sets a week might bring you to 70 or 85 percent of what all of those muscles could eventually have hypertrophy if you only ever specialized in them. And so Dorian was insanely jacked, but he was jacked all over and probably could have a retrospect benefited from more specialization phases on various week points that he had. His back was startling. His arms were excellent. Now, my mortal standards, they were the biggest arms you've ever seen in your life. By competitive bodybuilders of his air standards relative to the rest of his physique, he could have had big arms, could have big shoulders. And so he could have poured much more volume into those muscle groups and less and everything else, but Dorian seemed to have him kind of all around approach, which up until about a year ago, so did I. And so I had never looked for aesthetic, but boy, where my legs super big, because they could just eat up the growth all the time. So if you want to do not a ton of volume for any one muscle, if you work really hard and bring yourself very close to failure, you can already do super super well, just with that alone. If you get a really good cook, someone who really knows how to make food, and you give them an hour in the kitchen with a variety of menu items versus three hours. Within an hour, they can allow you with what you're eating. Within three, they can allow you more, but it's noT3 times more. Like, you know, Matrix Related or Gasmic Brownier, whatever. There ain't gonna make that. There's gonna take them a lot longer than three hours. They can make a difference, but probably only people who are very colorarily attuned can tell. Like, if someone makes me chicken fingers, gourmet chicken fingers, there's such a thing. I'm sure Austin has something like that. Then, you know, an hour versus three, to me, it all tastes same, same. It's amazing. To someone really, really with a refined palate, they'll be able to tell, but they can't lie to you and say, look, this three hour chicken finger. This is just category, is above the one hour one. So in a lot of processes in general, and luckily in the human body, getting some of the way to your body's maximum ability to recover, actually brings you most of the way as far as results. And that's why Dorian could do what he did. Now, if Dorian was doing 14 sets per body part per week, would that mean 14 sets to failure of 14 different exercises? So we're not counting the warm-up sets and things of that nature? It's a complex question. It's not 100% clear exactly what Dorian did or if he even did everything exactly as it was written on paper all the time. You see his trening videos. You don't always see just one set. He would also have this thing like a warm-up set that for him was a warm-up, but for most people, what absolutely be a workshead. Right. So it may be more like two or three equivalents of a working set. Yeah, sure. Yeah. Maybe like a total throw away set. And then there's, you know, a modest set. And then there's a two rep and reserve set. That again, that's a real working show, which in this is a failure. Right. Yeah. So according to his categorization, the only work set was the one that was absolutely true muscular failure. Sometimes with forced repetitions, which you would also have to integrate because forced reps is when someone helps you lift the rest of the way to where if you do a drop set, you use less weight, the right after you went to failure, we shouldn't count that as just one set. It wouldn't be the most correct way to think about them. And when you compare that to the example of the three-hour chef. So now the person who's willing to put in 30 sets per body part per week. Do any of those sets need to be to failure or you counting those as hey, these would be sets of two reps in reserve, one to two reps in reserve. Almost all of the literature that has found out that if you don't systemically fatigue the whole body too much, any given muscle or several muscles you can push into the 3040 50 plus set range per week, almost every single study done to elucidate that understanding was done with a muscular failure studies, true failure. True or failure, then you'll see in the gym because these people are trening laboratory conditions with master students screaming at them to keep going. Most of us have never trened that hard consistently. So people can still recover. Now these are under graduate that are recreationally trened typically so they can neither do a lot of damage, nor are they impeded by age and prior injury and all this other thing. So I would say that whatever amount of sets you have to do to get a certain amount of whatever amount of growth you want, you can get there in a few different ways. You can get there with, let's say, 30 sets that are four reps shy of failure. You can get there with 22 sets that are one or two reps shy of failure and you can get there with 20 sets that are all the way to absolute muscular failure. So if you are really trening not so super hard for reps and reserve, you'll have to do substantially more sets to see the same hypertrophy. But study after study after study illustrates that when you're getting one or two reps away from failure, it is often statistically a differentiable un-rock growth than going all the way to failure. However, the fatigue of true failure trening probably mostly because of that nervous system component is exponentially higher. And so as far as an efficiency and long-term sustainability strategy, trening all the way to muscular failure every session is a matter of principle. It's probably on the margins suboptimal and should probably most of your sessions should be one or two reps in reserve. Like if you're doing dumbbell presses, you think you finished your last wrap and you're like, gun to my head, I could do one or two more, but that's it. Most times it's probably best to stop at that point because what you're getting if you go north of that is, it tend to one fatigue to stimulus ratio. Whereas everything before was like one to one, two to one, three to one, five to one, and all of a sudden it's tend to one. It's a lot of fatigue costs to pay for what in the literature chronically ends up being either tiny tiny bit better or not better at all. Which says nothing of the risk of injury when you drop that dumbbell on your pack, which I don't know anybody that's done that, but I've been told it really hurts when you fail in a set of dumbbell press. It's an totally collapsed with your head with a dumbbell pack that turns black and blue. Good God. Yeah, I would never know all sorts of that. I just like to aim for the general of that point. Might as well have a cool story. But yeah, the trening to failure, the vast proportion of people that really propose that trening to failure somehow special for results, they didn't reason their way into that. They emoted their way into that. trening to failure is something the 13 to 19 year old you would have really found a lot of spirit energy and as I like to say. It's um adult male putting on his hat of I'm a mountain goat and I run into shit. That's what I do. I saw an adorable video of some folks that own a few goats and a few dogs and their pit bull is like not hiding but sitting under this little thing and there's like a teenage goat that's looking at him and he jumps up on his hind legs and tries to like hit him in the head and the people backs up and he's like, ah, and the goat just tries to do that again. He's just trying to get it on like he just wants to hit stuff. That's all he wants. And so when you're a young male, when you are prone to wanting success for yourself, you're the type of sort of type-a personality that wants to look back on their life. And if you had to roll the dice and say, the reason you weren't optimally successful is that you worked too hard to build that sweet, whatever, that's kind of cool. But if they saw the dice roll and say, the reason you weren't optimally successful in life is because you didn't work hard enough, they would not live with themselves. Those kinds of folks generally tend to go to muscular failure for just that like the spirit energy and it feels right, dammit. And it feels good and it's um purifying almost at an existential level to be able to have given something here all in the face of challenge in the face of injurious going to face of grotesque pain. And you know those from sport experience, when you're really really tired, your whole existence is screaming at you to stop. Ignoring those things and going all the way until you know you've pushed as far as your body can go, there's something very magical there for the soul. For results in the gym, there's not much magical there, but you have to get close to it. You just don't have to go all the way.

=== FILE: Training plateaus： optimizing exercise selection, intensity, and recovery for muscle growth [rekea6OQ2lc].txt ===

So what about the person who's been lifting weights for a long time, they're in there, they're doing this stuff, but they're not happy with their progress. Right? So they're in the gym, let's just say they're in the gym three, four times a week, an hour at a time. How hard are they working? Are they really trying? Or are we saying that maybe they're trying maybe they're not? It's a very different answer. Yeah. Trying or something. Let's say they are. They're actually trying quite hard. And you actually look at them and you think, you know, gosh, they might actually be slightly over trening. They might actually be, and by over trening, IMean, not giving themselves, let's say they're trening three days a week and they're doing a whole body three days a week, and they're in there 90 minutes at a time. And they're kind of going to one to two rep and reserve on every set and they're hitting kind of 20 to 30 sets per body part per workout. What would be your, and to be clear, like they're doing okay, but they're just saying, you know what, I want to be really jacked. Okay. Yeah. What do I need to do? Yeah. You would need to go down a checklist, a troubleshooting checklist. And we actually do have on the RP strength YouTube channel. We have multiple videos of how to troubleshoot your muscle growth, how to troubleshoot your diet, how to troubleshoot your recovery. So if you throw those on in the car during your drive to work, you're going to learn a lot about it. I'm sure we'll shoot. But you can consider yourself with variables that occur in the gym. You can consider yourself with variables that occur outside of the gym, both are very important. In the gym variables, starting from the beginning would be exercise selection. Sometimes people say, you know, my arms aren't as big as I want them to be. And I look at their plan and has no isolation work for their arms whatsoever. And I tell them this is not a surprise. And they say something like, well, I thought underhand pullups and close grip bench was good enough to get big arms. And I would say, yes, it is. Both of those exercises are great to get big arms, but you want bigger arms, which means like everybody, but whatever, you're going to have to start working a few sets of curls in and a few sets of pricepic extensions of some sort, regularly and hard. So a lot of times, people don't have the specific exercise selection for what it is they want. They're just doing the kind of general trening you and I just describe, but there's sometimes that even honest to themselves in a deep introspective level of what it is they want. Like a lot of those people that want better results, you look at them and you're like, you look great. And like, yeah, but I want to look better and you go, how? Who I just want fucking gigantic arms? You go, okay, well, like you're work out, and absolutely not designed to do that. It's designed to get your arms that look big to someone who likes easy lifting your suitcase into an airplane, but other than that, like you're not the guards. And then you go, okay, exercise selection. Another variable to consider is technique. Some people have just not so great technique. Good technique involves putting the muscle into high force positions at a very deep stretch, long muscle lengths at a high force, so if you're doing peck flies, for example, but you're only going all the way down to like here, you need to open up like crazy and take a few seconds down there in the deep stretch. That's really going to help you out. And technique is so exercise specific and so individual that you really should get qualified trener or someone you trust or videos on your own analysis to go, like, okay, am I really doing this right? Because you think I'm hacksquadding in the new C&RP strength video about hacksquads. You're like, I've never hacksquadded in my life. You try it all way and you're like, oh my god, my legs. For the first time in months or years, they get sore, they get tired and you're like, oh, wow, a couple weeks later, your quads are visibly bigger. Okay, now, fine life, fix my technique. Another question you have to ask is volume wise. IMean, I suppose you already said they're doing one or two reps and reserve, so we're not going to question that. We'll say it a trening hard, which is good. That's another thing to ask if someone is going to get your results. It would be on the job. 100%. Yeah, like am I really pushing hard? How long? If I think I'm pushing hard enough, I should push a little harder and see what happens. So for intensity, you would say, if they're at least hitting two reps in reserve, you're okay with holding a low need to improve about that. But if you went in there and observed them at the end of their set, if you said, let me see you do a few more and they were constantly getting four more reps. So they're four reps in reserve. You would say the literature says you're not hitting an a truck behind-off trening stimulus. Correct. This is a very important one. Very important. Because I think I think I talked about this once on Instagram. And if I didn't, IMeant to and I just forgot to, which is equally like, like, more likely. So the point I wanted to make was, at least for me, it might be that I'm just not good enough. You don't know what two reps in reserve means until you go to failure. You have to fail many times to actually know how bad two reps in reserve is and one rep in reserve. Yeah. And they're not the same every workout. That's the other thing. Like you could have the same weight on their different days and you fail at a different number of reps. But you, there's like a signal of like there's a twitch, there's a, there's a discomfort that yes, you have to experience it. But you can't experience it until you blow past it. Would you have that? Yeah. That's largely true. So every now and then you have to test the waters. And it's actually a really good system of doing that. And it's incorporated into our RPI purtrophy app. The app will ask you to put in your weights roughly 10 to 20 reps. And you'll do as many reps as you think as three reps or four reps to failure depending on what it's wanting you to do. And you'll write your repetitions in for every single set. Well, I got 16 reps at 90 pounds on the sexual size. The next week, the app auto programs a progression for you. So it'll either ask you to do 17 reps at 90 pounds, something like that, or it'll ask you to do 95 pounds again, or 95 pounds a new for the 16 reps you did last time. It does that every single session. It pushes you a little bit ahead. Your only job is to do what is written. If you consistently do what is written. And at the end of your cycle before you have it one week of easy trening called a deal load and you start a new cycle. If the end of your cycle, you never actually failed at a weight. Like you're trying to get 17, but you got 16, the 17 would move and you put the bar down and only crap. Hopefully nobody saw that. That never happens to you. You've never trened close to failure, but that's okay. The next time you program in your weights, and you do three reps in reserve for that first week, go a little harder than you think you should be or you typically did. And then at some point during the middle or end of that cycle, you will actually hit failure trying to get to those objective targets. Because here's a big problem with trying to estimate failure. If you go based on how hard something feels, it's kind of different like you said, you know, you had a tough day at work for a season-day at work. You ate well versus you didn't slap all versus you didn't. And it's all perceptual, which is nuts. It's kind of like not having a mirror, but asking someone to stand in front of you and help you put on makeup. Thanks for your input, but I need a friggin mirror because I don't know if you're just messing with me. I look like a clown. I put lipstick over here instead of on my lips who knows. But if you have a objective criteria, of this is what I did last week and I just want to go little bit beyond. It is inevitable that one of two things happen over the long term. One you will reach muscular failure and you will be unable to do a repetition. Or the others you'll get infinitely strong forever and now you're Superman. One of those is more realistic than the other. So when people say I don't know what's close to failure or not, my answer is very easy. Download the RPI per no-sight, wrong sales pitch, oops. Put some numbers on the board. And just buy a little two and a half or five pounds or one rep each week. Be those numbers. Week upon week commit yourself. IMust hit 18 reps. That's the goal. If you can't do it success, you went to failure. Now you know where the limit is now you're building an intuition. But if you did get those numbers next week, you go higher and you go higher and you go higher. Versus if just like, oh I think I went hard. I don't know what that means. You could be very wrong and oftentimes are. Is it safe to say that if a person is already and by the way, we didn't we talked about what's sufficient for exercise selection, technique intensity. We didn't specify volume. What would be a red flag for you in that individual? If their volume sets per body part was below X, where would you say, well, it should be expected per week. Just IMean, if you're beginning a few sets. Yes, yes, but this is for this kind of interview. Yeah, below five or ten sets per week is not a sufficient effort to expect your best results. Between 10 and 20 sets per week is fine. But for many people, you have to use a second qualifier, which is what's actually happening to you. If you aren't getting super sore or super mega tired in your muscles for a day or two after trening, if your strength continues to be stable or increases, session to session a session, and you're on that fewer than 20 worksets per muscle per week type of her muscle, not per body part. In other words, bicep would need to be 20 sets per week. Correct. Wow. Yeah. Then I think we have a pretty good explanation for what? But why somebody at this table, right? Small bicep? Yes. I'm not saying how dare you? Yeah. I take that offensively by the way. So then if all of the signs show that you're not actually excessively fatigued, your volume is either okay or less than it could be. If you're not getting great results visually, but you're always running into strength platoes. If you're always tired and sore, and if you're north of 20 sets per muscle per week, on average, hard sets, then probably doing less is good because you have almost every indicator of doing too much. And so you'll be able to intuit rather quickly if it's too little or too much. Those are most of the variables involved in the gym part except for one, and that is, one is the last time you took a break because there's a concept called accumulated fatigue or cumulative fatigue. Your muscles and the rest of your body recover very well between sessions, but not 100%, maybe 90 or 95. And if you're a mathematics fan, if you multiply 0.95 by 0.95 by 0.92 by 0.99 by 0.95 enough, you're down to 50% recovery within like six or eight weeks. And then how could you possibly be making gains? So every for the average person cranking away, probably the person listening to this podcast, one week out of every eight, one week every two months, don't go to the gym. Stay active, maybe do a bodyweight squad or a push-up or two, or your hotel room or something. Ideally, try going on vacation. If not, try to not exercise and be a little easier, work, be a little easier and family stuff, have some fun, cheat foods, eat a little more than usual, be a little less active. So that your body can recover in a way that it can never recover between sessions, but it gets a whole week to do this. And once a year, at least, take two whole weeks like that. We call that active rest. So the first thing, one week off is called a deal out. And the second thing off where you take two weeks in a row of basically just not even come into the gym. And if you do, you just do the slightest easiest stuff ever, takes 10 minutes. That reduces your systemic cumulative fatigue so much that it brings it back down to zero or almost zero. Because some people will say like 16 weeks have been cranking. The first 12 weeks, great results. LasT4 weeks, I don't know if I'm moving the needle. Well, maybe you're just really tired. And pushing the pedal down harder is usually not the best way to do things. It might be time for break. People come back and your muscles are resensitized to the stimulus. If you take time off. So when you come back, go back to two or three sets of everything, noT4 or five sets of everything. You're going to get really sore and really pumped from just a few sets. And you're going to be growing again. You do that for another six to eight weeks. You get tired again. Your strength starts to plateau. Take another week of easy trening or no trening at all. And that's how the cycle repeats itself. It's probably most of the stuff I would say about how to analyze your trening inside the gym to get closer to your optimum. There's lots to say about external gym variables. But one thing I'll say really quick is this. Before I ever consult people nowadays about how to pursue incrementally more optimal outcomes for their muscle. People who want a gain muscle but are frustrated. They aren't jacked enough. Nowadays I always take time to find a reference frame of what have your gains been like. How much work have you been putting and how long you've been trening? And to see if how did genetics play a role in this and how does age play a role in this? I've consultled with people before who are in their 60s weighing something like 150 pounds fairly lean. And they aspire to be in the low to mid 200s fairly lean. I told them that outside of an antabolic steroid cycle that's probably got an even chance of killing you as it doesn't getting eject. You're not going to get that jacked. And your progress rate is just going to be much slower than the 20 year olds at your gym. But sometimes we forget that age such a profound effect on our results. And we look around and as all young people I want to look like that will guess what? 1982 was a long time ago. So unless you have a time machine or age reversal, which I think is true. And do you think do it tribute this to the hypertrophy of type two fibers? Which are necessary for the power generation that's necessary for producing the gains we're talking about. That's definitely a component of another component is overall systemic ability to recover. You have so much DNA methylation and all this are the kind of damage and accretion of the wear and tear of age that your organelles and yourselves don't work as well as they used to. Your organs don't work as well as they used to. A lot of times you're taking for granted the fact that now in your mid 60s you run a top, you know, a top 500 corporation and you have more stress than most people can handle in a day, you have that in an hour. But back when you were making the gains of your life when you were 18, your job was to show up to school, go to the gym, eat at the cafeteria and smoke weed and that's all you did every day. Of course you have the gains of your life. People discount that. They also look to athletes and they go on my god like that bikini competitor. She looks amazing. I want that body. We'll check this out Linda. Your 56. You have three children. One of them is in college two or not. You are a CTO for major company and you sleep five hours a night. That bikini competitor trens a few clients. She posts on only fans and she does nothing else. But with them tren, recover and watch Netflix and sleep nine hours a night of an uninterrupted sleep. It's too completely different worlds. She's also 27 by the way, strenge times I know. But especially with social media there is nothing that surprises me anymore about how unmoored some people can be from realistic expectations.

=== FILE: Understand your reluctance for addressing your trauma ｜ Jeff English [I9c21jTPzgQ].txt ===

How many folks find themselves in a situation where, and I say this because I definitely had a bit of this feeling myself, and I can't imagine I was alone where, there's almost a reluctance to get better because there's also a belief that, yeah, I get it, like my life's a bit messy right now, and I'm, you know, my response is spilling out into bad areas, but look at all the good, like, you know, I remember in particular one of the, one of the rants I went on was about how much good has come from my trauma. I think in telling my life story, it was virtually all good. It was, look at this good thing, and this good thing, and like, why, you know, IMean, we don't want to erase any of this stuff. And, and I, and I, and I, and I suspect you have a number of people who show up, and yes, there, there, you know, it sounds ridiculous because on the one hand, there's clearly a bunch of things that are not good, but there's sort of like, okay, but that's a, maybe that's a reasonable price to pay in exchange for all this other stuff. How, how do you, how do you help people think through that process and what the trade-offs are? Yeah, you, when you describe that scenario, it's like you, it was your fuel, right? And, I'm using the language of parts, when I, or a guards, I call them guards, these protective parts, these protective adaptive behaviors, and I've looked at many of folks in, in your example, would be, thank God you've got your ambition. Thank God you've got grit. Thank God you can get anger, and you've got a voice. Like, I don't believe I would have met you if you didn't. I'd say the same thing to somebody who was an alcoholic. Like, like, thank God you had that then. I don't think I would have met you. Would, should you not have had that, right? But now, you know, again, can we look at this thing and can we just at least look through the lens of, is it making life hard? An important thing for folks to remember going into, am I going to do the work, do I need to do the work, am I working on a part of me, is that these guards, these protective parts of self, we are not necessarily trying to retire them. And that's what happened, I think, to a lot of folks is that part of them, there's almost a fear of like, how do I exist? Does that mean that ambitious, at times, perfectionist Peter has to go away, right? Think of think of folks who go through life out of their woundiness that we might describe as they're always waiting for the other shoe to drop, right? IMean, I can think of clients, multiple clients who have said, it's not if it's going to drop, it's when and how loud, right? Like, so they are really good detailed, it's finding negativity, it's finding danger, it's finding, and they'd be a hell of a good person to have along on a walk in a bad side of town, right? Like, I'm sure if they were a building inspector, they'd be the best damn one out there. Okay? But can you not do that thing when you go home, and sit on your couch? Right? That's the spirit of, and back to the process and the vulnerability. The vulnerability can get brought up so many different ways. We keep talking about this group process that you experience. There's so many different ways, but the common denominator is the vulnerability is what triggers this protective side, this protective behavior to step in. And when that happens, we can work on it in real time, should that person be in at least consideration of doing something different?

=== FILE: Video (1⧸4)： Introduction to movement preparation (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [ZVUQb2G_Mvw].txt ===

Hi everyone. I'd like to introduce you to my friend Jesse Schwarzeman. Jesse's what I like to call the subantive movement. And you might say, well, why does that matter and why is Peter interested in that? Well, some of you know, my main interest is in longevity and longevity is really two things. It's lifespan, which means living longer and it's health span, which means living better. A super important part of living better is being able to move freely, move without pain, and carry out the activities of your daily life. And that can be anything from doing the sports that matter to you, to doing the chores of daily living. So what we'd like to do eventually is put together a series of these videos. They focus on all sorts of different aspects of maintaining the perfect body in terms of function, freedom from pain, and things like that. But today what we want to focus on is what I think Jesse would just describe as the foundational set of movements. This is what you would do if you're across bed athlete before you would sort of attack it. And this is what you might do if this is the only thing you're doing to get ready for the day. So it's broken down into three parts and Jesse's going to explain them to us. We're going to take you through three different phases of movement preparation. The first phase is going to be soft tissue where we're going to use the foam roller and different trigger point balls to mobilize the fascia, make it more elastic, and really take the brakes off of our body so it's prepared for the movements we're going to do. Second phase is going to be on the floor where we're going to activate those big muscles that we want to fire, not just for a workout but also for life while also counteracting technology and sitting and the grind of the day-to-day haveic that our modern day world causes us when we sit too much and we look at our smart technology too much. Then the third phase after our tissue feels great after we fire up those big movers, we're going to have some fun, jump around, move, guess what and do some movements that you can do every day as part of your routine to be ready to do whatever the day asks of you, whether it's picking the kids up, playing soccer, climbing the stairs, you'll be ready for it. I think one point that Jesse is always emphasized to me is any of these exercises can be done alone in isolation and there's value in that. But perhaps the most important thing I've learned from Jesse about this is the importance of the sequence. I'm not just moving from tissue prep all the way through dynamic but even within each of the three subsets, the order matters. Alright, so as we jump into this, the last thing I want to say is, pay just as much attention to what Jesse says as to what I do because part of Jesse's genius is being able to explain really subtle things that make the difference between you doing these movements so-so and doing them perfectly. Thank you.

=== FILE: Video (2⧸4)： Part I, Tissue Preparation (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [zdRgJpxifqA].txt ===

Welcome to the soft tissue portianavar warm up routine and sequence. We're going to show you this wonderful tool of the foam roller and how to best utilize it. Now, I like a foam roller personally that has projections and grids on it like this one, because we know that fascia comes from all directions and we want to hit it in every direction with lateral force, sagittal force, trensverse force, and this allows me to do that. If you have just a regular styrofoam foam roller, that's great. If you have a super spiky one, I would just be a little careful because if you feel too much pain, while you're rolling the body won't accept it as well. You want kind of a slight discomfort, but if you're making a lot of faces, if you're holding your breath, your body won't receive the soft tissue relaxation as well. So just kind of find your comfort. This is the grid by trigger point, and I think it has a nice combination of the projections and a softness to it that pretty much everybody can benefit from. Another thing to remember when we're foam rolling is it's not a substitute for massage therapist. I see people sit on this thing for half an hour. It's a great tool to mobilize fascia, the lymphatic system, increase elasticity to increase mobility. But that's as far as it's going to go. It doesn't substitute for a deep tissue massage. So for each of one of these rolling sequences, we're going to only do it about 30 or 40 seconds in reality, no more than that. Just enough to get a little relaxation and get to your workout and get sweating. For the purpose of this demonstration, I'll probably move a littlEQuicker through it. Just so we can get through it in a timely manner. So the first thing we're going to foam roll here is the gastroc. So that's the calf here from the top where it inserts into the knee, all the way into the soleus right here. And when you're foam rolling, you want to have a really relaxed toe here. You don't want any undue tension on that calf. And we're going to have Peter go slowly back and forth. Now depending on your footfall, you might feel some tension in the tibialis right here, and the outer part of the calf. And then you also want to check if you have any tension, the medial part as well. And with all these exercises, if you do feel certain tension, like almost a hot spot, feel free to just stay on that spot, breathe into it until it relaxes about 50% and then you can move on. And this alone will make your ankle a lot more, give it a lot more spring, so that when you're running jumping, doing your plyometrics, you actually have a lot more jump and height and reactivity immediately, especially after rolling that soleus right at the base of the teardrop right there. Okay, so after that, we'll move on to the hamstring. Now everybody tells me that they have a tight hamstring, but in reality, our hamstrings are overstretched and lock long. And for a lock long muscle, we don't want to go with it. We kind of want to go against the grain, so I'm having Peter just sheer back and forth, using these projections of the grid. This won't feel painful, just kind of feels like a gentle massage in the hamstring, but it will help your hip hinge mobility when you get into that exercise. After that, Peter go ahead and sit right on the roller, and we're going to get into the glutes now. So crossing the right leg over, leaning into that right hip right into the back pocket, and the apex of the glute. This is glute max work. Great thing about this too is it's going to open up the rotation of your hip for your squats, and any kind of external hip rotation opener. Easy back and forth. And now I want Peter to get into the gluteous medius, which is really important knee stabilizer. So I want to take away the tension on the roller. I don't want this locked tight, so I'm just going to have him relax the hip, and go right to the almost the top of the lower back on the right side, and back down. Feeling very relaxed here in that hip. This muscle gets overworked because it keeps the knee from vagasing, and this is a really, really important one to get, because it's constantly under tension when we're walking, running, moving. That's great. Up and down there. Okay, now we'll flip over, get into the anterior section of the body. So now we're going to form roll thEQuadriceps here, and I see people put both feet on this all the time. I don't like that because you can't get all the different lateralist muscles, as if you only do it on one side. So Peter's left knee is out, so all his weight is on that quad, and now he can really get out the sides and the front. I'm not going to have him go into his IT band, and I want to make him really important point here that I see everybody, the first thing they do when they go to the gym, is foam roll their IT band. This is a dense, facial connection that doesn't need to be rolled, and if you have IT band syndrome, it's not because your IT band is the problem. It's coming from a different part of the chain, and just rolling it is not going to help. So we'll talk a little bit more about how to prevent and help IT band syndrome. In fact, Peter's done some great work with his own IT band, with the exercise we'll do later, but I just want to make that point that we're going to stick to thEQuad and not go to the side. Okay, and the last really important muscle of this hip complex, something called the tensor fascia's longest, the TFL. So I'll have Peter come right here now. This is a really small, really important muscle to get. If you find your hip bone right here in the front, if you just go right below it, you'll find the TFL. And the TFL is a tensor for a reason, because it works really hard to keep the hip rotated. If the glute isn't really doing its job, if the glute's kind of turned off, and a lot of our glutes are turned off because of our tight hips. So what rolling this TFL is going to do is relax the IT band, because it connects to the IT band, which connects to the knee, and it'll really help you prevent that IT band syndrome by relaxing. That particular muscle, so that the glute media semaximus can do their job. So again, this is a key key part before you do any bridges, before you do any glute work to relax that TFL, and Peter's doing great. And I'm even going to have you immediately rotate a little bit right under that hip bone, and you're just kind of, when you get into it, I really want you to kind of grind it out. So kind of quick, short strokes right there. Perfect. And after this, you'll even walk differently. You'll feel your glute be able to fire better. Okay, so that's the lower body. Now I want to move into the upper body here. The first place we're going to foam roll is the thoracic spine. And I want to make another really important point here. Now when we're foam rollin' and when we're warming up in general, we want stable parts of our body, and we want mobile parts of our body. Another spot I see people foam roll is their lower back, everyone's lower back is tight and in pain. But really that's just addville on a problem. The problem with the lower back is that it's taking forces and twists because it's trying to mobilize because the joints above it, like the T-spine, and below it, like the hips, are actually super tight. So it's trying to over-rotate. It's trying to overwork and take the brunt. So what we want to do is mobilize the thoracic spine and insure the hips so that the back doesn't have to work as hard. So when we foam roll, we're only going to foam roll top of the neck here to mid back, right under those scapula wings. Right here. So I'll have Peter put his hands and this feels great. Immediately you're going to feel relief with this rolling sequence. Now I'm going to have Peter arch and extend his back. And again, because I don't want to mobilize this lower back, Peter is just a great job of this. We're not going to stick our ribbed out too much. I have Peter do this the wrong way. We're going to arch his back and extend as much as he can. So you can just see the amount of torque that's going as lower back doesn't feel too good, right? Peter, right there. So the key adjustment we're going to make is bring those ribs in and think of that mid back as the new shelf of extension. So extend a little bit here, Peter. That's all I need. Right there. Ribs are in. Open in his chest slightly. Nice and smooth up and down. That's great. Deep breaths. Opening the shoulders. This is a posture saver right here. Okay. So a key point I want to make about posture is that the thoracic spine is important to extend. But it only extends as far as the shoulders will take it. So for this next session, I'm going to have Peter stand up. I'm going to talk a little bit about how to fashionly work on the shoulder complex so that the neck and shoulders sit back easier. So your base of support is right under you and you get that. And you don't have pain in your neck. Alright. So now we're going to talk about the shoulder girdle and the scapula-humoural rhythm here. And this is a common cause of pain, males and females because of technology. We know that when we use that technology, our heads tend to come forward and our shoulders tend to come forward. So I hear a lot of people complain about pain through the traps, upper and lower and cervical spine area. That's due to these muscles being locked long, not their tight, not their tight. So everyone who tells me I have a tight neck and tight back. That's not true. You have a locked long and overstretched neck and upper back that needs to be pulled back and it's natural physiological position. So the two biggest culprits of pulling the body in that forward position are the tightness in the peck and in the serratus anterior right here, which is if you go down your latissimus dorsai here, it's just anterior of that, basically going along the lat to about the mid-rip cage here, up and down. We'll do this one line down which I'll show you in a moment how to roll this out and we'll use this for this we'll use a ball, a trigger point therapy tool that's going to relax this fascia. And I just want to show you that when this is pulled tight, you'll see if this is locked, it's going to basically inhibit the shoulder from externally rotating. At the same time, the serratus does its job here of getting locked here to pull down. So all those overhead presses we like to do to just get that range, you've actually got to push through a lot of breaks and a lot of tightness around that fascia versus if you can get it more elastic, it's going to be much easier to rotate your shoulder for any kind of overhead work, any kind of pull work, but best of all it's going to help you in life because it'll be easier for you to have those shoulders sit back and then that cervical spine and head follows with it, eventually leading to an emelioration of that back and neck pain. So the first thing we'll do is the trigger point therapy ball. So just like the foam roller, this is a great tool because this ball has little projections in it, so not any part of it is exactly the same. So different spots have kind of tighter, more acute projections and different spots are softer, so it gives you a nice kind of rounded feel. So I'm going to have Peter do is I'm going to have Peter put this right on his peck major here, basically in line with his arm pit, where it inserts into the peck. He's going to put pressure on the ball, reaches arms up to open up the shoulder, and importantly here he's not just going to roll the ball around, he's pressing it into his peck, he's literally moving the fascia and soft tissue around, up and down, side to side, anyway he wants. Basically like I said before, the fascia doesn't cross linearly, it has many different searches and projections, circles, there's no wrong movement here, but you're just trying to create separation in your last ticity in that peck. You can play around with it, go a little bit higher, just like Peter did, if you feel tension there, can move a little bit lower closer to the nipple. Now women can do this as well, you just might not go quite as low, but you still want to work closer to the base of that peck as far as you're comfortable doing it. All right, you want to spend again about a minute, 45 seconds on each side, and then once this is relaxed and the shoulder can go back, we'll work on the serratus back on the floor with the foam roller. So now we're going to focus on really in the serratus anterior, which we talked about was a big part of pulling that shoulder into internal rotation. So what we're going to do is we're going to start at the armpit here with the palm up to open up that fascia, and we're going to roll from the armpit all the way into the lat insertion, right about mid-rub, and then going to come back, feel free to move back and forth a little bit, immediately and laterally, finding any hot spots or tight spots that feel sensitive. I guarantee you'll find a lot of them here keeping that shoulder open and exposing that serratus.

=== FILE: Video (3⧸4)： Part II, Muscle Activation (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [JElEpnVH35Q].txt ===

So now we're going to go into phase two of our movement sequence. We've finished soft tissue, lymphatic system is going. Our tissue is elastic and we're ready to move. Now sequence matters here. There's a lot of great exercises but the key is doing them in the right order to get the right activation both in the brain and in the body. So the first thing I'm going to show you is a stretch that in my opinion, everybody that I see does incorrectly because they're trying to stretch their hips but in fact what happens is they end up yanking and stretching their lower back which already has enough stress in it. In sequencing reciprocal inhibition is very important. On all reciprocal inhibition means is that when the flexor is tight the extensor doesn't move very well. So we see a lot of people want to work with the glutes turn on the glutes but they can't do it because being seated so much that hip flexors always under tone. In this exercise I'll show you how to really specifically stretch that hip flexor around a stable core so that you're not stretching and cranking on your lower back but stretching and relaxing the muscle that's needed which is that flexion of the hip so you can actually much more easily strengthen and work the glute extension and get much more out of your bridges, your squats, your deadless when you're actually ready to stand up and move and lift. The first thing we do in a movement prep before anything else is make sure we stretch that hip flexor and quad so that we can activate that glute. So now I'm going to have Peter get into a half kneeling position and the key to this stretch is that we want to get that hip flexor insertion elongated. So I'm first going to show you the way you're not going to do it and probably the way you have been doing it which is by moving and arching your back because look at that amazing range of motion that Peter gets unfortunately most of that motion is coming from his lower back as his ribs are flaring out and he's opening his chest up okay so we're gonna make this motion extremely limited just to stretch this hip flexor and keep his spine and lower back stable here. So I'm going to ask Peter to do is pelvic tilt forward so if he had a belt buckle that belt buckle would lift up toward the sky here. Then I'm going to ask him to squeeze his glute as hard as he can and you can see he already feels a stretch just there where before he could go all the way out and now keeping that glute squeezed and the ribs in belt buckle up I'm going to have him move forward just a little bit and that's all he can go because now he's truly stretching the hip flexor and not his lower back which already gets enough work and enough force in it. He's gonna move back he's gonna remember to breathe do it again forward squeeze the glute belt buckle up he'll really feel that hip flexor cranking and stretching no stress at all on the lower back and this is gonna start to allow him to start to strengthen that glute. Now this is only one of the insertions of the hip flexor we also have to get thEQuad so now I'm going to show you how to get thEQuad involved to to get a complete stretch of that front line. Now that we've stretched the hip flexor on the floor we're gonna stand up and activate thEQuad and extension and stretch to make a complete stretch of that front line. So this is something you see people do after every run and again they're cranking on their back and flaring their ribs getting more stretch from the spine then they're actually getting from thEQuad and hip. So just as before I'm gonna have Peter first thing pelvic tilt forward if you imagine the belly button as almost a bowl full of water and the pelvis you want to tilt that bowl up toward the sky versus letting it drop down and spilling the contents of that bowl. So I'm gonna have him tilt his belly button up now immediately even in this position he'll start to feel a stretch and with that tilted belly button he'll start to pull that leg back behind him really keeping those ribs in and get in a nice stretch through the knee and through thEQuad right here and into that hip insertion. Great way to stretch your hips and quads really easy to do have to make sure to maintain that pelvic tilt the whole time. Now that we've relaxed the hip flexor and thEQuad yourself we're gonna get on the floor and start to activate the gluteus and gluteus. Now that the hip flexors relax we're gonna activate the gluteus medius the knees best friend. So the knee basically listens to what the gluteus medius tells it to do. If this muscle is turned on and firing it'll prevent that knee valgus that internal rotation of the knee and help your leg line up a lot better when you're running doing your plyometrics even just walking down the street. Now we're gonna set up Peter for success but to activate his gluteus medius by basically position his body in the right rotation and making sure it's long enough so the lower back doesn't kick in and the hip flexor. So what I'll have Peter do is rotate a little bit internally to make sure that that hip flexor doesn't fire up. Have this leg out a little bit interior for a basis of four. Here's the key. I want Peter to extend his leg behind him without popping his ribs out maintaining that pelvic tilt we just talked about belly button up. Internally rotate the foot to make sure that glute meets in position to fire and have him stay in this plane lift that leg up and down pushing this hip as long as possible out that way so as to not flex in the obliques. So now he's going as high as he possibly can but not getting false movement from that lower back and he's really really focused on feeling that back glute meat here not getting any TFL activation no hip flexor activation after you finish this your hips will feel like a million bucks. You will feel like you're literally swimming in your hips in a different way because the hip flexor will be able to basically relax and the glute meat can do its job and stabilize your knee. Perfect. Just up and down you want to do this one really till you start to see some shaking here. He knows all right he's shaking really honestly for most people you're talking between 20 to 40 reps really controlled here. So now we're going to activate the gluteus maximus and the gluteus medius together and actually a much more functional move than the last move which was just to activate the gluteus medius. So we're going to do a single bridge here. I'm going to ask Peter to move his feet in a little bit if they're too far out it puts a lot of stress in the hand string so you just want enough to just barely slide your hand under your calf and your thigh here. We're going to lift the foot here create a right angle and I'm going to have Peter bridge as high as he can pushing with that left hip up and the beauty of this which activates the medius is we're going to externally rotate the hip out and back in bridge back down. Come up again squeezing the butt driving you can see he's maintaining a nice pelvic tilt again rotating out and in and down and up. Notice how Peter isn't dropping his hip so if you imagine a level here nothing spills to the side it's a smaller movement than you think most people do this way too big focus on doing about at least eight to 15 reps as a start. Now that we've mobilized the hips we've activated the glutes we're going to activate the core because the glutes in the core work in synchronicity to protect the lower back. My favorite exercise if you're going to pick one core exercise to brace your core to be ready to lift weights to run to move in life would be something called the dead bug and there's lots of different tools you can use for the dead bug I prefer a Swiss ball although you can use a yoga block too but the concept is that you're putting pressure between your lower body and your upper body to make your abs turn on and then moving limbs around that braised core. So I'm going to have Peter lift his legs here at a right angle push his arms straight into the ball and he's going to create pressure resistance here by pushing his hands into his knees. He's going to automatically feel his core turn on a lot of times people say oh I don't feel my core it's because you're not really giving it a challenge to react to and a strong core does not just flex up and down with crunches it's stable around moving parts so that's what we're teaching it to do here. The only way you can do this exercise wrong is if you go too far and you start to arch your back again our ribs are in as in all exercises and we're pushing that lower back into the floor. Now I'm going to have Peter make sure to breathe deep breath through his stomach you don't have to tension your abs this is doing the job for you and he's going to reach Contra lateral limbs his right arm and left leg and sink extending and coming back. Peter has nice open shoulders so he can do the full range of motion if you're a little limited you might get a rib pop here if you try to reach too far so just go as far as you can keep that pressure of the lower back on the ground the more you do this you're going to feel this bottom out almost into your lower abdomen again don't tense breathe pop this Swiss ball activate your core. Now we're going to show you an amazing core activator and lower back stabilizer which is called stir the pot we'll have Peter get into a front plank on the ball he's going to make sure to align his cervical spine in a perfect extension here not overextending the neck or flexing it and his scapula because Peter is a freak is a little bit winged here so I'm going to have him push his scapula the other way forward to take out a little bit of that wing right there now this is an anti rotation exercise so I'm going to have Peter circle to the right not tilting his hips circle to the left again not rotating and then move back and forth with his elbows challenging the extension control of his spine right here we see Peter's legs nice and wide here if you want to make this more challenging you can bring your feet in a little bit this is definitely the advanced version right here amazing core activator works all quadrants of the spining core this is how you build a stable lumbar spine and ab complex

=== FILE: Video (4⧸4)： Part III, Dynamic Preparation (Peter Attia and Jesse Schwartzman) [BGrw5z1SjtA].txt ===

Now onto the third and final phase of our dynamic warm-up sequence. We started on the floor with soft tissue work and foam rolling to mobilize that fashion and get more elastic. Then we woke up those dormant and tight muscles on the floor with our hip activation, glute work, and core work. Now we're ready to have some fun and we're ready to jump around and move a little bit. Now a proper dynamic warm-up not only prevents injury, strens, and sprains, but it will also make you stronger as your potential to move increases as your range of motion increases. This dynamic warm-up we're going to take you through is really a dynamic warm-up for life. When we thought about it, we were thinking about counteracting the effects of technology and sitting and also having you ready to do any kind of movement you want from walking to climbing to powerlifting. Of course, if you want to get more specific, if you're a runner and you want a specific runner's warm-up, it might be a little different. If you're a soccer player, you'd have a slightly different warm-up, but this is a great general warm-up to add to your day-to-day routine as well. Even if you don't go into the gym to mobilize your tissue, get you ready to move, have you feeling open and ready to face any challenge that faces you. So in this first move, we're going to mobilize the hips and the thoracic spine by opening up the scapula and taking a big stride forward. So what I'm going to ask Peter to do is take that big step with his left leg. Go a little forward so he stretches that hip, squeeze that back glute and reach up toward the sky, remember to get extension, not from his lower back, from his thoracic spine and upper back. So again, those ribs are basically in, but we're just getting a little upward motion and reach toward the sky. Also you'll see this as a warrior variation in yoga. We're going to step back, power back, big step forward with the other side. Own the position first, squeeze the glute, reach up, feel that amazing decompression of the spine from the stress that comes into that lower back all day, step back. You're going to repeat this for 10 total reps. We're not doing too many reps here. The point is to just get the body ready. This whole sequence takes no more than five minutes when you really get it down. Now I'm going to have Peter do that same lunge forward, but instead of extending his spine and thoracic cavity, he is going to turn and reach to the side to get that all-important rotation of the T-spine. So Peter's going to step forward, reach his hand straight and twist toward the front knee, twisting from his upper back, not from his lower back. You'll notice that he can't reach even all the way back because he's making sure that his belly button stays forward and he's not over mobilizing that lunge spine, his thoracic spine is mobilizing. Let's step back and we'll alternate to the other leg. Make sure you're looking behind you. I see all the time people do this exercise, but look ahead, the body follows the eyes. So we want to make sure that we're directing that hand where to go. So he's getting that nice neck turn, opening those shoulders, opening the hips that puts work in really hard, not to rotate out as he's rotating the whole body firing in synchronity. Your chest is going to flop open after this and you're going to really feel like your shoulders are sitting better in the shoulder girdle. Step back. In this next move, we're going to get out of the sagittal front and back plane where too often we live our lives. And in fact, working in a side to side plane is one of the best things you can do for your knee and for your hip. In fact, most athletes get injured with these ACL tears and MCL tears because they don't have lateral stability. They're great moving front and back, but when they have to change direction, their knee can't take that. So in any good warmup and movement prep we do, we've got to make sure to work laterally as well as just in that forward and back plane. So I'm going to have Peter do now, step up here and do a nice lateral lunge for us. Step to the side puts all his weight on that foot here. He'll get a nice stretch of the groin and then for an added spice here, we're going to stretch that inner thigh as well by externally rotating that foot, coming back and then stepping together to the other side. You'll notice his first move is a hit back. We don't want to see that knee tracking over the toe. External rotation, get the hip. Step together, Peter has a really nice, open lateral lunge. Let's do it again. Step into the side. You'll notice that his weight is on his big toe here so that knee isn't falling over the foot laterally and also we're keeping that knee and hip back so we're not putting a sheering force on that knee and all that strength is going into the hip and the hamstring here. Opening up and as you get going with this one feel free to get more dynamic. So jump in, make it react a little bit, react, move pop. This is how you want to move as you get better at the dynamic warmup. This isn't yoga, this is like, this is preparing to lift heavy weights. Get your body reactive, get it dynamic. Now we're going to mobilize the all important hip hinge. So what we're going to do is bring one foot forward, keep that leg straight but bend the back knee slightly. I'm going to have Peter maintain a nice flat and neutral spine here as he hinges back in his hip and reaches forward to elongate that hamstring. You can see that there's no tension in the bent leg, all that tension is created through the hamstring in this front leg. I'm going to have him raise his arm and hinge forward with his hip at the same time and then switch feet and repeat on the other side. Flexing the back knee, hinge in back, reaching and extending that spine. You'll notice his spine is nice and flat, we don't want to mobilize the back here. You reach his up and let's make it more dynamic now Peter. Remember this is a dynamic warmup. So again, you're just going through the motion like a rubber band. When you feel that tension, you work through it and you release it. Always with breath. The reason we do one leg at a time is because most people have asymmetry in their hamstring length so this will even it out over time. This next exercise brings it all together. We are going to fire up the core, the glute and we're going to get some balance in there which is one of the most important things for long-jewy and health. We're going to work the proprio reception of the brain trying to balance. It's going to wake up the toes, the feet. There's not much that this exercise doesn't hit. The move starts with a simple back lunge. So Peter is going to reverse lunge, making sure to put most of his weight on the front foot being soft on the back toe. Again, he's going to drive his knee up. Hold that position on moment, push his knee into his hands. He's going to feel his core and his left glute, squeezing and firing here. His toes are working to balance. He's going to bring that foot down. Now we're going to back lunge with the other leg, putting the strength on that front foot, driving up through the right glute, pushing the hand into the knee, activating that core, squeezing that glute, working on that balance. Stepping down, repeat this six or six to seven more times. Down, drive up. This is a tough one you can see Peter shaking here. He's trying to smile, but I promise it's really hard for him. Great finish to our standing dynamic warm up routine. Peter's going to walk out on the floor in a push-up plank position here. And this is a great core stabilization exercise. We're going to have if Peter wants to make it a little easier, he'll bring his feet a little wider, Peter can do the close-up version, but I recommend doing this to start. He's just going to tap his opposite shoulder on the tap and then come down on the tap again. When you first do this, it's going to be really hard to own this tap without rotating over in the hips. So go as wide as you need to own that tap. If you can't breathe when you're holding it, then it's not acceptable. You should be going wider. Super, hard exercise. You should do an awesome job. Maintaining his core integrity here. Doing about 16 to 20 reps with good breathing. Continue on the ground and we are going to stand this ground for this entire next part of the sequence. I'm going to have Peter push up into the world-famous downward dog here. Exercise we love because it decompresses the spine and it gets that whole posterior line stretched again. Great exercise to prepare for a hip hinge. Peter's doing a great job. Tall here, no rounding, having a soft bend in the knee. Now if you don't have this kind of flexibility, you're going to probably have to come down a little bit and you're going to bend those knees a little bit. Do that before you round your back in this exercise. So basically bend your knees as much as you need to to maintain that tall spine. Have your hips as low as you need to to maintain it as well. Now we're going to move from the downward dog into a move, dug to by many and definitely myself as the world's greatest stretch. If you're going to just pick one exercise out of this entire floor sequence, this is the one I want you to do because it opens up so many openers and extenders in the body. Your shoulders are going to feel great. Your hips are going to feel great after this one. We're going to go right from the downward dog. Peter is going to flatten out back into that plank position where he started with his hips low. Bring the right foot outside the right hand. Now some people might need blocks on their hands to get this position. Peter has enough hip mobility that he can hold it. No problem with using yoga blocks or something elevated, which will get your chest up because if you're not high enough, the back's going around and you're going to torque that lower back. So make sure you're at position here where you can have a nice straight line through your spine. Now if this wasn't good enough, just this position. I'm going to have Peter reach his right elbow toward the ground, getting rotation of the thoracic spine, also opening of the groin here and then for the grand finale, reach up over his head. Twist, decompress that upper back and neck reaching as high as he can. You'll notice the straight line and plain of the twist. You'll also notice that he's staying rotated within his pelvis and opening from his shoulder and Peter's doing such a great job. His chest is over his hips which is exactly what you want. As much height as you can here, he'll bring that right elbow back down. He's not going to switch sides. Right back down. Reach. Twist again with everyone. You'll feel more and more open. You'll get closer and closer to the ground. Peter is a freak but he's actually sweating now, finally with this exercise. Back down and up. About eight on each side is plenty. Now we're going to move from the world's greatest stretch which is aptly named to the deep squat. And something I want you to remember about the squat is if you do it from standing to sitting, your body feels threatened. It feels scary to go into that position. You're wondering if your hips are going to tighten, if your back is going to wrench on you a little bit, it just doesn't feel great. If you come into it from that world's greatest stretch low position, your body will accept it much better because you're already in the plane of being low and it feels much more natural to your body to get into that deep squat. Go ahead and step back with the right foot. Make sure the feet are slightly outside, shoulder width and the toes a little bit externally rotate. It's open up the hip. Stay in low. We're going to trensfer the weight onto the heels, push the knees out with the elbows. And this is great because it activates the VMO, the knees stabilizer right here. And you can even feel free to just move your elbows back and forth and just kind of circle around and swim into those hips. The shoulders move exactly as you kind of push the right, put the left, get that ad out your tightness to relax here. If you can, you're going to walk your hands behind you into a crab tabletop. If this is too difficult, no problem. You're just going to sit down on your front and then put your hands behind you and swivel around. But Peter was able to get into it right from that deep squat, which is ideal. This reverse tabletop here, I like for a lot of reasons, we're working the glutes again for both men and women. You're going to find the main part of the tightness in that heck insertion right here. So I want you to imagine that you're squeezing a pencil between your shoulder blades in your upper back here and you're trying to crush that pencil as much as you can. Fishing his back really opening up the entire front line of the body, hinge down all the way and drive up again. Hold it for a breath. We're still in a dynamic warm-up. We're not holding things too long, get the stretch, push up again. You can't go high enough here. To finish off here, our dynamic warm-up sequence, Peter is going to explain his favorite warm-up exercise before he does. All his amazing heavy hinges, dead lifts, squats. He knows a better than I do, so I'll let him take it from here. Thanks, Jessie. This is called the shinbox drill and it looks goofy, so people will look at you like your kind of a toolbox in the gym. It's really important that you have something soft to do this on or you're really going to hurt your knees. I'm going to show you two ways to do it. The first is when you're learning it and you'll use your arms to take some of the weight off. Once you graduate, you'll do it without your arms. I'll show you that as well. The first thing you want to do is you start with a wide ankle position and then you're going to in one motion, lay both knees down. They're at about 90 degrees. Again, here you can use your arms to stabilize and lift you up and you're coming up and forward. If you think about all the stuff that we learned today about having a pelvic tilt that's forward, not sort of torquing your back and then you come back down. Always come back to the seated position in the middle and then do the same thing to the other side. Down and up. This is what it will look like after a while when you don't need your arms to do it, you can do it a littlEQuicker and a little more fluidly. So from here, down, up. Again, hips are forward. What I love about this one as a finisher is you're getting the mobility and the stability of the hips. So as you're coming up, you're pushing away with one leg which is creating that stability and then getting the mobility as you rise. So great finisher, great wrap up to this dynamic form of sequence.

=== FILE: Walking the talk： How clinicians at The Bridge lead by example ｜ Jeff English [ZEuPJGqRgkk].txt ===

One of the things about the bridge that I assume it's still true, but it was remarkable to me was that everybody who worked there had been a client there. Is that still the case? Outside of some staff members, certainly all of the clinicians, most of the staff members. And that is, I can't imagine being a clinician there or working there without having done that. And that honestly has been the reason why some folks won't work at the bridge. Right? So we don't operate from there, but he'll. Right? So I'm in my own journey to get my challenges as well, yes. And so to know, I'm going to have to do some work. And then to wrap your brain around, you know, these are the people I'm going to work with. Right? To be able to look at a client like yourself and say, I'm not going to, I'm literally not going to ask you to do anything that I haven't done. And to be able to say that from the heart. Yeah, that's, that's, that's really an amazing feature. And I sort of imagine that through the lens of anyone who takes care of another person, right? And sort of like, you know, people, I think are right to sort of be frustrated when they have a doctor who's asking them to take care of themselves when the doctor clearly doesn't take care of themselves, right? Like how, how is it that you can tell me that I need to eat better and exercise when looking at you? It's clear you're not doing those things, right? Right. It doesn't mean that the advice is incorrect or that you shouldn't listen to it. Right. It's just, you're asking me to do something you won't do. Right. Right. Whereas, yeah, at the bridge, you know, we, we can talk about some of the other things that are very difficult to do there, such as in the second week when you're kind of eating this shit out of things, that those are not easy things to do. But to know that you're, you know, when Jeff and Julie are asking you to do it, they did it. Yeah, absolutely. And if you think that to the way the journey starts, you know, is we disclose, you know, in some professional, you know, be careful with self disclosure, you know, and it's not about me, it's about them. But like, hey, we're going to ask you all pretty quickly to start showing us a piece of your soul, so to speak. Right. So I'm going to tell you a little bit about mine. And that's that hopefully we can start building that rapport early. Like, I think we can trust these folks. Right. I think we can think, I think they can lead us. Maybe not everybody, but I'd like to introduce that. Because like you say, in week two, we ask folks to go places with us, right? And you know, it's, you know, that experiential therapy, and you mentioned one way of doing experiential therapy, the somatic part of what we do. But, you know, things have come a long way. And within the spirit of that process, and when you talked about that learning a language, I love that analogy, you know, because you are immersed in that. But, you know, it's, it's that being able to experience the emotion, right? The hijacking, if you will, of the emotional brain. I like in it to, we're going to walk you down to the edge of the river. Okay? And we're going to put your foot into the water. Now the water being here, your past, your pain, right? Because we want you to fill a little bit of the temperature, right? But we're going to stand here right beside of you in our job is to keep you in 2024, 25, whatever year, right? Like, we'll keep you here. We're going to go there, but we're going to stay here, dual awareness, right? That's the integrative part, right? Like, some people need to yell because they haven't had a voice. Some people need to know, need to learn that they yelled, and they were able to not get lost in it, right? And everybody's journey being different and befriending. But that, you know, it's, it's almost like some people say, why can't you put my finger on what it was? But I just something was different, right? And it's like, what did, what happened? What is it that you did? I say, well, sometimes you might say, we were activating your limbic system so that you could do something different while activated, right? Like learning how to get space from the emotional brain. So many clients, especially clients with trauma, years frustrations of frustration, learning coping skills in safe offices with therapists. And they're done beautifully and repetitively within that environment. But it's really hard to recreate that back at home, right? Or at work. Yeah. When triggered, right? My coping skills live in a part of the brain that gets hijacked when the emotional brain takes over. Okay? This system doesn't always have to be about trauma. I can't you believe I'm saying that. But the example I give because I'm a professional, right? One mother's 87 years old with dementia. She's living in a nursing home. Okay? Now, so all the things to go along with that, the irrationality that's involved with that. And so Jeff goes to these visits and he starts noticing that all these visits are starting with my mother talking about how somebody is stealing her blue ink pens and what I call her O Lady Blue jeans, right? And so I'm sitting there saying, are you kidding me? Like, are you who would want your blue ink pens? All right? Think about this, Rashley mom, who wants these old blue jeans? And how many of my visits, that's how that visits started. And it just went downhill from there. And to literally be sitting in the truck outside before a visit, brain, give me the what needs to happen here. And so many times in as clinicians, we ask clinicians, take your, you take your hat off, take your therapist's hat off, right? Sometimes you need to put it on because Jeff, the clinician, is not sitting there in front of his mother. There's a son sitting there in front of his mother, who is facing the reality that it's not his mother anymore. And that's very sad, right? And so that the anger is a much more comfortable place to be or frustration. So, I'm going to argue with mom about how irrational this thought is, right? It's breaking because I don't want my mom to think that people are still in her blue ink pens. I want her to change. I want to this to be corrected, right? But I'm forgetting like one of the golden rooms rules, excuse me, of change when it comes to therapy and rolling with resistance. Okay? The more that I fight for change, the more this other person is going to fight for the status quo. That happens 99% of the time. Okay? But when you sell crazy back to somebody, tenfold, they start to suggest rationale. Rationality. Here's what IMean by that. One day in that truck, I realized I have got to do something different, right? So I'm going to go in there and when I went in there, I went in there with my executive functioning. I went in there from the prefrontal cortex, right? So when mom started talking about her blue jeans and her blue ink pens, my response was, you know what? You're right. And I think I know exactly the lady that's doing it. I'm going to go give her a piece of my mind. And what did my mom say? Jeff, sit down. Be sensible. I didn't have access to something that I do all the time. Client. So I'm crazy back to him, right? You just, yeah, you go home. You'll get your cigarettes back. If you're talking about the bridge, you'll get your cigarettes back. You'll get your phone back. You'll go back home. You'll go back to your perfect girlfriend and life will be okay. And I didn't say life's okay. All right. Well then we've got something to talk about. All right. You've got to stay here. You're going to die if you don't change. They just fight. They just fight, fight for the status quo. So, but that, that, that, that Jeff that I was talking about, I didn't have access to those skills. Because that was, I wasn't being driven. But now there's all the baggage. There's to be in the sun. There's a trauma-related demand. There's all of that that played into that. But to be able to get access to the, what some folks call the bill pay in Bernie.

=== FILE: What Happens in the Final 24 Hours of Life ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [KcYTCiIn4Dk].txt ===

Well, let's talk about that final thing. What is that last 24 to 48 hours look like? So the phrase we use is active dying to distinguish it from the rest of living dying. And a body is actively shutting down. So system by system, you'll stop your kidneys, or shut down, you're not making as much urine in part because you stop drinking probably a few days because days ago, because your body couldn't handle the fluids. So, and thanks to kidney shutting down, you get a buildup of toxic metabolites and get a little intoxicated, little dreamy, that may be the course, so that may be the mechanism of your delirium. So you're not eating, you're not drinking as a general rule. You're probably a little fuzzy or entirely asleep, breathing. So some of the two biggies, those can happen anywhere along the way, but the ones that tell you you're really close are when you have modeling of the skin, that's sort of a lacy, bluish experience where your body's just not moving blood effectively. And you'll see skin changes, and especially the extremities. And breathing patterns change. Oftentimes you get apnea, so long periods of no breath at all. You know, often here is something that's, sort of like a frightful phrase, but the death rattle, so which often is sort of a gurgling sound with breathing, that's just because your oral pharynx is no longer, the reflexes are dying out, so you're no longer moving fluids as they pull in the back ear throat, which is an important note there. If your reflexes are no longer functioning, you're not likely feeling it. So a death rattle sounds pretty gnarly, but it's generally probably harder for the audience than the person dying. But those are the things that are typically experienced in a body that's actively dying. That's only in the last a matter of days. But most hours to a day or two. I think the other thing that's happening is the experience for the people around that person, right? And there's so much to say in that space, but I do think having, you know, counsel a lot of people, there is a feeling of preciousness, right? We don't know when that last breath is going to come. We, you know, maybe we really want to be there, maybe we feel like we can't, but often for someone watching and waiting, it can be really hard to stay connected to our own experience. So like, people won't get up and go to the bathroom because they don't want to miss that moment. They won't eat, they don't eat, maybe their appetite is low anyways, which is fine. But it is a time to be thinking about really basic needs and basic comforts for everyone in the space. Because that influence is the space in the environment for all and most people feel like this is the dying person's experience. This is like all of the focus is there. We're watching every respiration. We're even matching the breathing. We're creating anxiety in our own bodies because of that. And if we can invite attention to everyone's experience and give permission to like, you need to take a walk, go take a walk. It may mean that they die when you're not in the room. And maybe that's okay. Maybe they die in the one minute you're going to the bathroom for the first time in six hours. Like it may just be that way. That's a really, really important point. Sort of like, once you understand delirium and you can contextualize what you're hearing from a loved one, that point rigid. So it's pointing to such an important one. A lot of loving families keep these vigils and don't sleep, don't do anything so that they can be there for the death thinking that that's the most, that's the highest line. That's what it means to be there when someone dies and that exact moment when they take their last breath. And so to bridge its point, this is a lived experience for everyone. So you gotta keep doing, you have to sleep, you have to, yes. And I don't think anybody's gonna tell you why this is, but it is just a thing. You talked to anyone who worked in hospice for a while. It seems to be that a lot of people need to be alone for the final moments on the planet to really let go. And so it's almost, it's like, I can't tell you why. But it is a thing. So you going to the bathroom or taking a walk or something. Maybe the exact thing that that person needs to finally let go. So the messages don't leave and therefore the person will never let go. You just potentially can make it harder and harder for that person to actually finally let go. So go to the bathroom, take a walk, kiss the person, give a bite on her, drink some water and know that not only they may, they may be gone when you come back, but that may be exactly what they needed to finally let go. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today, at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: What Happens to Bones When You Stop Moving  ｜ Peter Attia AMA 37 [arub7Rhn3tY].txt ===

what happens to your bones if you truly aren't using them? This is obviously not a subject that is relevant to a lot of people directly, but I think indirectly it's relevant to a lot of people. So this is space is just the most extreme version of what we would call disuse osteopeenia. So as the name suggests, disuse osteopeenia occurs when bones are chronically unloaded, leaving to a very unfavorable combination of high bone, resourption and low bone formation. So it's the same thing that's happening with the osteopeenia from aging. It's just much more accelerated and much more extreme. So again, the most extreme version of this is astronauts. And I don't know much about what they do in space, but I suspect that they go out of their way to figure out ways to load astronauts in space. So they don't have to deal with this in its highest form. But I think for most people where this is relevant is bed rest. So lots of people have to undergo bed rest for all sorts of reasons. Right? Pregnant women often are placed on bed rest if they are experiencing fetal retardation. And IMean that not cognitively but grow three-tardation. If in the third trimester, the fetus is in growing at the rate that is expected, not uncommon that the OB will ask the mother to gradually reduce her impact until more and more energy can be reserved for the fetus. You can also see bed rest being necessary for various types of injuries. Of course, we know today that we don't want to rest people nearly as much as we used to. IMean, there was a day 50 years ago when if somebody hurt their back, they were put on two weeks of strict bed rest. Today we know that that's absolutely the last thing you want to do. So bone law student, you know, disuse osteopeenia is incremental and it's progressive with time. It occurs more rapidly as you would guess in the tribacular bone than in the cortical bones. This is the tren we've seen over and over again. And frankly, it can be about 2% per month in microgravity partial paralysis, which I should have mentioned as well, right? So yeah, paralysis based injuries or immobilization with injury. And in the most extreme setting with complete paralysis, it can be up to 7% per month. So Peter for people who are experiencing like that type of immobility, is there anything in particular that they should be thinking about or they can do to kind of help with BMD concern? Yeah, the first would be any form of PT that can actively load muscles. So I don't know if there's I actually don't know how much data exists on this, but that's one of the things that I think is interesting about cyclic BFR. And that's why the minute I was out of surgery, I got permission from my surgeon to put my, you know, catsucuffs on my arm and just start cycling the BFR. I wanted to put little bits of stress on that bicep just to have it moving. And again, keep in mind, I was very fortunate. I did not have a bicep tendon repaired. If I did, I would not have been allowed to do that. But, you know, I had to keep my arm completely immobilized, but I was still able to get sort of compression on the bicep. And, you know, basically, if you, if let's say you're bedridden with a certain injury, there are still other muscles in your body that don't pertain to that injury that can still be moved and put under load. And even if you're doing these things isometrically, right? So a person is holding you and you're resisting against them without actually moving in the bed that's important. Now, there was a super interesting mouse study that we found that used a bicep phosphinate to inhibit the osteoclastic bone resourption in a mouse model where the mice were given bachelotoxin to basically prevent them from moving. I think one part of their leg. So if you, I think we have this figure here as well. Yeah, it's figure 10. Yeah, so what you're looking at here is in the, the first bar on the left is just sort of the baseline, and then you have control mice in black. And then in white, you have what happens to the animal that we're just given bachelotoxin. So these were the animals that were basically immobilized because the, you know, bachelotoxin, of course, paralyzes their legs. And then the bachelotoxin plus the bicep phosphinate on the right. And I think there's a pretty profound result, right? You're looking at this in the femoral neck and in the middle of the upper part of the femoral bone. Below the neck. And you can see that the, this phosphinate plus the immobility really looks no different from the control. And it's a, you know, clear contrast to how the untreated animal looks. So, you know, look, these are 16-week-old female mice. You know, is that's going to be true in humans? I have no idea. But I find this type of research very interesting. And frankly, I hope more people are doing this type of research because I think immobility is a huge problem with everybody. But once you start to deal with an aging population, it becomes more significant. How many times have we talked about that study where, you know, a group of 65-year-olds, I believe, were immobilized for two weeks and lost. If I'm not mistaken, something of the neighborhood of abouT4 pounds of lean mass in two weeks. And that, you know, we talked about that through the lens of how much you lose lean mass. But think about what that's doing to, to BMD and think about how long people are immobilized beyond two weeks, especially as the older. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: What Most Women Don’t Know About Their Own Anatomy ｜ Sally Greenwald, M.D. [zEpZZZQ-gQs].txt ===

Maybe a helpful thing to do right now would actually be to go over a little bit of the anatomy. And I see that you brought a model that I think will make it easier for everyone to kind of understand. So I want to start by asking when you deal with your female patients who presumably are much more familiar with this anatomy than men are. What surprises you the most? When a woman comes into your clinic and you're taking care of her, what are you most surprised by in terms of her lack of knowledge about her own body? In its humicle lack of education from a... Just literacy? From a... Where was this sex education? Did we have it? Did we go from a verb-aged perspective referring to the vagina as the vaginal? That's the vaginal canal is the vagina. The vulva is the outside of the vagina. There's Libia, Majora, and Minora. And all the way down to the... to the clitoral nerve and sort of the fact that it has different nerve routes. And so if we think about looking at this model, this is sort of if a female is lying down on her back, that's the angle that you're looking at. There was a great study that was done recently that said that only 41% of Gen Z men could accurately identify the clitoris on a pictorial. Women, a surprisingly... What would that be for Gen X? How much of that is a representation of declining intimacy as people are in younger generations or is that a general statement of men period? I take from that sex education needs to get better. IMean, I sort of take from that the need for better sex education that's actually anatomical and not fear-based. And so women as well, IMean, most women, not all, do know about the clitoral hood, which is the clitoris or the bulb. That's what we sort of think about in terms of the iceberg. But what women often don't know is that they have sort of what we call is the vestibule of the clitoris, which are these sort of bulb-like structures that can receive engagement or when there's an increase in blood flow. And then there's the crew of the clitoris, which is these nerve structures that go on either side of the labium inora. It's a wishbone-like structure and what's really fascinating is to sort of normalize that anatomy can and should look different. There's a great website called the labia library that normalizes all different types and sizes of labium inora and midjora. But the wishbone structures are often asymmetric as well. And so it is quite common for a woman to experience greater pleasure on one side of the vagina versus the other, meaning that this nerve root of the clitoris may be thicker or more sensitive. There's over 8,000 nerve roots as a part of the clitoris. And there can be more focused on one side versus the next. And so I hope that half of your listeners are thinking, I always wondered why I was the righty. I always, I am a lefty. But I also hope the other 50 percent are wondering if you've been with your partner for a long enough time. I hope you know if your partner is a righty or a lefty because there's asymmetry in how we experience pleasure. And then very interestingly is that there is, you know, if you're sort of looking at the tip of the clitoris, there's a nerve root, there's a part that goes sort of inside the vagina. And that's what we talk about in terms of social terms we talk about the G-spot. And what that is is it's a branch of the clitoris that runs along the anterior or the front part of the vagina? It's about a third into the vagina. The best way to find it is to, if your sort of, if a woman is trying to find it on herself is to take her dominant hand, middle finger, stick it, as far as you can, it's sort of do a come-hitter movement or sort of movement of the finger towards the top part of the vaginal wall. It's easier to find when you're aroused because there's an gorge to men of the tissues. It feels a little more rugated and you'll know that you're there if you feel a sensation to urinate, but if you relax into that you won't. And so only about 10% of women now are able to orgasm from stimulation of that internal branch of the clitoril nerve. There's some data that shows that with education that can go up as they're talking to women about how they can find the anterior branch of their clitoril nerve, not only allows them different ways to orgasm, but also gives them a sense of empowerment and sort of ownership to sort of talk their partner through how to sort of maintain pleasure. But for those people who can't have orgasms from the inner part of their vagina, the other 90% are having orgasms from external stimulation of the clitoril nerve. And so Dr. Lauren Striker says, you know, for the 10% of women who can orgasm via the G-spot or the anterior branch, that's great. And she diagnoses the other 90% who can't orgasm from stimulation of the internal nerve as normal. So it's totally normal if you can't have an orgasm from that part of the clitoril nerve, but many women after hearing this podcast, I hope try. Partner should try. It has a little bit, it has better blood supply than the tip of the iceberg. And so as we age, this is one of my favorite techniques for women in the Parymenopause and Menopausal period as their hormones change and the nerve fiber degrades a little bit. Teaching women how to have orgasms from the part of the nerve that has a better blood supply can help maintain pleasure and help maintain interest in sexual activity as we age. All right. So when a woman is having intercourse and maybe for the percentage of guys who might not be familiar, can you point out where the entry to the vagina is on this model? Yeah. So here's entry to the vagina. Of those, there is some statistics that talk about what women percentage of women can orgasm simply by having penetrative intercourse. So penis here. And what's interesting is that the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening is variable. And the shorter the distance, they tend to say less than one inch. The shorter the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening, the more likely you are to be able to orgasm during penetrative intercourse. And that's because the distance is so short that the angle of the man's body is sort of able to stimulate that area. If that distance is greater, you're less likely to be able to orgasm simply from penetrative intercourse. Que introducing a vibrator, manual stimulation, it's such a thing. So what percentage of women are able to intercourse without any stimulatory vibrator or anything like that from intercourse? Less than 10%. Wow. So it's the same number that you have from the g-spot. Correct. So if a woman is listening to this and she's never had an orgasm through intercourse, she is in the 90%. There's nothing wrong with her. We would diagnose her as normal. And for those women out there who are regularly achieving an orgasm through intercourse, you're in the minority and... Or they're doing external, more likely they're doing external stimulation of the clitoris. Those those graves statistics are without any external manipulation of the clitoris. So for women who are achieving orgasm with a partner is because they've identified positions with their partners. They're using manual stimulation. They're introducing vibrators. They've figured out regardless of distance of clitoris to vaginal opening. How to stimulate the clitoris, the external part of the clitoris. And I like to talk about anatomy so that patients can sort of think about their own individual anatomy. Talk to their partners about it and think about if there's someone who needs to sort of introduce that external stimulation or shall they as a couple just try to find the anterior branch of the clitoril nerve. Those lots you can do as a part of that. How often do you have men in your practice who are there with their female partners who you're trying to educate? For a sexual health consult 20% at the time. And what is the most common... I don't want to use the word ignorance, but what is the most common thing that you appreciate about men when you're helping them in terms of their lack of understanding about their partners anatomy? Giving men a roadmap, being very descriptive, you know men most partners want their partners to be happy. It's not, you know, there's the selfish aspect of performance. And there's the sexual empathy component where they care about their partner and they want their partner to feel well. Giving them a roadmap to sort of explore around and find the anterior branch and think about the wishbone structures is really exciting to them. Desire, spontaneous desire, thinking through that is really exciting for them how they tap into that, how they can curate that with their partner, thinking about their partners or their own browser. And then sort of supporting... There's a communication component. I think when we think about sexual dysfunction, we tend to break it down into a biosyco-social model. I like to talk mostly about bio. I'm a clinical physician. I'm a gynecologist. So I think a lot about anatomy and pathophysiology and neurotrensmitters and hormones. But there's a lot of other people in this field that are helping with psychosocial. Sex therapists, communication. There's a great book called Sex Talks by Vanessa Merin, which talks about how to communicate with your partner. Clitorate is a great book to think through different ways that you can sort of improve your communication about what pleasures you and how to investigate that. There's really good websites now. OMGYes.com is a website that sort of talks about your anatomy and how to find it and how to find your pleasure spots. So there's a lot out there. I'm not alone in this space by any means. But I like to think about it from a very sort of biologic, physiologic perspective. And so on the topic of sexual desire, what are the, you know, because this podcast is called the drive and we're talking about cars, what's the throttle and what's the break pedal on sexual desire for men and for women and I assume it's different.

=== FILE: What Really Causes Aging？ Brian Kennedy, Ph.D. [kYjjqMiSfXM].txt ===

What do we think is actually causing aging? You know, we've been debating what aging is for the longest time. And I think we would argue for two hours in some conference room somewhere in the world. At the end of it, we would come up with the definition, Shit happens in the new time. It's really just, it's frustrating. I don't even want to talk about it now. And you know, Vadim Glattishov has been on like a evangelical rant about how do we define aging? We don't know how to define it. He asked that question in every conference. And I think it's a fair question. And we all throw our hands up in the air. And so the idea was we have a lot of data now. A lot of human data. And aging researchers are beginning to try to model that data. But they're not modelers. You know, I think most aging myologists are at least myself. If I have a skill, it's intuition. It's not writing equations and code. And but the physics people, the theoretical physicists, especially they know how to model things. And they model things based on physical principles that are proven. And so we've been trying to bring these groups together. And because I believe maybe the only answer to your question is that we have to write in an equation. And so early days on that, but I'm excited about where that's going. And do you think that these will be explainable through equations or do you think that this exceeds our level of intelligence to understand? And it's really going to be up to a black box that contains a neural network to understand this. And maybe we take a step back actually. So for the listeners, they've heard us on this podcast talk about quote unquote hallmarks of aging. Maybe explain to people what the hallmarks of aging are, which I don't mean like list them all. But the content set up them. Yeah, don't. I wouldn't put you on the spot for that. But the idea that has been proposed is that there are hallmarks of aging. And why is stating those not the same as answering thEQuestion that you me and everybody else is struggling with? Well, this is kind of an existential crisis with me because the hallmarks of aging came on in 2014 or 2013. And then I wrote another paper right after that called the Pillars of Aging, which is kind of the poor stepchild of the hallmarks of aging. And that was because there was an NIH conference and there were seven topics discussed in the Ask Me to write a review on calling them the Pillars of Aging. So I did. But even in that review, I had the seven Pillars of Aging, but I connected them all with lines because I don't really think that these hallmarks and Pillars, which are like the pathways in the cell that are thought to be driving the aging process. You know, inflammation, you know, epigenetic changes these kinds of things. They're all interesting to aging and you can modify them or they get modified if you slow the aging process. But what strikes me is how entrened everything is. So if you take an intervention like Rapa Mai said that slow is aging, it can impact all of the hallmarks. And so I don't really, I think those are like outputs or ways you can look at aging, but they're not that nobody is really just targeted. The idea that you can target each hallmark and then you'll live forever is not going to work. Because it's really the network that connects the hallmarks together. And to me, aging is a healthy aging is about maintaining homeostasis. It's about, you know, maintaining a responsive network and your body that sort of keeps you an equilibrium response to the events that are happening during aging. The stochastic events, the damage that's happening and it keeps you functional. And that network is highly malleable. You can influence that network by drugs or behavior. And if you do, you can drive benefit from it and you can read it out as an improvement of all the hallmarks. It's not like one thing of exercise affects only this hallmark. So I think it's, the hallmarks was good because it drove interest in the field. It's part of the reason a lot of investment came in the biotech sector. But it also is misleading because I think the idea that aging is 12 different things and you just need to fix all 12 of them is completely wrong. It's really about, you're body knows how to function in a healthy way. It's about trying to maintain that and maybe improve upon it. So do you look at the hallmarks, which I believe have been modified since the original paper and a few others have been added? Do you see an, an, a rank order or a seniority of them in terms of causality? So for example, one of the hallmarks is mitochondrial dysfunction. Yeah. Now one could say that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs independent of another hallmark of aging, which you've listed, epigenetic change. Alternatively, you could say actually it's the epigenetic change that occurs stochastically and that that is driving mitochondrial dysfunction. And if you reverse the epigenetic change to the previous epigenetic layout, you will correct the mitochondrial dysfunction. How do you think about the interconnectedness through the lens of causality? Yeah, I think the, the primacy issues of major one. I like the idea that mitochondrial might have been one of the primary drivers. Also, you know, every time we do an experiment, we keep coming back to inflammation, all of the interventions that extend lifespan, reduce chronic inflammation, are almost all of them. And then every time we create a new biological aging clock, which we're doing a lot of now in my lab, you know, and we do principle components and figure out what the main driver is it always related to inflammation. And so I think there's something, it may not be inflammation, maybe a response, but it's so central that a lot of the interventions I think are working by dampening inflammation. But to your point, inflammation could easily be a readout state. Yeah, yeah, but it, it's certainly when you modify, I think when you modify, you get an outcome, you know, so it's not just an endpoint that you look at. How are you measuring inflammation? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com, forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. To a healthier future.

=== FILE: What Really Causes Under-Eye Bags and Sagging Skin ｜ Tanuj Nakra, M.D. & Suzan Obagi, M.D. [kQTO9RcWr2M].txt ===

Let's start a little bit with the biology of the aging face. And again, we're going to limit our discussion today to the neck up, not that there isn't other things that are completely relevant around cosmetics, but that's just a big enough topic. I told you that when I looked at myself 10 years ago, I couldn't believe how much better I looked. But I'd have a hard time telling you why. Like, I can't put my finger on it, but I bet you can without me showing you those pictures. Why did I look better at 42 than 52? That's such a great question. And that's exactly how my patients come in. A lot of times they'll come in and they'll say, I feel like I looked tired. I don't know exactly what's going on, but I feel like I looked tired. And I have these beautiful diagrams in my office, and I show them the face of someone who's 20. The face of someone who's in their late 60s, and I walk them through the changes. And the first thing I do is we show them the diagram with the skin peeled off. And you see about 11 different fat compartments in the youthful face that on each side of the face, that are plump, they're robust, they're giving volume, and they're giving a padding between the skin and the muscle and the underlying bones. And then you look at someone who's in their late 60s, and you peel the skin away, and you see a dramatic atrophy in all those fat pads. A few might increase in size, but the vast majority undergo atrophy. And then in addition to that, I show them what the bones are doing at that age too. So we look at the bone evolved over 20 year old, and the opening around the eyes are nice and tight, the cheek bones are nice and wide, the jawline has a really good definition. And then you look at someone who's in their 60s, and all of a sudden the opening around the eyes are wider. Really? The cheek bones are less wide, jaw bones are less wide, less height. And so now you've got the scaffolding that's diminished, and all the skin looks like it's just hanging. And that's what's happening, but it starts early. So what I see on most of my patients when they come in and say, I look tired and you said it, you look at your pictures ten years ago, you look now and you don't know what's different. The first change is around the eyes, and I'm sure it can add to that. But basically what's happening is you're getting more bone loss around the eyes, more fat atrophy around the eyes, so you're starting to see the underlying anatomy, which was padded before. So first of all, this is completely news to me. Is this loss of bone comparable to what we would see in the reduction of bone density in a person's hips as they age? So a lot of it is hormonal. A lot of it is hormonal, and you see it, especially in women, if they start to see the aging changes, they'll start to identify that in their early forties. So this in other words is probably another reason why women would benefit from hormone replacement therapy, because maintaining estrogen levels would maintain bone health. Absolutely, and actually that's something we need to stress more and more to them, because it starts in their early forties. And then it just accentuates over time. But by 10th and 50, all of a sudden, now, if we're looking at them cross-sectionally, a group of 50-year-olds compared to guides were 50, the men are holding up pretty good. Their facial bone structures good, their fat volume's good, their muscle thickness, and skin thickness is good. But from 50 to 60 or 70, women will age about 20 years faster than men in the lower face, especially. They will get so much atrophy in the mandible, that they'll start to get that, that's why women start to see it. Hate my neck, hate the loose skin and my neck. And if then, because if the mandibles retracting, the neck becomes looser. Yes. Again, this is remarkable because if you bringing it back to the one thing I know about bone, it's when you look at men and women aging from a skeletal system, they're both going through a comparable decline, starting in their 20s, because we both peak both men and women peak in the early 20s. But at about 50, women fall off a cliff, whereas men just continue a linear decline. And so the gap really widens, interesting to realize that the exact same thing is happening in the face. That's exactly it. And that's why women come in the first things they say when they're 50s, I hate my neck. And I think we jump to try to surgically correct it or to augment it with fillers or neuromodulators to keep the muscle from pulling it down. But I think we have to have a talk about hormone replacement. You have to catch those women before they're far along into menopause. Again, I'm blown away by that fact. If I could hop in for a second, I love the direction of this conversation, because I don't know if people realize how much science there is about the aging process. There were some seminal studies by Rorek and Pessa in the 90s and 2000s. It kind of delineated a lot of what Susan's talking about, where they looked at CT scans of similar and at the same individual over time. I think some of those studies had a 50 to 20 year span, and there was quantitative calculations of bone density and bone projection of the mandible, the maxilla, the frontal bone, and these bone structures all received with aging. And the bone is the foundation for the face. And so when we're talking about youthful fullness of a face, a lot of that is the bone structure. And then, as Susan said, of course, the fact compartments are a critical component of our facial aesthetics. And as we lose all that volume, the reason why people start to look more skeletal as we age. One of the most common areas that I see in my practice is people talking about their under eye bags, and their lines that are showing up in their eyelids and their cheek area. It's because we have ligaments that attach the skin down to the bone. It's called the osteocutaneous ligament, it's a network of the face. And those ligaments are the same for every single individual no matter what your ethnicity is. Of course, there's variations on the theme, but the orbital retaining ligament, the male are ligament, the temporal ligament, the mandible are ligament, the mass that are ligament. These ligaments are always present, and then as we lose that facial volume from fat atrophy, and the bones move backwards, these ligaments are tugging on the skin, and these deep lines start to show up. And that's really, I would say one of the fundamental changes we see with aging of the face. What I guess I don't understand is the following. Again, I'm just going to use myself as the example, because I think I'm probably reflective of many people. Ten years ago, I was less fat than I am today. Same body weight, by the way. I almost to the pound, I'm the same as I was 10 years ago, but I would bet my body fat was two or three percent lower. In other words, I have accumulated fat in my body. Why am I losing fat in my face? What is it about facial subcutaneous fat depose that atrophies when virtually every person, the opposite is happening when they age, they're actually adding at a post tissue, subcutaneously, and unfortunately, often viscerally. So if IMay answer that one, it's interesting because I talk a lot to my patients about that. Now, the vast majority of my patients are female. So they'll come in and they'll see me, and I can look at their face, let's say they're under late 30s, early 40s, and I can guess how many kids they've had. Because what happens is you gain weight in pregnancy, it doesn't have to even be a lot, but then most people, if they're fit, they lose that post pregnancy weight. I've had none, by the way, just in case you were wondering. That's good to know. And they lose that post pregnancy weight, and what happens is they go back to being in the same weight that they were before they got pregnant, but they're face is thinner. Second, baby, more or so, by the third baby, it takes a significant toll on the face, that weight gain weight loss. So you can tell looking at a female face, almost how many times they've gone through that weight gain weight loss. So what happens, the facial fat pads are very unique metabolically. Like IMentioned, most of the time they're just atriffing as we age. There are a couple of compartments that might in time get thicker, such as the nasal labial fat compartment, which is why some people have that deep fold. But for the most part, they atriffy. And so if you go through this yo-yo change with your weight, and you're progressively getting thinner and again and some weight back, it doesn't go to the face. It goes to parts of the body we don't want, but the face continues to undergo that weight loss or the volume atriffy. But do we know biologically, because it's almost like a lipid dystrophy, where the fat cell becomes defective and can't reaccumulate triglyceride or whatever it is, whatever form it's going to store it in. I think this is a edge of like so many things in medicine. There are things that we know and a lot that we don't know. So we know that it's happening, we don't actually know the biochemical mechanism. I think we're just starting to understand the individual receptors and specific nature of different areas of fat. So for example, even in the eyelid region, when we're doing surgery on the face, and we're doing surgery on the upper eyelid, we will see that the fat pads have different colors. So the medial orbital fat pad is lighter substantially compared to the much yellower and more orange lateral fat pad, and that color will be different than the buckle fat pad. And one of the differences, there's beta-carantine differences in the fat pads, and that's probably just one of maybe a hundred that we'll eventually find out is contributing to the differences in the fat population. We know that facial fat is different from abdominal fat, which is different from lower extremity fat. And we know this also practically speaking because when we're doing fat grafting procedures, the source of the fat can have a different long-term effect when it's injected into the face, depending on what the source was. So we know that fat is not the same throughout the body, and it's not the same in the face. There is a general consensus that beta-carantine is an anti-inflammatory mediator, and higher concentrations, and lower concentrations of beta-carantine can have some effect on the metabolic health and fat, especially how it responds to stress. And so in the world of longevity, there's a lot of discussions about managing cortisol levels, like sleep is helpful, having lifestyles that reduce your overall stress level is good for your overall health and numerous ways. That's also true for the fat and the skin of the face, because again, a lot of this is not fully explained, but we're starting to get more and more details as basic science progresses in this area, that these fat compartments and the skin, which we can talk more about, is exclusive to the sensitive, to stress that the body is experiencing cumulatively over time. So, you know, a lot of times people feel like they're really aging in their 40s. You know, people have midlife crisis, they're crises, they're probably experiencing the maximum stress in their life at that stage, typically, and I'm just generalizing here, but, you know, people will have a busy career, they've got kids, they've got financial worries, and so people are under a lot of stress in their 30s and 40s, and that contributes to some of the more rapid facial volume loss changes, some of the skin aging changes with elasticity, collagen, and last-and-change is at a curve of time. And so, that's where I think that, you know, this conversation really plugs in quite well into the line of, you know, education that you're providing your followers in terms of longevity benefits, because it overlaps here with cortisol stress and inflammation. And what's interesting is that chronic elevation of cortisol in the body is actually anabolic to fat, right? You accumulate fat, it's catabolic to muscle, muscle decays, fat accumulates. It sounds like you're saying, okay, that's true from the neck down, but above the neck, chronic elevation of cortisol might have the opposite effect. It might actually be catabolic to fat, and therefore it accentuates the fat loss. Is that am I hearing you correctly in that? Yes, I believe that's correct. And just yesterday in my clinic, I had a perfect example of this. I had patients back to back. One was 68-year-old, she was a six-year-old woman who has lived a very comfortable life. She comes from affluence, hasn't really had to work too hard in her life, and has maintained things, of course, she's just skincare products. And, you know, she's had a little bit of filters in Botox, but no surgery, and she looked 10 years younger than her state of age, because of the kind of life she's been living. And then the next patient I saw was from rural Texas, has been in the sun, has never been taken care of her skin, you know, was working a kind of a blue-collar job, difficult life, a couple of marriages failed. She looked like she was 10 years older, and this is common. I'm sure you see this all the time as well, Susan. So lifestyle stress factors clearly have an effect. And one of the reasons why Peter perhaps this is not an area that you've kind of delved into in your vast experience in medicine is because thEQuality of science and aesthetics has historically been pretty poor. You're giving me way too much credit. I wish I could say that. I have delved into plenty of things where the science is poor. There is some other mental block I have. It might be that I'm not smart enough to understand it all, but we'll continue and I appreciate your. And another reason why becomes very murky to sort through the science, and I'm sure this exists in other areas of medicine too, but a lot of the individuals, corporations, you know, factors, forces that are delivering science to the masses and to physicians who are eating it up and you know, regurgitating it to their patients. These sources arEQuestionable. They're they're equipped with a profiting, you know, as you, I'm sure realize the aesthetic industry is a very, very lucrative industry worldwide, especially in the United States. And all the forces that are delivering the science, I'm sorry, not I shouldn't say all the forces. There's a lot of forces where those that are delivering the science have a vested interest in receiving monetary benefit from what they're pushing out. That makes things murky. But I think going back to the fact compartments, think about it with our patients in general, you know, the role of the fact compartments in the face are to allow muscle glide. So the muscles can move over each other when you smile, talk, eat, chew, all of that. And now you don't understand why they should undergo such atrophy over time for such an important function. But then we look at the metabolic activity of the fat and other areas of the body and it's very different. So when we do fat grafting, for example, and we take fat from the abdomen, which has the highest concentration stem cells, you know, preadipicites there, and put them in the face, the fat starts to be a more like the fat from the abdomen when you put it in the face. And if they gain weight, it retains its source. Yes. And then when they gain weight, you have to tell your patients specifically, don't try to gain more than a few pounds, because it will hypertrophy like it would in the abdomen if they gained weight. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, and carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

=== FILE: What Would Make a School 10x Better？ ｜ Joe Liemandt [pSRxzefSEjI].txt ===

What would make a school 10 times better than old school that we went to? You know, and so we sort of have five dimensions that we do. When the first is kids must love school, and we literally measure more than vacation. Like that has to be it. And we get 50-ish percent of kids. Depends on the vacation depends on the workshop, it's really good. 50% of kids were like, yeah, I want to go to school instead of vacation. I plenty of parents, well, my highlight as a principal was, you know, in May this year, two thirds of the high school kids sent me a note and they're like, can we keep alpha high open this summer? Because we don't want to take a summer break, because we love what we're doing. Right? The girl doing it, you know, Broadway musical. She's like, this is, I want to keep come and go and do it, right? And so, you know, we're, you know, back to my world, right? It was not in school. It was, you know, shirkying in my dad. You know, I'm like, make a place where kids love school. Invacations could standard. Number two, kids need to learn 10 times faster. We just, we need an engine that teaches kids 10 times faster. And so our AI tutor based on learning science, teaches kids 10 times faster, right? And between five and ten, we'll get it up and, you know, so that's the second part. So that you can then that gives you the chance to give the time back. The third dimension of a school is what are, if you academics isn't everything, right, to developing kids, everybody knows that. What are the life skills that every parent says? That is what I wish I knew. And some are, you know, traits, behavioral traits. I hope they, they are love learning in our self-driven learner, right? You want things like that. And I want somebody who uplift others in his classroom and behavioral is an independent person. Others are like those ones I talked about where you're like, no, I want entrepreneurs, nism and financial literacy or I want storytelling, public speaking, those, those type skills. And so the third is have that curriculum. The suite of skills that every parent wants. So we actually have spent, you know, the lasT3 years developing life core, right? The common core curriculum for life skills that, because I have four hours a day to fill, right, with all this awesome stuff that kids can do. And it's just amazing what they do. Like if you take atomic habits, right, that book of 1% better. Most people don't read that till after college, right? And then they're like, oh, this is a way I can really develop. Last year, you know, our guide face, second grade guide. You know, she sat down and she was working on her workshop, you know, in her life skills. She's like, you know what? I want to teach atomic habits, called the second graders, because the concepts they all can understand. And she's like, you know how I'm going to do it? I'm like, she's like, I'm going to have all our second graders run a 5K in under 35 minutes. And that interest, I'm like, oh, no, okay, the parents are not going to like that, right? That's too hard back to high standards. They don't want struggle fail. Where's that road to success part and what percent are going to make it? And so I was, she's like, don't worry, it's told, I can do this. She was a UT athlete. And she's like, we've told her, can do it. She was like a head cheerleader or whatever. So like, everybody can do this. And so she sits down with the second graders. First day and is like, who can run a 5K? And they're like, that's impossible, Miss Faith. The parents all are like, that's a boss will say. She's like, why sign you all up for the jingle 5K? You know what to do? And so she goes out to the track and the first day, they walk it and they walk 5K. She's like, okay, so we all will establish, you're going to finish the race. Right. And then the next time they ran a quarter lap, walk the rest. Next time half a lap, walk the rest. And by December, right, all the kids are running the race. Right. And you know, when they cross the finish line, just that achievement, back to the key to kids happiness is high standards. That's a really high standard. But they loved it. And they did have to struggle and go through and learn this. But they also learned that life skill of 1% better. Right. And so the second graders like, dad, I can do anything. I can do 50 pushups. I'll do one today and two tomorrow and you know, build up in that skill, that life skill, we don't teach kids in school. It's a great life skill to have. And if you have half the day, you can do that. So that's the third element of like, how do you build a great, a great school? The fourth element in this gets to the teachers, what would make a teacher 10 times better than what it is today? And the answer is, well, not grading science tests all day and you know, writing lesson plans, but instead connecting it's meant to be the kids. Right. And so we ask, here's thEQuestions we ask, you know, the students and the parents, which is to kids, you know, a kindergarten, or like, do you love your guide, right? And, but you know, as you get older, it's every adult had one or two teachers who trensform their life. Right. Back to that is your guide that for you. Right. And that is what our guides, right? That is the expectation that they are the ones that the students are like, you are helping me achieve things that I didn't think is possible. Miss Faith, you told me, taught me how to do the impossible. Right. And so that, right, that level. And actually, then, you know, at the parent side, this gets into, you know, Dr. Yager, you know, has a book 10 to 25, right? Child psychologist development expert. And it's, you know, from kids, how to, what matters for kids, right, from 10 to from 10 years old to 25, right? And his whole theory, mentor mindset, you know, high standards high support. The, the most parents are not high standards and high support, which is what really matters to develop kids. They're either low standards high support. That's what happened to all our expectations or they're the inverse high standards. No support. You know, this would be your classic, you know, Tiger Mom would be, you know, good luck figured out, right? And the real answer for child development, you need both. High standards high support. And so that's our guide. But thEQuestion we asked parents in middle and high school, right, back to having what's a school re-envisioning it. It's like, do you trust your alpha guide to hold high standards for your kid? So you as the parent can provide the unconditional love and support, right? Which trensforms for those who have lessons, it trensforms your relationship where you don't have to be the naggy parent for the high high standards. You know, my daughter, my oldest daughter, you know, she's writing her college essay and I'm like, you want to let me read it and she's like, no, right? No interest in that. Yeah, she's got, she's got to take care of and got someone else. And for me, I was super relaxed because I was like, I know Chloe, right, went back to our guide, right? She's a Harvard grad. I know she was totally high standards for my daughter and I know it's going to be fine. And I don't have to get a fight about it or whatever. I'm just like, okay, yeah, I can give my daughter a hug and be like, good luck, right? And so that trensforms what teachers can be, right? Versus, I'm delivering those seven great lessons. And so, you know, and then the fifth dimension that we talk about is the sees, character, community, classmates, and culture. And these are also the hardest parts to measure, but at the end, they're what parents care about the most, right? Which is, at the end of the, all those other, you don't care, right? Is, do I have a good kid? Did I raise a good kid? Right? And is the school helping me make raise a good kid? And so, those elements are what we looked at and said, now that you want to re-invision school, right, from the ground up. Here's the dimensions. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: What have been the biggest successes and challenges in medicine in the last decade？ ｜ Marty Makary [zKK0jRjOv-M].txt ===

What are you most proud of that the medical institution in this country? Let's just keep it simple. What do you think medicine has done the best job of in the last decade? Well, I think you look at cardiac surgicALCARe. I think you look at mine infections and hospitals. IMean, there have been some really big wins here that don't get maybe as much attention as they deserve. What else? Where else are we hitting it out of the park? ObstetricALCARe. I think we've not only now have is the if it mortality rate as good as modern medicine can deliver it, but we've now accepted these these new best practices of skin to skin time delayed court clamping, encouraging breastfeeding early on reducing C sections when not necessary. These are those are in the last 10 years, those best practices. But we're at a pretty good point where the system is humming on a lot of acute care. There's a video I saw on social media the other day where a guy said, if I get shot, I want to go to a US hospital. We have the best care in the world. If I break a bone, that's where I'm going to go straight to a doctor. But when it comes to telling me, you know, what I should be eating or how to live my life, I don't think I trust modern medicine. If you come in with chronic abdominal pain, sometimes our sophisticated system didn't know what to do, right? So I think the acute care has been mastered. And I think, you know, I think about the operations, I was a part of these laparoscopic wipples and it's a tour de force of science and technology and advancements. And we do something called a trensplant with eyelet cells now for people with chronic pain. So I think good stuff is happening. We have good people. People go in medicine, nursing, every aspect of healthcare, united by one common thing. And that is everybody wants to help other people who are in need. And that's an incredible bond that we have. It's a profession. We should all be proud of it's a heritage, you know, I'm proud of that my dad was a part of and I get to do the things he encouraged me to do little tips, ways to connect with patients. I still think of the time he said, don't ask somebody, are you taking your medication? Instead say, you know, some people find it hard to take their medications as prescribed. How are you doing with it? It's far less, you know, head to head. And so it's an incredible profession in teaching these little pearls and gems, citing research, calling out the importance of good scientific methodology. It's still, I think, the best job in the world. And medical centers are still some of the most respected institutions in America, which is why we've called on them to have ethical billing and pricing practices. But we can correct course. And I think, all in all, it's an incredible privilege to be a part of the medical profession. I encourage anyone to get into it. You would still encourage someone who's sitting here listening to us, who's in college, who's on the fence about going into tech, going into business, going into law, going into medicine. You'd still get them the nudge to do medicine if it's something they're partially considering. Yes, where else can you put a knife to someone skin within seconds of meeting them just because you're the doctor? People will tell you secrets they've never told their spouse within minutes of meeting you because you're the doctor. And so there's an incredible heritage in the profession. And so I think it's the best job in the world. Now you've got to be okay with memorizing enzyme names over and over again. IMean, hundreds of names of useless molecules that you could look up on Google. That's just part of the old system and people. But you know, I think the bigger issue isn't so much that you have to memorize those names. It's that you're sort of lacking the context and why. IMean, Marty, I still memorize names of complex enzymes and pathways. But the difference is I'm doing it because it's feeding my interest. Yes. Right. It's like I'm reading papers and I'm learning new things. I have to draw diagrams to help my IMean, I'm doing the same thing I was doing 25 years ago. So I don't I also don't want to let people suggest that it's not important to have knowledge. Like it is important that I know these things, even if they seem a little bit esoteric. But it's just easier to know it when you understand why, when you have a scaffolding around why. I while I can't tell you every step of the Krebs cycle, I still remember in great detail how metabolism works because it really matters to what I do. So I think if anything, I just hope that medical education can major in the major and minor in the minor because while I think it matters that you understand these things, I think it and I get maybe this is already the case because I'm so far from it. But if you understand why the Krebs cycle matters and why when the Krebs cycle isn't working, every disease in the body gets worse, like why is it that a person with cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes Alzheimer's disease, why do they have defective Krebs cycle? That's what I want medical students to be understanding and learning. Yes. So anyway. Yes. I don't know where I stand on it truthfully if I do get asked from time to time by young people, hey, you know, would you do it all over again? Of course for me the answer is undoubtedly yes, but but I also realize there are a lot of other exciting fields in the world today that maybe weren't available to me and I don't know. How about surgical residency? Would you do that part again? You know, yeah, it's interesting knowing what I know today and knowing where I end that up today would I have been better off doing an internal medicine residency? The answer is probably yes. I think it would be more logical. But look, I wouldn't know you. I wouldn't know Ted Sheafer. I wouldn't know a lot of the amazing people that I've gotten to know through my surgical trening. And I think in many ways surgical trening, especially the way we did it so long ago, you know, when you didn't have regulations on work hours and stuff, it was so hard that it really gave me an appreciation for how much easier my life is today and how lucky I have it to, you know, not be woken up every 14 minutes when I sleep and, you know, things like that. So, so I don't know. I probably reluctant to change anything. I think it all worked out okay and I'm really grateful for the folks IMet along the way. And I do hope that someone listening to this whose, whose contemplating medical school, as you said, I agree with you completely. Anybody who chooses to be anywhere within the vicinity of this field, you want to be a nurse, you want to be a radiology tech, you want to be a phlbautomist, you want to be a doctor, the one thing that unites all of those people is they're doing it for the right reasons. You know, the sort of kid in high school went asked, what do you want to go into and they say, I don't know, I'm thinking about being a nurse. They're different from their peers. It's a calling really to be a medicine. And so we attract these great folks. I think our challenge in the academic towers is how can we keep the focus both on the test, technically sophisticated pieces of metabolism so they understand it. And at the same time, not lose sight of the overall person. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. I think I can preserve the humanity of the field while harnessing kind of critical thought and and and doing it around as I said, kind of this scaffolding of purpose. OnEQuick thing, I discovered classic example of this, the Pima Indians in New Mexico along the Gila River, they had been cut off with their water supply, farmers and ranchers and settlers. So this nation of Indians, all of a sudden, wasn't they weren't able to grow crops and the healthy foods they'd been eating for centuries. So the US government recognizing how they were being depleted of food and the starvation that was happening, started shipping food. But of course, it wasn't this wasn't whole food stuff, this spam and potato chips or whatever else. And they started developing massively high rates of obesity, diabetes, quickly ensued. And so you had this population that was massively obese and diabetes. And the NIH decides to swoop in and address this problem by looking for a predisposing gene for obesity and diabetes. And they tested the blood of all these poor Indians. And it's like we can't see the forest on a tree. Yeah. There, we've been feeding them shit for decades. That is what's been driving the obesity in diabetes. It's not that they have a gene. They've had spontaneous mutations of the FTO gene that have now produced rampant obesity. Yeah.

=== FILE: What is autism spectrum disorder (ASD)？ ｜ Trenna Sutcliffe and Peter Attia [ELOAyMAosGc].txt ===

By the way, one of the reasons they actually went from the Asperger, syndrome, PDD, NOS, autistic disorder. They decided to call it all, because I was actually quite controversial when they actually decided to put all three of those things under one umbrella called autism spectrum. Was because clinicians did a really poor job of deciding which names did you were in? Which bucket you were in? So you would have it child. And one clinician would call it asperger syndrome, and another person would call it autistic disorder, another person would call the PDD NOS. So they decided, okay, rather than having these three names, let's put it all under autism spectrum. So then they put under autism spectrum, but then they have level one level two level three. But I would argue, I would still say that clinicians still struggle sometimes where there is a little bit of overlap. It's not always. Now, if you go back to DSM4, when, as you mentioned, physicians are struggling to know which of these buckets to put them into. As an outsider looking in, Mike first question is, does it matter in terms of treatment and resources? Does it matter more in terms of outcomes and support? Like there must be a reason why people cared about that. In other words, if you had a child in your 2000, who one clinician said, this kid has asked burgers syndrome, and other person said, no, they're autistic, was that going to make a material difference in the type of support that they got, and most importantly, the type of person they were going to turn into. Like, were they going to reach their full potential under differential capacity? Great question. So it did make a difference. So with respect to resources. So children with Aspergus syndrome, frequently did not get support or support covered. I see, okay. You needed autistic disorder to get support. And what about PDDNOS? Wait, it's about good. Yeah, people didn't know what to do with that. Got it. So you didn't even know what to do with that. So if by putting everything under autism, then it's like, okay, if you have autism, you should receive services. It was a tool to understand and get resources. Now, we have level one, level two, level three. Now, level one is it says requires support. Level two is require substantial support. Level three is require very substantial support. My concern is that, again, when a child is level one, they don't always get the support they need. Because they have so many strengths. So kids in level one have frequently, they have good cognitive skills. They have a lot of language skills. They struggle with some social skills. And they may have difficulties with executive functioning and coping skills at times. But again, it's considered mild and a lot of those kids don't get support. And I think that's unfortunate because they also are the kids that respond to intervention so well if they get a little coaching on how do you cope with distress? How do you cope with change? How do you practice some social skills? Not that they have to change. We don't need to change everything about them, but giving them a little bit of support about how to, again, be adaptive in a community, giving that support goes a long way in that group. But frequently, they don't get the support because they're called level one. You'll be understand the natural history of those kids back in the 70s and 80s, right? So back in the 70s and 80s when you and I were kids, nobody thought anything of those kids, right? They weren't going to, but certainly we're going to get labeled with autism. They certainly weren't going to show up with in-school programs to help them with their social skills and with their communication skills. As you point it out, they're intellectually not impaired, so it's not like they're going to struggle in school, but there's clearly something that they're struggling with. Right. I don't know if we, IMean, obviously it hasn't been studied, but I'm very curious based on your experience and your judgment, like are those people that just went on to pick careers where they didn't have to interact with people, but they could still do challenging cognitive work. How did those people, what was the natural history of them? They're clearly a lot of them. There are, there are a lot of them. And I think they did, they found a path that made sense to them. They obviously learned what their strengths were, and their strengths may have been around memory, detail oriented, following rules that are black and white. They may have had really wonderful cognitive skills in certain areas that were less around inferring and social skills and more concrete. And yeah, we don't have studies to say this for sure, but my guess is they have lived happy, successful lives, a lot of them, some of them. Doing things that they enjoy doing or passionate about. They probably have found ways to not engage in large social settings, but there's a lot of careers out there that are a good match, and they also have relationships and marriages. So to emphasize that, people with autism get married. Yeah. I think it's, IMean, I just think there's zero chance that there aren't thousands, if not tens of thousands of these people listening to us right now. Right, because they're adults today, and I wonder if they're listening to some of this and they're saying this resonates like I get that. And when I was a kid, I was hyper-focused on this stuff. I wasn't interested in a whole bunch of stuff. Yeah. It was a little harder for me to interact with other kids and things like that, and yet I found my path and here I am today. Yeah, so I talked to parents all the time about this because I evaluate children, I evaluate children for autism or ADHD, and very often when I'm evaluating the child, at some point, while I develop this relationship with the family, the parents say, gosh, so much of my child is in me. As you are described in my child, my child's strengths and challenges, and I see me, and this is exactly what I went through when I was young. And then they share how hard it was, and they say gosh, I never like, no one understood me or I felt bad because I was misunderstood or I thought it was my fault, and I didn't try hard enough. So I have to say it can be validating for an adult. She learned that it wasn't their fault, and this is part of their wiring. I have many, many parents who asked me, like should I go get a session now? Should I go say? We, I never say yes or no, I ask questions. I think information is power. I think it's good for them to be thinking about it, whether or not they go on to actually get assessed, a lot of them don't necessarily, but the autism piece, often they don't, with the ADHD piece, they often do, because they realize actually their ADHD traits are impacting their function, it's a success of their job. So sometimes they will actually go to a psychiatrist to get an assessment, but I do share with them the genetics, and the family history. So what do I say? I validate. I say yes, you're sharing, you're telling me that growing up, you had many traits that today, we would classify under one of these diagnoses, you're right, and it is possible because these things do run in families, and there is a highly genetic component. And I think sometimes just that conversation can be therapeutic itself in that someone feeling validated, and they have that aha moment, like, okay, this explains a lot, and then they can feel good as well, because they're like, okay, this explains a lot, and I've gone on, and I currently have my family, and I'm doing well in many parts of my life, but it helps them also understand, like, but now I understand why, sometimes I do have these challenges at work, or with my spouse. It's interesting, just sometimes having a perspective where now you can see your challenges through a different lens, sometimes helps a person, just actually now think about, okay, now I can adjust or understand the triggers, or think about, can reflect, to think about how do I wanna respond the next time? So I think again, that information's empowering, even if they don't ever go to therapy or do anything else, just actually starting to become informed about it, can help. Yeah, and I would imagine it helps them a lot with their child, because they're seeing both, hey, my child has this diagnosis that now partially explains, the challenges we might be having, et cetera, but at the same time, because I can empathize with that child if I've experienced it, it makes you better parent now. Do you, so everything you said makes a great case for widening the diagnostic envelope, because if we go back 40 years, we had this narrow, narrow envelope, and in other words, we had a test that had very, very high specificity, but very low sensitivity. You were missing a lot of people, but you didn't get any false positives. That's for sure, right? And you didn't over-pathologize. When someone was autistic, they were really autistic. Now, today we have the opposite problem, right? So we have a high sensitivity, low specificity test, sort of, I'm gonna get mad up, but you know, just to bring it to cancer diagnostics for people. So now, anybody who's autistic should get diagnosed, but then we're, you know, we're stretching what that means. And a lot of the people getting diagnosed today, frankly, maybe without any support would go on to do just fine. Do you worry that when the DSM6 comes out, it could have a wider envelope, and we could start to get to a point where someone might say, hey, are we over-patholic, over pathologizing this? Yes. And are we getting to a point where, well, what does normal even mean anymore? Oh, I agree with that so much. So I actually asked that question all the time. So I do wonder, like, we every time a child has a few of these traits, we have to give a name to it all the time. It's an interesting debate, and you will have your whole different perspectives. IMean, the name gives us a way to get resources and help people. And, but I also concerned that we, you know, we have to give everything a name. I actually wonder in the next DSM, whether, whether we'll tend to take it a step back, like the, whether the pendulum will swing a little bit. And when does that do? I don't know. What was the gap between three and four and four and five? So, you often, like, 15 years? I was like a couple decades, so. So it could be another decade. It could really be another decade. The decade, it can be. So, but level one, we were type of level one autism. So I'm going to tell you level one autism. Kid, the kids in that bucket might actually be part of several different diagnostic buckets. So, children who are identified with level one autism, one clinician, they see one clinician, that person may diagnose autism. They see a second clinician, that person may diagnose ADHD plus anxiety. They don't even call it autism. So, I see this all the time in my clinic. I have kids who come to clinic and they we see, you know, three other clinicians before they saw me. Really great clinicians. High standards, experts, but there's a lot of blurry lines with the level one autism. And you will hear different diagnoses. So back to your thoughts around like future DSM's, I wonder how we're going to address level one autism and whether all the kids, is it the same condition? Is that like how many different conditions are in the bucket? Um, see, to me, the way I would think about that is, I would hope that by the time we have to make that decision, we would have enough data. And the data would ask the most important question, which is how are we impacting outcomes, right? In other words, when we widen the diagnostic envelope and you know, said that, you know, we're going to now have this ASD class one in here. That opened the door for more resources, right? That, man, more kids had programs at school. What's it, what's it, what's it, IEP? IEP, more kids have IEPs at school. What is that, what does that say for individual education plan? Education plan. And at the end of the day, what we want to know is, are those kids doing better? And if the answer is yes, then it's probably worth keeping, right? If the answer is, that didn't make a darn bit of difference. Yeah. Then all we did was create a bunch of anxiety for the parents. And maybe it didn't. Now again, I don't know how one goes about answering that, but I would hope that somebody a lot smarter than me is thinking about it through that lens because we can't lose sight of the whole purpose of this. Like the purpose of the diagnosis in anywhere in medicine should be to impact an outcome. A diagnosis for the sake of a diagnosis is not a particularly valuable tool, unless you're an epidemiologist, but even there, it should be all in the spirit of how are we making people better. Yeah, I agree. And that's why again, I agree that the kids in level one should be receiving services. Yeah. Otherwise, what's the point of giving the diagnosis? Yeah. So they should be receiving service as well. And if we need to call it something by a different name, who cares as long as it gets the service that makes them better off than they would have been, had they received no service.

=== FILE: What is causing the current diabetes epidemic？ ｜ Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [tJTOP33r2Uo].txt ===

What has changed so much in the last 30 years that has created this epidemic? And everybody has their favorite pet theory for what it is. It's the sugar, it's the carbs, it's the plastics, it's the video games, it's the internet, it's the whatever. Perhaps suggesting that it's many, many things. What is your best explanation for what's going on? I would say all of the above process foods, chlorically dense foods lack of exercise or critical. But these are, I would say, the stimuli that has done something. That's changed the no circuitry in the brain. So yes, there's a stimulus and because now you've been over subscribed to these stimuli, that's now initiated a process in the brain, which is going to be a self-fulfilling process. This is something that I'm very interested in, Dr. Peter Fox and I at the Health Science Center. If you go through the literature and we've published on this as well, in the areas of the brain, they control food intake. And I'm not talking about the hypothalamus. That kind of regulates your basal energy intake. What you need to be, keep your BMI of 25, do what you do during the day. But what is it that makes you a BMI go to 35? That's all related to the hedonic areas in the brain. The putin, the amygdala, the prefrontal cortex, et cetera. And then when you do structural MRI, what you can show is that those areas in the brain, the gray matter is shrunk down. And if you now map the neurosurgery, which Peter Fox has been involved with, you can see that this clear disruption using functional MRI of the neurosurgery in the brain. We have a particular interest in defining where this function occurs. And we have some ideas which I'm not going to go into, but how we might be able to sort of reprogram the brain. And sort of in concert with this, these are not I'm data, but these are data that are published in the literature. And I think IMentioned this earlier. If you do an insulin clamp, okay, I told you that in URI, your brain doesn't respond by taking up glucose, but in people who are obese, actually almost impropositional to how obese you are in these areas and in the brain, the hedonic areas, there's a marked increase in, it's called Florida deoxy glucose, which is the pet railway step trace we use in these areas. And that correlates inversely with the muscle insulin resistance. The more insulin resistant they are in the muscle, the more FDG glucose. I'll take there is in the brain. Now this is very interesting because what it's saying, there's a connection that somehow or another, we believe that the brain is talking to the muscle, or the muscle is talking to the brain, and that that somehow or other, the brain is playing a very important role in the development of the insulin resistance and that in large part that this deranged neurosurgery, which is related to food intake, is now making you ORI. And as you ORI, then all of the things that we know that we've studied, that other people have studied, that go with lipo toxicity, you put fat in the muscle urine, some resistant, you put fat in the lip you got national, what people have totally overlooked, you put fat in the kidney disease, you put fat in the heart. Yeah, yeah. So you've been in San Antonio since the late 80s. When did you really start to notice this was a problem at least in your community? Almost instantly, tangiously, because I've run the Texas, even in kids, even in kids. And it was very clear. We can't blame video games, we can't blame social media because that wasn't going on in the late 80s. So I never saw fat kids at Yale. I was on the faculty from 75 to 88. And I kind of thought back now, I would say New Haven's not a large Hispanic, but it's more African-American. But I don't remember seeing 12 Euro kids with type 2 diabetes. And when I came here, and I remember this very distinctly, they're saying, oh, you're crazy. You can't, you don't think kids with type 2 diabetes. Believe me, I see it. And what did your colleagues at San Antonio tell you, as far as when they started to notice that in the Hispanic kids? I think they just, I don't know that I can give you a specific time that they told me except they knew it. But so, okay, what about in non-Hispanic kids? Because if the Hispanic kids are genetically predisposed, then thEQuestion becomes, when did you begin to see this in African-American kids and Caucasian kids? Yeah, so we don't have a large African-American population here. But like in Philadelphia, there's a lady, so we're, so we're our slaveyan, she sees the same thing. And she sees, I think it's a significant African-American population. So I think that in certain ethnic minorities, where the genes for diabetes are enriched, that those are the populations that are predisposed. And do you think this is mostly an energy balance issue and therefore it's mostly a food environment issue? No, I think it's both. So I told you, I'd come back to the genetics study that we did. We wanted to know what is the earliest defect that you can see in people who are going to develop type 2 diabetes. So we said, okay, in the Hispanic community it's very common to see mom and dad with diabetes. And it's very common to see a lot of children in these families. So we said, why don't we go look at the children? And let's see if we can define because they're at high risk. Yeah. And if you have mom and dad with diabetes, you probably have a 78% chance if you're Hispanic. If you're born in that family developing diabetes. It was very easy to find the children. The problem was we couldn't find lean children. So it took us a while because if you're obese, then you got the lipo toxicity. So we finally found them. This is a JCI paper I believe. And so we did insulin clamp. There is resistant is there parats. They have normal glucose tolerance. Well, because the insulin levels are astronomical. And then we do a muscle count. How high just for understanding? Oh, they're like two times normal. Even higher sometimes. We do a muscle biopsy. The same defect in the insulin signaling pathway. How many of the tyrosine kinase defects do they have? They have starts at IRS one. insulin bind to the receptor is okay. Just like their parents. The ability to activate these insulin signaling pathway, the level of the IRS one, it's already well established. Which enzyme in particular? It starts at the level of IRS one. Sure, it's at the first one. Yeah. Also it's not just one enzyme. Well, it no, it's IRS one. You can't tyrosine phosphorylated. You cannot activate P.R. Okay. So it starts at IRS one. Yeah. And then the other thing, JCI and I have both done this in somewhat different ways. So Jari, I'm talking about Jari Schultm, he uses anMR by looking phosphate derivatives. Even though I believe the primary defect is in the signaling pathway, there's clearly severe impairments in glucose trensport and phosphorylation. His work would suggest that the primary defect is at the level of glucose trensport. We developed a novel triple tracer technique using three isotopes infused into the break-ill artery. We believe that the primary defect is at the level of hexokinase and phosphorylating glucose. So we kind of agreed to disagree because we can't do this study. And we'd have to do the MRI study at the same time we're doing the triple tracer technique. In addition to the insulin signaling defect, there's a severe defect in glucose trensport and phosphorylation. Once let's just make sure people understand this is we're kind of getting into some biochemistry here. Yeah. When glucose enters the cell, passively through the trensgloat. It gets pre glucose in the cell. Yes. Then to metabolize it. Yep. The first step to that is hexokinase, which takes a phosphate off ATP and puts it on the six position if we're not mistaken. It's a specific type of hexokinase that's hexokinase do. Yeah. Because there's a different one in the muscle and the liver, correct? And that is correct. So, Gerry would say the primary defect is in glute for the trensporter. Yes. I would say yes. That is severely impaired. But even more severe. What does remind me what Gerry believes is wrong with the glute for trensporter? That it doesn't work normally. I thought it worked fine. It's just not getting the signal to work because of IRS one. That's what the controversy is. How, how do when you have a severe, we are the first to show this defect in muscle. But with the only people I think they're showing this in human muscle, it's been shown in rats, et cetera. To me, metabolism and rats and mice, this is all people data. So, you're saying, it's possible that just having the IRS one problem is enough. It's also possible that even if IRS one is functioning reasonably, if glute for is not getting up. And that's the problem. And there is evidence to support that. And then it's also possible that even if all those things work, if you don't get hexachinase to phosphorylate glucose, you back up the whole system. And I can show you this is a primary defect. In pyruvate dehydrogenase in in glutech and synthase. This comes back. I have an ominous octet for the insulin resistance. Okay. This is why people don't understand. Look, there are eight organ sort of things that are a problem. There are eight problems I can show you within the muscle. Why you think one drug is going to correct all these problems? We need drugs that work on the beta cell. We need insulin sensitizes. We probably need different types of insulin sensitizing drugs. We need drugs that reverse the lipo toxicity. And you know, what we ever have a single magic bullet that corrects all of these? You know, probably not. I think until we discover the genetic basis. And remember, I said the diabetes is a heterogeneous disease. And I did in diabetes metabolism reviews. I would say 30 years ago, I wrote a review article that said, I can put a defect in the muscle in reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the liver and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the fat cell and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the beta cell and reproduce diabetes. And I went back and read that and I said, I can put a defect that starts in the brain and reproduce diabetes. So we see some of the they wouldn't see of eight or nine. All these defects we've been talking about. They're already there. So you put that defect in the fat cell. They can look lean. And there's a syndrome called Alzheimer's syndrome. There's a specific defect. And this is white adipose. There's this Phil Cher will love me for saying this. He's the top guru and Adipose, I'm up in Dallas. It's also from syndrome. There's a specific defect in the glucose trensporter in white adipose tissue. You know what happens? You become diabetic. You know what happens? You know what happens? You get nash. So here's a defect that I said like 30 years ago. I just postulated and said, here's a syndrome. And not only that, now that they define this in people in this paper, they then went to the animal model and they knocked out the gene that's causing the defect. And they reproduce diabetes in normal rat model. That was modeled.

=== FILE: What is insulin resistance？ ｜ Dr. Ralph DeFronzo [rKifrUWMgtY].txt ===

Let's maybe talk a little bit about what insulin resistance is. We'll get into what causes it, but let's just maybe define for people this term that gets thrown around constantly. And let's explain what it is from a technical standpoint. Yeah, so basically every time you eat a meal and your blood sugar level goes up, you're going to release insulin. And insulin is sort of a mass deregulator for all biochemical processes in the body. So one of the things that insulin is going to do is going to talk to your muscles, and it's say take up glucose and burn that glucose. So what we need to know is in a normal person, one of the issues in insulin, how much of the glucose is taken up by the muscle. And then we could look at someone who is, say overweight, oh, if you look at someone who's diabetic, and I actually develop the goals they in the technique, which is the insulin clamp technique to look at this. So we could take an obese person or a diabetic or a normal person. We raise the insulin, and then I'm using muscle as an example. How much glucose is taken up that's supposed to be by the muscle. And then I can compare if you're overweight, compared to the lean person. Well, obese people are very insulin resistant in terms of muscle glucose uptake. I could look at the diabetic. They're even more insulin resistant. But there are many processes that insulin control. So insulin regulates how much fat is released from your fat cells. And obese people, unfortunately, insulin keeps the fat in your fat cell. But in obese people, insulin doesn't work so well. So instead of keeping the fat in the fat cell, even though your insulin is high, you're breaking down the fat. So you have to look at each individual process that insulin is controlling. And so for that process, we know this is what a normal person should respond like. This is what a diabetic response like. And the diabetic is much, much more insulin resistant than not responding. So it's in a certain way, it's a general term because insulin controls so many things. Protein metabolism. insulin is very important in helping you to build protein. So I could infuse insulin and we've done this using carbon label loose in. And we can define how insulin promotes protein metabolism in a normal healthy person. And then I could do the same kind of study in a obese person. And we know that the obese people don't respond to the insulin as well in terms of aggregating protein metabolism. So it's kind of a general term. Does that trenslate not just to structural proteins, such as enzymes or cellular structural proteins, but also macros structural proteins such as muscle? Absolutely. So I can look at specific enzymes within the cell. I can look at certain genes within the cell that are turned on or off. Or I can look at muscle in terms of muscle is a bulk. So there are many, as I said, many ways in which you could define insulin resistance. But basically whatever the particular process you're looking at, you're comparing what would be the normal response in a normal healthy person compared to what might happen in a diabetic person or an obese individual. So one of the challenges with the term insulin resistance is, as you said, it's a vague term and it's non-specific because the actions of insulin are so many. It has an action in the liver. It has an action in the muscles. It has an action with response to glucose. It has an action with response to amino acids. And it has an action with response to fat, both in the liberation of fat, lipolysis and presumably in response to oxidation. Absolutely. Thank you.

=== FILE: What is the best way to determine “biological” age？ Is it an age clock？ I would argue, not yet… [1N1sM5sCRc4].txt ===

So, I came across a comment on social media the other day, said biological age versus real age is a total scam. If you want to see your real age, look at a master's category of athletic feats, such as a one-mile run time, not some scammy algorithms. If the body can't physically express a performance, then you're the age on a birth certificate. I posted that, I reposted that and said, yep, totally agree with this. And a lot of interesting comments and questions came in, but the one that I wanted to chat about was one that said Peter, IMean, yeah, this kind of makes sense, but like, why would physical tests be a better measure of biological age than fancy biomarkers? And I reflected on and I said, IMean, I don't know if I responded on social, but anyway, I thought I would do this. What I want to say is the following, ultimately physical performance is indeed the best metric of the limits of capacity. So there are non-physical performance metrics that we can look at as well. I could look at your kidney function. I could look at your glomerular filtration rate. And that would certainly be a marker of age. But honestly, it's only in an extreme case, would that give me an insight. In other words, only if somebody is 50, and they have a glomerular filtration rate of somebody who's 80, would I say the negative. But the positive isn't really there. If you look at my glomerular filtration rate, it's over 100. That doesn't really tell you much about me, even though I'm over 50 years old. It tells you that my kidneys are in great shape. But it doesn't tell you that I have the kidneys of a 20-year-old becausEQuite frankly, they haven't really deteriorated in any measurable way since I'm 20. The same would be true of my ejection fraction. It's really good today. Now, of course, there are certain other factors that invariably go down. Resting heart rate goes down, heart rate variability, a primary resting heart rate goes up, heart rate variability goes down. But ultimately, if you really want to understand biological age, I really like this idea, if we should look at physical metrics, right? We should be looking at VO2 Max. We should be looking at strength. We should be looking at hardcore performances, including other things, by the way, that are a little more subtle than the aggregate pieces. But we would want to look at things like balance. So how well can you stand on one leg with your eyes closed? How long can you do that? And can you even do more challenging things like turn your head? Push-ups, pull-ups. All of these things really matter. And here you start to see an enormous gradation between people, even at the same age, be it 20, 30, 50, et cetera. So am I optimistic that we will have blood-based biomarkers that give us more insight about age as time goes on? Absolutely. Do I think they are all complete and utter garbage today? No, I don't. I think there are some out there that probably give us a little bit more of an indication of rate of change of age than actual age. But at the end of the day, I don't believe that there's a single blood-based biomarker that you can look at and it can predict future years of life very well. So in other words, if you get a biological test at the age of 50 that says you are 25, before you give yourself high fives, ask yourself the following question. Does that really mean that you're going to live another 55 years, which is what you would expect if you're 25 years old? And I think the answer is no. If your chronological age is 50 and you get this test, I don't think it means you're going to live to be 105. So anyway, don't discount the basics. The basics are how well you physically perform.

=== FILE: What is the blood-brain barrier and what role does it play in neurodegenerative disease？ [ZJLz_Ba8a1I].txt ===

Tell folks what the blood brain barrier is. I think it's obviously going to be an important part of this discussion, and not everybody might understand what it is or why it's so important. So the blood brain barrier, and this is again, I am not a neuroscientist. I'm just, I am a scientist, but I have an interest in this. And so I've done a lot of reading in this field. The blood brain barrier serves a couple of functions. IMean, one is it is providing, it's, there's a combination of different cell types, then make up the blood brain barrier, and a lot of vascular church, right? And so blood flow, things are brought to the blood brain barrier, and oxygen glucose, other nutrients, and they are trensported across the blood brain barrier. But it also, as the word implies, barrier provides a barrier to things that you don't want to get into your brain. So we don't want blood cells getting into our brain. We don't want a variety of other molecules, proteins that are floating around in our circulation to get into our brain. And so when the blood brain barrier begins to break down, and it's kind of a, people, I think, are a lot more familiar with when the barrier that got barrier starts to break down, I think it's a sort of become more of a common theme that people are focused on gut health. And so you'll hear the word, mostly you hear the word leaky gut. I don't really like that term. I think it's intestinal permeability. But the tight junctions, these proteins that are holding endothelial cells together in the gut, when those open up, you get that term, you know, leaky gut, or as it really should be called intestinal permeability. Well, in the brain, you also have endothelial cells, and you have tight junctions. And when those tight junctions also break apart, and we can talk about like what's, you know, at the root of that, that leads to permeability of the blood brain barrier. And therefore, two things happen, you know, one, you are allowing them things from circulation to get into the brain, cause which, you know, wreaks havoc on the brain and sort of leads this vicious cycle of neuro-inflammation, inflammation in the brain. But also, you're disrupting the trensport of important nutrients, oxygen, you know, glucose. IMean, blood flow is disrupted to the brain as well. So the blood brain barrier and maintaining that integrity is very important. And both apoi for and tight junyabetes lead to permeability of that. And so with tight junyabetes, you know, people have hypoglycemia, right? They have elevated blood glucose levels. And that over time, leads to advanced glycation and products. These are basically like the cross, they cross-link proteins and, you know, a variety of other things that, you know, in the vasculature. And that basically damages the blood brain barrier and leads to permeability. Um, apoi for it's a, you know, there's a variety of other mechanisms that happen. But essentially, you can measure the permeability of the blood brain barrier, looking at a variety of biomarkers and proteins in cerebells, spinal fluid, but also in plasma. And these have been shown by a doctor's love of it, doctor, montane to occur. IMean, it's like decades before the onset of, you know, cognitive impairment. And it's literally, you can find it in more than 50% of all dementia. So it's, and it's happening independent of, of amoloid accumulation, towel tangles as well. So it's, you know, either something that's happening before, well before. And in fact, blood brain barrier permeability is also, um, the blood brain barrier is essential for removing toxic compounds from the brain. And, um, a variety of different processes, you know, happen to allow this to occur. So, um, for example, you, you activate the eclinophatic system during sleep, right? And a lot of people aware of this. You brain sort of swells during sleep. And the glyphatic system is pushing this reable spinal fluid through the brain, clearing out debris, um, amoloid plaques, you know, things like that. Well, that doesn't, you need the blood brain barrier to be intact, because you want to, to occur. Yeah. So IMean, that makes sense. That basically, if you have blood brain barrier permeability happening, that you would start to have the accumulation of amoloid. So it's sort of like, um, and accumulation of amoloid. I never thought of that by the way, Rhonda. That's that I'd never thought of what you just said, which is if your blood brain barrier can't hold the back pressure, which is what would be the case. If it were permeable, you would not have the back pressure to maintain the glimphatic flow that never actually occurred to me so you said that. So very interesting, mechanistic tie to that problem. Right. And there's also like the other types of, and I'm not familiar with all the types of ways of brain. Like there's other like parent chemins, stuff that are like, you know, clening out the brain, all of those things are not happening as good when your blood brain barrier, you know, is dysfunctional, right? And then another point is the ability of things to interrupt and get into the brain that shouldn't. So one of the things, you know, everybody learns in pharmacology or medical school is that there are certain drugs that penetrate the blood brain barrier. There are certain drugs that do not. The implication being certain molecules can pass through certain molecules cannot. Well, presumably the leekier that barrier is the more things that maybe we evolved to not have across that barrier do indeed cross. And perhaps that's a part of what you've just said, right, which is this increase in inflammation that is now coupled with an inability or a decreased ability to clear out debris. Exactly. In fact, so work from Dr. Montaine has shown that five brinagin, which is UNI, are familiar with this protein. It's something, if you are measuring, you're doing an inflammatory biomarker panel, right? IMean, so that's, it's a protein that's involved in blood coagulation, but it's also something that is a marker of inflammation, you know? And phybrinagin is not supposed to be in the brain, but it's found in the brain in people with a leaky blood-brain barrier. And not only, so what's it doing in there, it disrupts a cell type called oligodendrocytes. These are a cell type that make myelin, that sort of fatty white structure that's important for electric signals being fired throughout the, you know, brain. And it's basically toxic to them. So you basically start to have these, you know, lesions and stuff in the white matter, part of the brain, white matter, hyperintensity, as you're probably very familiar with, a very common in small vessel disease. Also, you can see that in people with Alzheimer's as well. But, you know, getting that phybrinagin in the brain, like that, that's happening because it's allowed to get in there. And that, you know, so, so the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, again, like as you mentioned, you know, basically preventing stuff from getting in your brain, that you don't want in there. That's number one. But also the trensport, I think you also alluded to this, you're not getting things like glucose into the brain. And in fact, all these trensporters, they're in the endothelial cells. They're in these cells that are making up the blood-brain barrier. And when you start to disrupt that blood-brain barrier, those trensporters, like, are dysfunctional. You know, so your, for example, one of them is the glut-one trensporter, this trensports glucose, into the brain. As you start to get a disruption in blood-brain barrier, function, glucose trensporters, they go down. And so you're talking about, like, not getting enough glucose into the brain, which is, again, that's one of the, you know, pathological features of Alzheimer's disease, right? Not getting enough glucose into the brain.

=== FILE: What the Dying Teach Us About Living ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [5HVa2sqhjJc].txt ===

You've always spent a lot of time with people in, um, by definition, the final stage of their life. What, what have you learned? What have you learned that changes the way you live your life or the way you want to live your life? Well, I could say something, you know, there's, you can't huge beautiful question, just Peter, but one is, and maybe this is some really freer audience. I think we all would love to, you know, I think many of us would say we'd love to be fearless and learn to go into our death, unaffraid or, um, live a life so conscious that we have no regrets. I like to kind of just, and my patients have taught me to kind of undo those strengles holds a little bit. It's more of the truth that I've learned from folks at the end is more like have a change your relationship to fear, your relationship to regret. The mark of living with no regrets, yeah, there might be an, there may be something for you in that, but I'm not sure how, if you're being really honest with you yourself, how possible that is. So it's not necessarily, it's, it, the lesson has something to do with coming around to accepting everything that's in you, including the gnarly stuff like regret and fear and even suffering. Are there certain regrets that people have shared with you more, more often than others? Well, invariably, or a bit invariably, but they all, the common thread, depending on sort of, whether it's I regret working to my choreograph, you know, didn't spend this, I didn't tell my kids, I love them, the sort of the standard, regret menu. What they all seem to have in common is they regret not letting themselves feel or not letting themselves be true to the, what they actually felt, something got in their shame or something else, wedged in themselves and separated themselves from themselves or separated themselves from other people they love. And the regret has something to do about artificially or accidentally putting a wedge between you and anything. You know, like, you could have been, spent a lifetime running from fear, but if you've watched a lot of people come around to, when they finally got the cue that fear was just a natural part of being in a body, like they became okay with fear, they took away that sort of secondary shaming of fear. And then then fear became this, it was sort of right size to them and it was defanged and I've seen that play out a lot and the same with regret. You know, so it's, I think the commonality back to your question is something to do with not being quite true to themselves or not allowing, trying to keep something out of their experience and all the work they did and when they come to realize that it's all got to go anyway, you kind of welcome even pain to feel anything is kind of wild and magical. Do people need to be really close to the end to typically come to that near inevitable realization? Or is that something people are realizing six months out where they can do something about it, where they still have all their faculties and they can still, you know, mend a bridge or, um, a mend a relationship? Yeah, absolutely. It can happen anytime. Kids, back to kids, they're doing, you know, they're not gumbing their own works up. They can do that pretty. And so, yes, we can do this. We can learn to do this. It's one of the reasons why we would invite this subject into our daily lives. If you look out to window, death and life are happening all the time you see it on your windshield, you see it's like this is, it's all over the place. If you can sort of really be aware or let these messages in, then you can let the lessons in too towards reconciliation or why hold a grudge. Why, be on any, why would you ever cause suffering in another person knowingly or in yourself included, et cetera? So yeah, and Buddhism is sort of a lot sort of founded around this question and to give you a life of practice around meditation, how do you hold your mind so that you don't suffer unnecessarily so that you can be okay with the fact of your death? So yeah, there are bodies of scholarship, bodies of thought and just your own personal experience of living daily life. If you let it in, you can gain these lessons anytime along the way of life. Yeah, IMean, I don't, you know, if I think about my own learning, like you, you can't, I don't think really hang out in this space a lot and not really wrestle with the reality that we don't know when we're going to die, which means that this is my life. IMean, I think that's, I've got two young kids so regular, I'm like, okay, this is my life, this is my life, just as like a management strategy. But I think there's also like a a a tethered reality that like this moment is what I have. Right? It is not, it may start to sound trait, but it is not tomorrow. It's not promised to me. Ten years is not promised to me. And if thought is true, can I use that as this reminder that like this moment, the way that I speak to you, being tender when I do things out of my value system, right? Sting really connected to now, right? Is the invitation that comes from, or comes next to our has come for me in being so aware of mortality, right? And that, you do not have to be sick. You do not have to be facing that in real life. No one in your life has to be dying right now to be really, to just take pause and be like, this is my life. This moment and then the next, do I remember that all the time? Absolutely not, but it is a very available reminder. Practice. Yeah. I stay, I intentionally stay connected to it. I intentionally make it something my kids can be connected to because it's an arguable. We can have three different takes on everything that we've said today, but it is in arguable that we are always living in the reality that we don't know when we're going to die. Yeah. Amen, sister. And I think that's a good back to sort of the do's and don'ts. Do have a relationship with all, with mystery, with not knowing. Do have a relationship with the present moment. You know, those are some pretty good do's. I don't want to, what I'm saying is not like light or easy. It doesn't make me not afraid. It doesn't make me, you know, I feel very aware of how much I want to be alive and how long I hope my life is. And also humbled by the fact that like what I have influence over in control over really in arguably is right now. And I hear you're not being ashamed of your fear and that's a difference. I do a lot of people would be afraid and then what they're really experiencing is the shame of being fearful. I'm very terrified every time I get on a plane. Yeah. So I think also sort of debatailing to is this word control comes up. Yeah. It's a big one. And I think in terms of if we're, you know, remotely dispense any advice, you know, it would be, you know, the frenety prayer. It comes up a lot one way or another. I think a lot of your listeners will know this, you know, essentially sort of the ability to discern what you can control and focus some efforts there and let go of all the things you can't control. And maybe in the middle identify that even though there are some huge things we can't control, there is a lot we can influence. And those are different and that there's like kind of the spets spectrum between control influence and like, you know, surrender. And how do we build our flexibility? Well, and how do you learn to sit with? I think that message of the Trinity prayer often I hear people myself included in the past, but some friends take that that wisdom of that message and say, okay, I'm just going to focus my attention on what I can control. Sorry, send like, and then they have a lifetime of sort of focusing their line of sight in one direction. I think what we let go of as the other half of that message, which is, not, don't give it shit about it because you can't control it. Like, learn, sit with all that you can't control practice, not being in control. That will serve you very well as you had to your death. What, what about the role of forgiveness? How often do you encounter the dying who are wrestling with needing the forgiveness of someone or needing to forgive someone? It's a big theme. It's written about a fair amount that I love, you know, the things to kind of focus on. I'm saying out loud, I love you. I forgive you. Please forgive me. These are, thank you. Thank you. These are, and there's, you know, these are tried and true messages that seem to cut a cost culture and stand up pretty well. But so back to your specific question about forgiveness, I don't know how to often. I guess I would say more commonly what I see people needing to learn how to do is forgive themselves. It's probably, you know, picking something and sort of common. That one comes, I see that a lot. How does it present? How do you encounter it? Being at odds with themselves? You know, when there is no buggy man, there is no, they're just not comfortable with themselves. They're at odds with themselves, self-loathing, self-critical, even in the final weeks of life. Some, if they've had enough, you know, we have a bias, there's a bias. All the people we've seen have had the benefit of hospice and balance. But if Karen, so they've been loved on, they've been heard. They've been, you know, so there's an inborn bias to our experiences. I don't know if I have like a good answer about the forgiveness piece. I think, I think it comes up. I don't know that I think it comes up a lot, a lot. Yeah. Again, I think that might be the bias of people that you've spent time with over time. Those things have gotten to. They're not a death. There's no need for a death bed. IMean, there's not a lot of trueisms in this piece that I generally vibe with and I'm pretty allergic to most of them. But I will say that I do think there's kind of something to like people die the way that they live. Right? Like, for most people, those who lived in love die surrounded by love kind of thing. Yeah, that or like, if you had a lot of people around you, maybe there's going to be more people around you. If you're a person that dug into your life and really investigated your mind and you did that relationally and you shared your reflections and like that's also more likely to happen when you're dying. Right? So if there's an experience you would like to happen if you're imagining into the future, you're like, I think dying in this way would be okay or more tolerable or nice or beautiful. Start doing it now. Like, you want to forget, like, you're worried about forgiveness, like, investigate that now. You want to feel more connected. How do you do that? You want to be in your body more? How do you do that? Right? Like, that's the best way to get there at the end. Is that you're building those muscles now? IMean, some people do one 80s with with a big diagnosis or the awareness that they're dying, but mostly we lean on the places that we have hyperdeveloped. Because they're comforting, because they're familiar in the face of this kind of vast thing. IMean, that might be the single most important insight of them all, which is we die how we lived and we will, what's the expression? We rise to the level of our trening. It's something that affects right? And it's in sports. We talk about that. Right? At fatigue, you rise to the level of your trening. And so we will default to our regular strategies. The strategies that got us through life are probably the strategies that will get us through death. And so what we should all be doing is imagining the death we want and begin practicing that at life and make that our scaffolding today. I think it's about as good as advice as I can imagine. Especially if you fill in the caveat that long the way I learn to deal with things when they don't go as planned, you know, again. So that you don't have this sense of failure at the end. IMean, one of the saddest things I think we see is people who feel like they're failing at dying. So we don't want to set it up as an accomplishment, per se, or an achievement per se. But your advice sounds really good to me. Right? Like we can't control for the outcome with certainty. But we can build the muscles and the capacities that that are most likely going, there are going to help us land in that place. You know, if you're a person who builds new coping skills or new ways of being in high stress adversity, like you'll probably do that, then. Right? Yeah, that's all right. It feels like a throwaway line. When do we begin dying? IMean, you don't become a different person when you're dying. You're still going to be Peter. You're going to be a bridge. I'm going to be a DJ. And that, you know, so has already begun. That active dying we never finished answering that question. What goes in that? Like the final day or two when the body is really shutting down. So active dying has its own kind of frame and we can revisit that any other time. But everything up to that is some form of living. So you can begin practicing this dying thing today. I'm Peter at you. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter atiamed.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: When to Have Sex for the Highest Chance of Getting Pregnant ｜ Paul Turek, M.D. [sC3_H4HRSB0].txt ===

is there a frequency of ejaculation that is too much that if a guy is say ejaculating every single day, is that insufficient to get a complete replenishment where if he's having infertility, you would say you got to move it to every other day or whatever the number is. So that's a great extrapolation of the pot of the pot of soup idea. And so on that note, I would say typically we recommend every two days of abstinence between the SX every other day to optimize. But not for the semen analysis, that's for conception. Okay. Because depends on what you are in your biology, but most men need a day or two to refill to recharge completely a day or two. So that's why we do that, that's why we recommend that. That's sort of a generalization, some men are fine every day. Okay. I had a guy once who had to bank sperm for hepatitis treatment. And he was like, Mickey Rork, and he had a one leg and he was about 50. And I said, you're going to need to abstain for a couple of three days to do this semen analysis so we could stamp I want it to be optimized when he looked at his partner. And he goes, and she looked at me and she goes, and he grabs, he grabs him and says, you can't do that. He's every day, you can't do that. I'm always going to do. So he was panicking. He had to hold off for a day. It was like, I was like, I said, I have sex. He said twice a day every day. Like, look, so that was great. Then I had one man, wonderful orthopedic surgeon at Stanford. And I asked him, on my questionnaire, I said, how often do you have sex? And he wrote, 0.00, 0.155.6. He divided once a year. Well, 0.00 weekly. Well, 0.155, I was like, you know, obligatural number, right? Which many was so frustrated that it was a beautiful way to say that. It was 0.00, 0.355. Yeah. So anyway, the, yeah. So that's, so there for a semen analysis for diagnostics for infertility, when you, when you abstain longer your sperm count will rise, but your motility will fall because it's older. So there's a, you know, there's a, there's a max curve that you're optimizing for, which you would say is three days would be about right. When you're not going to gain that much, you're not going to lose that much motility. After that, it starts going, so there's sort of biological variability, which we try to minimize when we do the semen analysis. So two to four days of abstinence, that's a different period than what we're recommending for sex, which is every other day. And that's based on knowing the journal paper where you looked at, they looked at, I think, 700 couples and they had them keep diaries. They was a Boston based paper, keep diaries of how they had sex when they got regulated and when they got pregnant. And then they said, do what you don't really do and then give us the diaries. And then they evaluated them and they found that having sex, say, ovulation is day 15 of the cycle. When they started having sex on 9, 11, 13, there were significant pregnancy rates. And every other day was the optimal interval. But even five days before and three days before, there were substantial pregnancy rates before ovulation. But if you waited to ovulation and then had sex, that's about 20% of conception. So when you get the kit, don't react to it, predict in front of it. So front load the sex. Very important point. And why is that? Is that because does a reservoir effect in this uterus? It's managed sperm survival for a day or two? So an end-on distress. If ovulation is day 15, how could a day 11 sperm survive four days? That's, it's nurtured once it's passed the vagina. But how many of them are surviving? Is it literally the lone wolf or is it the last hundred? Maybe some of this sperm bind to the oviduct and wait. Where is it remind me where the oviduct is? The uterus and then the philloping tubes and that's the oviduct and the oviduct is right below the blood. That's the total percentage of the oviduct. They bind to the endophilium and just park. There's no egg. They'll just sit there and they'll just walk. So again, going back to our moon analogy, this is after you've done stage one, stage two, stage three. You're now out of gravity, right? Like it's actually not an energetic problem anymore. Right? Or not, right? That's right. You've escaped the hostile environment. In this case of ground. So now it's fun place. It's the right pH. It's warm. So do we have a sense? This would be a very interesting experiment of what is the longest duration that a sperm could survive for conception. In other words, to do the experiment, let's just make it as a thought experiment. You had a large number of women that you knew were going to ovulate on day 15. And then you would have them, you know, have intercourse on day seven, eight, nine, ten. And you create a histoplot or a distribution of what's the frequency of pregnancy across those things. And kind of ask like what's the bottom fifth percentile, which is the theoretical possibility. That's a good one. And then the same thing after, right? You want to develop the value curve of the whole thing. But we know that once the egg is ovulated about eight hours, and then it's over. This is not very important point. It really needs to be front. If it's only eight hours of survival, this is after ovulation, but eight hours instead, if it's not, this is a very, very left-tail curve. Correct. I did not know that. I don't want to sperm there ahead of time. So 80% of conception is naturally her at home. A curve when sex is front loaded as opposed to reacting to ovulation. And most of the apps that are available nowadays will tell you them. Peter, you're drawing a graph. I am. I have to draw. And it looks like it's algebraic. This is incredible. Okay. Yeah, just this is, it's easier for me to think about these things graphically. And to think that it basically shuts off at about eight hours. So I give some, some more physiology. I, there was a study that should how long it took to make a sperm. And it was published in science, I think, in the 60s. And they gave men, uh, trudyated water, they gave men, yeah. They gave men radioactive hydrogen. Trudyated water. Yeah. And then they biopsy their testicles, which would never be done nowadays. But I did it all different. I gave duet rated water with a, with a group at Berkeley. And we gave healthy men, uh, durated water for a week. And, and then we checked with the first, sorry, dumb question. Why didn't they just measure the ejaculate? Why did they have to biopsy this, the testicles? Why did they just want to know about us from out of Genesis? But we didn't. We about the testicles. We wanted to torture the guys. But they weren't, I don't know. What, that's wild. But that was the best data. And we did do derated water, which is not radioactive. And we could measure that. So we gave them a dose. And then we watched their ejaculate weekly. Yep. And we looked for when they were rated, the hydrogen showed up in the DNA. And it was an average of 74 days. So no, almosT3 months to make a sperm. So someone were 42 days. And that's making that's going to the epididum is and getting ejaculated. So that's, you know, some, so we talked about maybe two months in the testist and two weeks, a week or two in the epididum is and then maybe a couple of weeks to ejaculate. And this was all the average 74 days. So actually, it changed the timeline enormously to a much faster one. That. So 74 days. So when you do anything to a man for utility wise, you, you're not going to expect to see anything change for at least two and a half months. And when you talk about full replacement of that semen, it's probably, it's probably in the being 90 days. When it's all replaced, the pot is replaced. Yep. So that's a limitation of what we do because 42 are all women want now. And we have three to six months. When I did a study on fixing varicocials, which is an infertility problem in men, it's surgery. And I looked at the mean time to conception. It was about seven months after repair, which is two cycles of sperm production. I'm Peter Ratea. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused, premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter RateaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: Why Kids Shouldn’t Specialize Too Early in Sports｜ Jeff Cavaliere, Mike Boyle & Gabrielle Lyon, D.O. [LmCi46JoZ6I].txt ===

We live in a world now, it seems, where coaches want kids to specialize earlier and earlier. Most of the kids have a coach, a coach outside of a position coach outside of the team. Now, my intuition is, that just doesn't make sense. So, what tell me what you guys think of that? Do you have a soap box available for me to jump up on? Absolutely. One, I always say follow the money. Right? If you look at most of these people that are telling you that kids need year-round sports, or people who are making their living from year-round sports, if you look at what most professionals allow athletes are doing, they're not doing that with their kids. If you look at what most coaches are doing, they're not doing that with their kids, what you usually find is some entrepreneur who has developed Joe's baseball, and he needs income year-round because he doesn't have Joe's baseball and lacrosse. He just says Joe's baseball. So, as a result, they start telling you, they start giving you that early specialization myth. Hey, you gotta get started early, and if you get started early, you do better, and if you get senior age, so somebody Twitter the other day, somebody said, that, you know, scouting starts now at 10 you. This was a woman who runs a softball development program. And I just, I literally, I typed these, I said, no, that's absolutely bad information. They start using words like development and exposure. The reality is, if you said, I have an eight year old who really likes baseball, the number one thing I would tell you is make him do something else besides baseball. My daughter was a full scholarship, I saw a key player very, very good play to year, and the women's professional league. He had a scholarship when she was 15 years old. I didn't let her play in a summer tournament until she was 13, and people would say, all the time, can we can make a kale play in this tournament? Can she play in that tournament? Like, nope, no, look, what is what she doing? So it's gonna go to the lake, she's gonna water ski, she's gonna be on swim team. She took up diving one summer because they needed a diver, and she became the U12 diver because the guy started throwing herself off the diving board, and said, oh, she's fearless, I'll teach you to dive, and I'll say, how many hours will you take her for? And he's like, a couple hours a week, I was like, awesome. But so we made her do that, we made her play soccer. She did judo, she was state judo champion when she was 12. The kids that are better athletes do better in the long run. You end up with as a whole early sixth-seater phenomenon that we deal with. And early sixth-seaters, generally they won the the genetic Olympics. They generally tend to be from groups that that develop earlier. And they will tend to be ahead when they for us, from in my years, it was the Greeks and the Italians kids. They always mature. They were the ones that were shaving in junior high school, and they were much better in junior high football than the rest of us were, because they weighed 190 pounds and we weighed 130 pounds. And you just look at that and think that's not going to have any bearing on the end. You have to look, this is the literal marathon versus sprint argument. In terms of, you've got to look at this and think, no, this is a developmental marathon. And the kids who sample tend to do better, like your kid loves baseball now. But you don't necessarily know that that will be my son, love talk, he's playing calls across. He was playing baseball in across at the same time and eventually we were. Did you feel this way even if the kid is themselves wanting to play all the time? Would you sort of force, I guess? I forced my daughter. My daughter was hockey only. She was that's all I want to do. And I said, I don't care. So she was not thrilled about the idea that you weren't letting her play in a summer tournament. Yep. Angry at times with me fights about why can't I do this? Because she knew she could go and be the best player and I said, I don't care if you're the best player when you're 12. I care if you're the best player when you're 18. And so being the best player at 12, I'm not getting any ego gratification by going to this tournament and realizing that you made the 12 year old all stars or something like that. So yeah, we had fights, we had fights about soccer. IMade it player, you 14 year soccer. And I did, but the specialization thing, I always think up to 12, broadest sampling possible. The more things they can possibly do the better, the more because we're trying to develop general athletic attributes. You'll see the kids in hockey that played soccer because their kids can pick up pucks in their feet. My son picked up lacrosse really fast because he played baseball and he played hockey and he understood the whole idea. Oh, we score this and that. I can catch things extended. All that stuff made perfect sense to him when he went to lacrosse and lacrosse ended up coming together. But if you weren't sampling, you don't know. You just think, I always say, this is a terrible analogy, but I'm going to use it anyway. I said, if your son came to you and said, I really like cocaine at this point. It's the only thing that I want to do. You would be like, no, we're not going to do that. Right. But suddenly because you have to do a little hero. You can do a little man. I'm like a dream. I just don't want you to be, but you only mean if you're just because they want to do it. If you're just doing that for baseball, you think, you know, you say, I'm like, I'm like absurd analogies. But I think you see the absurdity of that and you think, yeah, you love baseball. That's great. But you really should, you know, you should learn to swim. And you really should learn to do some sort of, you know, sports that involves your feet. You know, you should play soccer. You should, I think, you know, kids should do. I think some sort of combative sport is really good for kids because you should learn what it's like. Like, it's really fine. It might took my daughter. The instructors when my daughter was doing judo were Ronda Rousy and Kayla Harrison, which, like, what are the odds that you go to the best judo school in America that is 15 minutes from your house. And that's who's teaching the classes in judo. So my daughter can still say that, you know, she was taught by Ronda Rousy and Kayla Harrison. But, you know, having to go out on a mat and fight another kid and fight the word, I guess, right? Is really good for a 12 year old girl. And that feeling I remember looking at me the first time, like, you know, I'm like, sorry. I can't come out like you're on your own. You're on your own. You better figure it out. And she did. So I just, you're sampling is the key and special is specialization. If we can think of the worst possible thing you can do for your kid, it is to let them specialize. Even if it gets to the point where they think that I don't like you, you're mean. You're not a good person because you're not letting me do it. I want to do it. You've got to look at them and think that's why I'm the parent. That's why I'm in charge. Sorry. So box up. So box down. I'll let some girls talk. I will say that our kids are both in gymnastics and judo. My daughter hates judo and she sells in gymnastics. And we chose gymnastics because it allows for her fine motor skills, all of this development very young. And also the development of her musculature. She's, and again, she loves it. And we know that the healthier, fitter and more active these kids are, the greater their metabolic health as adults is. But to your point, what we see is I think in the US we see a lot more injuries than in other places because of this always having a season. And from a standpoint of longevity, definitely, again, make our kids see the same thing. I don't know why we haven't stopped in question to a little bit sooner because it's not like injury rates are going down. So we're playing more and getting injured more. Like that's what we've seen across all levels of sport. Mike and I were discussing the Achilles tendons and the rash of Achilles tendon injuries, or at least it seems to be in prominent players. But a lot of it has to go back to just the, the repetitions in the mileage and one thing that Mike brought up that I thought was really interesting was the way the style of the game is played now, it's a basketball. There's so much more because it's really come down, chuckle up a three, go down, chuckle up a three, come down, it's a lot less of that inside game going on. The game is faster and they run more and there's a lot more mileage, how many miles extra was it? 200 more miles a year per team, right, just because of the way the style of the game is played. And they're not all linear miles or start, stop, stop, stop, stop. So there's a lot of cumulative stress on the Achilles tendon doing that. That can, you know, again, on top of the fact that as as as teenagers, they're playing all year long too, not like it used to be when Larry Burb was playing when he played his season in any probably went home and did something completely different. I, or just just shot around a little bit. So we need to start looking at these extensive seasons in these multiple seasons per year because it's not changing. It's not helping if it, if it was helping, we wouldn't have all these athletes being injured, things are worse now than they've ever been. Same more about the Achilles that, that is the injury I've personally fear the most at this point. I don't know what it is. I think I've just seen so many of them. It's the injury that keeps me up at night is like, I'm just literally diving for a soccer ball and. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier, future.

=== FILE: Why are autism rates increasing？ ｜ Trenna Sutcliffe and Peter Attia [Nx4Qk1ybrb0].txt ===

So the CDC said in the year 2001 in roughly 200 kids, 150 to 200 kids had autism. Now of course that's pre this change of the DSM5. So we can only take that to mean that those were the kids in that bucket of more extreme autism that did not include the PDD, NOS, was that what the other one was called. Yeah. And asked burgers. But if you look at the data up until prior to that change, the last year prior to a change in 2012, it was down from one in 150 to one in 69. So in other words, there was something that was increasing the prevalence or diagnosis by about a factor of two. Then we get the change in the DSM. And today we're at one in 36. So it begs thEQuestion, what is it that is driving the increase in the prevalence of ASD, not withstanding that there has also been a larger bucket included in a larger net cast around it? Yeah, that's a great question. I can't believe it's one of 36. Because I've been doing this for 25 years, I can never keep track of the numbers. Every time I went to every time I go to an annual meeting, the number changes. Yeah. And it is 1 in 36. Well, again, it was with the CDC said in 2020. So I'm going to go with whatever numbers you take. I'll believe your numbers more than mine. The point being that the numbers have changed drastically. And yes, people will say part of it is because the definitions change, there's more awareness, there's more resources, there's more clinicians making the diagnosis. But people in the field believe that those changes don't explain the drastic changes in the numbers. And there has to be something else involved. And there is a lot of research in this area looking at the impact of the environment and epigenetics. And what roles those two things have in increasing the rate of autism in our population? So if you're at a dinner party and you get cornered and everybody wants to talk about this, how are you walking people through this? What are you saying? Let's put the diagnostic criteria aside. Let's put the keys under the lamp post aside, meaning wherever there's more attention, you're going to see more things. What are some of the environmental things that you think could be amplifying this? Yeah. There is thoughts around pollution, maternal infection, prolonged fever, gene pregnancy, the health of the placenta, stress, parental age. There is a lot of environmental factors that have been implicated. Just to take a step back first, then just kind of talk about the cause of autism, the genetics and the environmental piece. So just to make it really clear, the word autism describes a constellation of symptoms. There are many, many causes for autism. There isn't a single cause. What causes autism is very complex and we actually have morEQuestions than answers. It's felt though that it is like a 10-hit model, meaning like, and we don't know that the number's 10, but the idea that there's multiple things. It's not a two-hit model. It's not a two-hit model. There's many factors involved. And it's almost felt like it's gene gene environment environment environment. And then now it's like epigenetics, epigenetics, epigenetics. And so it's multiple hits. And the order of the hits and the timing of the hits are also felt to be very important. And this is a prenatal prenatal prenatal. So let's start with the genetic piece. So we've had a number of folks on the podcast over time. So the listeners are probably familiar with what we mean by the heritability of something. But maybe just for folks that are need to brush up on that. We would talk about the heritability of a condition, whether it be depression, whether it be schizophrenia, whether it be bipolar disorder. As largely determined by you have identical twins separated at birth, raised in completely different environments, what is effectively the probability that they're both going to come down with the same psychiatric condition. And that's unfortunately, fortunately, that's the purist way we can get at what the genetic heritability is of something when you don't know what the genes are or when there are so many genes and it's very complicated. And my recollection is that the heritability of autism is quite high. I don't remember the number. Can you enlighten me? Yeah, it's again, it'll be anywhere from 70% to 98%. Depending again on the definitions used at the time, but it's well over 90%. Wow, I didn't know it was that high. I thought it was in the 80s, which is still very high. Am I also correct in my recollection that the heritability of autism is higher than it is for any other condition in the DSM? I believe so. Yeah, in other words, even schizophrenia, even bipolar, even depression and things that we know have very strong genetic components. It is. None are as high as it is for autism. Correct, there's a very, there's definite genetic component to this. OK, so. But may I say, so it's not one gene? That's, yeah, it's just going to say. So let's make sure people understand it is not one gene. It is multiple genes. So anybody with autism, they have multiple genes that have been changed. So there's multiple genetic changes in anybody with autism. And the other thing is, every person who has autism, they probably have a different group of genes that have been changed. And that's so it's actually hundreds and some people say up to like a thousand genes have been associated with autism. Yeah, so I think maybe a way that I would explain this and these correct me if you don't like this analogy. I like it to cancer with a fundamental difference. OK, so hear me out for a second and feel free to shoot this down. Cancer is mostly about somatic mutations and not germline mutations. Meaning most of the time when a person gets cancer, it is not based on genes that they were born with. It's based on genes that were at one point normal that have since acquired mutations in their mutated state. They no longer function normally the person develops cancer. So this complicates my analogy because only about 5% of cancers arrive from germline mutations, whereas the genes that are implicated in autism are indeed germline, you're born with them. However, the point I want to really make is comparing the somatic mutations of cancer to the germline mutations of autism. And the point I'm trying to make is that when you've met a woman with breast cancer, you've met a woman with breast cancer. You're not going to find too many women that look the same with breast cancer. And that's really why gene therapy hasn't panned out for most cancers because to say that a person has breast cancer tells you some stuff. You could dig a little deeper and say, well, it's estrogen positive. It's progesterone positive. It's her two new positive. But still, why wouldn't they all respond the same? Well, it's because they have many different underlying genetic changes furthermore, they have completely different immune responses in terms of what their tumor looks like. And so the way I try to think about it myself is, if you see a hundred kids with autism, and let's just pick a number that somewhat conservative, we would say that that's 85 to 90% heritable. It simply means that the underlying genes for each of them were inherited, but they might have nothing to do with each other across all of those children. Just as we would say, all of the women who have breast cancer have acquired mutations that gave them breast cancer, but they could all be very different. No, I agree. Again, I could poke holes in that analogy, but I think that's maybe an easier way to think about it because polygenic things are harder to wrap our heads around, especially when we don't know what all the genes are. Yeah, yeah. So we don't know all the genes. We know that there is this genetic component. It's like each child with autism has a different fingerprint with their genetic makeup. And so there's these genetic changes, but some of the hits IMentioned are environmental. So there is research to show maternal stress, pollution, maternal diet, parental age. These things also are associated with autism. And again, there's a long list, so there's a long list of things that are associated, but none of them are alone. Like can identify like each one alone is not. The key to autism is the combination. The thing I'm still struggling with is, let's take another example that we, I think we can all point reasonably at. 50 years ago, the incidence of type two diabetes was in the ballpark of 1.5 to 2%. So one and a half to 2% of people in the United States had type two diabetes. Today we're, God, I haven't looked in a while, but it's over 10%. And I'm talking clear type two diabetes. I'm not talking about in the gray area of pre-type two diabetes. So let's just say we've had a five to seven fold increase in a condition over the course of one generation. So then thEQuestion of what are the environmental triggers? Like, great, that's not a genetic, that it would be very difficult to explain that just genetically that there's been some genetic change. We might have genetic susceptibilities, we might have genetic manifestations, but the thing of it, something must have changed. I think most people would point to our food environment as the leading thing that has driven that change. Because the change in the food environment in 50 years is dramatic. So when we apply the same logic to autism, do we see big enough changes in these environmental triggers, even just over the last 20 years or 25 years, to say, okay, 25 years ago, kids were born with the same genetic predisposition. They can't be that much genetic drift, unless we believe that we are seeing more people pair together to combine four genes or genetic combinations that are producing this phenotype more than we saw before. We can come back to that, I'd like to hear your thoughts on that. But let's put that aside for a moment. If we're saying that whatever epigenetic changes happening is triggered by something in the environment, and we're talking about if paternal age is going up, if maternal stress is going up, if maternal nutrition is getting worse, if environmental toxins, microplastics, or all over everybody's talking about those things, heavy metals, whatever it is, I would love to go into a little bit more detail and get your thoughts on how those things are changing it. And we have to talk about vaccines, of course, right? So there's gonna be a subset of people here, I think who understandably would think, hey, what about vaccines? Haven't we changed the way we vaccinate kids? Is that participating in it now? You mentioned that this is an in-utero genetic condition, if that's the case, then childhood vaccines might be less responsible than some might think. But I'd just like to hear you riff on all of this stuff because before we get into the what to do, I still think there's a lot of people asking, how did we get here? Yeah. I wish I had all the answers I don't. And so, but I do think that there had, I think it's complex. Like, there have been changes in, you talk about diet, pollution, talks in exposure. I think that's one piece of it, epigenetic changes, which just to clarify for everybody, the DNA sequence is not changed. It's about tags on the DNA that can change the expression of genes or proteins called histones that are changed and a resulting in changed gene expression. But the change gene expression can actually be inherited or passed through generations as well. Yeah, I was gonna ask you about that. Is that, do we know that to be a fact that the epigenome is being trensmitted? I think it's controversial. Yeah. I think it's controversial, but there is some thought about that. The idea of the germ cells in a fetus, in a grandparents being exposed to smoking, toxins, changes in food, how that grandparent, exposure can actually change methylation in the germ cells of a parent who's a fetus who then that germ cell goes on to be a child with autism. I don't know if that made sense. A ton of sense to me because I think about this problem night and day, I do wanna make sure the listeners understand that, well, first of all, this is not established. Not at all. I wanna make sure they understand what we're saying. So let's explain it one more time. So we have these four things that make up DNA, your CGA and T, and that is the code, that is the code of life. But on the backbone of those things, you can put little methyl groups, which is just a little carbon with three hydrogens. And that's called epigenetics. And by the way, we're all born with methylated groups all over our epigenome back of the genome, right? Over life, we know that changes. So we know that simply aging changes methylation. But we believe that there is differential methylation and individuals in response to all the things that you've talked about. And we know that methylation controls gene expression. In fact, methylation is probably the single most important thing that controls differential gene expression in different tissues. Yeah. So thEQuestion, the jugular question is, if you have a methylation pattern, and you pass that on to your fetus, and what you said a minute ago is even more remarkable, which is, would that child, when they develop past that methylation pattern on to their fetus? IMean, at that point methylation would start to be epigenetics, would start to become genetic, right? It starts to become a part of the germline. So, IMean, this is an answerablEQuestion, by the way, in my book. When I think of things that we should know the answer to in a decade, I'm going to put this in the list of things that we should know the answer to just based on the fact that we have it. We will have enough longitudinal data, I think, to be able to get it this. I don't know if you're as optimistic as me. I am. The key thing is that we do know the environment impacts the methylation and the epigenetics. So, it's the idea with this whole idea of like, a crossing generations, it's the idea of the methylation in a germ cell is altered or changed because of some sort of environmental exposure. And again, that parent or grandparent. Yeah. Yeah. And so, in that sense, the child is now susceptible to two things. The germ line that they inherit from both parents. Yeah. And as a fetus, the methylation impact that occurs as a result of any of these other factors you discussed. Yeah. Who are the people that are studying this most closely? Is this in the purview of the geneticists? Is this in the purview of the epidemiologists? Like, who are the people that are most working at this? Because, again, as a general rule, I'm always, you know, I always think that it's very foolhardy to work on a problem, an epidemic without understanding the causal nature of the epidemic. Right? Like, it's, you know, I use the example of like heart therapy. Yeah. Like, change the face of HIV forever. So, success. Like, one of the greatest success stories of infectious disease medicine. But it was all predicated on understanding what the cause was. Like, if you didn't understand that HIV was destroying CD4 cells, yeah. You didn't have a prayer of developing that therapy. And do you ever worry that, you know, if this epidemic, what's to say this isn't going to get to be one in three kids in 30 years? And are there enough people like you that are going to be able to help parents and help families and help children with that? So, so that I don't want to sound alarmist, but I worry when we have an epidemic potentially, and we don't have a great sense of causality. Yeah. That's profound. And it's, and I'm thinking about a number of different things. One, I'm thinking about, because you're talking about this one in three. And I'm just trying that out is, hey, what if this tren continues? Yeah. And so, one of the issues though, is how we define the condition that's the thing that is, so there is still that. I though I believe that there is this piece with genetics and the environment and how we are evolving, and there's this, it's a phenotype. This phenotype where there is differences in how in social communication skills and repetitive behaviors of restricted interests, this phenotype is, which is on a huge spectrum as well. I shall make sure this is the thing. Because when we were talking about these numbers, like one in 36 and this number continues to increase, is not just the kids who are like nonverbalism. It's just really wide phenotype is increasing. And so it is important, we understand the cause of why this phenotype is increasing and then what should we or should not be doing about that. What do you know about the change in the frequency or the prevalence of, let's pick one subset of that, which is the nonverbal or child that is so impaired that I could diagnose them or a parent could diagnose. Right. Do we know if that has remained relatively constant over the last 25 years, despite the change in diagnostic criteria? I believe there's an increase in that number as well. But the numbers that are put out there, the really profound numbers actually describe the entire spectrum and they don't actually subdivide into the different parts of the spectrum. Do you have a ballpark idea? So if the overall diagnosis of autism is increased, you know, five fold in the last 20 years has that more severe part gone up by 50% by 100% IMean, what do you think it is or what do you know it is? We subdivide autism spectrum into three buckets, level one, level two, level three. So the more significantly impaired children would fall into level three where they require very substantial support. But there are very few research studies that actually look into these sub buckets and I have to be honest, I'm not sure clinicians are always great at identifying kids in the sub buckets either. Like you and I are talking about a very specific, you know, profile that should be very obvious to identify, but there's other kids in sub buckeT3 that are sometimes put in sub bucket two, depending on what clinicians you say. And I'm gonna guess that the sub buckeT3 is not the totality of the children that were called autistic prior to 2013 is that a safer assumption? Yes. So you can't even say assuming the data existed and it sounds like they don't. We can't just say what was the prevalence of autism in the DSM4 and how does it compare to ASD sub three today that wouldn't even be a meaningful comparison? I'm not sure if anyone's looked into it, but yeah, I don't know if it did. It wouldn't be apples, apples. It's not. Okay.

=== FILE: Why cholesterol is critical for brain function ｜ Tom Dayspring and Peter Attia [sw15YhYF12Q].txt ===

Let's pivot and talk about the brain a little bit. This is an area where your own knowledge has grown rapidly. Tom, this is clearly an area of immense curiosity for you for me. Because cholesterol plays an important role in the brain. I think to put it mildly, and people have many questions about the role of cholesterol, lowering therapy and brain health. Let's just start with a basic question, which is what role does cholesterol play in the brain? What do we know about the different pools of cholesterol? We have cholesterol outside of the central nervous system. In-site the central nervous system. Can they move back and forth? Can lipoproteens go back and forth? Is LDL taking cholesterol into the brain and back to tell us about how that whole system works? So important, I'm glad we're going to chat about this a little bit. It's obviously so complex. Really, I'll almost give you credit. Here are the guy who got me interested in lipids in the brain. Perhaps probably 15 years ago when you introduced me to Richard Isaacson at the Cornell Dementia Clinic. He was very interested in lipids because he just knew lipids are part of what's going on in the brain. I'd better learn more about lipids and you were good buddies. I got dragged pulled into that circle. I like how you said dragged initially. IMean, IMean, pull pulled slowly. Yes. You're a strong guy, Peter. You've voted me to study a lot of things that maybe I wouldn't have the trip into. I don't know that. I would have never met Richard Isaacson had it not been for you. But thank God you did. And so we've been trying to learn about brain and lipids. So often the last thing I'll say, you did that great podcast with Dan Raider on HDLs. And it's a podcast everybody should listen to. But at the end, you sort of turned to Dan. He said, where are we going with lipids? Dan, we sort of solved the APOB. We're learning a lot now about HDL. And Dan said it's lipids in the brain is the next frontier. And why has that not been studied very much until now? Because you can't stick a needle. You have to go into it and get cerebral spinal fluid. You know, I swear it's going on in the brain. Most people are amenable to a venipunctionary naryl bone, not a spinal tap. So here's what's going on. Collesterol is almost certainly the most important molecule in the brain. The brain is by far the most cholesterol carrying organ in the body. The brain actually makes more cholesterol than any other organ per se way more than the liver even. So if I gave you a dumb question, hey, I got this body here. And I want to find out where all the cholesterol is. Where should I go? Open the skull and take out the brain. That's where you're going to find the most cholesterol. Wow. So obviously cholesterol is crucial to the brain. And that's because the brain is made up of a lot of cells. All of which have important functions, especially those neurons that should offer the action potentials that make our body function and everything. And what's on the surface of a neuron? Freacolesterol and phospholipids. So evolution, I guess, figured out a long time ago that the brain needs cholesterol. So we're not going to make the brain dependent on cholesterol. It's floating around the plasma or what's in your liver or your intestine. We're going to let the brain make all the cholesterol it needs. So we're going to really drive the enzymes that synthesize cholesterol in the brain. So the brain needs cholesterol to make a long story. Sure, every cholesterol molecule it's in the brain got there by denovostynthesis in the brain. Not a single molecule with cholesterol was delivered from the periphery, meaning that floating around our plasma leaves the plasma and enters the brain. Now, by the way, where is all the cholesterol in our plasma? I've already told you it's got to be inside of a lipoprotein floating in plasma. That's where we measure cholesterol. That's where we measure lipids in the plasma. But I can assure you there is no cholesterol carrying particle in the plasma. Be it a VL, a L and H D L or an L D L. That crosses the blood brain barrier and says, okay, brain, here's your cholesterol for today. Doesn't happen. There is a rapid turnover of cholesterol in the periphery. Shells make it. They get rid of what they don't need. It's brought back to the liver for the liver to decide what to do with it. They turn over time for cholesterol in the plasma is two to three days. All right. So if a cholesterol molecule is synthesized in the brain, what is it's half-life? Five years. Now, half-life is a given number that total sort of brain resonance time of that cholesterol molecules you multiply that by seven. So some cholesterol molecules last up to 30 years once they're synthesized in the brain. And that's why cholesterol synthesis in the brain starts in utero. Early on, mom's supply in the little fetal brain with a lot of cholesterol. But very rapidly, second, third, try nester. Those brain cells start making their own cholesterol. If you have a lot of cholesterol, it's a lot of cholesterol synthesis going on by virtually every cell that exists in the brain. There's only like three of them. But at a certain point, somewhere between the ages of five and ten, the brain may has made all the cholesterol it needs. So then only two cells continue to make cholesterol. So less than number two, what are the cells in the brain that we're in this conversation with? One's I've mentioned in utero and in childhood neurons produce a lot of cholesterol. But at a certain age, the neurons got more work to do. They don't want to make cholesterol. Why? Because every cholesterol molecule requires 27 molecules of ATP to produce. It's a super energy-driven process. Neurons need ATP for a lot of other functions. Those electrical charges they make. All right. So what are the other two cells in the brain? I'll go dangerous sites to make the most cholesterol. And where is the cholesterol they make become? Myelin, which coats every nerve ending every absign and dengerate in your body. So those oligodendrous sites are big time cholesterol producers. But they make all their cholesterol go to myelin. They don't send any cholesterol over to neurons. So what is the other cell in its astrocytes? And in infancy and childhood in utero, oligodendrous sites, astrocytes in neurons are making cholesterol at just no tomorrow. Once the neuron stops making it, astrocytes are the sole maker of cholesterol that supplies the neurons. But how would an astrocyte synthesize cholesterol and send it over to the neurons? Aha! The brain has to have a lipoprotein system just like the periphery does. Now, between astrocytes and neurons is basically its brain interstitial fluid, sort of a loose connective tissue. It's called the matrosome. So if astrocytes synthesize cholesterol, they obviously have to package it inside of a brain lipoprotein, see, create that lipoprotein which swims through the matrosome and goes over. And guess what the neuron expresses? LDL receptors? LDL receptor, relane at protein or something called the scavenger receptor. All of which can bind to the type of lipoprotein that an astrocyte produces. So the pulmon also has a lipoprotein delivery system, but here's the difference. What is the main structural protein in the periphery? Apo B or Apo A1? What is the main structural protein in the brain? Apo E. So when an astrocyte makes an lipoprotein, it's an apoeic containing lipoprotein. And by the way, they're smaller, much smaller than the particles that we find in the periphery. If we put them in a centrifuge, they have the density of a high density lipoprotein that would float around the periphery. So they're often called brain HDLs, but don't confuse brain HDLs with peripheral HDLs. Because most of the brain HDLs have apoeis, their structural protein, in the periphery, they have apoei1. Here's where the story gets a little more complicated as always. What is the smallest apoei protein the body can make? It's actually apoei protein A1, which is why an HL needs four or five of them. So if apoei1 can dissociate from an HDL, and we do have free HDL in the plasma that's measurable, it is small enough that it can cross the blood-brain barrier. And once it joins the blood-brain barrier, what is the small apoei1 looking for? An HDL buoyancy particle. So it joins with the apoei particles. So the brain-lipoproteins are all apoei, or they're all apoei plus apoei1. And you can have multiple copies of each of those on those particles. So wow. So now, as long as the apoei1, by the way, which can bind to an LDL receptor or the scavenger receptor, same with the apoei, the neuron can grab them and either internalize them or demirgulate the dipodate them in the neuron gets its cholesterol in the neurons happy. And then the demlipodate particles can go right back and fill up at the astrocyte again. So that's brain cholesterol trensformation.

=== FILE: Why do low-fat and low-carb diets lead to weight loss？ ｜ Peter Attia & Stephan Guyenet [7QrdUMxno_8].txt ===

And you said something earlier about the more you restrict carbohydrate or the more you restrict fat, typically the more weight you're going to lose. The sweet spot if you want to gain weight is to have lots of both of them. Is that how much of that do you think comes down to the hedonic component of how good ice cream tastes? The ubiquity of food choices. Or do you think there's something very unique, physiologically going on? You know, you've probably heard of the potato diet. IMean, all these diets just sound so stupid. But IMean, again, it's sort of one of these things like if you talk to somebody who just mainlines potatoes all day, they lose weight like crazy, right? Yep, absolutely. And this has been shown really clearly in animal models, which have the advantage of you can get really tight control for a large portion of the animals lifespan. On speak, IMean, published a study that is the best one that's been done in animals where 29 different diets, I believe, and five different strens of mice, they systematically varied the carbohydrate to fat ratio and the diet. And they said, how does that interact with body fatness? And what they saw was if you start with animals that are on a low fat, high carbohydrate diet, and you start replacing that carbohydrate fat, they get fat or fat or fat or fat or fat or fat or until you hit about 60 percent. And then you keep increasing the fat and decreasing carbohydrate, they get slimmer again. And there are studies published, mice lose weight on a ketogenic diet, just like humans do. You put mice on the diet, you put rats on the diet, they lose weight. So it's really in the middle that the problem is. Which is ironic, because that's where the standard American diet is. If you just block into the grocery store and just eat without any filtering, you will eat that wrong combination of fat and carbohydrate. Exactly. And if you look anywhere in the world where people are rich enough and industrialize enough to eat whatever they want, that's generally what you're going to see. At least after a couple of decades of cultural adaptation, you're going to see pretty equal proportions of fat and carbohydrate. That's what you see in most parts of the world. And so why is that? Well, I think there are some hypotheses that can be considered and let me just be clear here that this is speculative. So I don't want to present this as the answer. Because I don't think we really know, but I think this is primarily a empiric observation that we're trying to explain. But some explanations, you could say, maybe it's a physiological effect. So if you're not eating much carbohydrate, your body has to work a little bit harder to synthesize glucose, for example. So there are some physiological ways in which you're kind of increasing the demands a little bit in metabolic demands. Same with very low fat diets, you're slightly increasing metabolic demands, you're have to synthesize, you're going to synthesize more fatty acids. And I don't know. I don't think that's a great explanation because those metabolic demands are very small. In speak men's experiments, these were all ad libid in my assume. Yes. So are they just eating, are they also significantly eating less at the extremes in terms of total energy intake and where they controlled for protein? Yes. Yes. I think the answer is yes to both of those if I'm recalling correctly. Although, I do want to put a little asterisk on that. Sometimes there is not a perfectly tight correlation in rodent studies between energy intake and fat gain. So you can get some results where it's not fully explained by that. Or in some cases, not explained at all. So yeah, where was I, what was I saying? Lost my tren of thought there. Well, I think we're still trying to reconcile why the extremes, what's it, is it all being driven by less intake or is there some increased metabolic cost of living at the extremes? Yeah. So the physiology would be one and then the other would be just the neurobiology and the food intake. And I think that's the most satisfying explanation we have right now is that it is simply more appealing to eat food, more motivating to eat food that has both carbohydrate and fat. I'm not saying I have strong evidence that that's the explanation, but that's kind of the only thing I can think of that explains it. IMean, why else the metabolic cost of being at the extremes should be pretty modest. It can't explain effects of hundreds of calories a day, which is what's observed when you put people on a very low fat or a very low carb diet. Their energy intake declines by hundreds of calories a day right away automatically. And so it's, yeah, that's the only thing I can think of is that essentially a food has less implicit value to reward regions of the brain because of how our motivation is determined for certain types of food properties. The food is intrinsically less motivating and so we eat less of it. That's my best guess as to the main reason. And it's interesting. IMean, I think it's not very difficult to take your carbohydrate intake down to 5 to 7%. Like a ketogenic diet will do that and it's a pretty easy diet to adhere to, especially today. Harder 10 years ago when there were fewer food choices geared towards it. But IMean, I'm not necessarily saying it's overly pleasant diet, but it's not difficult. You don't have to put a huge amount of effort to eat 5% of your calories in carbohydrates today. I don't even know how one would go about getting only 5% of your calories from fat. That is a much harder thing to do, is it not? Yeah, I think it would be very difficult to get that low. When you look at studies that test low fat diets, some of the lowest fat diets I've seen were in the 10% fat range, IMean, even foods like whole wheat, and corn have a fair amount of fat in it. Not a lot of fat, but I don't remember exactly what it is, but not far off from 10% just from those foods that we would call starch foods. Yeah, so I think it is quite challenging to get that low. In fact, you can do it with more refined diets, like semi-purified diets. It's not so hard to do that in rodent studies. The design and diet that some of them will actually eat as a humanin a randomized control trial or something at that level of fat intake, I think is pretty challenging. Yeah, I think 10% is, even 15% is not easy. IMean, you're really working hard to do it. I'm not convinced that there are great health benefits to that either. Probably better than being in the messy metal, but it's pretty hard to do.

=== FILE: Why strength training is the best time-efficient investment for health ｜ Mike Israetel [B9eJIpRHNjc].txt ===

So maybe we just start with kind of where you see the value of strength trening. Do you think that there is a diminishing return at some point? Do you think that there is a diminishing return in the amount of muscle? I've said very tongue and cheek that the list of 90 year olds out there complaining that they wishing they were not as strong and not as muscular is a very short list. Right? So, but again, why am I saying that? I'm saying that to say that most people at the end of life are saying the exact opposite. I wish I was stronger. I wish I had more muscle. But from a practical standpoint, what is your view on muscularity and strength at the expense of what it might take to achieve them? Are there extremes that people should be mindful of? It's a great question. If you have to be mindful of extremes, in almost every case you have already been on a multi-years-long, very immersive, very infatuated, very disciplined journey of resistance trening and focused nutrition. And the organization of many variables and parts of your life around that task, it's unlikely to be something you pick up a lifting hobby and just find yourself excessively muscular. Boops. So, that's probably the best answer for that. It's just insanely unrealistic in most cases to wander into that sort of thing. The myth of accidental muscle. Yes. You know, people say more money, more problems. First of all, I'm very successful, grounds, I think that's absurd. But you don't accidentally become ultra wealthy. And by God, I wish you the best if that happens to you. I'll cry at here for you. But in much the same way, almost nobody accidentally becomes hypermuscular to the extent that there are on that side of the spectrum that trade-offs are starting to become apparent. Probably the biggest trade-off in the short-to-medium term is opportunity cost. Things you could have spent doing outside of being in the gym. But the way that the science of resistance trening works is for almost all of the health benefits and the longevity benefits and thEQuality of life benefits. The amount of time you need to be trening per week is measured in the 1-3 hour range, with 3 being like, you're really full-sending it. 1-3 hours per week. If we took, if you went on chatGBT and did like a time-usEQuestion, IMean, can you list all of the things that typical American does for X number hours a week and throw in, you just read down to us, top 100 time use cases? You may find that 1-3 hours a week is somewhere in like the 50 or 60 rank and there's so many things people do that way more than that. IMean, social media consumption, television watching, and the list goes on, there are dozens of things you do that take way more time. And so if you really fully invest yourself, like, I'm relatively fully invested into getting a jacked as possible, it's going to take some time. It's going to take you could take eight hours a week, which is still like, whether it's not forever. People will job for 40 minutes every morning, think nothing of it. And then when you present to them the idea of resistance trening like, what, I'm going to take some time. Well, yes, actually does not take nearly as much time. His intensity of the efforts so growtously high and the recovery demands are so high that you have to be very pulse-attile with it. It's not even something you have to do every day. As a matter of fact, people get incredible benefits. Probably the biggest return on investment, the average person can make. Just a tren for roughly half an hour, two times a week, Monday and Thursday. If you do it properly, it can comport an unbelievable amount of benefits just across the board. And so for most people, the consideration that they can begin to do this excessively, it's just not something realistic until and unless they're really into it like a huge hobby. Like if you are watching Formula One for 30 minutes a day every other day on your phone, you're going to have a list of considerations of this is taking up too much of your time, kind of out the window. Now if you start like, cancelling podcast guests because you're following the circuit around the world and staying in five star hotels and booking the hyper-rich guy's suite for all the races, yeah, like someone could say, well, you're really into this. You're like, no, nonsense. It's only cost me 3 million a year. So then yes, but it's obvious when you're going to be so involved. You don't just walk into that sort of thing. So let's unpack this a little bit because, well, there's actually two things I want to go into, but one of them, I think will be a better entry into it, which is you talked about how boy, if you were going to put eight hours a week into your strength trening, you're kind of at the upper limits of what a person might do. Conversely, if your goal is to be a really good endurance athlete, you're not getting, you're not at that level yet. If you're only putting in eight hours a week, right? A world class cyclist is, IMean, God, they're probably on their bike 30 hours a week. Something like that. Easily. For 10 jobs. Now, of course, not all of that is at maximum intensity. A lot of that, in fact, probably 70 to 80 percent of it. It also varies a little bit by gender, but let's just say 70 to 80 percent of that time is going to be at zone two. And they're really only burning matches in 20 percent of the time. There's something very different about strength trening, which is, are you really getting benefit at the equivalent of whatever we would call zone two in the gym? Like if you're at that far of a sub-maximal effort, what is the trening stimulus? And is this just where the comparison between cardio pulmonary trening where there's a clear benefit from sub-maximal efforts and strength trening don't drive? That's definitely a case. trening, I like to use the term resistance trening. It's the general term for going into the gym and having things to your muscles. Because that's why you would say hypertrophy and strength are outputs of resistance. Correct. Yes. So, you can get some benefits from very sub-maximal efforts. But resistance trening is based on applying high forces and high levels of fatigue as it's primary modality of how it makes you better. And so it's kind of when you get into that world, that's what's going to happen. It's like if you're trying to be a special operator and eventually maybe see a type of person. But you don't like the sound of gunfire freaks you out, you're kind of in the wrong place. So we get almost all the benefits from pushing either very heavy loads or lighter loads, but very close to muscular failure, which people have described as unpleasant. A burn in the muscle, a lot of pain, the weights slow down, so it takes a lot of psychological effort to keep going. There is not really an equivalent of just getting on the bike and putting in the miles. Getting to a pace, we're zone two, you can breathe, you can talk a little bit still. That's not weight trening, but precisely because weight trening is so intensive, you need lots of recovery time between sessions and you can do lots of disruption and damage in each session. And also the total yield and how much it changes your physiology is very high for each session and actually per unit time. And that means if you're not working super hard, per unit one unit time, you're going to need a lot of work. That's endurance trening. If you're working insanely hard per unit time, you won't need a lot of work nor can you recover from that much work, which is why the top end is eight or 10 hours or something for even professional bodybuilders of time spent in the gym every week. But for people that just want the basic benefits, yeah, we're talking about an hour or two hours a week. And that's really all you need. If you're pushing sufficiently hard, that's both all you need and realistically, like you can recover for more if you make time in your schedule and really partioed has recovery. But yeah, any much more than that gets to be like, well, I'm kind of soaring tired a lot more. And Mike, do you think this is simply a consequence of the fact that endurance trening relies more on type one muscle fibers and strength than hypertrophy trening are more dependent on the actions of type two fibers. Is that why IMean, I don't know why philosophically, I just think this is such an interesting contrast to make of how optimization of one is a totally different philosophy than optimization of the other. And the only reason I'm harping on it is I just know that when you take people who are very used to doing endurance trening, it's a hard switch for them to adopt what you just said in the gym sometimes. Sure. It's not the way they're wired. But do you think it's is the best way to explain to that person the why that like that's that of a three-in-a-type one and a type two fiber? That is probably the core difference. I would say there are two other things that can be put into that equation. One is the physical forces are just much higher in magnitude. You know, you're going to be putting a lot of tension through your connective tissues and through your muscles when you're resistance trening, then you are when you're doing like bicycle work, for example. And so with high absolute forces, the approximate damage and disruption to the body is graded exponentially and not linearly. It's like if a wifful ball flies past you, you might not even hear it. If a 50 caliber bullet flies past you, it's going to tear parts of you off and it's never even touched you. Very, very different amount of damage from much, much higher forces. And the other one is some combination of neural and psychological drive. The kind of drive it requires to be good and endurance, at least the base building part, the aerobic base work that you do, is kind of being in a state of calm equanimity. You get your flow going, you get your music going, you get your breathing going, you look at the road ahead of you, and you can just crank. But in lifting, you have to turn up the juice to really feel the maximum kind of situation, another quick analogy of hand is if you are a truly an air like I am and you have a fleet of Sessna private aircraft at your back and call I never fly the same plane twice, I was crash the thing. You know, you fly a Sessna, you can fly it for some time, it requires a decent amount of maintenance, but decent amount of maintenance and it'll fly for a long time. It's just never getting up to velocities that are really crazy. You take an SR-71 blackboard out first bin at Mach 3, you have to do like 10 times the number of maintenance hours per flight hour on that thing, or something to that magnitude, because at Mach 3, what's happening to the plane is just like it's actually just running through subsequent brick walls. Like that's what the sound barrier is like. Three times faster than the sound barrier, you're just rattling that thing into dust. That's what you're trying to do to it. When you're pushing your body really hard and the weights are slowing down and there's sets of five or sets of eight or sets of ten, your body is very close to its limits. So both your faster twitch muscle fibers, which are required, they take way more damage. They're also not as well perloferated with blood supply and they heal faster, or sorry, they heal slower. And the amount of absolute force is higher and the amount of neural drive it takes. Like you can hop on a bike for an hour and zone two every day. And afterwards, people like you tired, you're like a little bit, I can kind of feel like a loop, also a little bit refreshness. You don't really feel refreshed after like grinding the leg press for five sets of 15. You feel like someone beat the crap out of you and you didn't know anyone money. What the hell is going on? So that intensity that absolute intensity of lifting and high relative intensity, that's what tends to make the big big fatigue cost.

=== FILE: Worry vs. Worrying： Identifying Dysfunctional Health Anxiety ｜ Josh Spitalnick, Ph.D. [BMhyol0QPOY].txt ===

Let's help people understand that. I'd like to use thoughts versus thinking, and I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. So start with whichever one you want, and let's pick a real-world example that you might experience in the practice. Well, I want to talk about health and medical stuff. So someone's having a bunch of physical symptoms in there of prey that they might have cancer. They're afraid that they might have cancer. That's a worry. They're afraid that these might be symptoms of a heart attack of an M.I. event. That's a worry. What if I'm having a heart attack all the sudden you're trying to figure it out? Which by the way, asking that doesn't figure it out. And Googling it doesn't figure it out. And calling it cardiologist who hasn't seen you doesn't figure it out. But when you go, what if this is a heart attack symptom? You're beyond worrying about it. The worry is IMight be sick in this case having a medical event. And you're trying to figure out what if this is the thing. And when you're trying to figure it out, that's no different than Googling it. That's no different than looking it up online, calling your nurse or doctor friend or in-law and saying, do you think this is what it is? So when I go to someone and go, hey, do you think that's what this is? Most people would call that reassurance-seeking, which is a classic ritual. It's a behavioral thing. Me asking you, hey, you haven't evaluated me. You're my brother-in-law. Do you think this is a medical event? But when you ask yourself that, how is it any different? We haven't evaluated you. There's no lab work. We're not really going to get the answer. And you're really just looking for one answer. You're fine. So the dilemma is, is when you go from that worry state to, oh my gosh, I'm terrified IMight be sick to what if I'm sick? What if this is the event? People can spend not in that little moment, but all day wondering, is that another thing? Is that a hard issue? Is that a symptom of stroke? My eye twitching, is that IMean I'm having a seizure? When they start asking themselves, a litany of questions, that's not the worry. The worry is just, I'm scared something's wrong. I'm scared something bad's going to happen when you sit there and start questioning at all. To me, it's no different than just sitting there and Googling all day long. What are these symptoms? Remember, let anyone look at that and go, of course, that person's ritualizing. But when you do it inside, it's the same mechanism. It's you trying to get to the end of the story. You're using your crystal ball or time machine to get to the end of that story, sooner than you actually need to. In that case, if you're having a rometical event, I'd go to the doctor, I'd actually go see a physician. But seeing there a questioning it doesn't solve anything. So you went from a state of having worries. I'm afraid I'm sick, I'm afraid something's wrong too. Seeing there, I won't use word persevering, because I usually mean something else, but roominating on it. And that looks functional, but it's actually quite dysfunctional. Is it dysfunctional because of the duration? Is it dysfunctional because it comes at the expense of doing something else? Or is it dysfunctional because if an objective person were to evaluate it on its face, it doesn't make any sense. Now, I know I've said a lot there, but to me, this is the crux of it. I'm going to be able to answer that with one word. Yes, it's dysfunctional because it's taking away from your life. It's dysfunctional because the duration or intensity of it doesn't match the thing, meaning that if you're spending all your time doing that and not going to the doctor, this is not going to solve anything. So in a single moment, anyone freaking out, I don't think that's dysfunctional. Peter, that's what any one of us would do. You know, you sent an email and go, oh shoot, did I just do that? We all do that. Oh man, this feels tight in my chest. What is that? We all do that. So even the criteria for something like health anxiety, the DSM criteria requires six months of being concerned about whether to about symptoms or diseases. We'll talk about different kinds of health anxiety in a few minutes, six months. So in a single singular moment, it's nothing more than you being inquisitive and curious, but the point is, is that's not going to solve whether it's a medical event or not going to your doctor is getting any EKG is asking your nurse sister, if you're having like a stroke, what does she know? So it doesn't solve the problem and it's trying to get to the end of a story or resolve some uncertainty or some ambiguity in a way that's not actually an assault. So it's just not a functional way to process. In a singular moment, in a single moment, the first time I don't care, you don't care. It's what someone does, but when you're doing that multiple times a day, multiple times a week or from months on end, that's the disease. Now, what about the individual who goes out to seek medical attention for something, but the pattern is so illogical. So they just keep having sort of unexplained symptoms and they create a story that says this is cancer or this is heart disease or this is and they follow through with the medical checkup as they should. And the medical checkup keeps coming back crystal clear. You're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine. And the goal post keeps moving. So it's, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, everything they get checked over is fine. Is that health anxiety? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

=== FILE: “We Die How We Live”： The Power of Self-Forgiveness ｜ with BJ Miller, M.D. & Bridget Sumer, L.C.S.W. [9OuFfFN-Fak].txt ===

On this podcast, we talk a lot about causes of death, right? People who listen to me are very familiar with the Four Horsemen, and we know about cardiovascular disease, and we know about cancer, and we know about neurodegenerative disease, and we can talk forever about these things. But we don't really talk about the very, very end, perhaps with the exception of a fatal, myocardial infarction. Mm-hmm. And about 50% of MIs are fatal. But about 50% are not, and they're just setting you up for maybe heart failure, or something else. So as difficult as it is, I'd love for you to sort of explain the mechanics of death, of, and we can start with the more common cause of death, which is cardiopulmonary death. We could talk about brain death after, but I'd love for both of you to sort of describe what's happening, both medically, socially, cognitively, like to the individual through that process. Peter, do you mean like the moments leading to the death, as a body shutting down? Yeah, in those final hours, what is really happening? What does it mean to die of cancer? Like, well, I think for many people, it's a very foreign idea that this woman had breast cancer. Okay, there were cells in her breast that, all of a sudden, acquired mutations, those cells escaped from her breast and went to other parts of her body. But there's still a bit of a disconnect. Why did that? Why did the invasion of those cells to her bones and her lungs and her life? One thing to get right out of the gates here is body's die. Living things die. It's, I think, a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader, something that comes out of the woods and grabs us, and, otherwise, I was just fine and then, no, and as you don't know better than any of us, there are all sorts of things we can do to promote life. And there are a lot of ways where wired to hang on to life and to run from anything that's a threat to us. Those are all true and all natural. But included on the list of natural things that we do is die. So, you know, it is, that's what a body's supposed to do. I just want to get that clear. There's nothing wrong with you for dying. This is the way it's supposed to go. So, your body knows how to do this. So, let's talk about what the body knows how to do. IMean, in general, depending on the cause of death, whether the pathway might be cancer, is you're mentioning or heart disease or neurodegenerative diseases, there's a final common pathway of a body kind of shutting down. It tends to shut down by organ system, you know. And it doesn't follow a neat and tidy pathway. It can happen kind of spontaneously in a kind of a moment they're here and then they're gone. But very often, especially these days, most of us, like 80 plus percent of us will die of chronic illness. We will meet the thing that eventually awaits our death, well in advance of the death. Oftentimes, if we're trying to prognosticate, help a person or family get a sense of how much time is left. We're looking at things like, are they in and out of bed, you know, much? Are they getting up and out of bed? So, if you're asleep on the couch or in the bed, 50 percent of the day, you know, and if that's sort of a progressive process, more and more fatigue, more and more tired, that usually in the context of chronic illness tells us we're heading towards the end. And an interesting food and fluid is a big one. So a body trying to die a GI tract that's on its way to shutting down will stop sending hunger signals. And this is a big one for the audience to hear because a lot of us, you know, food equals nutrition equals nourishment equals life. So if we see someone we love or ourselves not eating, the impulse would be, well, put some food into us. That's life. I don't want someone to starve to death is often my way to do it. And also love, right? Yeah, it's how we show our care and exactly symbolically the act of feeding another is, you know, the nourishment, the love to your point, bridge, it comes with that there's so much around food. But then before we cut over to bridge to explain more, that's that could piece of the puzzle. You know, the body again is sending you a signal, don't put food in me because it will hurt. If a gut is not able to process the food, it sits in place and can cause pain, same with fluids. If we're forcing fluid into a body that's trying to die, that fluid will pool and cause trouble. So the judgment of call when to push the food and fluid and when not is up to really a dialogue, you know, sort of a song and response with the patient. Once you know, you might try a little bit of fluid. And if that ends up in their lung or ends up swelling, then we pull back. But back to your question. So as a body's trying to die, it will stop sending signals for that food and fluid. And that's to be generally respected, not pushed past mental status. So people often get really fuzzy in their thinking. Or all, and delirium is very common. So oftentimes they'll be disoriented. I think it's 1912. And they're in a forest somewhere where they're in a hospital bed. So that's very common. And B.J. Delirium is not uncommon in the hospital. A lot of times with otherwise very healthy patients who are in the hospital to get surgery, the loss of circadian rhythm, the use of narcotics and other medications can easily induce delirium in a person who's otherwise not going to die. Yep. Is this a different form of delirium and what is really underpinning it? Hmm. I don't know that it's a different form of delirium per se. You know, ultimately it's a similar pathway that it looks the same. So you can have a hyperactive delirium which are very easy to spot. Someone's jumping up and down on her bed and going kind of nuts and acting in a way that's not compording with the context of their sitting in a hospital. So hyperactive delirium can be easier to spot. Very often it's hypoactive delirium which is we often miss, especially in the hospital setting. Might just be a little tangential thinking or not quite clear on what day it is. Something that's not so obvious and very often the person's just silent. And that's more often the case I'd say at the end of life. It's more likely to be a hypoactive delirium and so it may be hard to spot. And the person's been sleeping a lot anyway. So you might not, you might miss it. But one reason to bring it up is because if you, if you don't know what to look for, I think a lot of family members and loved ones will be at that at the bed, trying to e-count every last moment with this person and looking for clues about what's going on for them. And last relational moments and exchanges. And very often I've heard from a lot of people reports of, well gosh, my husband never said a mean word to me in our 50 years of marriage. And I've been traumatized for the last two years since he died because of his last words to me where this vulgar something or other. And or he told me that he had to get out of his, you know, some harsh comment. And it, oh, I, it's one of those big takeaways for you audience. Just please keep delirium in mind because what it also means is that person who is delirious is not, you cannot, they are not themselves. So whatever they're saying, you, you really cannot take it literally, you really cannot take it literally. So that poor woman, was suffering for, you know, if someone had told her about delirium, then she would have understood. She took it very literally and was suffering immensely. So anyway, that's a note about delirium. It does feel like an important moment to pause just to note a couple of things, which is, you know, delirium at the end of life we take as seriously as we would in a more acute setting or someone's an ICU with expectation to recover. And we think about environmental factors that influenced delirium, like lighting and noise and interruptions, right? Because if we can minimize delirium, we want to want to want to treat it and care for it. I think the other thing about this space is that we enter into the like rich and nuanced and complicated space of interpretation and the meaning that's being made around what's happening, right? So in that story, someone's, I was sitting at a bedside once with two daughters and their mom was dying. And she had been mostly quiet. I hadn't really talked in a couple of days and we're sitting there talking about her and telling stories and the her kids are telling me about her and she opens one eye and she kind of sits up and she says to her daughter, I love her jacket and I looked at the daughter and the daughter just bursts into tears. And you know, I'm sitting there thinking like, oh, this is so nice. Like mom gives the kind of like, I'm expecting something positive and the daughter's like, she's never complimented my clothes before if anything. She always looked at my, my dress in this critical eye. Like this is so off, you know? And I think that could be one of those projections that we're going to get to the end and dad's going to say mom's going to say the thing that we never heard them say. And they may and that might not feel good. So it's complicated and so interpersonal and personal and subjective and you know, it's one of the reason why two of us being here together and why this work is done often in teams because we could both be in the room with the same person and have very different kind of hits or interpretations around what's happening, what's most important in the room, what needs to be tended to. I've had this so much to say about this stuff and that delirium thing. IMean, there's a big on this point of altered consciousness and what people are saying, what's coming out of people. It's also true that deep dark secrets can sometimes get revealed. That's also true. It's a bit so much needs to be interpreted and it's and therefore held lightly and because you don't there's these are final moments. You may never get the clarity of what mom or dad or that person actually meant in that comment, which is another trick to holding death in our living is to hold it lightly because we keep we will find ourselves wind to apply a story of meaning on all of this stuff as a human's what we do. But one of the great lessons around this work is just, to hold that carefully and lightly. It's not always what we think it is. And on that note of delirium too, I will say as a medical person, I was taught that delirium is inherently a kind of suffering that it's uncomfortable that that to be confused to be disoriented. It's self uncomfortable and it's certainly problematic for the loved ones. So we always medicated it with anti-Sycox, how it paired all in others. We just thornsing just shut it down. I will say my own arc of my career as I've gotten as I've sort of deluded the medical piece with other ways of thinking. I'm not so quick to shut that down. There may be something either vital happening for that person in the bed to express whatever's in there and maybe something that's helpful for the person to hear. I gave you the counterpoint that it's helpful for a loved one to hear in a de-contextualized way. But I think one of the meta messages here is dying, it doesn't can't always be shouldn't, perhaps, admit me to use that hard word. It would be so tidy and immaculate and clen and perfect. I want to disabuse, I think we'd both like to disabuse that notion of that that's a good death. So a quiet death, the person. So I've been increasingly would not medicated delirium unless I had a conversation if you were my patient. I'd say Peter, hey, you know there might be moments where you can get a little confused, et cetera. And if that happens, would you rather, you know, maybe there's an opportunity for me to ask it? Would you like us to kind of air on the side of medicated that and help you sleep through it, you know, or talk to a family about that? But the bottom line here is it's not such a one-to-one thing when we see this, that means suffering, that means medication. It's much more mysterious than that. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-01-31T23:39:46.518194Z ===
