! X SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH the protein, you'll die. Right. You can vary carbs and fat a lot. You can't mess with protein. You can't mess with protein. It's a basic building block and you're in big, big trouble when you become protein deprived because there's no other way to get it. It's not like your carbs are going to transform into proteins. And everybody knows when they don't have a sense of meaning because their life is empty. They're the most miserable when they don't have a sense of meaning, but nobody knows exactly what it is. It's like, I need this thing, but I don't know what it is. So philosophers and psychologists, by the way, define meaning is actually a combination of three things. Coherence, purpose, and significance. Coherence is things happen for a reason. That's the first part of meaning. I believe that things happen for a particular reason. That doesn't mean my way is the right way. And it might be randomness. My father was a PhD biostatistician, also very religious. And he used to say that the greatest miracle in the world was randomness, that God built the universe with randomness and regular distributions of events. Such an extraordinary thing. He thought that miracles were events on extreme tale events in random distributions. And God loved randomness. In other words, there's lots and lots of different ways to understand the coherence part, why things are coherent. The second is purpose, which is direction. Your life has direction. I have in, there's a word in, you're not a sailor, are you? I can't remember. There's a word called the rum line, R-H-U-M line. It's actually a much more common word in Spanish, rumbo. And it's actually part of common parlance. Rumbo means the end point toward which your voyage is tending. You're not going to get there and you're going to vary from it, but you have to have a direction. A north star. You have to have something you're navigating to. Right. Navigationally. And the last is, is significance. It would matter if I weren't alive. It would matter if I'm not here. So these are the component parts. Now, these are worth thinking about in detail in our lives, but here's the way I have a kind of a diagnostic test to see if somebody has a meaning crisis. It's a two question exam. If somebody doesn't have real answers, everybody's got PC answers, you know, answers you'd give your mom or whatever. But if you don't have real answers to this, the good news is these are the two questions to go looking for answers to in your life. This is your vision quest is to find the answers to these by reading, by experiencing, by meditating, by spending time by yourself, by praying, by asking people as advice, by therapy. I don't know. Do your thing. Right. Question number one is, why are you alive? Why are you alive? You got to have an answer. It's not my answer. Your answer, a real answer. Question number two is for what are you willing to die today? You flunk this quiz by saying, oh, no, that's how you flunk the quiz. But then the adventure actually begins after you flunk the quiz, because like, I'm going to figure that out. I'm going to go find those answers. I'm going to read. I'm going to consider. I'm going to do all the things that you do metacognitively to find the answer to these questions. But let's think about that for a second. There are probably a lot of people who cannot answer one who can answer two or who can answer one, but can't answer two. I'm alive because, you know, some biological process, et cetera, et cetera. But number two is I don't know what I'm willing to die for. Let's clarify that. Right. So are you asking one through the lens of biology? Depends on how you answer it and what actually gives you meaning. So the way to answer the first question, why are you alive? Is either a spiritual person or a religious person would have a divine response to the first question. An atheist would respond to the first question in terms of biology. And they would really understand. And that would give them a, and that biological answer could give you a tremendous sense of meaning and a sense of place in the universe. Although it's interesting because as someone who leans far more towards the agnostic atheist side, I spend most of my time coming to grips with mortality, which is a very difficult thing to come to grips with. Which is the second question, right? Um, but I come to grips with that by addressing your third point around sense of purpose, which is my insignificance. So in other words, it's only through accepting my complete and utter insignificance that I can have some semblance of peace with my finitude and my eventual and relatively quick demise. Yeah. This is one of the reasons that transcendence is, uh, is a basic element in, is one of the happiness practices, you know, the practice of, of transcendence, whether it's secular or religious transcendence, it's really important because it makes you small. It makes you small. You stand in awe of a sunset. You stand in awe of seeing somebody committing an unbelievably selfless act. It makes you actually feel smaller, which gives you peace through a sense of perspective. That's a very common phenomenon. And, um, one of the people who works in my area, Dacher Keltner at, at UC Berkeley, he has a book called awe, A-W-E, that talks about the neurocognitive processes involved when you're experiencing awe and why it gives you such deep peace. And it's really all about what you're talking about. You got to get small. Like Steve Martin used to say in the seventies, get small. And, and if you can find ways to get small, you're going to be a lot better off for sure is the whole thing. But how do we reconcile that with the need to have significance through your sense of purpose? Well, the key is at the same time you, you realize that you matter, but at the same time, it's okay that the universe will be just fine if you die. And those are, they seem like conflicting phenomenon, but they're actually, I think that they're weirdly compatible. I think that they're weirdly compatible. These, these ideas, this balance between the two, it matters that I exist here and things will be just fine. If I know you think about this with your, you know, when you, a lot of people, when you're, when you get married for the first time, you say, you love me. And if I'm gone, you'll be okay. It's this sense of peace with the, with what it's that balance between those two things turns out to be the trick. I've never been able to find that. Yeah. Well, it's, I guess practice makes perfect. I haven't found it either for sure, but the way to think about this and the way to find the answers to the questions is really interesting. And I've, I've worked on this with my kids. Um, my adult, I have adult kids. My kids are a little older than yours and my 23 year old, you know, he's a, he's a piece of work, man. Um, his name is Carlos and, uh, he likes you and he's a, I mean, he's human performance machine. He's a scout sniper in the U S Marine Corps. Uh, he's two, two Oh four, 4% body fat, six foot five. He's all about it. He needs the information that you're providing, obviously. So, you know, he, he didn't have the answers to that because many adolescents don't and young adults don't, but he found the answers to that as he did something that was truly difficult, you know, going through Marine basic training and then they, you know, infantry training battalion, and then doing the in doc for the, as he's an operator in the Marines now and the scout sniper platoon stuff's no joke. It's hard. And you ask him the question now, why are you alive? He would simply say, because God made me to serve. And that, that is both the how and the why of the first question. And the second question for what are you willing to die? Very simple for my faith, for my family, for my fellow Marines and for the United States of America and for our allies, you know, this is, this is, these are very solid answers. These are not the right answers for somebody listening or you or me necessarily, but they are answers that he actually believes. And that's what gives him his sense of meaning is the content of those two answers and finding what we really do think about those things. What really is persuasive to us is a journey, really a philosophical and, and for some, a theological journey really worth taking. It's definitely something I've spent much more time thinking about in the past year than, than certainly any time before. People typically do around age 50. Yeah. People typically do, you know, the, um, are the, in ancient Vedic physics, there's a, uh, the theory of the four quarters of life. Mm-hmm. You know, we think about, you know, adult and kid and adult and all that. And, you know, we talk, last time we talked, we were talking about from strength to strength, which was my last book. And, but, uh, which was a lot about that, but according to this ancient Hindu thinking, you've got brahmacharya, which is your student phase, the first quarter of your life. The second quarter of your life is called grihastha, which is the householder phase where you're, you know, you're hustling and you're starting your family and your work. The third quarter going in from the second to the third is the second adolescence into something called vanaprastha, which means these two Sanskrit words to retire into the forest. And it's supposed to happen around age 50. And what happens is that, that certain things fade and other things become more salient to you. Um, more transcendental things start to become more important to you. And part of this has to do with the change in your brain, change in your strengths, the change in your crystallized intelligence. These are real phenomena that neuroscientists have identified and social psychologists as well, but as a spiritual matter, it means what is my retirement into the forest? What does that actually mean? It means I need to, certain things are more important to me than they used to be. These are important questions, not because I'm going to die, but because I just want to know, you know, what does this actually mean about, and a lot of people wind up coming back to the faith of their youth. When this happens, a lot of people will develop a meditation practice. Some people will find that they will get deeply, deeply into fitness in ways they hadn't before and doing things that are super hard for them that challenge them as human beings. Some people will change careers, um, do something that they've always wanted to do, but something that has more artistic significance than it, more creative significance than it had before. But all of that is this vanaprastha. And the whole point of that is to get to the fourth quarter, which is called sannyasa. And that's enlightenment to sit at the feet of the guru and to, and to the bask in the glow of the master is kind of how the Hindus will talk about it. But you got to do the work to get there. You got to ask the questions and be on the quest. And that's your third quarter around age 50. And do you think that each of these quarters, which I recall from our first discussion, don't necessarily reflect equal chunks of time on the calendar. Um, but do you think that they require an emphasis on different elements of those three macronutrients of happiness? I do. I do. And, and, and again, this is, um, this is mixing, you know, neuroscience plus social psychology plus Vedic wisdom. And this is like where no man has gone before. Um, but I do, and I've actually asked this to some teachers that I haven't, I mean, every, every, I go to India every year and I study with various gurus and spiritual teachers, which is outside my tradition. I'm a Catholic, but it makes me a better Catholic and it makes me a better social scientist too, quite frankly. And I have a teacher in, uh, Palakad, which is in Southern India, a guy named Nocher Venkataraman, the Tamil guy. And I was asking him about, you know, precisely these sets of questions. And he said that people pass through these phases, you know, depending on how adroit they are spiritually at different times and different periods of time, but you have to do all the learning from each one. You need to be a student. You need to develop your life. Then you need to retire into the forest and contemplate these questions such that you can get to the, the ultimate destination, which is this, this period of enlightenment in your life. And, and in so doing, you need to develop these different parts of your life. You, you can't do this without the love that you share with other people, which is inherently enjoyable. You can't do this without achieving certain things and understanding that your life requires a certain amount of satisfaction. And that has achievement that has earned success involved in it. And of course you can't do that without understanding what meaning is to you and what the meaning of your life really is.