 s It was Tim Russert's funeral that I saw, Tim Russert. He had died at about, what, 2007? Yeah, 2007, 2008, 2007, he was in his early 50s. I thought he was brilliant with Meet the Press, never been a moderator in my view, this has been better. And at his funeral with former presidents and astronauts and celebrities, the tributes were unbelievable. And it occurred to me. He never got to hear it. He's never gonna hear a word of it. That registered, I thought, that doesn't make sense. It's either too late. Or it's almost too late. I don't want that to be my life. That may be customary. But sometimes customary is not good. It's just usual and common. But not smart. I asked Lola, I said, you know, I have an idea for a gift for my 70th. She said, what is it? I said, I want to spend as much time as I need in the coming year to sit down with everybody that had been important in my life. I wanted to go visit with them. I want to sit with them. I want to have an experience with them after I talk with them. And I want each one of them to know how important they've been in my life. Lola has been either the creator or the supporter of everything important in my life. I said, if that's the gift you want, you should take it. And that's what I did for the following 11 months after I was 70. I visited with 44 people. Brought me to Kenya, to Mexico, to Canada, many places in the United States. It was a remarkable moment of my life. Give me an example of what such a meeting was like. Obviously, if you're seeing 44 people across the globe in 11 months, we're talking about only days that you're spending with each person, right? Oh, literally a day. Yeah. So you would fly into Mexico City. Yeah. So most of them were domestic. And in fact, some of them I was able to do two in one trip or three in one trip. I had a few in Florida, so I would combine them. So it wasn't like I had 44 trips. Some were from Southern California, which is where I live. It didn't require traveling. So I don't want to make this seem like this was an extensive travel, whatever. But I want to highlight the simplicity of it. First of all, I hesitate to typically tell this story about 44 people because people and your listeners will probably say, oh, I don't have 44 people. You have one at least. And that's all I'm trying to inspire. So for me, the journey was my personal journey. Had nothing to do with inspiring anybody for anything. It was my personal journey. And I said, well, what process will I use? Took out a legal pad and I wrote the question, what difference did this person make in my life? And I would put bullet points down underneath it. Sometimes it could be two pages, but typically one. I've got to go see him or her. By the product of that process. I took that legal pad with me and it was I had four bases that I covered in every conversation. So, yeah, there's some systemization to this, but each one was so different. But they followed a similar pattern. And what was that pattern? Well, the first base was just how did I have the good fortune of meeting you? How did that happen? Then we talked about next base was all these shared experiences we had. Wow. Amazing. Third base was the major one. I had my pad and I said, this is for me to express to you how important you've been in my life. And I want to tell you why, because to me, the specificity never do say that word too easily was where the richness of the conversation. It wasn't I love you. It wasn't although I did tell them I love them. It wasn't a general remark. It was a specific remark. So third base was the big one. The fourth one was kind of for me, which is that I had known these people over a thousand years. And I said, this is my only opportunity. Incidentally, I recorded every conversation and because it's so hard to take in acknowledgement and appreciation at the end of this year, I mailed to each one of them a picture, 120 word letter summarizing it and the CD, which summarized our conversation and framed them and mailed it to 44 people. But the last piece of it was that I wanted to learn something about myself. And so I said, listen, I would appreciate it if you could give me one piece. I'd like to create a mosaic about who I am. Would you be good enough to share with me? What would that piece have been from your perspective? And that was my fourth base. That's the whole experience. That's the whole process. What was the most interesting thing you learned in that year about life? Not necessarily about yourself, but just about life and the richness of it.