 d converter converter converter converter, converter converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter converter, converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter Or is there a bigger lesson that we need to learn? And the answer was that we've known since the 1990s that after aging, after getting older itself, being a woman is the strongest risk factor for developing Alzheimer's. But when I asked, can we do something about it? The answer was mostly, well, you know, the point is longevity. It's just aging. Yes. The idea is that women live longer than men and Alzheimer's is a disease of old age. So at the end of the day, unfortunately, more women than men have Alzheimer's disease. But there are two things that contradict in part this statement. And clearly, aging is important. Yeah. The first one, by the way, is just a simple actuarial analysis. I did this myself 10 years ago back of the envelope because that was the first guess. Yes. The first time I thought about that question was maybe in 2015. Okay. And the obvious answer was, well, women on average live two and a half to three years longer. That must account for it. But if you actually go through even something as rudimentary as the CDC mortality tables and slice them by five-year increments, you can't explain the increased prevalence by a factor of two to one on that delta in age. But I'm sure you have a much more elegant explanation for why this was not the case. That is a good explanation. Well, one thing that came to mind, obviously, was that the difference in the longevity gap was not 10 years. It wasn't that wide. It was just a few years. And for instance, in England, the gap is about two years. But Alzheimer's disease and dementia, the whole category is the number one cause of death for women and not for men. But then the other point is that if it was just aging, then women would have a higher prevalence of other age-related disorders and neurodegenerative disorders relative to men, only they do not. Right. Cancer and cardiovascular disease are also age-related. But even within the dementias, right, for vascular dementias, 50-50, Parkinson's disease with dementia is more prevalent in men. Yes. Frontotemporal dementia seems to be more prevalent in men. And Lewy body dementia is about 50-50. So that just doesn't seem to be a good way to, or good reason to dismiss an important question. It might be easier to look at mortality and tally up the mortality differences. Because if you really think that the incident, if you would reverse test this hypothesis, if you think incidence is too high, you should see men dying at a much higher rate at a comparable stage of disease to women. In other words, the women should be outliving the men with Alzheimer's disease if they're all getting it at the same rate, which I don't think is the case, of course. But that would be a way to test that hypothesis in the negative. Yes, that could be. And in fact, in some countries, Alzheimer's disease is actually the number one cause of death for women over 65. That's staggering. Whereas heart disease, yes. What countries? There are many different things. These are low socioeconomic? Some countries in Europe. Oh, okay. No, also in European countries and also in some parts of the United States. So the data is just coming out because many scientists are in a way puzzled that longevity has been the only explanation for the disparity. And we're now looking at risk in ways that I think are doing more justice to the question that we could do before, especially by looking at biological markers. Because we can see that, and this is a lot of my research, when we do brain imaging or we look at other biofluids in midlife and we compare, let's say that we have a population of men and women who are like 45 to 65. And all these participants, all these people have either a family history of Alzheimer's or perhaps the APOE4 genotypes. So they are technically at higher risk for Alzheimer's than the average person, than people who do not have these risk factors. If you look at the brain scans of men and women, at least in my work, but it's been replicated by many other scientists and other teams, the women tend to show more red flags for Alzheimer's disease in midlife as compared to men of the same age. And this is quite consistent. And we've also seen the progression of lesions in the brain tend to be faster in women. So then when you compare men and women who have the same symptoms and the same level of dementia severity, the women's brains actually harbor more pathology. So what seems to happen is that we start developing the lesions of Alzheimer's, the pathology in the brain earlier on than men, starting in midlife. And we live longer with it, but we're able to compensate more in that the tests that we use to diagnose Alzheimer's are heavily reliant on things like verbal memory, which women have a little bit of an advantage in. And so it's more difficult to diagnose Alzheimer's in women early. Because they have a higher cognitive reserve in the metric you're using to test. Yes. So in a way, women are masking the fact that there is Alzheimer's in their brains, but not necessarily overperforming. But starting at a higher reserve. Yes. Starting at a higher level. So the idea is that we live with Alzheimer's longer. And that may lead to a higher number of Alzheimer's patients among women down the line. And the other thing that, so that really changed the whole question about women's brain health and Alzheimer's risk. Because what we and others have shown is that Alzheimer's is not a disease of old age. It's a disease of midlife with symptoms that start in old age. Alzheimer's starts in midlife with negative changes in the brain and that later on lead to the symptoms and the clinical diagnosis of dementia. But then that changes the question, right? Because if Alzheimer's is not a disease of old age, but it's a disease of midlife, if women have a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease, a higher long-life, long-term risk of Alzheimer's disease compared to men, starting in midlife. Then the question that we should be asking, I believe, is, well, what happens to women and not to men in midlife that could then potentially explain the higher risk of Alzheimer's down the line? Yeah, I just wrote that down. I think that's such a profound statement, Lisa. It actually reminds me of a statement I've made many times on the podcast quoting one of our guests about something totally different, which is osteoporosis. And the guest said that, look, osteoporosis is a childhood disease. It just doesn't manifest in childhood. But you reach your genetic ceiling of your bone density by the time, in the case of a woman, by the time she's 18 or 19 years old. So if a woman isn't able to create enough deformation in her bones and all of the things that lead to strong bones by the time she's 18, 19, her risk has already started, even though that disease won't manifest until she's 60. So if you enjoyed that statement, you can use that statement, you can use that statement, Oh