 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter cancer and heart disease and all the things we used to worry about outside of the edge case of hypertension, which can be managed. But all of that said, is there a case to be made that we should not be replacing testosterone in men because it turns us backwards in terms of this aggression and it's more likely to make that 55-year-old guy want to find himself the 20-year-old girlfriend? I don't know that that's been shown. But so you're saying, look, you're saying testosterone is great. Why shouldn't we give it to people? No, no. I'm asking the opposite question. I'm saying given everything we've just learned about testosterone, is there a reason, is there a negative consequence to taking a 55-year-old guy and restoring his testosterone to what it was when he was 18? Why do you think he, say, make the argument for why that should happen? Why you should restore it back to when he's 18? Yes. Do you think that should happen? I think it totally depends on the symptoms, would be my take, right? So if a guy is having difficulty putting on muscle mass, if he's complaining of something, see, again, there are some guys who say, I'd like to have sex once a week and my wife would like to have sex once a week. And that's what we do. And that's fine. Conversely, there are other guys who say, my wife wants to have sex every day and I want to have sex once a month. Yeah. This is now, this is a problem. But if my testosterone is what it was when I was 18, I'd like to have sex every day. My wife would like to have sex every day. Now we're happy. Right? So again, there isn't a formula here, but that's one example of how you're trying to match the symptoms and what the patient is saying to what you can do. Right? There are some guys who have no difficulty putting on muscle mass despite having a testosterone of the 20th percentile. It might be that they had, you know, their genetics or such that that was the case or they put on a lot of muscle mass when they were younger and it's just easier to maintain it. There's certainly evidence that insulin resistance can be ameliorated by correcting hypogonadism. So anyway, there are reasons to consider doing it. What I'm trying to get at is are there negative consequences of doing it from a behavioral standpoint? And I'm not talking about roid rage and things like that, which has largely been sort of debunked outside of, again, these edge cases where people are taking sort of super physiologic doses. But in terms of being a productive non-asholic member of society and not being overly aggressive or being, you know, engaging in harmful behavior, risky behavior, you know, what's the pro and con case for that in your mind? Yeah. So I imagine that the doses that you're giving, I mean, it's, I think, been shown pretty clearly that if men are within the typical range, even at the low end, you don't see a lot. You don't see changes in sexual or aggressive behavior within the normal range, right? You see muscle mass. You see differences in physical parameters, but not. Yeah. The most complicating thing that if I could wave a magic wand, wave one magic wand in medicine right now, what would I have? I would have a PSA equivalent for breast cancer. Come back to why that would be a game changing solution down the line. The second thing, which would not be nearly as important, would be I would love to have an assay to measure androgen receptor density. Oh, thank you for bringing that up. Because what we can't, and what we tell all our patients this, and they look at us like, just measure it. And I'm like, no, no, you don't understand. We don't have a test for it. And they're like, how do you not have a test for this? Can you do the CAG repeat? I mean, I guess you could. That would be, yeah. I mean, it's just, is there a commercial test for that? I mean, and you can do that in the lab, but. Yeah. I don't know if there's a commercial test. Yeah. Like I would like. You should get it if there is. Someone should develop a CLIA approved assay for this. Because. Does everybody know what the CAG repeat is? No, they don't. But I think the point I really want to make is we don't know. Like, why is it that one guy can have a testosterone of 400 and feel totally fine? And another guy can have a testosterone of 400 and feel totally depleted. And if you took both of those guys up to a thousand, the first guy would be like, I don't feel any better. And the second guy would be like, you've changed my life. Can I ask you a question about that? Because you know a lot more about this, I think, than I do. If you have the guy who feels bad on 400, do you eliminate all the other things that could possibly. Like, how can you eliminate all the other things that could be causing him that are going on in his world or in his body? No, you can't, but you can just change one variable at a time. But if you change that one variable, is that overriding the potentially negative effects of inflammation or depressing situation in his social life or whatever it is? You know, typically, T won't fix a lot of those things, right? So, you know, the most obvious thing you try to sleep, you try to sleep. The most obvious things you try to fix are sleep, nutrition, and exercise, right? So if a guy's, regardless of what his testosterone level is, if it's 400, which is very low, especially if his free testosterone is equivalently low, and he's got sort of these vague symptoms, it's like, well, look, if you're not sleeping well, eating well, and exercising well, like, let's fix those first. Or obesity, do you have to? Yeah, sure, absolutely, right? But you can't always fix those things to the nth degree without wanting to at least experiment, especially when it comes to body composition stuff or energy levels. So by making the one variable change at a time, you can sort of say, look, let's do the experiment, right? If your T is now 900, and we haven't made a change during that period of time other than that T, and you're telling me, I don't really feel that much different. My hypothesis is you have a pretty low density of androgen receptors, and they're largely saturated at 400. Oh, interesting. And therefore, this isn't really the fix. There's something else we need to be looking at. Yeah, I'm glad you brought up the androgen receptors, because I think people don't appreciate the fact that one person's 400 is not another person's 400. And I know you talk about this a lot, about carrier proteins, but also there's the genetic differences in the receptor itself, which is the CAG repeat, which predict the efficiency of its ability to transcribe the androgen responsive proteins. And just the overall concentration, where are your androgen receptors, and how highly concentrated are there? Of course, there's different, it's going to be different in different parts of your brain and body. So all of that really makes much more complex the interpretation of a single measurement. So all of that really makes you think that you can use the converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter