practice in front of that mirror. Girl, you twerking it on the dance floor of that mirror. Girl, you twerking it on the iter. All right. Hey guys. So, this is part three of our three-part video series covering our trip to the Arnold Classic. So, I just got some footage from the actual Arnold Classic men's bodybuilding finals itself, and I thought that Branch should have won, or at least I expected him to take it all because this was the best conditioning I'd ever seen on Branch. And this is coming from someone who's really not a Branch Warren fan at all. It was crazy to see his conditioning like in real life. I think that pictures don't do him justice. Like if he's ever been this conditioned before, I was like completely taken back. Like almost fell off my seat like when I saw Branch's conditioning. And like I think that what you see on like streamed videos and photographs is Branch's like ugly uh like just overall like structure and then it just takes like you just don't even notice how good his conditioning is. So, I think that's why he places higher than anyone really expects him to because he's like the judges see his conditioning like a few feet away. Um, but that's just my take on it. Yeah. No, I agree. And like just look how crazy his legs look there. So, yeah. Then after uh the finals, we went out to dinner with a few friends and TSG teammates and Ian McCarthy. Noel, Jason, the waitress. And yeah, so we had a dinner. I had some nachos. It's a combination of a burger or something. Oh, the nachos were like the weirdest nachos ever. They were potato chips with sour cream on them. Like, what? Those weren't nachos. Yeah, it was really weird. They were called Ohio nachos. And it was They were just potato They were actually potato chips with sour cream on them. No cheese. like what? WTF? And this was a snapshot that uh Alex Kovaleeski got of me while I was smashing the nachos. Uh so then the next day, which was Sunday, we went to the Beyond Limits gym again and did some deadlifts and it was really cool because Lane Norton randomly showed up and he offered us a few tips and we got to train with him a little bit which was really cool. And the gym wasn't actually really busy today, which was a change of scenery. And that guy uh warming up in front of me, he's actually friend friends with uh Bakarv, the Russian who competed in the USA Pro Raw Challenge, the USAPL Pro Raw Challenge. And um it was funny because when he saw me deadlifting, he came up and said, "You look more like bodybuilder than powerliffter." in like a just a thick Russian accent, right? And so this is Lane basically explaining his setup for the deadlift. And has a crazy ridiculous deadlift as I'm sure everybody knows. And so then after that, I sort of took what he said and tried to put it in practice. And I think I was just pulling 455 for five sets of two on this day. Uh, and then this is a set of me doing hammer curls with trying to get Lane in the background and he's there talking. He was like, he was like, "Bro, try to get a shot of Lane in the background while I'm doing bicep curls." And he was like, it was like not like discreet at all. Like I was figning fing I was like, "Oh my gosh, I don't want to do this." And he was like, "Quick, quick over there. Over there, like shoot the camera that direction." I was like, "Oh my god, I don't want to be a part of this right now." So, what we ended up getting was a pick of what looks like client. She's a figure competitor and a powerlter and she's like she looks amazing and you should follow her on Instagram if you don't mind. And so then at the end of our workout, uh, Matt Ogus and the rest of the Gym Shark crew like Christian Guzman and Nikki Black and all those people came in. So, it was cool to meet Ogus and he actually came up to me and said, you know, I've been looking forward to meeting you for a long time. Which I thought was kind of cool cuz I didn't even know that he was following me at all. And at this point, I was like I was I trained for like 4 hours. I probably had like 300 no jokeies that day and like I was so out of it. And like I remember saying nice to meet you to Matt Ogus three times and it was so embarrassing cuz like I like Matt Oasis and I follow some of his stuff but I'm not like a huge fan girl and I totally came off as one but you know I guess that's fine. So anyway then after that we flew up the next morning and that was our trip. So thanks for watching guys. If you like the video please like the video and subscribe if you haven't already. Thanks. Oh, see how it sound.