This looks amazing. The eggs are actually delicious. So far, the food has been so good here. So, so this is something Stephanie just ordered and it's called shakshuka. Kind of like scrambled eggs. See, there's like a really good flavor on it that I can't pinpoint cuz I'm not a foodie, but very delicious. Now, I'm going to make some oatmeal. Sprinkle some sugar, bit of raisins, and a little bit of syrup. This looks so good. In my last video, someone commented. They were like, "I was starting to wonder if Jeff's videos were scripted." Then I heard a woman give a perfectly concise and clear answer to, "What do you want to eat?" And now I know that they're scripted. Hey, this oatmeal is How is it good? So good. Look at this thing. Oh, yeah. It has Snickers on the side, but that's what it looks like. Oh, what? Isn't that sick? Stephanie just finished editing her latest video. If you're not subscribed to her, this is her channel. It's lit. We just ordered room service and I think I just heard them at the dooring at the door. We spent basically spent basically the whole morning sleeping and got up at 11:00 a.m. So, we had breakfast and then she was editing her video. I was doing some client work. I had some Skype calls to do. Now, we're getting lunch and it's like 4:30 p.m. And this room service is not up there. It was a ghost. It was an Egyptian mummy. That's actually Look at this guy cruising on the Nile. That's the life right there. This guy has a seed boat. Sidu Nile Egypt. This is not loading. Yeah, the the Wi-Fi here is not fantastic. Maybe we should upgrade to the business Wi-Fi. Hello. Hello. Good morning. It's nice. Yes, that's great. That would be great. When we tip on the um that paper, does any of it go to you too or is it just to whoever made the food? Yes. Yeah, we already made the food. Um how do we tip you? Yeah, we want to tip you as well as on there too. Like we we'll tip there, but we want you to have something too. Do you get any of that tip? Do you get the money from this? Here go. Yes. This goes to you. Yes, sir. Okay. That's what I was wondering. That's what we want. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you very shared another article about me. They keep writing articles about me. Thank you, Generation Iron, for the for the share. Natural bodybuilder Jeff Nippard shows off IFBB level physique. That's wonderful. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. That's very cool. The Oh, they shared this photo of my side tricep. This is something I never noticed before. Facebook will update the notification icon to be the side of the earth that you're on. So, normally this icon would be like North America, but now it shows Africa and Europe. My food experience in Egypt so far has been like I don't know how I couldn't give it a 10 because it's just I I can't imagine it having been any better. Individual meals probably I can imagine being better but as a whole you just don't get that consistently good food. Are we going to the seafood buffet tonight? Just here uh at the Egyptian restaurant in the hotel getting a coffee. the environment. No, I'm not sure. This might be something different. This might be one of the There's two lounges here, by the way. I think this is actually Oh, okay. American coffee and stuff. Yes. Thank you so much. Thank you. We were uh we were hoping to book a tour like for the the pyramids or maybe the museum. This city hotel. That's our hotel. Okay. And the newest place is Egyptian Museum. Oh, okay. You want to go there tomorrow? Tomorrow the museum we were hoping to accomplish. You are here for just the wedding or for We came here for the wedding, but we decided to stay longer than just for the wedding. Thank you so much. Thank you. We just booked a tour of the Egyptian Museum in Old Cairo City tomorrow. So, we're going to pack the day in and then the wedding is in the evening. We're getting up bright and early tomorrow. We slept in today, so we won't need to do that again. Um, so yeah, that's going to be awesome tomorrow. Morning everyone. It is Friday, May the 12th. We are going to check out the museum and then we're going to Old Cairo. So, first things we have to get some cash taken out. We need some Egyptian pounds. We're going to We might do a little bit of shopping in Old Cairo. In my wallet right now, I have 1,000 Egyptian pounds. I was like, I have so much money and it's 50 bucks. It's like 55 bucks American. Um, so we need to take out maybe another,000 or two. So one US dollar is $18 Egyptian pounds. If anyone plans to visit Egypt at any time, make sure you come here with American money. You need it in order to get into the country. So that was a little bit difficult to get your visa, visitors visa to get into Egypt. They require that you have US dollars apparently. So we had to like go to an ATM and take out Egyptian pounds and then go to a bank, but he wouldn't freaking transfer it for us. So we had to like there was so many little workarounds but we ended up getting in obviously it's a very angry machine. This thing is aggressive. What it gave you? Okay. 200 400 500 600 700 800. This is what Egyptian money looks like. You should show them bread well money in the desert playing golf. I forgot to mention uh last night I did actually pull a complete allnighter. So, it's the first time I've done that in forever. I didn't want to be so behind on my Egypt vlogs while here in Egypt. I think I started editing it at like 1:00 a.m. and I finished it around 8:00 a.m. I uploaded it at like 8:00 a.m. here. If I am a little bit out of it today, uh it's because I'm literally running on zero sleep. Um the jet lag might have something to do with it. There is a 6-hour time difference here. So, um bear with me today. Hi. Hi. Um we have a a driver coming to me. Yeah. Good morning. What's your name? My name is Magi. I'm Jeff. Nice to meet you, Stephanie. Nice to meet you. Yeah, Jeff and I are on our way. I have 2,000 Egyptian pounds. Do you think that's good? Like enough? Yes. Okay. Is this our first time outside? I think so. Well, we went out on the pool. We went on the pool. Kind of outside. Thank you so much. We're going to start with the museum. Yes. We're going to focus on the highlight of the museum. Then we'll have a meeting point and meeting place to meet then go to the uh old guy. Fantastic. That's wonderful. Okay, let's go. Thank you so much. Thank you. Are you staying here? No. Yes. Oh, okay. All right. Would you go to camera now? Yes. We are now facing Asian museum. One of the wealthiest museum all over the world. Okay. Question for you. Would you like to use your camera inside? Uh, can we? I like to. Can we? But if you want to use it inside, you have to be extra tickets. Oh, £50. Okay, that's worth it. This one? Yes. Is this it? It's a really good thing we got the tour guide. Oh my god. Can you imagine trying to do this? Like we just wouldn't happen. It is officially YouTube friendly for us. And this is this is what it looks like. Thank you. We are here in C. Alexander is here and very close to Alexandria a small part or small village is called Rashid or in English we call it Rosetta. In 1799 one of the French soldiers found this stone and they call it Rosetta stone. Okay. Okay. I want to see if I if I have this right. So shambolon. Okay. He he spent 22 years in Egypt to find the hieroglyphics and convert it into Greek. And what was the other language? Dimote. Dimote. Okay. He converted this hieroglyphic which has a bunch of like 30 signs and he converted it into 25 signs. 25 signs and he converted. Very cool. And it took him 22 years in traveling all around Egypt to do that. Yes. Following this uh seven signs, right? Right. And he found seven. Okay. So he got mostly. So was the Rosetta Stone used to translate the hieroglyphs around Egypt into Greek into into Greek and into Greek. That's interesting. Okay. Let's go to something else. So the first secret to utilization is nullification with the heart. Oh, they weigh the heart against the objects. Just uh for my video, I'd like to this. This is the inbalming table. They would mummify the body and then they would wrap all the fingers and toes and everything all individually. And then they would take Egyptian cloth and then they would wrap all of that up. Hold the whole body up and then they would put them over into this holding coffin. Holding coffin. Yeah. Holding coffin. And then they would put four jars in with them. Then they would take the holding coffin and bring it over here and put it in the sarcophagus burn or marble or give it on the streets of the owner of the tomb inside this sarcophagus. Right. and they close the sarcophagus, put it in a tomb or pyramid. Tomb or burial chamber and bury the burial chamber and then that's where the king or someone who is richer than you and I would would die and they would take out all of their organs uh like all the four organs, the stomach, intestines, lungs, and liver. And then they would leave the heart and they would take the brain out through the nose. And then they're going to weigh the brain and the heart and see which weighs more. Which one weighs more? They want the heart to weigh more. Yes. For how many days? We have 40 days. 40 days. She's They teach her that in PhD school. I've got a measly bachelor. They don't teach us about the 40 days. Something of note. This King Nikarishious guy he said was very knowledgeable in anatomy. So it allowed him to build a physique that he said was very impressive. He has muscular chest and muscular arms. He said something like mine. Something something like that. Is there a reason why so many of the statues have one one foot forward? Your left leg is so easy to walk. So comfortable to your butt and choose to ah. Can you change to your left leg? That feels better to me. My right. I guess it depends on if you're right or left. I think the less one better. It's better. It's better. I think that it lines up with the heart. So maybe you have a heavier heart and she has a heavier brain. Yeah, I can see someone didn't drink their milk. Someone just took Kufu. And have we gotten to Alexandria yet? Because when you said that there was a king who was like a very powerful leader in Egypt, I was I was thinking not Alexandria Cleopatra. Um have we come to her in the story yet or no? She was not Egyptian. She was descended from the great she was Egypized. She was a charming lady, very smart lady and she talked a lot of language and for this reason Mark Andre and you know Caesar posed they fall in love with this. Oh okay. It was the last way later. God. It's so cool though. Hey, like all this like authentic stuff. Like he said the only thing in here that was a copy was the Rosetta Stone, right? So everything else in here is like legit. It's weird to think that like you go see an exhibit like an Egyptian an exhibit in the States. That's one thing, but we're in Egyp. Yeah. This is the real thing. So we just finished up at the Egyptian Museum. That was a lot of crash course history in I don't know 2 hours. So now we're headed to Old Cairo. We'll check in with you guys in old Cairo. So we're here at the old museum Cairo. It's a paparest museum. They used to make their views with vertical and horizontal lines. This green cover actually is very very strong to make baskets, sandals, chairs, tables, boats. So we cut it into small strips like this way. So to make the paper as you see we arrange all these strips horizontally and vertical down the pressure for more days that you get this. As you see, you can see the horizontal and vertical strip seems clear outside. H. How do they glue it together? How does it stick together? Is it just from the pressing? Is that what it is? It's just water that stick together. I actually had a question. How does the stay together? Is it just from the pressing or it's just from the press? Is it water? Just water. Normal water. And it sticks. It sticks. But we need four days. Is it from like a sugar or something? You think because actually this plant has a little gelatin? Oh, je to stick together. Yeah. Yeah. Like the sap. Yeah. It's like a quick little break from the tour and get some food at this buffet. You hungry? I'm hungry. Got some chicken, some rice, uh vegetables, and some pasta. Have you ever seen someone use the camera as much as us? No. The first time. The first time. If you're ever in Egypt, I recommend going with this for a tour. He's very smart. Thank you so much. Very smart. He has a degree in archaeology and then he also has two years of a PhD, 6 years of schooling uh to be to be a tour guide. So, he's extremely qualified, extremely knowledgeable. Seriously, if you are ever visiting Egypt, um, information is in the description. Perfume. Smells so good. Someone's going to teach us how to make perfume. Perfume. You're going to be doing do it yourself perfume at home. I know. I'm going to have a tutorial coming up. Hey, by the way, Stephanie. Stephanie. Nice to meet you. And you, Jeff. That smells wonderful. Number one. That does smell nice. Smells wonderful. Okay, so it's on my ring finger. I hate it. I like the lotus flower better, but still good. So, he'll like pour this out, this stopper thing, and then he'll wipe that on my finger and then I'll smell it. And these are just like pure extracts from the flowers. Can you do the price? It's okay. We don't We don't want that much. We We'll get one of these. Just Just one. Just one drink. Two for eight. I would do two for 65 US. No. Other one. The one it has to be 45. We'll take one. We didn't plan to spend $80 and that's a lot of money for Maybe two for 75. Wow, look at this. We are now in the oldest of Egypt. Benazra synagogue. Joseph, Mary, and Jesus were trying to make the trek back to Jerusalem out of Egypt. So they kind of hid in here for 3 months and 10 days in in this cave. In here. Okay. This would have been when Jesus was a little child. He's still trying to build this church upon the traditional cave. We can walk up through here. Not sure exactly what we're walking through. What's down there? The cavern where the So this is this is the cavern where the holy family stayed for 3 months and 10 days. This is where they hid. What's your head? I will watch your head. I'm not that tall. Watch your head to protect my heavy brain. Oh wow. So these are the original rocks that Jesus Christ and his family walked on when they were hiding in here. The well from which the Holy Family drank from. Oh wait, I said that wrong. the well which the Holy Family drank from. Oh, thank you so much. Thank you. That was cool for me. I really like that. That was probably my favorite part of today. So, if you're keeping track so far, we've been to a Jewish synagogue, a Christian church, and now this is the Islamic mosque. You have to take off your shoes. We're going to cover your body for 5 minutes. Okay. Okay. 5 minutes. Are are you cool with this? Okay. Good color on it. Yeah, it's nice. I don't know how to keep it closed. Check this out. Is that is it consistent? It's so beautiful. Very nice. Thank you. You just you just go where you feel like it and then people just look at them. Did you see this guy? He almost got smoked. Quick update on the whole wedding situation. So, um it's a no-go. I knew it was going to be a no-go for me even before we left for Egypt, right? It was supposed to be a no-go for me as well. Yeah, we were notified that it's a governmentrun venue and so basically if it's government run they don't allow anyone into the actual wedding ceremony who isn't Egyptian or doesn't have like an Egyptian government issued ID. Her own brother was not even allowed in. There you go. So they're extremely strict. So I didn't even get to the car. Uh Stephanie at least tried and it was a no-go. Uh they denied her entry into the weddings. Actually attend the post ceremony part, but I don't think I want to stay very long. I just want to get a few photos with her. I just don't want to cause any trouble that would add extra stress on to her. So, but we are waiting in the car waiting for the ceremony to be over. So, a little bit disappointing, but it was something that we were prep prepared for. So, yeah, we're just going to chill here. I'm going to chill here and get back to some YouTube comments. I I do read all comments. Um, but I also coach full-time and that takes up just as much time generally as my youtubing does. Comments are a great way to support me and I read through all of them. and I appreciate them so much. Um, I just wanted to let you know why I've been a little bit ghosting on those cuz I've just been putting as much effort as I can into producing the content, which is what people seem to want the most from me. Oh, this is another thing that I don't think I mentioned here yet. I hit 200,000 subscribers on the channel yesterday. Uh, so can't thank you guys enough um for the continued support. I feel like I just hit 100,000 subscribers like a month ago or something. Uh, so the channel is growing super fast and that was a huge milestone for me. Um, this one feels less punctuated for some reason. I feel like you don't get a plaque for this one. Yeah, there's it's not like a huge thing. It's like I don't cross a figure mark. It's like it's still six figures. The next big one is going to be half million. While we're waiting, so yeah, I figured while we're waiting for the wedding to end, I just read a few comments from my last video. Please do an artificial sweeteners science explained video. It's a good topic. I need to do it. The argument that people are making is that it affects your microbiome. That is AI mean, that is a good one. that is if it affects anything it's probably that I actually did a podcast with Kamal Patel on yeah he talks about that I'll link it in my description there's a split consensus on this people are either fully in favor of it it's okay it doesn't affect anything or it's going to kill you in you know any of it I fall somewhere more in the middle but probably a little bit closer to the it's probably safe you haven't consume a whole lot of it for to run into serious issues bro since you're so scientific and stuff and stuff. Can you do a video about the potential health effects of pre-workouts and energy drinks? You can't just lump everything in together. It's like pre-workouts and energy drinks. Like, there's just so much going on there to say that this is bad. You have to kind of look at individual things in those items and consider the health effects of those. And that's what science tries to do. I don't claim to have the answers to those questions because it's very difficult to tease out health effects because you either need to run it longitudinally where you follow someone over time where they take this over a long time that research is really hard to do or you can do it epidemiologically where you look at a group of people who may take in more of it and then try to draw out trends but it's really difficult to come to scientific consensus that way. When it comes to health, it's it's really tough to to tease the literature apart, which is why it's so polarized. Jeff the type of guy to set my monitor on fire from that Travis Scott footage. I agree. I've relisted to that footage like four times. It was so good. I was just wilding out too much. I couldn't hold my camera straight. So, I got you to do it. What kind of gym doesn't allow grunting? Grunting has actually been scientifically shown to uh increase power output in like tennis players obviously, but um and karate. And karate. Yeah. So, when they do a chop, grunting is is smart. So, Omar Is gave me a shout out on his channel. So, that's cool. I didn't know that. I hadn't seen that video yet. So, thanks for the heads up. I'll make sure I go watch it. We've been speaking about doing a collab for months. Probably about 6 months. We've been talking about doing a collab. So, I'm going to Toronto for the Fit Expo. Maybe I'll send him a text and see if he wants to do something then. Hit up vlogs more often, Jeff. I actually like to look back on it cuz it's fun cuz you forget the fun stuff that you did. But I prefer to make the science explained videos. Um those I get more passionate about. I love editing those. I'm always going to stay true to my roots for that. And then if I'm traveling or if I'm doing something exciting, then I'll vlog it. Travis Scott show looks lit. I'm seeing him uh him on the Kendrick tour in Philly. I'm going to try to go to see that show in Houston if I'm in the States when they're playing or in Vancouver when I'm in Canada. But either way, I'll be going to that uh Kendrick and Travis Scott tour. It's going to be amazing. People are linking to 8:30. I don't know what this is. It does shaking the bottles like this. Is it like the shake weight? I don't know. I I think you might It might be a justiculative sexually justesticul sexual justesticulation. You guys You guys can't see me, but my my face is just blank right now. I'm assuming that's what it's referring to. Why would he link to where we're shaking the cup? Oh, wait. I have to go. Oh, yeah. It was supposed to start at 7:00. I'm telling you, Egyptian time. After we start, you're they said you're only allowed to come in for 5 to 10 minutes. That's fine. That's perfectly fine. So, sorry again. No problem. I know it's not your fault. I'll come as soon as I can. Perfect. It's all good. I'm going to conclude the vlog here because like I said earlier, I didn't sleep last night. Uh so, it's 8 8:15 p.m. here now and so I'm feeling pretty tired. Uh I'm going to sleep really well tonight. Uh, don't forget to hit the like button if you liked it. If you're new to the channel, please subscribe. And I will see you guys in the next one. Hi.