Dad, the top layer like like scraped off and then like the yolk just went. What's actually more impressive is that it's not broken. How did that happen? Cuz I'm a pro. That's actually good. Morning everyone. So Stephanie and I made it to Sarasota. We're just here for the weekend. We're at our Airbnb. Uh so just want to give you guys a quick tour. Morning. Hi. Uh so yeah, when you come in, this is what parking looks like. We're parked over here. Teal green door. It's very Florida looking. And then inside you have kitchen area, breakfast making area where she made my breakfast this morning. The living room area to the beach. This is one bedroom in here. I'm going to do a posing update in here in a minute. This is the other bedroom bed. And this is the bathroom. And then this connects to the other bedroom and repeats infinitely. I have two two packages that I want to show you guys. I bought this new drone. It's not the one I wanted. I wanted the DJI Mavic, but they didn't have it in stock, so I just picked up this one for the weekend. I also got a package come from glassesusa.com, and I decided to partner with glassesusa.com for this video. So, I ordered five pairs of frames from these guys. I'm going to try them on and show you guys how they look. That's actually really nice. Look at them. Amelio retro blue. These actually look quite nice. It's actually pretty sweet. Okay, so these are the clear frame, the muse black clear lens. I think these are kind of cool. They're the blue frame with the orange on the inside. Nirvana. And then these are gray band ones. gold aviator style. Actually, these are my favorites, I think. So, guys, what I figured I would do is I would give you guys a posing update before we go to the beach and I'm going to try on all the glasses and kind of show you them as I go through some poses. See how they look ridiculous. They actually don't look too bad. I feel like these would look half decent with a hat or something. Oh, those are money. I think those are my favorite. These are risky. I got these like on a whim. Oh, they're good. Yeah, they look very surfer. I like it. I actually really like it. Pull that out. Time for dinner. Those look good. Oh. Yeah, I like those better. Yeah, I like those a lot. Go do a posing update. I want to quickly tell you guys about glassesusa.com. You can get a complete pair of glasses starting at like 48 bucks with a free basic prescription. One thing that I really liked was their virtual mirror where you can just upload a pick of yourself and virtually try on the glasses online. And because you guys are watching this video, there's a special offer for your first pair, which I've linked to in the description. Okay, on with the vlog. Yeah, I This is perfect weather for me, though. The gravel in our Airbnb. This is our Airbnb over here. It's just seashells. Never seen that before. I'm going to come back tonight and figure out how to use the drone. Now, we just wanted to like get outside and get to the beach. Look how cute she is. Look at this girl. Now, we're on our way to the beach. So, I'll check in with you guys when we're there. Also, just look at check out this house. Like, this is so beautiful. Nice. This is Sarasota. The water here is like so green, blue. Whatever that color is is my favorite color. Yeah, it's a Rolls-Royce. Dang, this place is like Instagram gold. So many nice backdrops. There a car show going on right now. There's macadamia nuts on these things, too. My goodness. Is it good? Mhm. This is my second favorite. This is chicken tortilla, too. Also very good. This is my main course. Grilled chicken burger with what looks like some like fried onions or something on top. And then these are called yuka fries. I've never tried them before. I don't know if they're like a super normal thing or not, but I've never seen them in Canada. It does taste a lot like normal fries, but there's more like bush in the middle. Little chicken salad with mango. We just finished up with food at Tommy Bahamas. The chicken appetizer things were probably my favorite. The Yuki f the soup was really good. Yuki fries were really good, but they were a little bit Is that what it's called? Yuka. We're going back to the Airbnb now and then heading to workout. Then heading to the gym and we're going to have some pre-workout. PE Science Prolific signed officially with PE Science um as a sponsored athlete. So, I'm extremely excited about this. Also, that means that I have a discount code available. Will save you 30% which is absolutely massive. And the code is just my name. So, it's just Jeff. Yeah, my Rise code is Jeff 10. My PE science code is just Jeff. So, we just made it to the gym. I'm feeling good. Ready to hit a bench workout. Uh Stephanie's benching today, too. And I'm going to work up to I don't know, maybe something decently heavy today. We'll see. Uh hopefully I'll get three three plates on and see what I can do with that. So, I will check in with you guys in the gym. Once I get to my last warm-up set, so this is 275, I'll wrap my wrists up. my wrists stay a little bit more vertical so they don't bend back as much which actually creates a moment arm. So if the bar is in your palm here there's a slight distance between where the application of the force is and the joint for the axis of rotation. So this is biomechanically undesirable. Um it's much more efficient if your hand is like this and the the direction of force goes directly down on that joint. So you don't have to do any work at the wrist to keep the bar straight. It makes it a lot easier to keep more of a neutral wrist position and it's also I find just a little bit safer. I find my wrists can sometimes hurt a little bit after benching. So these help keep me really sturdy I guess. Tell me something I don't know. Dice on the corner with a light slow. Got the base in my sock with the 5o. Damn you conscious. Going to get your head off the plate though. Let me show you a little yummy yo. Take a little lick of the mayo out of 13th. spinning them pesos. Tell my [\h__\h] f get the back cuz we got a little bit of tango. Very easy though. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. All right. So, uh, they just turned off the lights on us. So, close down the I guess that's our key to leave. So, yeah, that's going to conclude the workout. We're going to go get some food. I'm really hungry. Super hungry. Ooh, this lighting, though. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. This is even better. Oh. Should work out in the dark. Wow. Damn. It looks good. These were the smaller ones. I really like those. Down this and we're going to get on the road. Loud. It's called Dquiri Deck and it's um a place where they have like a bunch of different kinds of dairies at How is it? Good. Very good. Very refreshing. You want to try? It's good. It's good. It's really good. We're heading to a restaurant. Columbia restaurant. These are the crab cakes. The best appetizer maybe I've ever had. Salmon, yellow rice, and some mixed steamed vegetables. Grouper and and this is called good rice. That good rice. Stephanie and I were just discussing differences in appetite. How appetite is regulated by body composition. Steph claims that she can eat more than me. Girls comment like there's more significant. That would actually be very interesting if you can eat more than your significant other. Honestly, like, think about it honestly. Don't just say, "Yeah, this was a delicious meal." In any case, I didn't quite finish all of it. I ate most of that. We're going to go back to the apartment and then do a little bit of work and call it a night. So, guys, we just hit 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. Um, I'm so excited about this. Uh, I just don't know how to thank you guys enough for all of your continued support as the channel has grown really quickly. Um, so yeah, just absolutely thrilled about how everything is going. Um, if you guys like this video, please do me a favor and help keep the channel growing by giving it a thumbs up. I have a lot of really cool content coming, stuff that nobody else is doing on YouTube to my knowledge. Um, so I'm really excited about that. Uh, thank you guys once again for watching and I'll see you in the next video.