The fun of that of that of that of that of that. All right. Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Ice Cream for PR's podcast. My name is Jeff Nippard and with me as always is my co-host Robin. Hi. And today we have a very special guest. His name is Bryce Lewis. He's a strength coach with online coaching company, The Strength Athlete. Welcome to the podcast, Bryce. Hey, thanks for having me. Yeah, the pleasure is all mine. Um, so why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself and your coaching company? Um, I've had only positive things to say about the strength athlete uh since I became aware of them. And I think that you guys represent um a special minority within the coaching community and that all the things that you guys do is very athlete oriented and science-based and um I think that you guys are doing a lot of great stuff. We appreciate that. Um to kind of orient ourselves to providing more and more for um the athletes, specifically powerlters is is primarily who we work with, although we're starting to work with more bodybuilders. um figure athletes, fitness athletes as well. But um I'll back up a little bit. Um I am a competitive powerlter in the 93 kilo uh weight class generally, although I compete sometimes above that. Um and as far as my background, uh I played volleyball in high school and college um for San Francisco State and then I switched to doing bodybuilding competitions. Uh and then that led me into powerlifting. So um had some success in palifting. Um, stuck with it. I think I'm I'm up there in the top three or four or so um in the 93 kilo class in um the United States at least and and trying to get to the the world level one of these years. And um competitively I've hit a 600 squat, a 430 bench, and a 700 deadlift. And you know, just looking to to make improvements there. Um, in October of 2013, I started the Strength Athlete so I could um give back to the sport and um pass on some of the knowledge that I've I've learned and help uh bring other athletes up to the same level of competition, if not beyond. So, uh since that time, we've worked with over uh probably 300 athletes now. Got a handful of athletes at the international and national levels and trying to do more and more for them on a regular basis. Yeah, that's good stuff. And something that I really admire about you, Bryce, as a coach is that you not only sort of talk the talk, uh, you also walk the walk yourself. And I know you just competed at the Arnold Classic, right? And put up some pretty impressive numbers there. And that's just that gives your clients something that they can sort of like look up to, I think. And I think that that's really important. You can your clients have a lot of respect for you, like just watching you lift and and stuff. Yeah, I appreciate that. Um, and I like that a lot. One of the things though that I'm trying to get away get away from a little bit I guess is um making it you know the Bryce show and um making it more that TSA is a team of now five coaches who all are great you know when it comes to programming for athletes and and have a track record of athletes instead of just like hey here's this guy that's strong uh sign up because he's we want it to be hey sign up because um this is what we can do for athletes, that kind of thing. Mhm. Yeah. No, that's awesome. Um so, just taking a step aside from the training for a minute. Um as I understand it, you're a philosophy major or you have a degree in philosophy. Is that right? Yeah, exactly. So, my my path in um in undergrad education wasn't exactly straight. Uh I started off as a math major for two years uh and then switched to philosophy. uh in the meantime switching between three universities. I started off at San Francisco State, then to uh community college and finally finished at UCLA um with a degree in philosophy. H that's cool. Um it's interesting because as far as I know, a lot of mathematicians tend to have interests in uh philosophy uh as well, which uh that that's really cool. And it's it's interesting that you ended up here as a strength coach uh from that place. Do you find that uh your background or education in philosophy is useful in this particular industry? And if you do, how do you how do you think so? How do you find that that can help you? Um I think so, especially for people that are into exercise science, not necessarily just uh you know, mead coaching, that kind of thing. Um there are a few branches of philosophy and some of the ones that apply uh I think logic definitely applies in realms anything when we're dealing with science. So, exercise science for sure and being able to uh construct arguments and convey things to our athletes in terms that they can understand and you know be able to look at someone's um argument for something and and figure out, hey, is this something I should be paying attention to or is this something that doesn't really uh matter or doesn't hold weight when you actually break it down. So, yeah, I think uh in some senses it does. Obviously, some stuff about metaphysics um doesn't really apply to to powerlifting too much or athletes, but u we've been getting a little bit more into sports psychology uh lately and we've been pairing with a great um mental performance coach from New Zealand named David Neath and he's been doing wonders for athletes. So, there's a little bit of a carryover there between um sports psychology and uh and philosophy, but uh different in some senses that it's more performanceoriented. Yeah, for sure. Well, one of the things that I've noticed, especially within the nutrition community and also in the exercise science or just training community, is uh is there's this widespread lack of basic understanding of logic or even just basic concepts of knowledge. Um, so there are certain things that you'll see posted online or wherever and you could know virtually nothing about exercise science or nutrition and just by the structure of the argument alone you could say well this doesn't really make any logical sense. like it's there's a lot of complex like like they they try to complicate things with all of these I don't know different variables or whatever but in but if you just look at the whole thing as a whole like their argument just is like just on many levels is not valid I guess yeah it's like that doesn't follow from what you posted how did you possibly reach that conclusion um and so I find that I have a passing interest in philosophy um I don't have any formal education on the topic but it's definitely one of my sort of side interests. Uh so I thought it was cool that you, you know, also have a uh an interest in that. But what I found has helped me is my ability to think critically and be skeptical about different ideas. So as you know, there's a whole bunch of misinformation out there. And your ability to sort of question that information and um think critically about the different sorts of things that you're hearing from different sources can help you sort of uh wave through and and sort out all this sort of different information that's coming at you and find the good stuff. Yeah. Yeah, I very much agree. you know, taking a critical eye to things um helps in so many areas, you know, even outside of uh of powerlifting and fitness and um you know, these these areas that we kind of um frequent. It certainly helps in those areas for sure, but it helps outside, too. And being able to put on your [\h__\h] detector a little bit and allow into your beliefs information that is probably going to be more accurate than otherwise. And for for the listeners, there's a YouTube channel called Qualia Soup that has um a series of videos about open-mindedness, uh skepticism, and just kind of general logical concepts that I think uh it's all animated and and conveyed pretty easily. And I think it's very much worth the reader's time. Totally. That's qualia as in like do you see colors the way I see colors? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Um, so moving back to sort of the athletes and um your coaching and all that, uh, one thing that I particularly like about the message that you put out there, Bryce, is um, your focus on long-term planning, and this is something that I would like to take and sort of apply to my own coaching. Uh, and I was wondering if maybe you could elaborate how on how it is that you manage to sort of keep your athletes motivated and interested and keeping in mind this sort of overarching long-term goal and we can talk about that like the shortterm goal. Sorry to interject there, but um like when people are given four-week training programs with this specific short-term goal goal story that like I find that clients like that like it motivates them like in that time block. But when you're looking at powerlifting, what really matters is like the like is when um your competitive season is and like uh the competition date and like organizing the training within that larger macro cycle is really important. So, I guess just asking um how you keep your clients motivated when keeping like the long-term goal in mind. Yeah. So, I I can't speak directly for, you know, my clients and I'm sure they'll they'll listen to this and and give their own two cents, but um generally people that come to us for coaching um come to us because they're interested in competitive powerlifting and competing in in some form or another. So either either at the local level um the national level, the international level that they have aspirations to um to grow to one of those levels. So it's important under that context to make sure that we are um we're preparing athletes for the highest level and not necessarily just doing what matters to get them stronger right now. So there's there's kind of a few important things that go into that um that are general to sports as a whole. So, um, athletes that, uh, peak under the age of 18 often aren't able to, um, uh, reach or get over that same peak of performance later in life. Um, and it's rare that we really have athletes that, um, we're working with under 18. But the general idea is that, um, slower sustainable progress is going to be better in the long term. Um, generally, we get to avoid injury a little bit better. and um get to plan them for where they're going to be 2 years, 3 years, four years down the line, even if they're not necessarily going to be working with us still um during those time frames. But, you know, to go back to your point about um reconciling, hey, we need to have short-term goals. We also need to have longer term goals, too. Um I'm sure you're aware and your listeners are aware that we can periodize at different um uh time lengths. So we've got micro cycles that are a week long, maso cycles that are four to six weeks and you know we can look at the time too. So, how we manage it is we just create a plan for the year ahead and we h we haven't really looked into multi-year planning um just yet besides kind of having a few ideas about where Athlete X is heading in two years, but um we look at what's going on in the year ahead. Which competitions are you um planning to compete in? And we program um times of um decreased volume. This is the time where we're doing um a volume block to an intensification. This is the time where you know we need to periodize nutrition uh you know in terms of having an athlete in a caloric deficit and a caloric surplus. That doesn't mean that we can't set goals on the short term either you know so we have athletes that run all kinds of different types of training but uh if I have an athlete looking forward to uh even a mock meet in eight weeks time that still provides a pretty darn good amount of motivation that they're going to want to look forward to it and train hard uh and prepare themselves for that. Cool. Yeah. No, that that makes a lot of sense. And I think that that's the best way to go about it because I find what's what happens sometimes is people sort of miss the forest for the trees. So they become fixated on one goal like, "Oh, I need to get my squat up or whatever it is, right? And so they'll run a four or six week squat phase or whatever." And they'll miss the idea that well, you know, the goal of powerlifting is to post the best total, right? Um, that isn't to say you can't focus specifically on one thing at one time. But when you have this sort of overarching perspective, this long-term outline, I think that can help people see the big picture, right? And I think that that helps in keeping people motivated over the long term. Uh, so I really like that about your philosophy. Um, another thing that I noticed that you do is or at least this is something new maybe that you've been trying out is you pose questions to your team. uh or you post them on your social media that are meant to be sort of thought-provoking deeper type questions that get people thinking and interested. Uh and you said that this came from or you got the idea from one of your old philosophy professors who would come into class and pose a question to the class that was a little bit deeper and got everyone thinking and then a discussion would ensue. How have how has that been going so far? um really well. So, we've had um people on on the team that have picked it up to varying levels. Um some people that have started journaling um and kind of rediscovered uh their journaling that they used to do on a regular basis and really like they were doing it and um some people that probably consider for a few minutes and then, you know, just go about what they were doing normally. But um yeah, I had a a philosophy professor at the community college that um was a young guy and he would write a question on the board and then discuss it. And these discussions often, you know, would range from 15 minutes and and some of the more heated ones would take 45 minutes or so. And you know, they were on topics related to um philosophy of course, but I've applied it a little bit more to uh to powerlifting. So there's um psychology questions, there's um questions about programming and and basic programming concepts. Um what is failure? What do missed repetitions mean to you? To what degree should a training program be customized to the individual and why? Stuff about um uh psychology biases that that we all hold um just so that people can be like we mentioned earlier better critical thinkers. Yeah. And that's a big one, the cognitive biases that we um that we see in the industry. so so frequently. One of those that I I'll just touch on quickly here uh is the Dunning Krueger effect. It's not so much a cognitive bias as it is just a principle or an observed principle in psychology. Uh but in case any of our listeners don't know, uh the Dunning Krueger effect is this idea that people who are undereducated or say non-experts on any given topic tend to overestimate the amount of knowledge that they actually have. So they're overconfident in what they know. Uh and people who are actually genuine experts on a topic or possess a whole lot of knowledge uh tend to be underconfident or under reportport their self-perceived expertise. And do you find that this manifests itself in the fitness industry much? The people who have say the least education and presumably the least amount of knowledge tend to be the sometimes the most vocal or the most confident in sort of like the nonsense that they're espousing. And then people who are genuinely profoundly knowledgeable uh and have a lot of good things to say sometimes shy away from it because they're fearful that they might be wrong or they doubt themselves intellectually or whatever the case may be. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And you know it's it's pretty pervasive too. And I think that scientists of which I'm not one but um Sam Harris is is one that I I look up to um quite a lot. neuroscientist and philosopher. Uh also um alone Jeff is a big fan. Oh, really? Awesome. So I'm not I'm not a fan of his ethics though. Are you like his moral landscape? Yeah, definitely you are. Oh, okay. All right. We'll talk about that after. So um so yeah, I think it was either an interview or or one of his books or something said that, you know, a scientist in a room of other scientists knows that someone in that room is going to be an expert at anything they're going to say. So there's there's definitely caution in what you're saying. You have to word things very specifically and realize that you're only talking about one small area of your specific expertise. Um and that's something that we don't don't just see in the general public because uh it's very easy to make generalizations about topics and and uh just rehearse rehearse things that you normally say and not think critically. So it's it's more difficult to to think critically and to keep all these biases in mind than than otherwise. So, one guy that I follow pretty closely is Dr. Steven Nolla. He's the host of the Skeptics Guide to the Universe podcast. I'm not sure if you're familiar with it, Bryce, but it's comes highly recommended. Um, but he basically says that after every show that they do, they'll speak on some topic that some guy did his PhD thesis on or whatever and will know absolutely everything about it and just email them and just tear them to shreds basically because of all the stuff that they got wrong, right? But I think that that should be seen as a positive thing, right? that people are thinking critically about ideas and I don't think that this should um deter people from being vocal about ideas if they think that they uh are able to speak on them intelligently. This is why provoking like to come back to what uh Jeff asked you about like you provoking discussion within uh the TSA community and your followers and stuff is is a really good thing because um it can bring to light like a lot of different people's opinions. And I think people really really like um being invited to speak out on an issue whether they're an expert or not. Like I think it's just really helpful. And then I feel like there's less like I think that diminishes or like it makes it so that there's less of that like uh someone claiming to be an expert and like putting like forcefully putting out their ideas. I feel like uh asking people to discuss things kind of turns people away from that if if I I'm saying that. Yeah. I' I've tried to to phrase it in such a way that it doesn't look like there's a clear answer and that it's just kind of asking people what their thoughts are. And I think that kind of discussion is great because um well with this specific set of questions, I'm I'm usually bringing up a fact or a concept or something like that. Um putting a little bit of color into it and then telling people, hey, what do you think about this? Or can you find an example where this occurs in your life or something like that. So yeah, I think that's good. And I think people can generally talk about things that they're not experts about. It would be foolish to only talk about things that you're an expert on. But yeah, as long as you don't assert that you know more than you do. Yeah, for sure. Um, one thing sort of related to this, uh, Conan O'Brien, the host of the Conan Show or whatever it is, that late night show, he's been doing that now for probably 10 or 15 years, right? And you would think that at this point he would be perfectly confident and would just go in and do an episode, record the show and feel that it went great or whatever. I mean, it's a very successful show and he's definitely established within that arena. Um, but he says, you know, he doubts himself all the time and he always thinks that he has no idea what he's doing basically and he just goes out there and does what he can do. and he says sometimes he thinks that the episode was crap and then sometimes he thinks it was good but overall he just feels like he has no idea what he's doing. It's like what your dad said like the impostor effect or whatever when you like know that you know enough on a topic to speak about it yet as soon as you get the nerves it's like you feel like you're an impostor in your body like you don't really know what you're talking about and like how could you possibly be talking on this matter? I suffer from that all the time. Yeah. Yeah. So like I I see these as as one as manifestations of one stream of the Dunning Krueger effect, right? Where you have people who are genuinely knowledgeable, but they doubt their ability because they know how much more there is out there that they don't know. And that's sort of what takes most of the weight, I guess. Yeah. I think that's good. I think it's a good idea to um to stay humble and always realize that, hey, there's someone that knows more about subject X. Um but that that shouldn't be discouraging. It should be encouraging like hey this is the room that I have to grow and and look at how much there is to know and how much there is left to discover still. Yeah. Exactly. Um and one of the one of the things that sort of helped me reconcile this in my own mind is uh something that Canadian rapper Shad said in one of his talks that he gave. Um he said that intelligence isn't a virtue. So unlike things like courage and kindness and uh I don't know patience and so on um intelligence isn't in and of itself virtuous. So when he views it through this lens he's able to focus instead on you know not being selfish or not being cowardly and recognizing that well if he's wrong then that's not the end of the world because you know everyone makes mistakes, everyone gets stuff wrong. um and that instead he focuses on not regretting things he did wrong or said wrong or whatever, but instead he regrets things that he did that was, you know, like selfish or cowardly or whatever. Just to just to bridge off the idea that it's it's okay to be wrong. I I definitely think it is as long as, you know, people are willing to admit when they're wrong. And um I think I think these days I've come across quite a lot of people that um that attach their beliefs to well attach attacks on beliefs to attacks on character. So if someone questions something you believe, they take it to mean AI'm questioning whether you're a good person or not or uh things like that instead of hey, I just think that you're wrong in this specific situation. So, we see that all the time that um you know, I can I can question why someone's doing a squat specific way or a programming specific way and they may take it to mean, hey, I don't like you as a person or I feel like what you know, you're bad or something like that. Yeah. No, I've seen that as well. I think we all have if we've been around the fitness industry for any significant amount of time. Sure. Uh so, I'm I'm just going to touch on a couple of these questions that you had here and we can sort of discuss them on air. Yeah. So, one of the ones that I really like that you posed was, uh, what does progress mean to you? And would you be happy if you had the results without the work? So, here I'm assuming you're, you know, getting at the idea that there can be different flavors or varieties of progress and it doesn't necessarily have to be one-dimensional. So, a lot of people think of progress in terms of getting stronger in the gym, adding weight to their squat or getting leaner or losing weight or whatever, but there are so many other ways that we can progress and gauge progress. And so, I think it goes, you know, many layers deeper than that just simple progression in strength or weight loss. Yeah, I think so too. And specifically with this question, um, this one was from Eric Helms actually. I'm pretty sure this one's from um Eric Helms. The idea is that the the end result is not necessarily the whole goal and that there's so much to be gained uh through the experience of uh lifting or dieting or competing on a on a daily and weekly basis and that you shouldn't save up all your satisfaction for that one end result. you should experience satisfaction um from day to day and week to week. Kind of just embrace the journey. Yeah, definitely. Um yeah, that's a that's a good point because a lot of people get fixated. I notice this all the time in bodybuilding. People will think, you know, as soon as the competition is here, then this will all be worth it, right? Y and then the competition comes and they're like, "Oh, that was it." Like, "That wasn't that great. I only got on stage." Not to mention that sets up uh this false idea that well once the competition's over, what do I have now? Like now I have no goals, I have, you know, nothing. Leads to all kinds of bad habits and dualistic thinking. I'm sure you guys experience that with your own clients and athletes, too. Yeah, for sure. So being able to enjoy whatever it is you can enjoy throughout the course of your preparation is a much better approach than sort of wishing the preparation away so that the event will come and then be over and then you can eat whatever you want again because it's it's never as good at the you know on the other side as you think it's going to be unless you've embraced a mental state where you're just enjoying the whole process anyway. Yeah. And one thing one other thing that I wanted to touch on about this question is that you know we can we can progress in ways other than the two ways that I mentioned right so even like things like form like if you improve your form if you spend four weeks and you come out the end of the four weeks with a with better squat mechanics then that should be seen as very important and significant progress. Uh, and it doesn't necessarily have to just be that you got stronger, right? Yeah. Do you emphasize these different types of progress with your athletes? Like, do you bring them up or do you kind of let them uh like through your questions or whatever? Let them find that out on their own. What's your approach? So, some of this takes place in in conversations back and forth through emails. Um, but what we what we have athletes do when they start off with us is come up with up to four processoriented goals. uh things that aren't necessarily about a specific result that will happen in you know a specific amount of time, things that they can work on here and now that will help get them to that end result. So that kind of helps uh avoid some of that tendency of uh telescopic thinking and instead focus on what's happening uh on the specific day. So we do talk about kind of the journey and stuff and and uh just enjoying and embracing what's going on on a daily basis. But yeah, um through through some of those processoriented goals, we hope that athletes uh think think more about that and think about different types of progress. From my from my perspective as a bodybuilder, sometimes it can be really really hard to see any significant amount of progress, right? That's part of the reason why I like powerlifting in the offseason is because it gives me something tangible to sort of hold on to, right? Um but if you're just a strict body looking at changes in the mirror, uh you're bound to see things at a snail's pace if you're looking on a daily basis. Yeah, exactly. And that can be frustrating for bodybuilders, right? Especially if you've been lifting for, you know, four or five years. You're probably, you know, getting close to your genetic ceiling or you're at least getting to the point where you're not seeing changes on a month-to-month basis anymore, right? And so this in in this situation I think it becomes even more important to focus on the journey instead of the destination because if you can't enjoy yourself and see progress in the very little things like maybe just slowing down a rep a little bit uh or you know a slight posing tweak or something like that then you'll burn out trying to get the progress too fast because it's just not going to come fast after a certain amount of time. Right? There's always diminishing returns in bodybuilding, especially natural bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah, I very much agree. Uh and you know, that kind of reminds me, that's probably one of the reasons why we see this this upswing of bodybuilders doing offseasons in powerlifting because it it adds back some of that uh satisfaction of uh gaining progress on a faster timeline. Yeah. Um, so are you familiar with the myth of Seisophus, Albert Camus? Um, it's a old ancient Greek myth. Uh, this poor guy, Seisphus, was punished by the Greek gods to, um, roll a big giant rock up a mountain, right? Yeah. And so, uh, he had to roll the rock up the mountain and then just push it back down and then roll it back up again. and he had to do this for all of eternity. Mhm. And the reason that this is such a brutal punishment is that, you know, it just negates all meaning essentially, right? You're it's just a it's just a menial task over and over again. Um, and this is the way that sometimes I feel the what? An effort in Yeah, it's an effort in futility. Exactly. Um, and this is the way that I think I sometimes feel and other bodybuilders probably sometimes feel is that you're just doing the same thing day in day out. Even if you have goals and even if you are slowly getting a little bit stronger, it can feel as though uh you're just, you know, pushing the rock up the mountain only to have it pushed back down again. Um, right. Especially from on season to offseason with a lot of natural bodybuilders, I find. Yeah, it's uh it can seem a little bit pointless. What does all this work for? Why am I working so hard? Um, I I think in in some of those cases, it's a good idea to uh to put a little bit of perspective into what's going on. Like, hey, bodybuilding, natural bodybuilding is important. This is a worthy goal. It's something that you've chosen, but hey, this is this is a hobby uh as well. And this represents, I'm hoping, um, a small part of your life and something that you enjoy, and it's something that that you signed up for, too. No one's forcing you to do this. uh this isn't punishment or anything like that. This is voluntary. So make it fun, you know, find find ways to make it fun. Exactly. Yeah. And I think that that's how you resolve the problem of sisophus, right? You you have to sort of attach your own meaning to the task. So even he could say, you know, I'm going to try to push the rock up with one hand so far and then try to get you could set little mini goals for yourself and make it fun and then that attaches meaning to it. So, um, if you're a bodybuilder who seems to have hit a plateau or the results aren't coming in as fast as you'd like them to, uh, then, yeah, if you put it, if you frame it in that perspective where, you know, this is fun, this is your choice, it's what you enjoy doing presumably, um, then you can focus on that instead of the, you know, slow rate of progress or whatever. Yeah. Um, oh, sorry. Oh, I I was just going to say that I do like the idea of framing it in different ways and I think um I think that's important and and taking advantage of the fact you can view things from different circumstances helps a lot. So, we have athletes that have blocks over like a specific weight that they hit. And a tool that we've used occasionally is uh here in the US we use pounds. We've had athletes just uh program all of their weights in kilos. So, you know, now they have none of those associations that they had with, let's say, a 400 lb squad or something like that. Oh, that's cool. I like that. I like that. It's just a total different number to them and something that just has no relevance, right? Oh, that's so smart. Yeah. Because people, I mean, myself, I was like this. I wanted a 500 lb squat for so long, for like a couple years, right? And and Robin was the same way. She's still chasing a 200lb squat. And like these are kind of arbitrary numbers, right? like in and of themselves there there's nothing special about those numbers. It's just something that you decided round number. It's like completely Yeah. Uhhuh. Uhhuh. Yeah. So, um, and another another thing I was just going to quickly touch on here on the idea of progress is making mental progress. So, I get a lot of people come to me who are just obsessed with one specific thing, right? Like they just they want to lose weight on the scale. And I'll tell them, well, you know, the number on the scale is important as a guide and as a tool and this sort of thing, but it doesn't become one thing. And I've I feel as though I've done a good job of teaching a lot of my clients that, you know, there there are other things like this is why we take waist measurements. This is why we get photos. This is why we track your progress in the gym. Because it's not just about that one number. And you know, if you wake up in the morning, you look in the mirror and you say, you know, I look better. I feel like my pants are fitting better. If your goal is weight loss, and then you get on the scale and you're up, say, you know, point4 of a pound or something and it just ruins the rest of your day, then I think that you're sort of putting the emphasis on the wrong thing, right? And you're really narrow in your your scope there. Uh, so I think that people can make mental progress and can sort of put less weight on the sca on the scale, so to speak, or on the numbers in the gym. Or on the numbers in the gym if you're a powerlifter. Yeah, exactly. And I think that this sort of like broadening of perspective can be seen as progress in and of itself. Yeah. So I think I think there's a few things in there. Um one is that the majority of people that probably are coming to you and the majority of general population people um when they're viewing success when it comes to let's say body weight or something like that or or uh let's say body composition because that's a little bit more general how they look. um one of the only pieces of information they have access to is what their body weight is. So they tend to over obsess about that when you know it it's just another tool and another measurement that we can u make use of among among multiple things. So, so yeah, I mean the same thing is true for power when people get obsessed about a specific load on the bar when we can take a look at bar speed, uh, RP, uh, training time, uh, total amount of volume, uh, intensity work per week, and just a bunch of other things. All right, so let's move on to another one. um your intern Joe Stannic, I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing that right, but anyway, I had the pleasure of meeting Joe uh briefly at the Arnold Classic. And um yeah, he he posed the question, if you were to become injured, how would that affect your life? Um and what if you could never train again? So, this one hits pretty close to home to me. I don't know if you've sustained any significant injuries throughout your training career, but just last year I had an injury uh in my back and it basically prevented me from low bar squatting for a pretty long period of time and then I thought I was, you know, good to go again. And that path to recovery is never as linear as you expect it to be or hope it would be. Um, so for me, this is something that I've more recently had to deal with and sort of overcome. And it can definitely be a psychological battle and, uh, it's a difficult one. If you've ever had to deal with this, you can probably relate. But, um, in terms of dealing with this, from my experience personally, I found that it's a luxury to be able to switch back and forth between powerlifting and bodybuilding as I please. So, I sustain that injury. uh just shortly after Canadian powerlifting nationals last year in 2014. And then I decided I would just switch gears and start training for bodybuilding. And so then I started my prep for the muscle mayhem uh in California. Uh didn't do any squatting or deadlifting uh for lower body work. It was leg press, hip thrust, loading, um some, you know, leg curls, glute ham raises, this sort of stuff. And uh I ended up winning my pro card there. So, for me, it's nice to be able to switch between those uh as I need to if I become injured or stagnant in one or the other. Have you sustained any injuries, Bryce? Yeah. Um, in in college volleyball, I ended up herniating or bulging uh an L5S1 disc. Um, I could barely walk uh in the morning and it was uh excruciating for a while and I ended up getting an epidural shot that um gave the area room to heal and um just kind of slowly started working my way back into things and it hasn't prevented me from doing anything um since. There's been other um injuries, dislocated shoulder, doing something stupid while snowboarding and things, but um nothing that's globally prevented me from powerlifting um thankfully. So, you know, we just want our athletes to do as much as possible to make sure that doesn't happen, but it's not to say that uh accidents don't happen. And you know, we have athletes that uh get minor tweaks and injuries and aches and pains all the time. And I think the most frustrating ones are the chronic ones that uh don't go away and that are just always there in the background just giving you little reminders of the pain. Um from my experience coaching these athletes, those end up being the most frustrating because you know going back to talking about camu uh it just seems pointless and it just seems like there's no end and um it's just very frustrating. Yeah. Yeah. both my side as the coach because I want to do something. I want to help. I want I know. Yeah. What can we do? Let's find a problem. I'm I'm relatively solutionoriented when it comes to things. So, um when I can't find a solution or I can't direct someone, hey, go see this person or something. Um it's pretty frustrating. Yeah, I can relate to that both on a personal level, you know, myself and as a coach as well. Uh and I agree. Um, so are there is there anything specifically that you do other than, you know, seeking professional help or whatever to actually alleviate the injury itself and expedite the or is it just a preventative measure? Like do you do like in like I noticed that on your pages and stuff you show like a lot of active rest um sessions and like mobility sessions and stuff and it was really interesting. Yeah, absolutely. um because we're not um licensed physical therapists, um we we do a lot of referring to people that are licensed physiootherapists and um we're in the process of working up a a questionnaire sheet like when someone says, "Hey, I'm injured or I'm hurt." Um we'll say, "Hey, okay, quickly fill this out. Let us know basically how serious it is through a series of questions." Um and then from there, we either say, "Okay, well, just train through it or something like that. really not a big deal or it'll it's just basically severe DOMS. It'll go away in a few days where this is something more serious. We need outside help. Um we we try as much as possible to defer to people that can help them and put their hands on them in person because you know when it comes down to it we're often times thousands of miles away from these athletes and information, emails and um Skype calls are great but um you're not there in the gym witnessing their performance and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, we tell people to find physiootherapists that work with athletes that know um kind of modern definitions of pain, that know um art and grass and other active release methods. And as far as um kind of preventing some of that stuff, um we try to uh regulate volume throughout the training year. So, it's not just the case that uh your volume this week should be higher than your volume last week. Uh it's a very short-sighted way, I think, of looking at things. um it may be great for progress, but you're going to burn out, you're going to crash, and you're likely to get injured that way. So, um so being able to uh to change volume and put in periods in the training year of lower volume and lower training stress, I think uh is extremely important to keeping athletes healthy. Um keeping athletes with reduced stress and making sure they don't injure themselves. Mhm. So by periods of lower training volume, do you just mean a simple de lo or do you actually mean a block of training where volume is, you know, significantly lower than a previous block? So sometimes we'll put in de lo weeks um and and dload weeks usually are somewhere around 30% less volume. Usually the intensity drops a little bit too. Um, and usually postmeat we'll put in um periods um quote unquote transition blocks of two to four weeks of uh decreased volume and often decreased exercise specificity to both give a mental and a physical break too. So it's not just squat, bench, deadlift, squat, bench, deadlift. That's kind of what Robin was doing. Yeah, I like that. Like I'm doing a show now. So, I'm pretty much like I was like, I need a break from the numbers and like from specifically the competition squat and like the competition bench and the competition deadlifts and I've just been doing other things and it's really nice. So, it's cool to have that in a structured way like how you're doing it. Yeah. So, in the concept of powerlifting, this is um some of the stuff that I've learned from my mentor Eric Helms um and some of the stuff that we've just kind of figured out on our own, but we do um opposite stance deadlifts. We do um opposite bar placement on squats and we get in a lot uh more more decreased specificity on the main movements. So um bench press, we'll get in a bunch of variations. We'll throw in some extra bodybuilding work and we'll say, "Hey, if there's things that you wanted to put in in the training year, but you know, we had this fixed plan and you want to experiment with, now's the time to do it. So if you feel like doing some Olympic weightlifting, let's get some of that in for you. Let's get it all out of your system now. Let's have some fun in the gym. to keep the RP a little bit lower so that when it comes time to actually get back to training, they're both mentally and physically refreshed and ready to go. Yeah, I think that's a that's a really good approach to uh post competition. Um just back to the injuryh thing just for a moment. Um so we talked about sort of the the physicality of it. Um, psychologically, do you have any approaches that you take in terms of uh helping you deal with the injuries or overcome the injuries? Yeah. So, it's kind of specific on the on the injury, but much like what you did, um, you switch focus. So, you focus less on the injury and you focus more well, instead of focusing on what I can't do, you focus on what you can do. Um, and you find ways to work around it or through it if possible. Um, so you know, if if uh sumo deadlifting is out of the question. Well, let's get you conventional deadlifting. Does it hurt? Uh, okay. Well, can you do singles? All right. Well, you can't do singles. So, you know, conventionals is out of the question. Can we get you doing RDL's? Just continuing to find ways to keep an athlete in the gym, I think ultimately is is what we're after. Uh, as long as that's going to alleviate some of the pain and keep them motivated, too. So, um, finding out what you can do is ultimately one of the best ways of keeping them motivated. And if it's really just, hey, you know, you're injured, you have to be out of the gym completely. Um, since the athletes are still reporting to us on a weekly basis, um, often times we say, hey, well, you know, we can't focus on that, but let's talk about psychology or or do you want to learn about programming? Um, let's focus on something so that this is useful time for you. Yeah. Um, and I think that that helps from a practical standpoint and also just from a general well-being standpoint. So, when you focus on things that are within your, you know, locus of control, things that you can actually do at this point in time, you're much more likely to be happy, better off mentally than if you're focusing on the stuff you can't do. So, with me, it was a real battle to not focus on low bar squatting because I was making such good progress on the lift. PR at the meet and yeah I I just finally hit my 500 lb squat goal and then you know the next week later I I' hurt my back so now I can't keep going and it's just so difficult to not fixate on that specific thing that you want to be doing but you can't do right and so I sort of um you know got led towards the old stoic philosophy where they basically say that you should focus on things that are within your locus of control, not things that are outside your locus of control. And so ultimately, it's only these mental states, right? It's what you focus on that will ultimately make you happy or unhappy or whatever, and not things external to that. Um, and so I found that that did help me. I mean, it was still sort of a a struggle, right, the whole way through. And anyone who's passionate about this stuff and has been injured can probably relate, but that was sort of a basic mentality that I tried to um keep reminding myself of. Yeah, I think so too. That's a really good way of thinking about it. Yeah. Um, so another thing here has to do with sustainability. So the question is, do you think that the current way that you approach your training or diet or your competition prep is something that you could sustain over the long term? And I think that this one was Eric Helms as well who posted this one in the coaches group. Uh, in that case, this is the one from him. The other one was us. Okay, gotcha. Yeah. uh continue anyways. Yeah. So, could you comment on that? The idea of sustainability over the long term. Um I I can speak from a bodybuilding perspective here in that, you know, I get some people coming to me, maybe their first competition or their second competition, and they'll say, you know, I love the way I look right now. I just want to be able to maintain this and then I'll be happy. And I'm just like, well, you know, you're peaked for a bodybuilding competition, eating whatever it is, 1,400 calories a day, doing cardio six days a week. there's no way you're going to be able to sustain this over the long term and be healthy and lead a normal lifestyle uh in the process, right? So, I think that from a bodybuilding perspective, you sort of need to come to terms with this, right? You need to come to terms with the fact that to be a normally functioning human, you're going to have to put on some body fat after your competition, and you're going to have to become comfortable with that new body composition that you're going to acquire. And um it's okay that it isn't necessarily sustainable over the long term. Uh I think that it would be wrong to look at it as something that's sustainable over the long term. That's a little that's that's actually a specific look. It's a little bit different than an approach being sustainable over the long term. And I think that there are things that we can do to sort of make the approach more sustainable. So flexible dieting for example would be one thing that can help people be more adherent over um you know a period of months and years rather than a strict meal plan that they're supposed to follow for these 12 weeks and then the competition's over and they don't know what to do from here. Uh yeah that's been my experience with that sort of idea. Uh, as far as the realm of powerlifting, um, we can give a pretty concrete example with a well-known uh, template program called Smoloff. Um, and for those that that don't know what Smoloff is, it's a very intensive uh, squat cycle that uh, has a ton of volume. Um, you're squatting very frequently and very heavy. And it it's it's basically the opposite of something that's sustainable because you get to the end of it if you get to the end of it. um not right here. Right. Right. Um but if you do, you know, you're rewarded with relatively large PRs, but uh it's just something that's not sustainable because it's not something that you can do um back to back or something that is going to ultimately build the best athlete over the long term. Um so, so that's a pretty pretty concrete example of uh the opposite approach. So volume is great. uh too much volume will cause progress, but we we end up with uh a circumstance where in order to progress further after you've done something like that, you're going to need that amount of volume or more in order to make progress because progressive adaptation requires increasing volume over, you know, periods of time. So, um so it's uh it's a little bit of a trap because you'll have to uh increase volume after that and that's just not sustainable. So, um I read in um the powerlifting to win book. Yeah. where like sorry to intro where like he he was saying that like forcing the like volume you're getting like diminishing returns or something from it and like you're not able to progress like you like get overreached by the volume but rather if you like spread the like the increase in volume out over a longer period of time you'll like your your gains will like match that a little bit more. I'm like really like using really bro terms right here, but I think that I think I'm I I understand what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I mean, um it's about applying the right amount of force to cause change and and not necessarily more than that if you can help it, you know? I mean, like I could open a door uh by turning a handle or I can open a door by throwing a sledgehammer through it. Um one of those is going to be a more sustainable approach. Yeah. And I know of people who are brand new to powerlifting and so they use Google as their primary resource or whatever. They land on Smolav after only probably, you know, practicing the lifts for a period of a couple months and they run Smolav and they sort of jump the gun on all this volume, right? Whereas they would probably maximize their progress over a longer period of time if they would just, you know, increase that volume more slowly, right? Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. So, for the for the people that are kind of just trying to figure all this stuff out and figuring out all these these terms, there there's an idea that uh Helms and I were both thinking about separately but came together. Um I'm sure you're familiar with Eric Helms's uh he's got a nutritional pyramid series that um talks about the importance of different concepts as related to dieting and your success in dieting. So at the bottom is adherence and then um calorie balance and then macronutrients and micronutrients and so on and so forth. Have you seen that? Yeah, I've I've watched the series. Okay. Anyways, um I was thinking that it would be really cool to uh create something like this for concepts related to training. So adherence overload, um training specificity, uh volume, these kind of concepts so that people know how to rank things as far as their importance in each other. like okay well specificity is important but uh what's more important volume or adherence to a program or consistency or uh remaining injury-free and how do we relate all these things to each other so I brought this up to Eric and turns out he was already working look forward to that I'm sure soon I think you and uh Jason touched on that in the power builder talk that you guys did for the epic summit or Yeah. Yeah. Um the strength guys are currently working on a similar model. So it'll be interesting to see how much overlap there is there. But if I recall correctly, I think the bottom layer was um consistency and effort. No, it was injury. It it was the bottom layer was safety/injury prevention. The next layer up was uh consistency and effort. Um and then it went to uh you know volume, intensity, I think periodization and then advanced techniques. I believe that that was that was the structure that we used. Um Yeah. So, you know, a lot of people Sounds good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, probably, you know, might want to collaborate or cross check information if that could get like as big as the the flexible diet and nutrition pyramids, like backwards pyramids that we're seeing. that would be really good cuz I find that like it's now so mainstream to like um have kind of that more overarching view of how nutrition should go whereas like training is now still in the baby step process of people of like the general population understanding like what is the take like what they need to take from like periodization or like just training in general. So, it would be really cool if that could get popularized and, you know, gone viral, like the nutritional I I very much agree. And I mean, I know we have a pretty self- selected group when it comes to the type of athlete that's going to apply to TSA. There's already someone that cares about uh um science and exercise science and uh knows about raw drugree powerlifting and knows about us. But with those caveats, the majority of people um know about flexible dieting and know about macros. It's absolutely amazing and it it just kind of speaks to the um prevalence of these ideas that even powerlifters um coming to us know about this and kind of have this background knowledge cuz like there are a lot of very bro powerlifters when it comes to nutrition out there which I wasn't expecting cuz like you cuz a lot and I don't want to say a well I would say like power lifters generally know more about training uh than bodybuilders but like uh they definitely just don't like from my experience know a lot about nutrition like I mean online it's starting to but but yeah it is really cool to see like powerlifters who are like already doing IFYM and flexible dieting and stuff like that and yeah there's just so much dogma surrounding powerlifting in terms of nutrition uh yeah funny story since like our listeners like to hear our random funny stories but um I was someone suggested to me that before my meet I was like depleting like on 1,400 calories like even lower than that some days and I was trying to get to 103 lbs. So, I started at 108, like a week out, and I was like just trying to like get down there. And I was uh like he suggested that I only eat a salad with uh deep fried chicken strips, like so romaine lettuce, deep fried chicken strips, and like full fat barbecue ranch dressing. And like that would get me to my weight class. That sounds good. I was like I was like, "Wow." Like I'd love to eat that right now. Thank you. But, you know, I ended up just having plain chicken and lettuce. So, yeah. Yeah. And I did make it to my class. It's funny. And and and B, this I'm not sure if it was you that posted about this, but it really hits home the point of uh our misconceptions about ideas of causation. So, it's like this this guy whose he's a good lifter and, you know, he's a friend of mine and whatever. I'm sure he won't mind if he's listening that we're making fun of him. Um, sorry. But but uh the idea is that like you know he probably had this meal right leading into his meat and he said he lost that he only ate that meal that and he lost weight and so you attribute the loss in weight to that specific thing that you changed. Right. So it's like I could have started I could have switched from you know Excel gum to like Juicy Fruit gum in like my meat prep and lost seven pounds and said this is the key. You just have to switch your brand of gum. That's the key right there. Right. And so people don't understand that like just because something is correlated with something else, it doesn't necessarily mean that there's a causal link between the two. I mean, we're dealing with complex systems here. And um have you guys heard of the term the whoosh sometimes when athletes are by McDonald drop two or three pounds uh all of a sudden? You know, that's that that word speaks itself to the idea that this is something that's just a complex system that we don't understand at all and that we're just kind of putting a word in there to uh to speak to our ignorance basically. Yeah. And then it's kind of similar with powerlifters or like newbie powerlifters um who run like a intense phase or volume heavy phase like SMOV and then they go into the Wendler's 531 after that and then all of a sudden they make like crazy gains and it's because they just took like a big reduction in volume and then they were realizing kind of their their gains from the previous phase and then they don't even they don't realize that that's what happened and then they just attribute it to 531. They're like 531 got me the biggest gains. Yeah. Yes, that's absolutely correct. Yeah. All right. That was a really big tangent. Yeah. I don't know where we were there. I don't know how we Oh, the Eric Helms question. Eric Helms. There you go. It's just, you know, stimulating discussion. So, we were talking about the idea of sustainability over the long term, and you're saying that, you know, jacking volume up too high, too fast, wanting the results too fast, wanting the weight loss yesterday isn't the best approach to take if you want something to be sustainable and manageable over the long term, right? Yeah. I mean, and and you guys can speak to uh the idea too that weight loss that is lost slower over a longer period of time is more likely to have been kept off. And that's proven by studies as well. Yes. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Um I was gonna ask you like you you talked about this like very briefly, but um I was gonna ask you like do you like suggest you said you're taking on more bodybuilder type clients. Do you suggest that they do powerlifting in the offseason or like how do you go about like that? Like is it something that you recommend or is it something that you like wait for them to ask you? Like how do you um go about that? I wait for them to to ask me. So essentially uh the athlete themselves choose the direction and as coaches we just try as best as possible to get them there. So again Helms because he's my mentor. Um we are uh the navigators of the ship and the clients are the captains. So they decide and we just try to plot the course to get there. Mhm. So, uh, if they decide, hey, I want to do powerlifting in my offseason, we're like, all right, great. This is how we would go about it. You know, this is the plan. Um, if they decide, um, I just want to stick to bodybuilding. Okay, well, this is the way we'd go. Mhm. That's cool. I just from my own experience, I mean, you must have to use some discretion there because some people come to me with goals or ambitions that are just so blown out of proportion. Like I had one guy who was like 200 lb, probably 20% body fat, who wanted to get to 250, 6% body fat over the course of the next year. And uh you know, you just have to tell those people that this is just unrealistic. I think we'd be better off focusing on XYZ of a goal and maybe you should actually try to cut a little bit of weight and you might actually look bigger. um that you know sometimes as coach I'm sure you've experienced this. You've sort of got to take the maybe someone wanting to add like 200 lb on their squad in like the next like eight weeks or something. Oh, totally. Yeah, that stuff happens all the time. Um we we have an initial Skype call with all athletes that uh first start with TSA where we talk about a lot of things, answer questions for them, um discuss more of what we're about and and talk about their goals. And in that, you know, we're trying to, among other things, we're trying to figure out, are we right for this person? And is this person right for us? And part of that is, are they asking unrealistic things of us? And, you know, we always try to be as realistic as possible because it sets them up for better success, right? And, you know, sometimes that's that's great. We're like, yes, we can do this. Let's go. It's going to be awesome. And sometimes we're like, okay, well, you know, we can do part of that or this is what's realistic and this is what could happen but over a longer period of time. Um, and I think I don't ever think those um those answers and those discussions are taken uh the wrong way. I think it's always taken as we're trying to help this person ultimately get to uh the best that they can be because it's before they've even signed on kind of thing. Sure. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Uh, so one thing, Bryce, that I'd like to quickly touch on is the idea of intrinsic and exttrinsic motivation. So Jason, the president of the strength guys and I collaborated on an article uh called uh training like the pros um Kai Green's or what we can learn from Kai Green or something like that. Um, and basically we said that, you know, his whole idea about training is that it all sort of starts with the mind, right? And that you need to focus on being intentional with all of your movements and everything like this. Um, and so we sort of made the case that uh this is true. There's a lot of truth to that and that uh you know being um sort of directed by your thoughts uh is a good way to approach training. And this sort of lends credence to the value of intrinsic motivation. So actually being motivated uh because you find the task fulfilling in and of itself rather than because of some external factor. Uh so um I guess my question is is uh do you think that there's any relationship here between intrinsic motivation and long-term success in powerlifting? That's that's a great question and just playing devil's advocate here, I'm trying to compare in my mind uh a person that's motivated by exttrinsic uh goals and a person that's motivated by intrinsic goals and uh what they both actually do to get the work done. And I'm wondering if you'd end up with different results in either case. So for instance, in in some cases the motivation is important and in some cases it's secondary to what they're actually doing with their bodies um and what they're putting in their bodies. But I don't know. Yeah. Um I I've read literature Yeah. I've read a little bit of literature in um sports psychology about this and it does seem to be the case. Actually, I read one study where they um what did they say? They artificially supplied intrinsic motivation to the subjects. I don't know how you would do that, how you would control for that in a study, but they they supposedly ran this, you know, parallel arm trial where they had one group that was externally motivated. They probably I don't know. I mean, they could have gave them like an Instagram account and gave them a bunch of likes or something. And then the intrinsic intrinsic group, they gave them a bunch of exercises they actually enjoyed. I I have no idea what they did, but what they found was that at the end of the study, the intrinsic group consistently and significantly outperformed the exttrinsic group. Um, now whether this would actually like carry over into the real world or not, I you could argue that like a combination of both would be like maybe ideal. I I mean I find personally that like I g like I'm intrinsically motivated. I for sure, but like I definitely gain a lot from um being like involved in a community where everyone's kind of doing the same thing and everyone's like supportive of each other and posting about their progress and stuff and like others people's progress motivates me as well. So yeah, I think in practice we're not likely to find people that are strictly intrinsic and strictly it's it's going to be a mix. But um you know if what you're saying is true then you know that's an interesting point that having your own motivations and your own reasons for doing things are I I think in practice that's going to be more likely to get you to do uh the things when no one's watching. Yeah. Yeah. You know um and there's all kinds of motivational quotes to say that uh what you eat in private you wear in public. Yeah. Exactly. Oh is that one? I haven't I haven't heard that one, but uh yeah, exactly. That uh it's what you do when no one's watching that um that's the real mark of success. But that speaks to intrinsic motivation for sure. Yeah. I I would if I was to stand on one side of this question, I would say that being intrinsically motivated or predominantly intrinsically motivated would uh lead to more longevity. like you're more likely to stick around for longer if you're genuinely intrinsically motivated by something rather than uh you know just seeking out external sources of validation or reward or whatever it may be. Um that it's just a hypothesis but to me it seems like I stick around to the tasks that I genuinely enjoy and that I like in their own right and the things that I that I'm doing just cuz I think I should be doing it or whatever I I tend to veer away from. Like for example, I I was I don't know if you know this about me, but I was two years deep into a dentistry program here in Halifax. So I had two years worth of a do a doctor of Did you know that? Yeah, I think. Yeah. So anyway, I was I was two years deep into that program and decided that it wasn't something I was genuinely passionate about and I'd rather pursue a different discipline. And so I mean, I feel like this is kind of the way it it it goes, right? If you're not actually genuinely passionate or or um fulfilled by a certain thing, then you're probably not going to be as likely to stay with it over the long term. Or if you do stay like it, it might feel like it's a little bit forced or something, right? Yeah. So, again, playing devil's advocate here, I'm trying to think like, hey, you know, being skeptic and stuff, let's let's figure out ways around this. I'm trying to think of like Russian and Chinese weightlifterss that basically are either doing this for money to feed their families in the case of um Chinese in lots of cases or huge sums of money um for them or in the case of some of the Russian stories that I've heard. Um they're they're put in the sport by their parents at a young age. They're not doing it because they love it or because of any deep reasons. They're doing it because they're being told to and eventually they either learn to love it or they don't. But they can still achieve pretty darn high levels of success, too. Yeah, that's true. And and I guess that would come back to the idea of how you're defining their success, right? So, if their success is just the total that they post, then well, yeah, sure. External motivation seems to be doing fine there. But if their success is defined more internally, let's say, right? Like in an actual fulfillment or how how good they feel about what they're doing, then maybe it's not as good, right? Mhm. I totally agree with that. That's how I would approach that one. Yeah. So, um that's really all I had to say. I have one more question. Yeah. Um so, you did a bodybuilding prep with Lane. That's what you were saying, right? Um do you think that you'll ever do bodybuilding again or have you switched over to powerlifting kind of for good? Um almost exclusively powerlifting. Um there's a very very slim slim chance that I would ever go back to bodybuilding. It's not that I didn't find enjoyment um in it. It's just that um I got caught in I guess uh what we were talking about earlier in that I got to the end of a prep and competed and placed at whatever placing I did and looked back and thought was was that really worth it you know was the feeling of competing and being up there and doing all this worth to get up to that point and the answer for me uh was no and that's not to say that that's a general answer for everyone it's just you know how it struck me and that I that I ended up finding a lot more fulfillment in in powerlifting. Cool. I figured that that would be the answer, but you you looked awesome though. Like I saw you throwback Thursday a photo of you and like you I it would be interesting to see how if if you've made a lot of improvements in your physique uh over the course of the last I don't know when did you compete? I feel like he would be a good person to ask. Have you made a lot of improvements in your physique in your opinion? Right. 20 uh 2012 or something like that. I think I did uh my last competition. Actually, no, it had to be way before that. Uh 2010. Um my last year uh of college, I think I competed in a competition. Um one thing I am considering though is um dropping down to the 183s for a few competitions, which I would look pretty darn lean in. And if I was to do that, you'd also be a beast in that weight class. Holy [\h__\h] There's there's a lot of uh 183s is a stacked class. And actually this year at IPF Worlds, there's three people with nominated totals that are a half a kilo apart in that weight class. Oh wow. That's it's going to be uh it's going to be awesome to see. Yeah, for sure. Are you are you going to World's Price? No, I'm not. I'll be uh watching the the live feed this time. Okay, cool. Yeah, cool. Um Oh, wait. Now, I just thought of another question because it it really pertains to me and I don't know if if I'd have another um opportunity to ask it, but um how do you feel about losing strength um while cutting down to a lighter weight class? And like how do you have your clients ever do this? And how do you help? Like I found psychologically it was very very hard for me to do and to like just not be able to perform as I was able to like at a heavier weight. Um yeah, so that's my question. Um that's something that we deal with um quite a lot. So first athletes tend to want to drop down to weight classes even if they're not going to be competitive in that weight class. They just That was me. Yeah. They just want to be lean. They want to drop down. They see other people, you know, coming in at the top of their weight classes and they want to do the same. So we have the conversation about, hey, is dropping down really a good idea right now? And then we talk about that. And ultimately, you know, like we said, the navigator say, "Hey, we're dropping down." Then, you know, we can give all the advice we want, but ultimately, um, we try to make the plan to get there. And the other thing we try to do is set up real realistic expectations of what's going to happen to strength when we drop down. So, how long is the drop going to take and what's going to happen to strength? And um coming from experience as someone that's dropped from 198 to 181 um back with the uh the older USAPL um weight classes, I had to deal with this myself. And the way that it was framed for me is kind of the way that I try to frame it for other people. And that's to understand that best case circumstances is preserving all of the strength that you have right now. Um, and if if we do better than that and you actually gain strength over this period of time, that's icing on the cake. Um, but realistically, I try to tell athletes we can expect to keep about 95% of your strength. Um, and that that's a good thing dropping down a weight class. Um, and and we talk about improvements in Wilk score instead of global improvements. Uh, or we talk about uh uh what multiple of your body weight your deadlift is. So instead of a 1.5 deadlift that may have been 400 lb, now you're doing 380 lb, but it's a two two times your body weight deadlift or something like that. Mhm. So we talk about relative strength. Um and that that factors into the Wilk score as well. So just like we talked about before, we just reframe uh progress, right? And do you program differently for athletes who are like cutting a lot of weight? because I found with me like I was just having terrible recovery. Like I would just I just I only trained four days a week but I was barely able to recover from my training sessions. So it it depends on uh I guess how severe of a caloric deficit we have to get an athlete in. But we try as much as possible not to change training. But if we find that an athlete isn't recovering from um training and the RPS are just way too high, then we'll make some tweaks to um to make sure that's not happening and that we're getting um sufficient volume in still, but stuff that it's not just beating them up terribly. Cool. Bryce, I have a quick question for you about your programming, and what you just said then reminded me of it. Uh you you do percentage based programs, right? So, we do a mix. Uh it depends on athletes. We run some athletes with fully autoregulated programs. Um some athletes with fully percentage based and some athletes where say the assistant stuff is autoregulated and the main stuff is percentage based. Right. These days I prefer doing percentage based stuff. I kind of feel like I have more control over what's going on. Yeah, I I agree. Um so you said then uh if the RP are getting a little bit too high, do you get your athletes to report their self perceived RP or whatever? to you or or do you give them a target to hit and then have them report that to you or how does that work? So, if I'm running uh percentage based programs, what I've been doing um and it's been pretty successful from a coaching perspective is have the athlete track last set RPEs. Um so, say they're doing three sets of four at 75%. Whatever their last set RP is, um I have them put that down. That way I get an idea of how fatigued they are. Um, and I can essentially autore autoregulate the program for them or it's not autoregulation because it's not them doing it, but I regulate the program for them um by adjusting training loads going forward if needed, right? So, it's it seems to be a nice balance between uh the rigidity of going in and having a load that you're supposed to hit and the flexibility of those loads not being so fixed that they never change. Yeah, I think that's a fantastic idea. Yeah. Wow, that's really cutting edge. Yeah. s. Yeah. All right. Um, so I guess that that's that's everything unless you had another question, Robin. Yeah, I had bonus questions, so I'm happy. Um, all right, Bryce. Well, you enjoy the rest of your night. Thank you. Thank you very much. And thanks for coming on. Of course. See you guys later. See you, Bryce. In the front of that rack of that assault.