 me. Science-based lifting has lost the plot. Because recently, every science-based giant creator has been obsessed with the stretch. You know, this new wave of training that everyone's in is the stretch. If you think that stretch-mediated hypertrophy is going to be the silver bullet that gets you from making no gains to being the next Ronnie Coleman, not the case. And that's because most of the studies that I've been referencing that show a benefit of the stretch have been on untrained lifters or beginners. That's not a huge deal, but it was starting to eat at me. Whenever I see a video like that of Jeff Nippard, I listen, but I'd rather hear it go hard. Science this, science that, science, science, science. Length and partials. Bullshit. They don't have the significant... The stretch people are going to walk back all this stretch stuff in five years. I was starting to worry that maybe I was overhyping the stretch. Sure, the same mechanisms that drive muscle growth in beginners should also apply to experienced lifters, but without a good study on well-trained subjects, it's hard to say for sure. So, I only had one option. I needed to link up with the best exercise science team in the world and do the research we desperately need. So, I flew to New York and kicked off the only study that's ever been done on range of motion in highly experienced trainees. First, as I'm sure you all know, full range of motion is when you go all the way up and all the way down. Partial range of motion is when you don't use a full range of motion. And a lengthened partial is when you use a partial range of motion while the muscle is more lengthened or stretched. Again, whenever I say shortened partials, you should be thinking big squeeze. Whenever I say lengthened partials, you should be thinking big stretch. Now, to get everyone up to speed, before starting our study in New York, there were five studies comparing shortened partials to lengthened partials. Lengthened partials cause significantly more muscle growth every single time. And there were also five studies comparing lengthened partials to a full range of motion. Lengthened partials cause significantly more muscle growth four out of five times. Together, this is strong evidence that focusing on the stretch should cause the best gaze. So, why are some people so skeptical? Well, one theory the skeptics have been saying is that the only reason lengthened partials seem to work so well is that they're causing something called sarcomere addition. That's when your muscles grow bigger in length rather than growing bigger in thickness. But the thing is, sarcomere addition only seems to happen in beginners. After a few months of training, sarcomere addition is no longer possible. Therefore, their argument goes, lengthened partials really only work for new lifters. So, to put this argument to the test, we recruited participants with an average lifting experience of 4.9 years. Like, one of our subjects literally looks exactly like a young Mike Isretel. It's kind of insane. These guys and gals are not beginners. And this will show us if lengthened partials really are best left for newbies in their sarcomere addition, or if they work on more advanced subjects, too. Here's how it'll work. For the next eight weeks, each subject is going to train one side of their body with a full range of motion, and the other side with lengthened partials. So, when they do curls, they'll do one arm like this with a full rom, and they'll do their other arm like this, staying in the bottom half in the stretch. When they do pull downs, they'll hit one side with a full rom, and then they'll hit the other side with all lengthened partials. Each subject is going to train one half of their body with one of two methods. So, one half of their body is going to be full range of motion. The other half is going to be long length partials only. This is a really strong study design. The problem with the more common study design of splitting subjects into two groups is that you run the risk of one of the subjects in one of the groups having such amazing genetics that it skews the results. One group might seem to be better because of the way they were training, but really it was just because they had a freak of nature driving the average up. We won't have that problem in our study because by using the within-subject unilateral design, each subject serves as their own control. And this is the full training program they'll be running. They'll be doing four sets for each exercise with a mixture of a moderate rep range and a slightly higher rep range. And in case you're worried about them not pushing their sets hard enough, each subject was told to take every set to muscular failure. Plus, we had a team of researchers watching them every set. We are pushing participants hard. Everyone I've spoken to in the study said they were training harder in the study than outside the study. One more. Let's go. Let's go. One more. Again. Again. Finish it. Finish it. Stay upright. Adjust your arm. Adjust your arm. Finish it. Pause. Again. Pull. No break. Go. Pull. That's it. For the people who will say that science-based lifters don't actually train hard, I guarantee you in this study, they do. And then after eight weeks, we're going to use ultrasound to measure which side builds more muscle. The side doing length and parcels or the side doing full range of motion. All right. Let me show you around the lab. Whoa. This is the lab where the subjects are going to be training. We've got a smith machine, power rack, a few benches, a bunch of dumbbells. Got the leg press over here, seated calf machine, seated leg curl. Got lat pull down. Got a free motion cable over here. And then just some strength testing equipment and that sort of stuff over there. At the start of the study, we showed all the subjects how to do length and parcels. We told them that it's really important that you still control the negative. A lot of people think of partial reps as cheat reps, so they just let their form go loose and do these herky-jerky, bouncy, fast reps. But all the same technique instructions for full range of motion reps still apply to partial reps. So you still control the negative, you still do a slight pause in the full stretch, and you still use an explosive positive. A lot of people, when I say partial reps, they just start sending it. And it's like, no, it's the same exact technique you'd use on full range of motion, just cut the range of motion in half. Dr. Wolf here is one of the world's leading experts on the topic of range of motion. And based on the accumulating evidence, he's actually been doing length and parcels exclusively for the last year. That's crazy. He hasn't done a single full range of motion rep in over a year. And I've got to be honest, his physique is looking great, especially his quads. Holy crap. But he's not the only one excited about the prospect of long muscle lengths. Dr. Eric Helms, someone known for being a skeptic and a late adopter, has expressed optimism recently as well. Why is range of motion better? Well, it's probably because it includes these longer muscle lengths. We're losing some stretch on the lat. So how do we account for that? I simply angle it. Instead of reaching around my rib cage, I'm actually getting stretch on the lat. And Dr. Mike Isertel, someone who's literally made full range of motion in the entire division of his online brand, has also embraced the idea that the stretch most likely matters the most. On the net aggregate of muscle hypertrophy, should you still be biasing the majority of your training into length and position? Yes. So with these leaders from the scientific community behind us, we started our study. And for the next eight weeks, all 30 subjects just followed the plan. Every person did a full range of motion on one side and length and partials on the other side. And after a really intense, carefully monitored eight weeks of training, the results were in. So it's been three months since I was in New York. The results are in and we finally have an answer to the question of whether or not length and partials work well for experienced trainees. I, however, do not know the answer to that question yet because I told everyone else in the research group to not let me know the results until everything is done and all the statistics have been crunched. I don't know why. I'm a little bit nervous. This experiment was a lot of work. I'm going to hop on a call with Dr. Pak and Dr. Wolf, and they're going to share with me everything that we found. Hey, hey, hey. What's up, boys? Have you guys seen me since I cut my hair? No. I was about to say. I got the buzz cut going. Who's the Polish hooligan? So I asked Dr. Pak and Dr. Wolf to present the findings to me on a graph. So here on the whiteboard, you can see that on the y-axis is muscle growth and on the x-axis are the two conditions. So the full-room side and the length and partial side. Let's do it. The hype! You're legit hyped. I actually am. Hey, I care about this stuff. Full range of motion. Let's see it. 6.6%. Rain lifters, eight weeks. Show me the money. Okay, so I mean, is it- 5.9. Is it safe to assume that is basically the same? No difference. Now, just to be clear, statistically, this is no difference. If you just look at the graph, you might think maybe full range of motion did a bit better, but it didn't. I mean, this is what the graph looked like for the biceps. Here, it definitely looks like length and partials came in on top, but no, there was no statistically significant difference here either. That's because you need to account for random variation, genetics, measurement error, etc. And so if the difference isn't big enough, you just can't score it as an actual difference. All right, so of all the possible outcomes, I didn't know what to make of this at first. Having sat with the data for a while now, I think you can look at it two ways. You could say that length and partials didn't work any better than full range of motion, so if you love doing a full range of motion, go for it. Or you could say that you can get the same gains as full range of motion by doing half reps, as long as they're in the stretched half. If you were to come to me two years ago and say you had one group that did half reps for their whole training program, and you had another group that did full range of motion, who do you think saw better growth? I would be like, well, obviously full range of motion. But now what we've essentially found is that groups doing half reps on every exercise for the entirety of the program were able to get equivalent gains to the group doing full range of motion. Oddly enough, this study did convince me that length and partials are worth doing. I've actually been including them more in my own training since our study. That's because if I can get the same results with half the range, that's pretty sweet. On some exercises, doing a full range of motion feels a lot harder or it's more annoying. So why go through that extra pain of doing the full squeeze if it's most likely not giving you any extra gains? Think about it. According to our study, even when the subjects completely cut out the squeeze on every single exercise, they still made the same gains. So the squeeze just can't matter that much for muscle growth. If it did, we'd have seen significantly more growth with full long. But we didn't. That said, I do think this study will temper some of the expectations around the stretch. While I do still think that the stretch is the most important part of the range of motion, at least for most muscles, focusing on it exclusively doesn't seem to supercharge your gains, at least not inexperienced subjects. Do you feel like that with this study, you would walk back your enthusiasm for lengthened training? Or do you feel even more enthusiastic about lengthened training? I would say a single study should only shift your enthusiasm by so much. And in this case, with the results being null, meaning no difference in hypertrophy between full range of motion length and partials, it shifts my prior stance by a slight amount towards the effect being smaller than before. I do still think if I had to bet what causes more growth for a beginner, for an advanced lifter, what have you, I would still bet on lengthened partials. Not by a huge margin, but I would still bet on it. I think it also depends on the specific exercises because, you know, depending on the exercises you're doing, I think maybe you would see a benefit with lengthened training. So yes, if you're skipping the stretch, I do think you're missing out on some gains. But there's a lot of wiggle run. If you're an experienced trainee and you prefer training with a full range of motion, that is clearly an effective approach. If you prefer to do half reps, that'll work at least just as well, as long as you do them in the stretch tab. If you consider all the other studies on new lifters, you could easily still make the case that lengthened partials may be more optimal than a full range of motion for some muscles, especially muscles like the calves and hamstrings, where those other studies testing those muscles found bigger results. I also want to give a quick shout out to my nutrition app, Macrofactor. We gave free access to all the subjects in the study so they could log their nutrition while in the study. The app uses science-based algorithms to update your nutrition each week based on changes to your unique metabolism over time. We've got over 180,000 users and we've had some absolutely incredible transformations from people using the app. And if you'd like to try it out for yourself for free, you can get a free two-week trial if you download the app in the app store and use code JEFF. And I'll put a QR code up here on screen to that and I'll also link it in the description box down below. Thanks guys, I'll see you all here in the next week. Length and partials. Alright, that's enough of that. Length and partials.