Morning everyone. Uh it's 8:00 a.m. Texas time. We're going for breakfast. It's only 1 hour difference, but there's a time difference. Yeah, but we were It meant that we were training 1 hour later than we thought we were last night. So, we went to bed late. Oh, I'm excited for this breakfast. You look like it's a black. That's racist. I'm going to get toast eggs over there. Want some toast? I can make drop some toast for you. Orange juice. This meal one, I've got some scrambled eggs, two slices of toast, peanut butter, a little bit of oatmeal, bowl of mixed fruits, apple juice, water, pancake. That's pretty good. Yeah. We are at a place called Blaze Pizza. You can build your own pizza. Jeff actually just got It was the barbecue barbecue chicken barbecue chicken pizza. Ready for my rating? Oh, I think I know. I think I'm going to I I know what it is. Give it Give it a 3.5. 3.5. I didn't I don't think I like the g the gorgenola. Is that Gorgon's kind of It added a really rich flavor to it that I wasn't a fan of. It It was all right. I could see it being really good. But I just need to I just need to make it differently. The s'more, on the other hand, is 7.5. 7.5. It's really good. I really need to try that. That's really good. I'm going to finish up here, go back to the hotel, and then we're going for a leg workout with special guest. I'll I'll keep you posted. Oh, we totally should have ate out here. Texas heat is nice. Can you take me through your leg workout? You should take me and the secret guest through your leg workout. I want a leg workout that I won't be able to walk in two days. That's the kind of leg workout I want right now. But it's going to be super hot. I think it's a little bit hotter than Florida personally. Yeah. So, we're back to the hotel room. This is the pre-workout situation. No caffeine caffeine pump. Two scoops. Yeah. Yep. Two scoops. I had one of my best friends from university buy this product and he was like, "Bro, I wasn't like really getting a lot from it in terms of like stimulation." I was like, "High volume is the non- stem product. That's the whole point." So, like if you're training late or you don't like stimulation, use this one. This is the one with But what's the benefit of using this then? It's like it gives you the pump without the stimulation. Yeah. So, it gives you a pump. Yeah. How How does it give you a pump? I don't know. That's like a really vague word. I can see why people would be like it increases vasoddilation. The main ingredient that does that is citrilline. And there's also nitrates. And they all increase cyclic AMP production which increases vasodilation which makes you have vein going down there. This is for him. And then I'm just I like to take mine like a shot. Maybe I should cycle off of it. I watched a supplement. I watched a supplement video that says I should cycle off caffeine head. Roll it up and you make a makeshift funnel. Woo! David Blaine, it's gone. One ice. You're a demon, David Blaine. What would be um better is if you're not going to drink it right away. No, I'm going to drink it right away, though. Let's do a transition where you're faking it so I can transition to the gym clip. So, let's try that again. Wait, wait, wait. Let's do this like normal people. Two, three. Tyler just released this. I should say Tyler the creator. I don't know him personally. released a song today. It's good. I feel like my June playlist is going to be the best one ever. I've been getting like really good feedback on it. If you don't like hip-hop music, then you you won't like them. But the June one is going to be so good that there's the Brock Hampton album, Ben Staples, Ben Staples album. Here we go. Christian is doing a rant or some stuff. Actually, don't know. Hey, what's up? They're children's prestos. Those are Yeah, it's like the most frequently commented thing on my channel. What are Stephanie shoes? Shoes even in this video. Yeah, I'm going to get you. Yeah, I'll be fooling you guys forever. This is the special guest I was talking about right here. What's up, guys? Hello. This is Christian and this is his gym, Alfleet. So, this is our first time training here. There you go. I lost a lot of reps. I know. It's 20 20. This isn't that bad. You come at 2:00. Oh, man. That's a different level. Yeah, we haven't trained when it was like really daylight yet. Yeah, it's it's it's different. But last night, it felt like I was having a harder workout than I actually was because I was sweating so much. You got more. Three more. Go. But the gym, we can move all this stuff in about 2 days. Really? Yeah. 2 3 12. One more. One more. Breathe. Push. Good. There you go. All right. What you got? Don't let Jeff kill you. Go. Come on. Nice. Damn. Your hamstrings look so shredded here in this lighting. It's really exciting, man. Like the opportunities with that. Like I just had Squarespace sponsor like like ask me to join them like as a sponsor. Yeah. So like with them sponsoring my videos. So that's huge for me, man. Like I'm really excited. Yes. So repurp eight 3 4 All right. Come on. I'm with you. Six. Go. Seven. One more. Good. Man, feel that one. I really want to test upper lower split. Yeah. Well, I just I don't want to have to translate sometimes because lower volume. Yeah, you have to go lower volume. I would recommend it, man. Like you'll get your strength. How many did you get first? Do you remember? I think like 11. Ready? Down. Go. One. Three. Go. Four. Up. Up. Six. Two more. Up. One more. One more. Full rep. Prep it out. Eight more. Go. One. Two. Three. that in. One more. Let's go. I keep exposing my life. So, guys, we made it back from the gym. I feel like I sweat a gallon of food in that gym. I legitimately almost passed out three times. Like, I had to get down like this. And uh yeah, so now we're going to go get some sushi. I'm gonna drink a lot of water and I will sleep. Okay, we'll check in with you guys in sushi. What a nice lake. Oh, there it is. Isuma sushi and grill. Post-workout rehydration meal. Post post-workout meal meal. Enjoy. We started with edamame as usual. Good protein source, lots of micronutrients. California roll. This is a spicy salmon roll. I got some sashimi. Morning everyone. It is Saturday, July the 1st, which means it's Canada Day. Uh, so I just want to say happy Canada Day to all of my Canadian subscribers. And Stephanie and I are going there in a week, right? July 7th. July 7th. So, one week from today, we're going to be back in Canada. I'm so excited to get back before I go to the gym. Uh we're going to do some quick partner assisted uh neck curls because one thing that I have found with neck training is that if you take almost any time off of it at all uh your neck will shrink. And this is something that I learned from Alpha Destiny who's a guy who like really ramps on neck training and trap training hard and he's had some really impressive motivating results. All right. A little harder. A little less hard. Yeah, that's good. Jeff the type of guy to make his girlfriend. So what I was like when I flex my neck it looks freaking huge especially with a pump but if it's just like relaxed still have room for improvement. It actually feels good for me to get a neck pump now. Like I've learned to actually like it. I used to hate it. Yeah. This is the first day I think that this gym is opening right like under Christian. So yeah, we're going to go check it out. We're going to be filming the ab science explained video. Um, so that's going to be out probably maybe like a week from when this one goes up. Stay tuned for that one. I appreciate the air conditioning, man. Like first first item on the agenda is do they have a bow? the strength detriment. I don't know. So, it's almost definitely out there. But the thing is is like muscle building ultimately comes down to tension. So, like can you press enough weight and enough volume progressively? Right? So, in air conditioning, if you're able to push more, that's probably going to be better better for muscle growth. Fat loss ultimately comes down to caloric deficit, right? Does the heat help you get in a caloric deficit? Probably not too much. So, the only thing it probably helps with is water loss. Training at a during prep and then I if I had to travel or something, I would literally look so different. So used to getting rid of that water. Like in terms of this industry, I love science and I love training and I like the production side of things. I don't know. Outside of fitness, I like like uh I like music. I like like philosophy. Anything like intellectual, I kind of get into. What kind of music do you like? I like hip-hop. I like hip-hop and like alternative rock. 100 radio has my favorite band. I feel like a lot of Canadian music being Canadians like Canadian music like broken social scene metric fire that sort of stuff. Canadian Canadian music is Jeff is like a music connoisseur. So yeah, I mean break me. Um I was going to do a like quick interview here. Let's do it. Trying to think of where we should do. I want it to look like kind of professional. Still make it out for you. Definitely. Are you going to keep the AC? Yeah, keep the AC. Um, so that was that was actually the only question I was gonna ask. You got the you got the right diet. I knew you were gonna say diet. I just kind of wanted to like frame it up that way. I'm actually a person needs to do more ab training. Yeah. After you watch this video, you're going to be like there's a bunch of tips that I picked up that I'm going to implement. I think because what are your what are your tops? Well, the research and what I actually do is like sometimes a little bit different, but I find doing like partner assisted stuff is really good cuz like ab training is like boring. Like you tend to tack it on at the end of your workout if you have like a partner you can like throw a medicine ball with or like do like partner assisted leg raises on the ground. It just keeps it interesting. Like a few reps with her and then like we we change angles. She's like me for a rep then you go back and go back frame in the exact same spot. That would actually be sick. See if people notice. As uh when I was like learning and everything, I heard this this advice that if you wanted I had really uneven abs. I was like, man, I want like the blocky six-pack, right? So the advice was just beat up your abs. You train them super hard, but immediately after like like abs are done, you run to the lower back hyperextension, but then you tighten your you tighten your lower back so it pulls the abs. I know, man. So you I be doing my abs and running and just like doing the extensions hoping they just It's really funny because you guys are like big muscular dudes like dying with ab work like one set of abs. Yeah. Okay. All right, guys. So we're about to film a back workout. This workout is going to be on Christian's channel, so I'll leave that. It'll be the first link in the description. Um, the Bill's going to do a sick edit for this one, so make sure you go over and check that one out. We're going to get into it. We're going to kick it off with some pull-ups over here. Uh, so that's actually going to conclude this video. Um, so thank you guys for watching. Um, subscribe to the channel if you're new. Like the video if you liked it. See you guys in the next one. Bye. Jason B with the head shot. Jason Stath with the whip game. Liam Niss with the rescue. I go with the leather face. Bruce Campbell with the chains. Tobin Bell with the saw. Anthony Hawkins, I'm meeting them raw.