 Ifr 2020rp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, gabyrp, optimized training will measure exactly how much muscle I gained. But here's the best part. For any of you that are new to the gym, I'm going to also do the exact same experiment on my biological brother, who's a similar height as me, with the similar genetics, but here's the catch. He does not lift at all. He's a completely untrained beginner. This way, we'll get to see the difference between someone who's been training for over 15 years versus someone totally new to lifting. You see, you build most of your muscle in your first few years of lifting, then it slows down. And there's a theory out there that once you've been training for five or maybe 10 years, you've built all the muscle you can build. People call this your natural ceiling for muscle growth. And for the last few years, I've been thinking that I've reached it. Despite training as hard as usual, I just haven't really seen any noticeable gains in the last few years. And once you hit your natural ceiling, you have a decision to make. You can either maintain what you've built, saying goodbye to any new gains, or you can take anabolic steroids. I've definitely thought about using steroids, but I don't want to because the side effects scare me. I also don't want to just maintain if I can still make gains. As a bodybuilder, making gains is kind of the point, right? And besides, there's really no science on this so-called natural ceiling anyway. It might not even be a real thing. So for me, this experiment will answer the question of whether or not I've reached my natural ceiling, or if I simply haven't been training as hard and smart as I could be. For my brother Brad, it'll show how much muscle a new lifter can gain in one year of dedicated training. Let's find out. Okay guys, it's day one of the experiment. We're here at McMaster University, and we're going to get a whole bunch of tests done. Then we're going to come back exactly one year from today and see how much muscle we built. Let's get started. To start, every good experiment needs a good hypothesis. And upon deeper reflection, I think I have not reached my natural ceiling for muscle growth. I think that if I really give it my all for a full year, I'll see some new growth. And to set the standard high, I'm going to take an ambitious guess at how much muscle I'll gain this year. I'm going to guess that I will gain four pounds of muscle. I think Brad will gain double that eight or nine pounds of muscle. I'm going to say nine pounds of muscle. What do you guys think? Is that ambitious? Post-cut? Is that too much? I think four pounds of muscle is quite a bit. I mean, do you know who I am? No, I'm sorry. For him, it might be undershooting a bit. For you, man, you know natural bodybuilding. Like, it's hard, man. Challenge accepted. So with my own research team as my biggest haters, we got our starting measurements done. 5'4.7. Take that, internet. Says 5'2. First up, we use this DEXA machine to measure our starting body fat percentage and lean mass. So what did you predict you were at? 14.6. It said that I was 15.8% body fat. That was a bit higher than I expected. I thought I'd be closer to 13 or 14%, but hey, maybe I'll get that down by the end. It also said I had 132.7 pounds of lean mass. Lean mass includes your muscle mass, but it also includes your organs and body water. After that, we got our muscle thickness measured using ultrasound. This device sends sound waves through your body that reflect back, creating echoes that can generate an image of how thick the muscle is. We did thickness measurements for our biceps and quads. Brad's starting body fat was 36.2%, also higher than both of us thought. Most people probably do think they're leaner than they actually are. We're also doing regular posing updates to assess our visual progress. So Brad and I made our own posing room to make sure we'll have the exact same lighting and angle for the before and the after. For our first workout of the experiment, we're doing an upper body session, and this is the split we'll be running all year. It's a mix between an upper lower split and a push-pull leg split. Upper on Monday, lower on Tuesday. Those are the more strength-focused workouts. Then we'll take a rest day, followed by three hypertrophy-focused workouts, a push day, chest, shoulders, and triceps, a pull day, back and biceps, and another leg day. Now, at this point, you may be wondering exactly what I'm doing differently this year. If I've been training already for 15 years, what am I doing differently for this experiment that I wasn't doing already? Well, with training, there are three new things. First, I'm taking the last set of every single exercise to failure. No exceptions. Even on heavy compound lifts like presses and squats, I'm pushing that last set until I physically cannot get the weight up and literally drop it, obviously using safety bars. I don't know if failure makes a big difference for hypertrophy, but the latest science definitely shows a trend. The harder you push, the more growth you tend to see. Before, I'd always leave one or two reps in the tank on compound exercises, even on the last set, and I still think that's a good idea for most people. But I want to go ham this year, leaving no uncertainty of whether I could have done more. Second, I'm only doing optimal exercises. If it doesn't build maximum muscle, I'm not doing it. Third, I'm meticulously tracking all my weights for progressive overload, and my goal is to add a little weight or a rep each week. Now, since Brad's a beginner, I have to ease him into the workouts. So we're starting with one set per exercise in week one, two sets in week two, and then three sets from week three on. And yes, he has to run the exact same program as me for scientific control. It's definitely a bit too advanced for him, but I think he can do it for science. You see that shakiness? That's how we know you're a new lifter. That is your body saying, what are you doing right now? I have not done this. For that first week of training, my main priority is just getting Brad familiar with the technique on the different exercises in our program. All you're going to do is just stick your butt back as you lower the bar straight down with straight legs. Good. And then up. Oh, that's it? That's it. That's the whole movement. Okay. Don't bring the bar out in front. Lower it straight down. It's not going to hit your knees because you're moving your butt back. There you go. That's it. That's your RDL. And you can stop about just below knee height. So we'll stop about there. Okay. We're not doing any failure training in week one or two just to get adjusted. The real failure work is going to start in week three. All right, man. That's one week of training down. I enjoyed it more than maybe I even thought I would. Yeah. Yeah. Nice man. Yeah. Good job. Thanks. We did it because now it's just repeating that. Yeah. 52 times. All right. Well, 51. Oh, 51 times now. That's right. That's right. By week three, we were cruising. The initial soreness from starting a new program had settled down. And before we knew it, it was time for our first check in moment of truth. I got a little nervous. Are you? No. No. What are my nervous about? So this was shocking. After just one month of training, Brad is already up 12.7 pounds of lean mass. His body fat percentage dropped from 36.2% down to 33.4%. And the ultrasound showed he gained 14 millimeters on his quads and one millimeter on his biceps. That's in one month. Bruh. Nicely done, dude. Holy crap. I got to tell mom that. But my one month results were even more surprising. So wait, how much, how much lean did I gain? 1400 grams of lean mass. Okay. So 1.4 kilos of lean mass. Believe it or not, I'm also up just over three pounds of lean mass. Unlike Brad, I did gain a little fat. My body fat went from 15.8% up to 16.7%. So with that check in as a massive motivator, Brad and I got back to work. And in five months, we'll finish our bulking phase and do another check in. People say that bulking is pointless because you just get fat. So how fat will we get? That's what we'll see in five months. At the nine month mark, we'll do a third check in. This will be the end of our recomp phase where we'll try to build muscle and lose fat at the same time. Most people say that's impossible for advanced lifters, but I want to see for myself. Then after 12 months, we'll do our final update. This will be the end of our cut phase. I want to get back down to my starting body weight to see if I'll actually keep the muscle that I gained during my bulk, or if I just lose it all again and look exactly the same as before. You may also be wondering what we're doing for our diet. Obviously, we're both eating the exact same calories and macros. 3000 calories, 150 grams of protein, 410 grams of carbs, and 85 grams of fat per day. And this is what a typical day of bulking meals looks like for me. If you want to pause and screenshot. All this means that I'm eating about 15% above my maintenance calories, and I'm aiming to gain around two pounds per month. Now, obviously, Brad shouldn't be bulking at 33% body fat. To get his best possible transformation, I should absolutely put him in a 5 to 20% caloric deficit and have him lose fat while building muscle. But I can't do that. If Brad's in a deficit while I'm in a surplus, that's an uncontrolled variable. And we need every variable to be the same, except our training experience. So unfortunately for Brad, he has to eat the same calories as me for science. And I didn't realize I ate so much fat. Every night it's like, I've run out of fat. But I got like 30 carbs left. So I just gotta drink a glass of orange juice. I've just been staring at this orange juice now for like 10 minutes. I really just don't want to drink it. I kind of just hate orange juice now. So every single day, we're tracking every calorie we eat. The weirdest thing has happened. I was having this dream about like work. I went out to lunch. I realized that I didn't track the calories or anything for the lunch that I just had. And it was like fast food too. There was like a bag of like Skittles or something that I was eating. And I was trying to like scan it with my phone while my coworker was like talking to me and stuff and getting angry. And then I dropped some and like it literally just like landed in like a pile of dirt. And I was like, oh, I don't have a scale. So like, how am I going to know how many grams of candy? I just lost all this stuff. So I guess I've started dreaming about counting calories now. It sounds like a lot of work, especially for someone new to tracking macros. But because we've been using my nutrition app Macro Factor, it's super easy. The app has a fast barcode scanner that quickly pulls up the macros and it has a multi-food plate logging to capture many foods at once. It only takes me about five to 10 minutes a day to get everything tracked. It's the app we're both using every day for the whole year. And if you'd like to try it out for yourself, I'll put a free two-week trial in the description box below. Just use code Jeff when you download the app and you'll get two weeks for free. Whether your goal is to build muscle, lose fat, or do both at the same time, the app will use advanced algorithms to scientifically guarantee that you reach your goal as long as you follow the plan. All you have to do is track what you eat and log your weight. That's it. Sleep is another big part of this experiment. Brad and I both wear an aura ring every night, aiming for eight to nine hours of sleep. And we're trying to go to sleep and wake up around the same time as well to set our circadian rhythm. New research shows that it's not just about the total sleep you get, your sleep-wake schedule also matters. Supplements are a small part of this, but here's the list of supplements that we're both taking if you want to pause and read. No steroids, obviously. Yet. Just kidding. I think. Okay, so this is our full plan and for the next five months we're just going to follow it. Drive it. Drive it. Go again. Get a big breath. Come on. Push it. Push it. Push it. Push it. Push it. Push it. Push it. I'm two months into the experiment and I'm doing a three-week writing retreat in Mexico with Steph. Wow. This is where I'm going to finish writing my first hard copy book. Travel always throws me off a bit for the first couple days, but once I found a really cool gym and a grocery store, I was able to walk in. And while there are more temptations and very delicious tacos and tequila down here, with a 3,000 calorie per day bulking budget, I was able to fit in a little Mexican delicacy without any issues. One of the beauties of bulking. After Mexico, one of the hardest things for me was balancing the training I needed to shoot for videos and balancing my own actual off-camera training. A few of the cheerless videos took me seven or eight hours to film with all those exercises, and then I'd still have to actually train after. But for this year, regardless of what I'm filming, I'm still getting all my workouts in. Yesterday I did a collab with Jesse James West. We filmed a few workouts for his channel. Normally I would count that as my workout, whereas yesterday, after we filmed for a couple hours, got a bite to eat and then did my workout even though like I really didn't want to. It's those little things, like those workouts that you want to skip but don't skip, it's the sets where you don't want to push yourself but you do it anyway. I think that those things can really add up and make a big difference, and that's something that I've definitely learned on this experiment so far. I did a light deload week in April. Not only is this a good idea regardless, but I was starting to get sick and my body was definitely overworking. I'm actually not feeling too well today, and so this is going to be the first day that I skip a workout that I have scheduled. Yeah, if I went to the gym today, I just know it would be a subpar workout, whereas if I rest today and then go tomorrow, I'll probably perform much better or hopefully anyway. So I just want to do a quick little update on that. After the deload, Brad, my dad and I, did a boys trip to Arizona. I hadn't seen Brad for a while, so it was great to link up and get in some good workouts together. Drive, drive, drive, drive. Come on, Brad. Come on. Come on. You can do it. That was great. That was good. My dad immediately commented on how much bigger I'm looking, and that's definitely true when I'm wearing clothes, but I think I'm actually looking softer and kind of smaller in my posing updates. Brad is definitely up in weight too, but the main thing I noticed is that he's so much stronger. It's kind of insane. He's actually getting close to using some of the weights that I'm using on back exercises. That's definitely his strong point. Today we went for a hike in Sedona, and I was starting to worry that maybe we were both gaining a bit too much weight. I decided to have a heart-to-heart check-in with Brad. The cardio is not quite there yet. What would you say is something that you're most surprised by so far? I'm noticing that my social anxiety is almost gone completely, and that was debilitating at times. Like you would go to a store and you just turn around in the parking lot and be like, yeah, not today. I'm not getting any help. But now I don't even find myself thinking about anything as I'm going up to a counter. Or if I'm approaching customer services, I'll just go ask for something now. Before, I was like, I'm figuring this out myself because I'm not getting any help. Let's see. This was a light bulb moment for me. This entire time, I've been so focused on the visual gains, I almost forgot about all the other life-changing benefits of lifting weights. I'm back from Arizona and it's time to buckle down before our six-month check-in. I've only got two months left before the end of my bulk, and at this point, I'm feeling more motivated than ever. I definitely have some size on. Brad's feeling motivated too. He's much more of a night owl than me, so he'll often train later at night, but he still hasn't skipped a single workout, even if it means going to the gym at 3 a.m. Going so late, the lights are off. Oh, there we go. Walking in and all the lights turning on. And just like that, the end of the bulk, and it's time to see how much muscle we put on and how much fat we put on. All right, dude. Ready for the six-month physique check-in? Yeah. Let's do it. Give me a flex. Give me a shoulder flex. Like, just kind of... I don't know. What do you want? So we both put on 15 pounds. How many of those pounds for you are lean out of the 15? I think three. Three pounds were lean. It's definitely more than that. At the end of the six-month bulk, Brad is up 13 pounds of lean mass, and his body fat percentage is down 1.2%. He went from 36.2% at the beginning to 35.0% now, and that's while eating 3,000 calories per day. It really goes to show the power of building muscle. I was a little confused at first, though, because when you look at his one-month data, it looks like he gained 12.7 pounds of lean mass in that first month, which means he only gained another 0.3 pounds of lean mass in the next five months. Probably not. Remember that lean mass includes muscle and water, and so I think a lot of Brad's initial gains were actually water gains from taking creatine for the first time and from getting rammed into a high-volume training program. Regardless, his six-month trend shows impressive body recomposition, being up 13 pounds of lean mass while being down 1.2% body fat. Okay, my turn. You get the results? Are they in? They're in. Ah! After six months of fully optimized training, and with more than 15 years of training already under my belt, I added 4.5 pounds of lean mass. The thing was, I also gained, ready for this, 11 pounds of fat. That's a bit much. It means my body fat went from 15% at the beginning to just over 20% now. I'm kind of excited to cut down and see how much muscle I retain. But let's put this in context. If we pretend this chicken breast is my lean mass, and this pile of lard is my fat mass, this is what I put on my body during the bulk. Again, not all my lean mass is pure muscle tissue, some of it is water. But yes, I did put on 4.5 pounds of lean mass. But I also put on this big pile of fat. So now, the real question is, what will happen if I lose all this extra fat? Will I keep this new muscle that I added, or will I lose that too? All right. Six months of that. So, for the recomp phase, we're dropping our calories down to 2,800 calories per day, which Macrofactor says is our new maintenance intake. And these will be our new macros to follow for the next three months. And again, our goal for this phase is to gain muscle and lose fat at the same time while maintaining our weight. A few weeks into the recomp phase, the first thing I notice is that my strength is basically hitting a plateau. It's not a big deal. I'm still pushing just as hard. I'm just not seeing my numbers go up every week like I was during the bulk. But I do feel like my physique is tightening up a bit. I definitely think when I cut down, I'm going to be a lot fuller, rounder, have better shape because I can notice the increase in muscularity now, even at a higher body fat. Once I trim the body fat out, I think it's actually going to be a pretty big, big deal of difference, honestly. I feel better about it than I expected to see. One month into the recomp phase, Brad and I went to Japan for three weeks. So, for this trip, also, I got a haircut. For this trip, we're going to do as much walking as possible because we're in recomp mode. So, we're not going to take the escalator. We're going to actually walk. We had an absolute blast, but the trip was our biggest challenge yet, especially diet-wise. I found it hard to get enough protein in and we both got a little more flexible with our diet than would have been truly optimal. Tuna. Oh, it's thorough. Can I try it? Oh, that was so good. Right? So good. We still got everything tracked and I don't think we got too far off, but we were a bit more lenient than usual and sushi was definitely the highlight. I've never had such delicious fish in my life. All right, it's our first workout in Japan. We're going to switch over to a full body split. Full body, three days a week and that'll just allow us to get in slightly more efficient workouts and not spend quite so much time in the gym so we can actually enjoy Japan. Tokyo was a gorgeous city, so clean and futuristic. We also got to see some incredible shrines and parks in Kyoto. Once we got back home, we switched back to the tried and true upper lower push-pull legs hybrid split, still taking the last set of every exercise to failure. Oh yeah, let's see this fifth one. Smoke it. Smoke it. Come down again. You got another one. I know you do. Go down one more time and I'm with you. Okay? I'm with you. Drive it, drive it, drive it, drive it, drive it. Yes, sir. Come on, dude. Come on. Good job, dude. Good job. Good job. Oh, God. Oh, it hurts so much. Oh, I don't know where to go. Oh, I was maintaining my weight at around 180 pounds and I felt like my physique was looking a bit sharper. The month of September flew by and it was time for our post-recomp check-in. Did I manage to gain muscle and lose fat at the same time or did I just spin my wheels for the last three months? Let's find out. Turns out I actually lost 0.8 pounds of lean mass since our last check-in. That's within the DEXA's margin of error, but it's still a bit disappointing. It's also kind of what I expected. At my level of advancement, I think you really need at least a slight caloric surplus to keep muscle growth moving. maintenance calories probably just won't cut it. I guess it's also possible that switching to the full body split and our time in Japan threw me off a bit, but I was still training super hard and I was still eating a high protein diet. So I really just think that maintenance calories wasn't enough to drive new growth for me, at least not within three months. On the upside, I did lose half a pound of fat. So my body fat percentage dropped ever so slightly. Brad's results were a bit better. He lost three and a half pounds of fat and this got his body fat percentage down to 33.8%. And that's despite not actually doing a fat loss phase yet. He did lose 0.7 pounds of lean mass since the last check-in, but that's also within the margin of error. And I suspect that if there was any loss, it's probably not actual muscle tissue, especially since he didn't lose any strength. You see, at every check-in, we've also been testing our muscle strength using this Biodex isokinetic dynamometer. Basically, you just press against this foot pad as hard as you can and the computer measures how hard you pushed. Since the beginning of the experiment, Brad's strength has trended up. My strength also trended up, but not by as much as Brad's. And at my last check-in, it was down a bit. So this time, I was determined to have my best strength test yet. I buckled myself into the machine and on command, I pressed as hard as I possibly could. I got a massive isokinetic dynamometer PR of 359.2 Newton meters. We always take three measurements though. So I buckled back in for round two. And I injured my knee, partially torn tendon. So that sucks. I'm leaving this recomp phase, not only having gained zero muscle in the last three months, but with a freshly injured knee. So I just finished up the first workout, basically the first rehab workout after I injured my knee. I'm basically using lighter weights with a really slow tempo for now. So I've been using a three second negative pause in the stretch, three second positive. That will keep some tension on the quads, but it just pales in comparison to the intensity and the load that I'd normally use. Not an ideal way to kick off the cut, but this is just a normal part of training. I think you could make the case that the more you try to optimize, the higher your risk of having a setback is as well. Even though in this case, I don't think it had anything to do with my training. I think it was just being fasted, not having anything to eat, and then having to go and do an all-out isometric strength test is probably not like the safest thing in the world. And we also, because of like time constraints and everything, didn't do any warm-up before that test. So like regardless, it is what it is. It happens. Could have been worse. My physiotherapist said it'd probably be at least a month or two of rehab, so I did my best to keep things optimistic and really just focus on getting all the excess fat off and finishing off this experiment as strong as I can given the circumstances. It's officially time to start the cut. Nice. I am tired of having extra weight on and I'm excited to get into something cleaner eating and just like not having to gorge myself every day. Yeah. For a cut, we're dropping down to 2,200 calories per day and bumping our protein up to 190 grams. It's actually really exciting to have a new goal and I'm pumped to see Brad finally start his weight loss journey. About a month into the cut, my motivation really started to ramp up. I had to train my quads with really light weights for a while, but my strength was starting to come back. I was also finally getting to see the gains that I'd made during the bulk and the fat was melting off. Since it worked so well during the bulk, we decided to keep going with the upper lower push-pull leg split, swapping out a few exercises but keeping the overall structure the same. For my own recovery, I started stopping about one rep shy of failure on compound lifts. That's just because I really didn't want an upper body injury to deal with too and with less calories, you do need to be a little more careful. I'm still pushing the last sets of all the isolation exercises to failure though. And with some good visual changes happening, we were both determined to hold on to as much of that muscle we build as humanly possible. At the one year mark, Brad and I aren't quite back to our starting body weight yet and I really need us to both get back to the weight we started the experiment at for the true test of net muscle gain. I don't want to rush things and crash diet either since I know that can accelerate muscle loss. I think I'm going to extend it until March under the assumption that we're both giving it 100%. If you're in, I'm in. Yeah man, 100%. So we locked back in for another two months and then it was time for the final check-in. I'm so excited for this to be done. It's been so long. It blew my mind that we both nailed the weigh-ins exactly to the decimal. I started this experiment at 164.6 pounds and I'm ending it just over one year later at exactly 164.6 pounds. The question is, am I carrying more muscle now? Let's start with Brad's final results. All right, Brad, any final words? Nope. After the cut, he has... 49. Wow, that's good. So he's up 4 kilos of lean mass. That means from the start of the experiment to now, he's up 10 pounds of lean mass and down, get this, 10 pounds of fat mass. That's incredible. And his final strength test was also his best ever. Perhaps even cooler though, his aura ring is now saying that his heart health has improved by about four years. Amazing stuff. Okay, and as for me... I just want fries. Chicken burger, fries, and just some really good tequila, bro. Okay, so from the beginning of the experiment to the end of the experiment, at the exact same body weight, I gained... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...  e So, the question we all want to know, am i going to use steroids? So, the question we all want to know, am i going to use steroids? I think i proved to myself that i can still make gains even 15 years deep if i really commit. I still do think it theoretically exists, at least on paper. If you could just keep building muscle indefinitely, anyone still lifting in their 70s or 80s would be the biggest bodybuilders alive. But I think I did show that you can kind of push your natural ceiling up with optimized training and diet. At the very least, I think I showed that's possible. So my next goal now is to get shredded, properly shredded, under 8% body fat. And Brad said he's going to keep going with the cut too. Actually, well, I was editing this video. He lost another 5 or 6 pounds, and this was his latest physique update that he just sent me. I want to get in my best shape ever this year. If you're looking to do the same, I'd recommend running my new upper-lower push-pull legs program for yourself. It's the same program we ran for this experiment, except it's written to be more individualized to you. So there's a beginner version and an intermediate to advanced version, and I give you two substitution options for every exercise and full instructions on how to swap exercises in and out. I'm calling it the Bodybuilding Transformation System because it really is more than just a program. There's video demos for every exercise, volume analytics, technique cues, and a full handbook explaining all the science behind the program. If you run this for the next six months, I guarantee you'll build muscle. If you don't, I'll give you a full refund, no questions asked. I truly believe this is the most effective program I've ever written, and I had a blast running it. You can pick up either the beginner version or the intermediate to advanced version on jeffnipper.com, and it's 25% off for launch week. If you're watching this video after launch week, I'll still go ahead and leave a discount code in the description box below so you can still save some money. Now, obviously, it's not enough to just dial your training in. Your diet is also super important. So you can download my nutrition app, Macrofactor, for two weeks for free, which is like having me as your own personal nutrition coach, but for a tiny fraction of the cost. Oh, and when it was all said and done, I did end up getting what I really wanted. I'll do six McNuggets with large fries, and then I'll also add a McCrispy. Mmm, bro. Mmm, very good. This is exactly what I wanted. Nice. Hey, what's up, man? Yo, what's up? Not much, man. Just barbecuing, relaxing. I'm so glad that we're done. Done? Bro, that was just the first part. Yeah, we've got a whole other experiment to do. Oh. Hey, I'll see you at the gym, bro. Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay.