Hello everyone and welcome back to another episode of the ice cream for Pierre's podcast. My name is Jeff Nippard and joining me this week I have Menow Henselman's on the line. How are you doing Menow? Great. You? Oh, I'm good man. Um, so thank you very much for uh coming on and and sharing all of your your knowledge with us. I've I've been pretty excited to talk to you now for a while. Um, so in case there's anyone listening who isn't familiar with Menow, uh, why don't you you go ahead and just tell us a little bit about who you are and your your training and academic background. Sure. Yeah. First, I'd like to say that I think it's awesome that uh you want to talk to me because um mostly when um uh we'll we'll talk about training frequency and we'll go into that, but uh you said that you had uh basically watched my videos and said, "Hey, that's some stuff that I had never uh heard before and I'd like to talk to you about that." And I think that's awesome because you see so many people in the industry, they they have their own little biased view, their dogma, you know, and regardless of whether it's right or wrong, they'll they'll never change it. Yeah. So, um yeah, I think it's great. Uh as for introducing myself, um just give me the I'll give you the the quick rundown. Yeah. Basically, I started as a business consultant specialized in advanced statistical data analysis. and I realized that that was the career path that was expected of me, but it wasn't really my passion. I'd always been passionate about sports. Um, doing basically every kind of sport that was available in my local community and that translated into starting strength training. I really like that and I I sort of stuck with that. And at some point uh I think the last sport I did was volleyball and the the team broke up for some reason and we were pretty um doing pretty intense strength training for that and I stuck with that and that basically uh led to my passion for fitness and strength training website writing for teen nation and now I have my own PT course um which is like certification institute for personal trainers uh research team where we're going to publish a lot of scientific papers and we'll published a few already. Um, I do online coaching. That's basically my my full-time gig and um still write a lot of articles for both my own websitebuilding.com and um various other websites and that's where I am now. Cool. Great man. Um, so where where are you from? Like where are you living right now? Because are you in Ecuador or Yeah. Yeah, a little bit. I'm now in Ecuador. By the time you post this, I will probably not be in Ecuador anymore, or at least not in the same city, right? I I grew up in the Netherlands. Um, studied in the United Kingdom, uh, and an international college in the Netherlands before that. Um, and now I just travel basically because my, um, my job, what I do, online coaching, writing papers, publishing articles, that kind of stuff, I can do all of that online. So, what I need is a good internet connection. And you would actually be surprised how how much of the world that excludes. But, um, all I need is good internet connection. So, right now I'm in Ecuador. I've lived in Bise, United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico, obviously the Netherlands, um, Uruguay, been to Argentina recently. Wow. Now living in Ecuador, and next up is Brazil. Wow. That's that's awesome, man. Um and I think your story is a really interesting one, one I can relate to because um yeah, I had a career change myself. I was uh on a path to to be a dentist. Um so I was accepted into dental school right out of the gate and uh decided similarly to you that I wanted to pursue what I was really passionate about. So um I switched switched gears and I guess we're doing uh similar things, but um my academic background I think might not be quite as intricate as yours. Um so so you have a a master's is that related to exercise science and physiology or is it a different field? Not at all. U basically my bachelor is in social sciences. Okay. Um you could say it's economics and statistics. I went to the um the international honors college of Utre University and that's a liberal arts and sciences program. So you sort of create your own curriculum. uh but I focused on economics and statistics um and some behavioral psychology. Then I went to the University of Warwick uh in the United Kingdom and there I did um basically behavioral science um behavioral economics the field is technically called you can think of that as a combination between statistics, economics and behavioral psychology as well. And the reason I have the statistics background that I have is that our teachers were um well basically aware of the fact that people that study behavioral economics only end up either in academia or um unemployed. So uh my background was really really scienceoriented and very heavy on statistics and scientific methodology and I'm really really thankful for that because um well now I can actually use it and apply it to exercise science and nutrition. So, I'm I'm not um I don't have any regrets at all that I didn't study nutrition or anything because uh most nutrition and exercise science institutes, you know, they they're not they're just not that good. Yeah. So, yeah, you know, Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Har Harvard doesn't teach exercise science. Interesting. Fortunately, yeah. Um no, I think that that's great and I would definitely view you as one of the statistic wizards within the within the niche of a niche that we have here. So, um, yeah, I'm sure that that's benefited your career greatly. Um, y so men, let's let's dive right into the training frequency stuff. Uh, so we might disagree a little bit here, but, um, hopefully we can find some common ground so we can have a good conversation. Um, so how often should we train a given muscle group? Right. The I'd say that primarily depends on how advanced you are. If you are a beginner, then most research shows that there is actually no benefit to training a muscle group more than once a week, provided that training volume across the week is equated between groups. So, uh your traditional what I call a bro split basically hitting each body part once a week that works very well for beginners. But as you get more advanced, the uh the anabolic window basically, which is the uh the period, the time course that you can elevate muscle protein balance further than if you were uh sedentary. So your body basically allows a higher ceiling of muscle protein synthesis, which allows you to build new muscle. And that period basically decreases as you get more advanced. uh the more uh the closer you approach your genetic limitations uh the more narrow the window of adaptation becomes. So you can get around that a little bit by increasing volume or intensity but uh what research shows is that it is very unlikely to make up fully for um sticking to a training frequency of once a week and more advanced lifters. Right. Um I've actually heard the I mean I don't know if you're familiar with um uh Ripto's work uh practical programming and uh start Yeah. Yeah. So um I feel as though he he says that the strength recovery adaptation cycle for a beginner would actually be much shorter. Um, so he makes the exactly the opposite argument that beginners should, you know, hit the big three Monday and then again on Wednesday and then again on Friday, uh, kind of thing as long as they can take advantage of that kind of linear uh, progression. Um, what what what would you have to say to someone who would say that? I'm not I'm not sure I I actually disagree with you, but that would be if I were to play devil's advocate here. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's a really good question. Um, basically, uh, while I greatly admire Ripto and his work, uh, he's not a very science-based guy, self-proclaimed non-science-based guy. So, um, you know, logically it would be plausible what he says, but research simply shows that it isn't true. So, the repeated bout effect, for example, in particular, is very well documented and it shows that um, as you get more advanced, you get used to certain exercises, then you recover faster from them. And mostly it's not even that your rate of recovery is that different, but the damage you do is greatly reduced. So you you simply don't inflict the same amount of muscle damage as a beginner does who is clumsier and basically is still very good at damaging his own body or her own body very significantly. As you get more advanced, you go very resistant to muscle damage. Um the body also regulates its own fatigue, what people call central fatigue, which is uh it exists, but it it's kind of um um it's often taken out of context and your body regulates that quite well and what you see in research to Rastat for example, I think it's a Norwegian, pretty sure he's Norwegian researcher, he's probably the world's most renowned expert on uh the recovery process after strength training and he has done a ton of research on it which shows that the more advanced you get given the same kind of training, the quicker you recover from it. Yeah, indeed. Um, so how about we assume that most people are listening are probably at least intermediate uh or advanced for the rest of the the course of the discussion. Um, so for an advanced level lifter about how many times are you looking at hitting a given muscle group per week? I think the consensus in evidence-based fitness is about twice a week. I would say that well intermediate is a broad realm but I would more towards free or even more frequent sessions than that uh for most intermediate lifters because uh we have quite a lot of study I think we have three good studies that show the superiority of three sessions for a body part versus one. So it's the same total training frequency same total training volume but the frequency per muscle group is three versus one. I think we have three studies on that. And when you go up to higher ranges then um the literature becomes more scarce. But we have a few really cool ones. I think there was um a military study or a study on military personnel. I think HKA is the main offer. And he compared three versus nine sessions. And the nine session group it didn't reach statistical significance but they had a lot of uh they basically on every measure uh it was a combined training program aerobic and anorobic I think they had uh the difference was that the nine session group lost fat and actually gained some muscle mass and the reverse was basically true for the free session group. Um more relevantly is the Norwegian frequency project which is one of the most awesome studies out there. They basically took the Norwegian National Powerlifting Team, which is a really, really strong force in the powerlifting world, and they put them on the exact same program. The only difference was that the uh high frequency group did six sessions for each body part, and the low frequency group did three sessions. So, that's three versus six, which is really on the higher end of what most people would already recommend. And there were pretty clear benefits um for the six day group. And basically, you saw that the three-day group made the progress that you'd expect from elite level powerlifters, which is very little. Yeah. And the six day group made made really good progress. Many lifter saw like 20% increases in strength over the course of that study, which was eight or 12 weeks, I think. And they originally didn't want to publish that because they wanted to keep it a secret because it's and especially at the time it was quite revolutionary. Uh but it it sort of went viral and now they're now I know that they are trying to get it published. Yeah. Or it's actually on already under review based on the last thing I heard. Uh because most people already heard of it, right? Um so yeah, that that's one that I that I haven't read, but I'd be curious to hear more about. Um so have you do you have access to the paper personally or has it been kind of through the grapevine that you've heard about it? Uh, I have pretty good contacts in Norway. Okay. I figured. Yeah. Yeah. That's why I contacted you. Yeah. I've seen the actual programs. Yeah. And the Norwegians used a percentage system. So, they actually specify with very elaborate periodization models. You are going to do um, you know, box squats at 70% of your max. First set you're going to do five reps. Second set you're going to do eight reps. Then you're going to do uh, three reps at 80%. for example, they specify all of that exactly. So training volume was exactly the same between groups. Only difference was that the frequency per bodybu was three versus six sessions. Yeah. Um I don't know if you would have access to this information, but how important would the role of uh drugs be in in this? So if they're if they're using, you know, performance-enhancing drugs, then it might seem more plausible that the six times per week group would have superior results. Yeah, that's a really good question. I think there is no literature on the effect of androgen androgenic anabolic steroids on the optimal training frequency. You could actually argue it either way. On the one hand, drugs increase your work capacity, making you capable of tolerating a higher frequency, which might then be able to elicit further gains. On the other hand, um they basically increase the distance from your genetic limitations. So, an advanced individual that starts taking drugs is now really no longer an advanced individual because relative to that person's genetic uh limitations, these have now shifted. So that person is now actually an intermediate which would argue the opposite that your optimal training frequency needs to decrease. And that's also what you actually uh see as a trend in uh more professional um bodybuilders in Arnold's era and especially before that really before the steroid era almost all the top bodybuilders did full body programs with quite high frequencies like free training each body part three times a week was very common up until about Arnold and it was Arnold's period that this shifted and drug use became a lot more prevalent and now once training each body or once a week is more common. And you have guys like Big Remy that say that they don't need to uh they don't train certain body parts more than once every two weeks otherwise they get too big. That's what we call a luxury problem. But here um more relevantly here about the frequency project is that if there is one powerlifting team in the world where I believe that the natural powerlifting team is really natural is Norway. These guys are really really anti-drug and they made a huge shift. I think up until five maybe 10 years ago performance analysis drugs were actually legal in Norway. Um that changed and there were a lot of lawsuits and um the government began a really radical um policy and propaganda against drugs and I can see the effects both in Norway and in my clients. I actually have a question in my intake form for every client where I ask are you going to use any drugs? Because I take I take on clients that use drugs. I think that's a decision that every person should be able to make for him or herself. H that's not up to me as a coach. I'm just going to ask them if they are going to use it and then I will take this into account. But in Norway, most people just say no. Um, a lot of people say, "What are pets?" Because I just I just say pets. I don't want to attract too much attention to it for people that don't know, you know. Um, so a lot of people say, you know, what what are pets? Uh, the Norwegians pretty much without exception, they say something like never have, never will. So they nobody just says no. They're they're really violently against right drug use. A lot of lawsuits. They test people in the middle of the night. Like they actually they knock on your door in the middle of the night and like you're in test now or you're disqualified. They're really really strict on it. So I I really think that these guys are actually natural. Right. Well, that's good to hear. I mean um yeah, I think that that uh increases the um weight, I guess I would put in that that study in that case. Um I think when the when the full text is published they will um probably say what kind of um testing they did right. Yeah. Interesting. Um the next comment I would have on that would be uh how well do you think the measures or or the outcomes in terms of strength would correlate with hypertrophy outcomes or did they measure hypertrophy outcomes? Yeah, they also measured hypertrophy. I think um they measured the fastest lot so the quads basically um I think it's didn't reach statistical significance but the p value was 06 I think which is 1% away from significance and almost everyone yeah but almost everyone would call it like a strong trend yeah right okay yeah and you see in the data I think um Berg Fagerly Norwegian strength coach a really great guy to about um he wrote an article I think um reignite your sc reignite your progress with new science or something on elite fds and there he shows the actual uh data plots from the Norwegian frequency project if they're still there because I know some sites published it and they had it take they had the data taken away oh I see okay but I think it's still on the lead maybe maybe I'll get you to send that one to me after and I can link it in the description or in the show notes or whatever for people to go and Um, so let's talk about the effect of volume on frequency because one of the arguments that I typically hear uh for increasing frequency is that it allows for you to squeeze in a greater amount of volume throughout the training week. Um, yeah. So, I mean, that's that's kind of straightforward. I think everyone would probably agree that if you can increase the weekly volume, then that's going to have positive effects on hypertrophy, right? Yeah. Up to a point, of course. Up to a point. Yeah. Um, so let's just say then we equate the weekly training volume. Are you still convinced that there's some volume independent effect of increasing frequency on hypertrophy, especially in say let's just let's just assume it's just advanced trainees. Yeah, definitely. Because um I think literally I'm pretty sure every study that's been done um on training frequency and advanced lifters equated training volume between groups. And as you say, in practice that is never the case because if you normally do incline bench press, decline bench press, normal bench press and flies on the same day and in a higher frequency setup you split all that out over the group or over the week, then you'll find that on every exercise other than the first basically you'll be stronger if you do a higher training frequency. So even given the same number of sets, given the same exercises, uh your total volume will be higher because you are less fatigued every time you are doing your chest exercises. Right. Right. Right. So I think that's actually um that's why the literature understates uh the benefits of higher training frequencies. Um but it is true that a lot of people uh when they hear for example that some of my advanced clients they train each body part once a day even. So it's a daily they hit each party every day and then what they do is first of all they are not advanced and second of all they basically take their program and just increase the number of training days with the same volume and then they get injured or uh they just severely overdo it on training volume and then they're like you know this is not doable you know this is inhuman you want so it's it's it's quite important to still take weekly training volume uh into account you don't want increase the frequency and the volume in the same uh proportion because then you'll greatly overdo it on the volume. Right. Right. Um I guess to that point I I would I would have to say like I've I've seen it in myself and in some other people that it kind of takes a while to get going. So just running with your example, say you did flat bench press for three or four sets, incline dumbbell press or whatever it was for three or four sets, and then flies for three or four sets. Um, if I were to just come in and just do flies, like I I would just almost feel like in that specific session, I wouldn't be I wouldn't be warmed up enough or I wouldn't feel enough stimulation to feel as though I had, you know, sufficiently stimulated the muscle. Um, so I would have to bring up where is that balance between per volume or per session training volume and then total weekly training volume? Because like if you just imagine say doing a straight five by five on squats, splitting that up into five separate days where you just do one set of five is going to generate a different amount of fatigue and and sort of type of stimulation than doing all five in one day. So like there has to be some some balance between that, right? Yeah. That's um that's funny because a few years ago uh basically Burger Fagerly the guy just um talked to you about he basically convinced me of the benefits of higher training frequencies based on what he saw in his clients. Uh and then I started doing this. Before that I actually uh had the exact same position as you have that you know there there needs to be some kind of minimal uh training stimulus per session. Yeah. Um but that that minimal uh volume seems to be quite low. It's probably um if if you look at the research you can actually even in trained lifters with just 30% of your max you can already very significantly increase muscle protein synthesis rates. So you can basically open that anabolic window the adaptation progress you can start it with just one hard set at 30%. So it appears that the body is actually quite sensitive to um the stress of resistance training and it it doesn't have this um this threshold that you may expect that becomes very resistant to uh you know building more muscle mass. It's actually it's quite adaptive. Muscle tissue is um as researchers call it it's very plastic compared to say bone which can adapt actually but not nearly as much as muscle tissue. Right. Um, and as for the the warming up, um, I think that's mainly something you you just have to get used to. If you do multiple exercises for the same body part, um, you indeed you get like the the tendency to use the exercises, especially if you use something like a pyramiding scheme. The exercises themselves are your warm-up, but um, you'll need to do more actual warming up if you do something like full body training. So, uh, but you will notice that after something like Romanian deadlifts, a few sets, you will be warmed up. So, your chest may not be super warm, but you do one set at 70% or something, then you'll probably already reach max performance levels. I think there was actually a Brazilian study not too long ago that showed that for the bench press at 70% an allout set uh there was actually no effect of warming up. So it may you know it may decrease your risk of injury or something like that but performance was actually the same. Um so it suggesting that it's warming up is mostly just the feeling. The major caveat I would add is that that research was done in Brazil and I have lived in Mexico and Bise and by the time I arrive in the gym there I am already soaking wet. Yeah. So you know that's quite a difference from when I'm training in Norway and I need to wear a sweater to the gym and I need to keep my sweater on the first 20 minutes before I actually start sweating. Right. So that's very important to take into account there. Yeah. Um, so to that point, which I I I of course think is a good one. Um, I I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on say preferentially placing the majority or the bulk of the training volume, say your chest and deltraining volume on one day where you go in and you get to get take advantage of those, you know, we'll call them like warm up sets or exercises or whatever and then take advantage of the increased per session volume. And then on the other day, say a back day or a leg day or whatever, you throw in this 30% minimal threshold that you talked about so that you can take advantage of some increased frequency while still getting, you know, a pretty good hit of per session volume in earlier in the week. So that's actually the way I I've structured my current training program. Um, so I'll have one day where I do uh chest and shoulders and then another day where I do arms, but on top of the arm work, I also throw in close grip bench press. Um, and people who have kind of said, well, eh, close grip bench press like that that's not really going to be enough chest and delt work to really, you know, stimulate much of anything. Um, and it sounds like based on what you just said, it that might actually be sufficient. Um, but then I then again I guess you would probably say rather than chunk it all on one day, you should space that out across four or three or four or five sessions instead. I think that that setup could work very well and I um always with frequency and volume you are looking at a range usually. So um for training frequency uh like in the untrained individuals I mean there's no uh there doesn't at least seem to be any downside uh although I wouldn't recommend it to training each body part every day as a beginner even um at least not in the research as I say I wouldn't recommend it but um I think that if you have a setup like what you said which is more of um one big bonus volume um followed by multiple pulses of lower volume compared to equating that volume over more evenly distributed pulses over the week, you could definitely get the same kind of effects. And I think that the research I mentioned, Tulsat and a few others that um done a lot of research on blood flow restriction training, they use a similar kind of approach. Um basically they use the blood flow restriction training which does very little muscle damage and causes relatively little fatigue compared to high-intensity strength training. they use that kind of training um over other sessions to basically supplement um a more traditional type program resulting in still a very high training frequency. That sounds like uh basically what you're saying and they have good results with that. I think you get you could get the same kind of result uh as um distributing it more equally. Cool. Um, I'm super curious and you don't have to go into the details here if you don't want to if you're like the the Norwegians and you don't want to share your secrets, but um, how would you structure? So, you mentioned a five day a week training or or maybe seven day a week, I don't know, uh, training program where you're you have your advanced athletes hitting a a given muscle group every single day. Um, how would that work? Like would you start with say squats or a leg movement on one day and then the next day you would start with a back and then the next day you would start with a chest or something like that or would it just be the same the same exact routine every day? Uh or would it just be one exercise per body part? Just maybe give us a little bit of detail as to how you would organize that because I would imagine uh some of our listeners might want to try that out. Sure. Yeah. Um, I'll take this back to the intermediate lifter because as you said, most of the audience probably falls into that category. Yeah. A setup I really like there is having which is actually kind of similar to what you just described having one kind really heavier day which or at least a lot more fatiguing day followed by a lighter kind of day followed by an off day which would mean that the frequency is um two out of three days for each body part. And how that looks would for it depends on the type of setup you're doing, but you'd for example have heavy bench presses, kind of strength oriented, lower reps uh on day A and on day B you have, for example, um something like more high repetition flies and day C is rest day for chest. So on day C you are working um hamstrings and back for example doing Romania that lifts heavy which and on day D you would have for example leg curls higher volume etc etc. So that for each muscle group it shifts over the whole week in that two out of three day setup. So that's that's an example how of how that could look right. Um, and then in more highly advanced guys, I think you said you might bump it up even more or is that as high as you tend to go? No, it definitely then I think um there's one study on female athletes like highly advanced lifters uh showing benefits of even twice a day training compared to once a day. And I think there's one more study um showing some benefits of twice a day training compared to one session a day. Not sure. Um just like yeah on my girlfriend um what was I saying? Training frequency. Oh yes in advanced lifters. Yeah. So the advanced how it would look. If someone is more advanced you would have a setup where you're basically doing full body every day assuming seven day seven training sessions a week every body part once a week. That's a setup that can work well for advanced trainees. What I originally tried doing here is just increasing the frequency so that you'd have for example only an A and a B session like typical full full body kind of setup and you just rotate it really really fast. And I found that works great for people with muscle memory uh people on steroids but that is a surefire way to completely blow out your recovery rates and get injured for many people. So usually what you end up doing is having a lot more variety for the advanced trainees. So you'd have three or four different days is what probably what I'd mostly use and each day is a completely different kind of day and but they are all technically full body sessions, right? So and within those days like in the example of the intermediate you might have bench press and fly rest and the advanced uh trainee might have dumbbell bench press, bench press, push-ups, flies and you then also alternate rep targets. You might have more exercise variety. So you get a lot more variety for the advanced traininee. Um but the the frequency per body part is daily, right? So you're looking at about one exercise per body part per day. Yeah. About one or two is usually as high as uh you want to go because um well first of all just session length will be a constraint. Yeah. And uh total weekly training volume will go up really really fast. Right. Um, and then sets per exercise you're looking at one, two, three, four. Yeah, it varies from it varies dramatically, I'd say, because optimal training volume uh varies dramatically. Uh, females um can generally tolerate much more also a higher training frequency. Um, I have an article on that. Probably don't want to get into too much detail now. I think it's called nine reasons women should not train like men. Yes. On my blog. Um but yeah, I think I'd say it varies between all the way between one and something like eight sets I think on um the highest I've gone is with uh Nina Ross uh that got her IFBB Pro card on that program. Uh and she did eight sets per muscle group per day divided over two sessions. So she trained twice a day with volume of eight sets per day every day for each muscle group. Wow. uh she has like the perfect um profile for that because she has good genetics. Uh she's a woman. She has like a very low stress life. She's very chill out person. Um and you know it's her job to do this. So she can devote all her time to it. She can sleep well every day. Uh her nutrition is dialed in. She has sponsors uh that basically make her meals and that kind of stuff. So she's living the life. Yeah. Um, yeah, that's really really interesting, man. Thank you for uh sharing that. Um, so I'd like to come back around to the research quickly and uh have you comment on what I've been calling the novelty effect that we see in in training frequency studies. Um, so for anyone who's not familiar with that, essentially most people just run bro splits or or body part splits. Um there was a survey done and I I think some ridiculous percentage of bodybuilders um were doing bro splits. It might have actually even been a 100% in the survey. Um so when you do these studies uh people are typically running bro splits at the beginning of the study. Then you split them up into two groups where you have one group run say an upper lower or what a full body or whatever it might be and then you have the other group continue running something that they've kind of already been running or at least something very similar to it. Um, so I think the case could be made that maybe it's not the frequency per se that's causing the the better adaptations in the upper lower group or the full body group, but the fact that they're doing something that's novel, something new that they haven't done before. Um, so what would you have to say about about that? Um I think that will definitely occur uh for strength because um basically when you are adapting to strength training um the adaptation of strength is the sum of morphological usually just muscle hypertrophy and neurological adaptations basically your nervous system learning how to control your body to perform that given movement. And what you see is that the um adaptations of muscle hypertrophy are somewhat linear over time over your whole training career and of course diminishing as you get more advanced but within a a certain program which is like a few weeks they are roughly linear. Neural adaptations however are not linear at all. They are very exponentially diminishing. You could model them with logarithmic kind of curve. So they rise very quickly and then they quickly diminish as your nervous system is even more plastic than muscle tissue. So and this is I think also how many coaches actually fake progress in their clients. They basically just change everything up like every four weeks or so and then they are always making great progress because they are always a newbie at what they are doing. So it seems as if they are always making great progress and a lot of trainees also basically suffer from this. they re-evaluate their progress in a in a year, look at the mirror, um you know, take progress photos, and they see I haven't really made any progress at all. And you know, I I've been there uh years on end as an intermediate before I figured out basically how to get to more advanced level. Um but there are basically two things in the research um two phenomena that describe the novelty effect. These are muscle confusion, which I actually call muscle confusion confusion because um the idea is that you should change things up completely every some some people even say every session um uh to prevent the body from adapting. But the whole point of a training session is that you get the body to adapt. Adaptation is the goal because muscle hypertrophy is the adaptation. Yeah. Assuming you're a bodybuilder. Yeah. So um that that just is just based on an eronomous interpretation of the whole adaptation process. The other thing um which is a lot more scientific is basically block periodization that you'd have for example high frequency training block followed by a lower training frequency block. However, if you look at the literature block periodization actually does not have a great track record at all. It's um quite suitable for athletes especially mixed athletes when you have to combine strength, power, endurance and just overall mass training. So when you are balancing um all these different kind of adaptations then there might be a lot of merit to block periodization. I'm not an expert on that. I wouldn't um be able to tell you uh if I would train an athlete like that because I don't train mixed athletes other than just get them jacked and have their other coach do uh the sport specific training. Yeah. Um but what most research shows is that uh block periodization does not fare better than just a completely continuous program and a recent study actually showed that underllaying periodization was superior to block periodization in uh for both strength and muscle hypertrophy. I think So um and I also see this in my own clients like many uh of my clients that are with me for months or like even two years. It's it's very rare that someone stays with me for more than two full years. Um probably just because of the financial constraints. Um and I see that progress is quite linear over time. You see that you know you see the diminishing effect of uh what you'd expect in an advanced trainee. But um I think one of the central tenets of my kind of programs is that it's more of a system that adapts specifically based on your progress than you know what um than block priorization for example where you'd have completely different kind of program every four weeks or at some other completely arbitrary time interval. And I I don't see this at all basically um any benefits of changing up the program because some clients just want it. Uh they say you know I'm just really bored with this program. I just need something new psychologically. I'm like, yeah, okay, cool. Um, and I don't see better progress there at all. And I also don't see it um in, you know, depending on the type of background someone has, for example, because I got clients like they come from traditional bo pro bodybuilding backgrounds from the functional crowd and I have uh quite a big audience since I'm speaking at Paleo FX from that kind of crowd like the low carb more functional training and crossfit crowd. I think the kind of training that you were doing before has actually very little impact on what's optimal. What matters is basically primarily how advanced you are in relation to your um genetic capacity and that determines the optimal program parameters like volume, frequency, intensity, all that stuff. Um so yeah, I'll touch on a couple things that you said there. Um, so in terms of block periodization, like this is something that I have uh read on quite extensively and have implemented with with some of my athletes and that's because um well I'm a a a powerlifter and a bodybuilder so I tend to compete in powerlifting my offseason. So I guess you could call that a mixed athlete um of sorts. So I think yeah a little bit right. Um yeah. Are are you being sarcastic or it is actually like not? No, I know. It's um I'd say that they're um not nearly as dissimilar as most people uh would have you believe that there's, you know, strength strength and size are like these completely different things. And you know, powerlifterss are these really scrawny guys. They're just fat and they're really strong, but they don't have a lot of muscle mass at all. And bodybuilders are like huge injected and they're they're really frail and weak. Actually, I think that's that's complete baloney. So um up until the the steroid era basically you'd actually saw that all the the bodybuilders were powerlifterss and yeah vice versa and um also in research you see like enormously high correlations actually I have an article right now on paleo effects that just came out today I think um where I basically make the claim that uh indeed powerlifters should train a lot more like bodybuilders and I think rack knuckles which is was a really uh elite level powerlifter, also very evidence-based guy. Um, basically also says that. So, those are things you can check out on that. But we're going off topic. What were you saying? I agree. Um, I think that a powerlifter in his or her offseason should should train more like more like a bodybuilder with more exercise variation, more rep range variation, and so on. Uh, lower intensities perhaps. Um, but I think that leading into a competition, it's important to acclimate yourself to heavier loads and so on. So, I mean, I don't know if strictly speaking it would qualify as block periodization, but I'll have blocks where I'll focus on peing for a specific powerlifting event and then blocks where I'm training more in a bodybuilding style with say, you know, somewhat of a powerlifting focus, at least the big three are in there at more higher frequencies. Um, and then other blocks when I'm say in the offseason of both where I'm just, you know, doing something like I would have done for the last couple of months, which was kind of like a modification on a body part split or a bro split. Um, so in that sense, I think block periodization uh would be beneficial. Um, yeah, for sure. But I think that for a maybe a perhaps a strict bodybuilder, I I actually wouldn't be surprised at all if a just straight linear approach didn't have, you know, the same or greater benefit than a block periodized approach. Um, which I think is what you were saying. Yeah. Basically, and you know, I do the exact same thing you do when it comes to powerlifting. Also got some powerlifting clients and what you described is basically exactly what I do. Uh the more you the closer you get to your competition, the more specific the train becomes for the competition. Yeah. Yeah. Um and then uh I guess I feel as though I put more weight on the psychological effects than than maybe you do. Um I kind of take my client's word at face value and they say they're bored with the program and uh I send them a new one rather than keep them on the on the same same split. And I find the same thing for myself, you know, like I've been training for 10 years and I'll still if I if I stay with the exact same routine for longer than I don't know 3 or 4 months, then I'm ready to switch something up. And I and I do think that this is, you know, supported by by the research on periodization. Um I'm not sure uh there was a there was a video that Greg Knuckles, you just mentioned him, he put out at around the same time that I put out uh my video sort of defending uh bro splits or whatever. Um, and yeah, he ref he referenced a paper there by a guy named John Kylie and it kind of it's just a review of all of the papers that we have on on periodization and he sort of notes that one of the common themes amongst those studies is that uh changing up the training stimulus in some fashion tends to lead to new or at least stronger adaptations. Um, so I I mean I think that the case can be made for having periodic alterations in the training frequencies. Um, I would think that once a week is like pushing it a little far. Like I think we have pretty conclusive evidence that at least hitting everything I mean at the worst hitting everything in the way that I described earlier where you have say most of the volume bolstist in one workout and then one more workout where say you do one exercise or something would be the lowest end of the range. But then say you periodize in another couple of months of training where you're doing something more similar to what you described say four or five times a week hitting a body part. I just feel as though if not from a physiological standpoint then at least from a psychological standpoint that would be uh more beneficial than just continuously running the four to five uh times per week training frequency. Yeah. Sure. I I would note that I'm not saying you shouldn't change program at all. You definitely should. Um it should change systematically as you get more advanced. Um for example, increasing the training frequency, increasing volume. Uh and it should also change based on your progress. I mean if you are at some point you will get stuck on any kind of program you do otherwise you know you everyone could get jacked just being consistent. Yeah. Doesn't work like that. Uh and then it needs to change definitely when when you are doing a program that isn't working the program needs to change like period. There is just no uh logical debate. Yeah. uh plausible about that. Yeah. So yeah, there should be changes. Um specifically what I'm saying with block periodization is the idea that you know every four weeks the whole program is completely revamped. Yeah. So my programs usually um it's uh it's the little things that I'm changing. For example, um someone's chest may be stagnating. Then I'm not changing what they're doing for the legs. Yeah. So you might um you might also see that in the same individual their legs might still be on a very lower training frequency but their chest is already a lot more advanced. They've been training chest and biceps you know mirror muscles for two years longer than their legs and then um their bench press program for example if they're part of will be a lot different than what they're doing for their squat and you'd also see more variety there etc. So yeah there should definitely be changes. Yeah. Um for just not just for psychological but also for physiological reasons. Yeah. Yeah. Psych psychology is um a separate thing and when when someone know client says that they're bored with it um then definitely I think you as a coach you should change things up. Um I am more um conservative though. I generally steer people towards being consistent and just, you know, sticking with what works, not trying to change things up just for the sake of changing things up. Really hammer down the value of routine and consistency, making, you know, long-term progress until they really say like, you know, I'm I'm really bored with this now and then change it up or you change up what they are bored with. For example, some some people just don't like a certain exercise. You change it. Yeah. But no reason to change up all the other stuff in the program. Yeah, I I think I I can agree with that for sure. Um so yeah, like you mentioned stalls there. Um so when progress does stall, you say you have to change something up. So let's say you're already training everything five times a week. Um at that point, what what do you change up the exercises? Do you increase the per session volume? Or do you think it would be a good idea to maybe draw back on the frequency a little bit for AI don't know a month or two and then bump it back up again? Yeah, I want to change the the frequency. Um frequency probably stays the same or it goes up unless something like in their lifestyle changes for example if they get a new job which is more stressful which impairs recovery capacity then their optimal frequency might go down. But barring something like that, um I wouldn't um use a decreased frequency as a means to break the plateau. I'd use um for example more training volume um more variety in the exercise selection, more complex periodization model like triple unulation periodization compared to what they were doing before or just different exercises all together. if I think that the the program is still solid and just it's this exercise specifically that they are just um you know they've basically maxed out on it sometimes literally if it's the machine that cannot carry more weight and uh but yeah I wouldn't use frequency as a means to break a toe okay good or at least not a reduced frequency right right so so I guess like that that's probably our our fundamental disagreement here because I think that in my case that's that is exactly what I would do because I think there would come a point where you just can't increase the per session training volume uh anymore. And I mean you can switch up the exercises too. I mean especially the assistance exercises like I think it's good to have a core of main movements that you kind of stick to always for the most part. Um and then the others you can kind of swap in and out uh according to preferences or timing or whatever. Um but yeah, no that I think that once you reach a a certain cap of of per session training volume where you can no longer recover in a day or two, uh then I think the best thing to do would be to reduce the training frequency and then increase the the per session uh training volume. Um but yeah, it's it's probably a not AI don't know. I don't want to say significant disagreement, but maybe I mean I can understand perhaps you value the the research or the the the the data that we have on frequency maybe a little more than I do. Uh but I I I think that you know the we've seen in the frequency literature that the novelty factor or when you do increase frequency that shows a positive effect. So, it would make sense if you're already maxed out at in terms of frequency, then it would make sense to reduce it for a little while, increase the per session training volume, increase the frequency again, keep getting more gains, right? Yeah. Yeah. I I'd say that uh when you've really reached that point, which is like years of training. Yeah. Um you you're you're basically maxed out on frequency and training volume as an at that point hopefully a very elite level trainee. Um then I'd say realistically uh and I think I'm there too. Um realistically where you're at is just your genetic limitations and then nothing you do is actually going to get you a lot more jacked. Yeah. So um except except gear. Yeah. So exactly. So I think then then you are just all the changes you make at that point are um fine-tuning the nervous system. And I'm actually not entirely convinced that there is such a thing as a natty max because we don't know if if it's like a hard limit or if gains just slow down very very very significantly because um I've I think it was yeah last year I documented my progress in the most meticulous manner I've ever done with weight and everything and I was really sure to have like the exact same life circumstances for two weeks, exact same diet, everything. And I concluded that that year I gained one pound of muscle. And I was like that's I was actually quite glad with that because um you know I was still making progress based on the absolute best post most meticulous measurement I could make. I made progress that year and for me now any progress really is I I'm happy with that. Well, I think since 2012, I competed in the Canadian Nationals, drug test at nationals, and since then, every year I've been exactly the same stage weight, which which is a little bit depressing. I do think my look has gotten a little bit better. Like, it looks a little bit harder, more mature, but in terms of actual muscularity, it's just been diminishing, diminishing, diminishing returns. Um, but that's that's the reality as a natural bodybuilder. Um, I don't think that that's any reason to be fatalistic about your programming or training though. Like, ah, I'm here. I might as well just not even do anything. Like, I might as well just, you know, maintain at this point. I mean, I think that results can be made, like you said. I mean, even one pound in a year sounds like not much, but one pound of muscle on stage is, you know, it's a good chunk of meat. Like, it could it could make a difference uh in your physique. So, um yeah, if I'm five pounds heavier in five years, I'll be ecstatic. Yeah. Oh, me too. for sure. Um I'm curious, man. How long have you been training? About four 14 years. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, a little longer than myself. So, yeah, that sounds about right. And then the other question I would have is throughout the course of that year, were you eating in a very small surplus or uh how how did your diet look throughout that year? that that year I basically did like one really long bulk period followed by one really long cut period. Uh kind of traditional bodybuilding type uh programming. Did you say a long bulk followed by a short cut or the the cut was shorter than the bulk but it was still I think it was something like uh eight months bulk four months cut something like that. Okay. All right. Cool. Okay. Okay. And then and then at the end of the four month cut or whatever it was, you measured uh your muscle mass and it was one pound more than at the beginning. And was there any difference in in fat mass or like where you Yeah, basically I use I used the tape caliber measurements um scale um basically two weeks at my absolute best estimate of maintenance calories. Uh calculated the twoe average. even measured all my my gym clothing um in weight. I used the gym weight and morning faster weight and average average everything out and then it was one pound difference at the exact same caliber measurements across like seven sites. Oh wow, cool. That's that's really interesting. Um I should run an experiment like that on myself. So yeah. Uh so I I don't know. we can blast through this really quickly and then we can touch on uh the whole nutrient timing thing which I know is another thing that you're you're pretty big on. Um so yeah, I did I did this video where I kind of defended the stuff I've sort of been talking about here where I think that you know body part splits can have their place especially if you structure them uh in the way I've been describing. Um, and the first reason I I I I think that it's a good idea is that people tend to enjoy them more, at least in my experience and in conversations with my athletes, my friends, and just other bodybuilders, even at the very elite level, they just tend to find it more fun when you can go in and get a pump and just blast any body part, uh, rather than, you know, do one exercise per body part. Um, do you think that's a significant enough factor to I think I think that's really highly subjective. um really comes down to what kind of people you ask because my kind of programming is um is is really different. I realize that. Um so a lot of people also a lot of my clients they come in and they're skeptical when I first give them the program and it takes a while to get used to that kind of programming and then they often like it. Yeah. I don't think we have any literature on um enjoyability in strength athletes of different training frequencies. M um but I would say that um if you just look at the factors that govern motivation um there might actually be benefits to higher training frequencies as well because you get more variety um every session and um uh you're stronger in all the lifts you're doing. If you're doing a fly on a separate day, you're going to lift more weight than on a different day. And I think most people will enjoy that. Um also assuming uh you do indeed make more progress. I think progress in itself is the most motivating thing that uh someone can have in the program. So that would also be good. But yeah, I mean um psychologically I think it just differs and um it can very well be a reason for someone to do a body parts split simply because they enjoy that a whole lot more than full body training. Yeah. So let's just take let's just take that as an example. So, you have someone who says, "I really like body part splits and I find hitting every muscle just doing one exercise five times a week. I just find that kind of boring." Um, what do you do for that person? First thing is I never take what my clients say at face value. This might suck if you're considering becoming a client, but it's it's actually crucial to my methods. Yeah. I first need to make sure that that person has actually tried both, given both a very honest try. Yeah. Um and also you know in in the right kind of programming setup because um for example uh keto diets which is really notorious in this regard. I cannot recall how many people have told me you know I would ne I can never do keto diets. Keto diets really suck and I'm like have you tried it? And either they they just flat out haven't or they say um yeah I tried it and I felt horrible for two days and then I quit. And you know if you haven't gone through that that adaptation period which for for a ketogenic diet is really significant but you can make the argument that for any type of program you know any lifestyle change you need to give it like one or two weeks before you can call it like somewhat honest try. So that's like that's like the first thing but assuming they have tried both uh I will probably try to find a middle ground. uh if they say they want to uh blast body part like the what you talked about if they want one day where they really blast the hell out of that body part and then supplement it with for example blood throw restriction throughout the rest of the week so that you sneakily still get in a higher training frequency but they still get these benefits of really annihilating one body part on black days for example right right yeah no okay I think that that sounds reasonable um one of The uh criticisms I've heard of this is that well if you're dealing with elite level athletes then enjoyment shouldn't be really on the table anymore. You should just do what is going to be best for your results and elite athletes won't really worry about the fun factor anyway. Um I think that's bunk. Yeah, I do too. Okay. So, all right. We agree on that cuz even if you're an elite I mean you've been training for 14 years. I mean, you still you still want to enjoy your training and and I I think you're still going to you're still going to tend to push yourself a little bit harder if you're looking forward to it. If you're like, "Oh [\h__\h] I got to go to the gym now." Like this. And I've been there. I've done training programs that I've absolutely hated just because, you know, they were probably what was best for me at the time. Um, but in retrospect, I think I always push myself a little bit more on on something that I can look forward to doing. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. And that that varies substantially. I a lot of my clients are perfectly happy you know to spend six months on at least a similar setup you know small things change and at the end of the six months actually the program has changed quite considerably. Yeah, but you know very roughly only like little things have changed over the six months and other clients just say you know four weeks has just absolutely the maximum um I can give and great example um from that is Sikfar Garforce um it's a client of mine that became national powerlifting champion in Norway and he has really an all or nothing kind of mindset uh when it comes he's like extremely dedicated he did uh when he became national powerlifting champion. He he had a column clean saying to make weight, you know, that that's how that's how dedicated he is. Okay. So, um and that's actually um not to that's actually one of my my secrets to make power and stuff make weight. It's it's serious if you think about it. There is absolutely no performance detriment and you can lose four pounds or something quite easily. But, okay. um he's super dedicated but he just needs the variety and the program changes. So you know he can achieve greatness when you allow him to do the stuff that he is motivated for. Right. But if I would just force him to you know this is optimal you got to do this then I am absolutely confident he would not have been national baring champion. Right. Right. Yeah. You just cannot ignore psychology. Yeah. Okay. Um, so the the other point that I made was that the body part split tends to lead to better pumps. Um, it's not it's not the strongest case that I've ever made. Uh, but I'd appreciate if maybe you could comment on that. Sure. Yeah. Um, yeah, it's it's a given that um, if you do more training sess more volume within a given training session for any body part, you'll get a better pump. For sure. Yeah. Um, but the question is of course other than the fact that you enjoy a pump and the question is if you enjoy that pump more than seven smaller pumps for example for because I get like especially when I'm lean I need to do I just need to pick up a dumbbell to get a sick pump basically in my arms. Okay. So I am like hugely vascular at low body fat percentages especially in my arms. So I don't need to do a lot of volume to get a great pump. But other than that, the question is of course if other than psychological factors, there's actually any physiological benefit to having a pump. And that's kind of interesting because it used to be it's basically bodybuilders started uh about the pump as you know Arnold Wanganger was like it's it's better than coming and um um purely based on feeling you know you you feel that the muscle is growing. That's what it feels like right and you can see it. So that's that's basically all the rationale that bodybuilders used to have and then basically came the science and it showed like you know these these things are unrelated uh you know it's just uh build up of metabolic stress and you know lactate accumulation blood flow all that stuff and it's not really relevant to directly relevant at least to the muscle hypertrophy process then this basically caused another shift in the evidence-based industry when Brad Showfeld came in and he published his work on metabolic stress and then all the bros were like you know see I told you so um that's you know the science we've been waiting for and we have uh intuitively known for all these decades um showing that you need that that pump to get great gains however if you actually look at all the claims um for metabolic stress then I'd say that that is really um there is almost no relation Because if you look at the the pump hypothesis basically metabolic stress what it predicted um optimal time under retention because there is you know like an optimal time that gets you the best pumps doesn't exist based on most research rest intervals shorter rest you get bigger pump higher metabolic stress not true I wrote a re review paper on that also with Brad Sheld and a new study actually showing that um if anything there are significant benefits for muscertrophy resting longer between your sets simply because you can do more work. So, it's it's definitely not the case that shorter rests means higher pump means more growth. Um, if you look at reps per set, um, used to say, you know, body set 8 to 12 reps per set, um, that's like the range where you get great pumps. Actually, you could probably go higher. I think most, um, body balls actually use more like sets of 15 or something. Yeah. If you look at programs on Simply Shredded, for example, almost everyone does sets of 15. Yeah. But um also research shows not true. You can with heavy weights um provided that volume is equated you can get just as much hypertrophy or even more. Um so again no need for metabolic stress. You get blood throw restriction training there definitely the case when you basically when the intensity is just not high enough for traditional kind of training uh to maximize apertrophy then the addition of metabolic stress can certainly um basically compensate for the lack of mechanical tension to maximize apertrophy and most research shows that you can still um at least come close to maximizing apertrophy. However, not a single study to my knowledge has actually found that um you know given similar program any program with blood flow restriction results in greater gains than simple traditional high-intensity training which means that um you know me mechanical tension is most likely more important than metabolic stress and metabolic stress has a potentially redundant add-on role. Let's see what else. Oh yes, range of motion. You get the sickest pumps if you use partial range of motion training and keep the tension on the muscle basically. Um most striking example of this um most research shows I think most people know that full range of motion training is is actually superior in most cases to using partials. But if um you look at the most striking research here which is I think the bench press where the top of the bench press there's very little resistance or there is a big gap between strength resistance uh curves. So you can produce a lot of force but a lot more than you can bench in the bottom position which means that the weight feels relatively light at the top. However, two studies have been done on this showing consistently that um I think they both measured strength. Not sure if one of them also measured that perfectly, but they show that uh strength gains at least are about 60 to 70% greater consistently when you are performing that last bit of range of motion as well. Even when you compare uh full range of motion training to another group that does two sets for every one set of full range of motion training, one set with the bottom range of motion and one set with the top range of motion. And the most striking thing there is that if you separate these parts of the range of motion in the top you can actually move a lot more weight. So the total training load in the partial training group is actually a lot higher because yeah you can you use a lot more weight because the top is easier. So even in that scenario it seems that full range motion training which does not give nearly as much pump is uh superior. Right? So basically for metabolic stress I'd say that um it was a great idea didn't live up to the evidence. Right. Right. Um yeah. So I mean like sure I of course willing to grant that mechanical tension is uh a more significant factor than metabolic stress. But I don't think that implies that metabolic stress has no impact whatsoever. Like I I think it I think it's worth considering as a small as a small factor. I I don't think it would trump mechanical tension. And then your other example, I don't think it would trump range of motion, but I don't think that means we should throw it off the table altogether. So in my case, I think that, you know, as a another reason why bros splits might be effective for some people, I think, you know, it's it's worth considering. And uh even even if we just you know ignore the physiological um benefits which are admittedly small then uh like you said the psychological impact I mean Arnold even even said himself right. So, uh yeah, I I mean I I don't take that too seriously, but I I definitely uh yeah, that was interesting about the uh range of motion, especially um when you consider, you know, doubling the number of sets for the for the top end range of motion and then that still being inferior. So full range of motion is clearly a very important factor. Um and yeah, you know, yeah, so go ahead on that topic. I have um um I fully agree with you about psychological effects aspect. There are a few supplements for example citrillin uh for example that um I think will increase your pumps and you have like these no explode argonine kind of things that I'm actually not sure if they increase your pumps seems to in some individuals but you know some of my clients just uh they just say I want something that increases my pumps and I say well this is not it's not going to answer your performance it's probably not going to answer your gains at all but it's worth trying if you just want to get better pumps and they're like okay cool and they find that they get better pumps, they use a supplement purely for that reason. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and then the last reason uh was that it allows better prioritization of arms. Um so, I I believe you've alluded to this before in in in this discussion that when you hit something fresh at the beginning of a workout, you tend to perform better uh on that given movement. Um, so you know, in corroboration with this, I found that, you know, when I hit say a full body workout and then I do arms, my arm sessions just suck. Um, so what I found in switching to more of a body part type split, I've been able to prioritize my arms by giving them their own day. So I can kind of hit my biceps when they're when they're fresh. And then, you know, the same thing goes for for the triceps. So what would you have to say about that? I'd say you can still there's, you know, there's nothing wrong inherently with starting your workout with barbell curls. Yeah. You know, in in practice, often you end up with a compound exercise, but uh one of the most important factors for exercise order is simply the the priority that something has. If your arms are really lagging, then I would definitely see merit to starting your workouts with, like you said, close close grip bench presses, for example, or overhead triceps extensions and barble curls or I like to use Bayian curls a lot. Um, start your workout with that. You can absolutely do that. Um, as for dedicated arms days, I think a lot of people um are prone to overtraining or at least overdoing it on their arms because um men at least are just um for chest and arms, it's like the body parts. If you look at their programs and even when they they flat out tell you like, you know, this program is has equal volume for legs and upper body and you just do the math and you see it's not nearly optimal. And if you look at most programs with an arm day and go to simply shredded for example and just tally up volume however however you want to calculate it for different body parts I can guarantee you you'll see arms and chest having a lot more volume than hamstrings for example even though hamstrings are arguably for a bodybuilder one of the most important muscles hamstring definition hamstrings creation especially is something that gets you top of points in uh bodybuilding content test. Yeah. But um so yeah, I think um arms they often result in overdoing it on the volume for arms. And two studies have actually been done on adding arm isolation work to compound exercises. Both found no significant benefits for muscle hypertrophy or strength. One in advanced trainee and one in untrained individuals. I would definitely not say that all you need is compound exercises. And there was a trend for greater gains, I'd say, in these studies with the arm training. But it does definitely show that um you know the bicep curls and stuff, they are um the icing on the cake basically compared to um just getting really strong at chin-ups and stuff. So um it's very rare that I have an actual arm day. Um although the one of the benefits that an arm day might actually work is that you actually increase volume and training frequency. For example, you'll see that um certain bodybuilders um compared to their legs like the hamstrings I like I talked about their arms they train them with a higher training frequency which might actually be the reason why they get the impression that it's the arms they uh that's working but really it's just the frequency and the volume that's making their arms progress better than their hamstrings. Yeah. Yeah. Um so one of the things that I had considered when I was sort of designing this for myself uh was just doing say like a pushpull legs and then putting the arm work on the beginning of the pull day or say the bicep work at the beginning of the pull day and the tricep work at the beginning of the push day just just as an example or we could do like you said and just you know put it at the beginning of whatever workout. Um but then the obvious downside of that would be that the subsequent back work might suffer as a result of the biceps being fatigued. Um which seemed suboptimal to me. Um so then that was my rationale for putting the arm on it the arms on its own day because they are what I believe to be a glaring weak point in my physique. When I first started training I was training for for basketball. So I did a lot of lower body work. didn't really care about aesthetics or or my arms too much, which is atypical in in the community, but I really didn't train them much. Um, and then I I never really honestly enjoyed training my arms. I just felt it to be like uncomfortable and then I never saw much progress. But when I do put them on their own day, it's like it solidifies in my mind, okay, this is really what I got to go in and do. Just have to, you know, blast my biceps for a half an hour or whatever. Um, and uh, that was a way for me to kind of get that work done without compromising, you know, the subsequent work. Like I said, um, so that was sort of my rationale for for doing that. Um, if that makes sense. Yeah, that can work perfectly fine. Like I said, if that's the way for you to uh incorporate a sufficient volume and frequency and motivated you for that uh especially if for example you're comparing a program with four days a week where the arm training is included versus five days a week where arms get their own day then I think yeah definitely then the arm day can be positive. Yeah. I think it would be different if you had like you know Monday chest, Tuesday back, Wednesday legs, Thursday shoulders, Friday arm. quite a bit different in structure than you know what we've been talking about. So yeah, I think we can agree there. Um so yeah, so how does training frequency tie in uh with uh the timing of nutrients around the workout? Yeah, it it definitely ties in strongly with that. Um in the interest of time I will refer to uh one of my latest um presentations slash article uh on my blog called workout um workout nutrition does matter high frequency body high frequency bodybuilding and more I think is the title uh probably still on my front page on my website basian bodybuilding.com um but briefly the idea is that as you get more funds like I was saying then this anabolic window which is really not um this this anabolic people that's like one and two hours before and after the workout and then it closes and then it's gone. Um it starts basically as soon as fatigue accumulates within a muscle and then it can last a very long time. In beginners it can last over 72 hours as been documented and I think that um a really hard training bodybuilder based on frequency research you would see that this anabolic window basically lasts all week which is why we don't see the benefits of increasing the training frequency uh beyond one session a week in untrained individuals. Uh so in this this window basically shortens you become more resistant to muscle damage your recovery is faster or at least you are more resistant to the same amount of uh fatigue and that's why you get the benefits of higher training frequency but you need to supplement that with workout nutrition because the anabolic window is the pro is the time period where muscle growth occurs just as basically a harsh reality check. If you're an advanced trainee and it's your second rest day in a row, you are rest rest day in a row, you are not gaining muscle mass that day. I can almost guarantee it. Yeah. The the actual for especially elite level trainee, I think that um why we gain so little muscle mass is because it is really just a few hours after the workout that you are really having a state of net positive protein balance. basically that you are actually accumulating new protein in your muscles. So um with the if fit your macros kind of crowd the what I call the nless bodybuilding crowd is certain um basically full themselves the fairy tale you know you go into the gym you do heavy squats um some some people even think you do heavy squats and then your entire body grows for like the rest of the week. So, and then just look at the actual rates of muscle growth you see in these individuals and yourself. You know, just look at the weight and the mirror and the actual rates of muscle growth you're seeing. It is not the case that you are just growing nonstop. So yeah, I'd say that you know as an untrained individual and you are doing a heavy training session then um there is very little actual relevance for workout nutrition and that's also what the literature shows in untrained individuals you know providing provided that you have a realistic setting you consume enough protein and stuff you have whole meals at least three a day then it won't matter when uh if you're consuming these workouts you know in the form of a shake that you slam down as soon as you hit the locker room or you go home and you just have a full meal um when you get hungry. However, as you get more advanced and especially as you get to the elite level, which is also what a really nice study from Japan, I think showed that in advanced trainees, it does matter and it becomes really a matter of hours. So, I don't think you have to slam down the shake when you're at the locker room, but you do need to sandwich your workout sufficiently with meals. And how much you actually have to sandwich it depends on if they're mixed meals, you know, fiber content, fat contact, if it's a whey shake, for example. Many people have just a waist shake. And then actually research seems to indicate that there are significant benefits to um having these protein pulses of whey a lot more frequently and also becomes a lot more important to actually slam it down like when you hit the locker room in the context of full meals. I don't have many of my clients actually consume shakes postworkout actually very few. Just make sure that in their lifestyle they sandwich their workout sufficiently with the meals. Okay. Interesting. Yeah. Um, I mean, I' I'm currently of the opinion that it's not going to hurt to slam a shake, especially if you're in your offseason, you have plenty of calories to go around. Um, so yeah, I mean, I've I've been fairly uh familiar with the the research on this topic and I think that I agree with you completely on that. I mean, I think that especially in advanced and elite level athletes, that window just becomes smaller and smaller and so it becomes increasingly important to get some form of amino acids in uh within some window and like you said, you know, that window is going to depend on the pre-workout meal and you know, lifestyle factors as well. But I I think that you know, all else being equal, I think it's like safe to to just get a shake in after and at least it allows you to be be consistent with it. So, I don't think it's a bad idea. Um, I know you're not a very big uh protein guy, daily protein guy. So, maybe you might exceed your daily intake. The case could probably be made that your just total daily intake might get too high and it might be unnecessary. But yeah, in any other context, I think it's not at least not a bad idea, right? If it doesn't hurt, then yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And it's it's interesting that um um that's I think that's basically exactly what Eric Helen's um conclusion is about the topic like um I don't think he's really as convinced about the research as I am. You'd have to ask him. I can't speak for him of course. Um but he just says you know there might well be benefits so just do it. It's not a lot of effort. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Yeah. And I I've heard Brad Shenfeld, who I pretty sure co-authored that paper that caused all of the uprising in the IFYM crowd, like you said, with with Alan Aragon, and uh I might be forgetting a couple others, but um and I've heard him say in an interview that, you know, if if you're, you know, your everyday gym goer who's just trying to, you know, stay healthy, stay healthy and improve their physique or whatever, then eh, it's not going to make much much of a difference. But if you're an elite level bodybuilder who's trying to get every last morsel of muscle, um then yeah, it is prudent to get some sort of post-workout nutrition in within a half an hour, I think was the time limit that he referenced. That's that's really funny because I said this in um in a previous interview, like um um I think especially Alan Aragon and Brad Shenfeld have become sort of um against their will they are now heralded as the heroes of if it fits your macros. Yeah. And you know the when someone says uh they are consuming a shake they're like bro have you read anything at all by Alan Aragon or Brad Shfeld just do it you have to read the research but Alan Aragon to my knowledge Brad Shfeld Eric Elms um well I think these are the guys that are most known for disproving that myth debunking the the workout nutrition myth. I think they all still last time we talked at least they all still consume shakes post-workout right so discrepancy there between you know questioning things in the scientific literature and the practical application that you still um the practical application what you still actually recommend to people right that's not always you can question um like I said what you said you can question the existence of any benefits of having that shake But there might be benefits and it's a low effort decision. So, you know, cost benefit, it's a good decision to consume the shade. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And that's a big difference between, you know, purely scientific, what I call nihilism, just always having the standpoint that that things don't matter until you have at least three, you know, randomized peer-reviewed studies showing that this is actually true. Yeah. And, you know, just practical, logical, reasonable, uh, practical advice. Yeah, exactly. Um, so on that note, I think that's probably a good place to conclude this uh podcast, Minnow. Um, so thank you so so much for for coming on the show. I think uh everyone's really going to appreciate your insights on on these topics and I'm I'm happy to hear that uh we agree for the most part on on the the big important stuff. Yeah. So that's good. Big picture. Yeah, especially Yeah. Exactly. All right. Uh, well, hopefully we can uh collaborate again sometime in the future. There's plenty of other stuff that I I'd love to chat with you about. Um, but for now, we'll we'll call that a day. So, thank you very much, Menow, and thank you guys so much for listening to another episode of the Ice Cream for Pierce podcast. And we will catch you in the next