Guys, so I weighed in a new weigh-in low of 161.8 this morning. Breakfast pretty much the same, but instead of scrambling the eggs this morning, uh Robin made them into omelets. So, it's a little change, but the macros are the same. And then potato patties as usual. Got my coffee and my mixed berries. All right, perfect. So, I'm going to get you to take a last blink and then open your eyes nice and big for three, two, and one, and blink. So, the good news, guys, is that I did qualify for LASIC eye surgery. So, I have an appointment to get that done at the end of the month. Uh, and it's not the best timing in the world because I have planned to do another meet on July the 12th. I'm going to be doing the New Brunswick powerlifting provincials. This is something that I mentioned to Eric, but it isn't something we're really going to peak for. It's basically just something for me to do along the way uh in my prep. And Robin and I get to travel to New Brunswick and do another meet for fun. So, we're going to hit that. The problem is is I'll have to take a few days up to a week off of training or only doing very light training. Probably a couple weeks out from that meet, which sort of sucks. But like I said, it's not a meat that I'm really putting everything into. So, uh, I'd rather get the laser eye surgery done and over with. Good up. Knees out. Easy. A meat at this point, just four or five weeks into my contest prep is perfectly fine. And it'll be a good indicator for me as to whether I've lost any strength or gained any strength uh, with the new programming and with the weight that I'm losing. Uh, if I can maintain that strength, then that's great. And I don't think I'll be doing any more meets after this one into the show, I'll probably stick to more of a bodybuilding style of training and just go all the way through with that until the stage. So, I finished off this workout here with a few sets of leg extensions, then leg curls, and then I finished off the workout with a few calf raises. Here's a look at my post-workout and bedtime meal. We trained late tonight, so it's 11:23. And uh there's actually almost 50 g of protein in there, believe it or not. It's egg whites, whey protein, cocoa powder, gourmet cocoa powder, actually. Um, semieet chocolate chips and a crunched up granola bar. Yeah, I don't have a fat, so I'll get it. All right, guys. So, it's refeed day, and this is what I've got for my first meal. It's two pancakes done on our new griddle. Turkey, bacon, hash brown, and a whole egg. And this is the best water flavoring that I've tried yet. It's the Mio lemonade. And this is what Robin has currently putting Nutella on pancakes. Meal number two of refeed day is going to be a Quest bar. Yeah. All right, guys. So, this is going to be my pre-workout meal. Uh it's another slice of turkey bacon and what will eventually be a grilled cheese sandwich. And also, uh, I just had a protein shake. So, just the, uh, simple Costco Lean Fit protein. Uh, and you guys might or might not be aware of this, but, uh, one thing that I always check for when I'm buying protein is under the ingredients, I'll look for glycine, creatine, and towerine. And if it has any of those in there, then I don't buy it cuz that means it's amospite. This is what it looks like prior to mashing. And this is what it becomes. And just so you guys know, you don't need to have carbs in your post-workout meal to spike muscle protein synthesis. All you need is protein. Uh if you're doing consecutive glycogen depleting workouts in one day or within a 24-hour span, then it might be a good idea to have carbs just to replenish that glycogen. But otherwise, it doesn't augment muscle protein synthesis. And it doesn't seem to decrease rates of muscle protein breakdown. And whether or not we actually want to decrease rates of muscle protein breakdown is another question that remains to be fully seen. So, I'm going to eat this and then I'll talk to you guys after. All right. So, here's the pseudo last meal of my refeed cuz I still got to make my macros add up at the end of the night. Kind of burnt because I was editing another vlog and uh I kind of burned it. Okay guys, so this is the official last meal. I ended up having about 100 g of carbs left to hit. So, I'm going to have two glasses of this lemonade right here, which is the best. And that'll give me 48 g of carbs. And then I'm going to have a bag of this popcorn. That'll give me about another 50 or so g of carbs. Okay, guys. So, back in the gym for another pull day. Since I'm still sort of running my own self-guided D lo wrap testing, I decided to work up to another five rep max on the seal row. So, I managed to get 205 lbs for five this week. And I'm just really growing to love this exercise because once you know how to set it up, it doesn't take that long. It took me about about a half hour the first week, took me about 5 minutes the second week, and uh it just basically prevents any cheating and stops any momentum so that you can really track your progress accurately from week to week. Uh, and then I moved on to the pull-up again. And guys, if you would like to go check it out, I'm going to put a link on the screen here to our new blog. Uh, so that's the strong.com blog where I'll be posting probably on a weekly basis, uh, things not necessarily to do with my prep, but probably just nutritional science or exercise science in general. The last post that I wrote there was to do with uh having too much flexibility with your diet, but you guys can feel free to go ahead and check that blog out. So, after the pull-ups, I moved on to close grip seated cable row for three or four sets of 8 to 12. And then I moved on to reverse pec deck to really target the rear delts. And then this is my variation uh of the cable curl. So these are Beijian cable curls where you face away from the cable machine. I just love this exercise. So it's post-workout and uh we're going to eat some sushi. First time I've had sushi in a while now, actually since I started prep. So I'm looking forward to this quite a bit. Oh, thanks. This is what I got.