All right. What's up, everyone? Uh, so I'm here with my mom. Uh, yesterday we went for a workout together. I think that was probably our first workout together in like 6 years. Yeah. So, anytime that I post a photo of my mom on my Instagram or Facebook, um, I'll get a bunch of people commenting with a bunch of questions. Uh, so I thought it'd be really cool to bring her in to this video and, uh, we'll overlay the workout clips with, uh, just a short interview. The first question that I get asked a lot, Mom, is how long you've been training because you obviously have a very impressive level of development. Um, so how long have you been at it? Uh, well, I've certainly been active my whole life. Uh, it's just that when I was in say junior high, high school, it was more about sports teams that I played on. From there, I started strength training, but uh, it was when you were one and a half years old. At the suggestion of your father, I decided that I would take him upon his request to go to the gym with him one night. And I distinctly remember him saying, "Denise, come and do weights with me. If you don't like it, I promise I will never ask you again." And uh so I agreed to that and went and obviously it became a a way of life for me. When you first started training, what did your training look like? Like the split and then what does your split look like now? So first when I started training of course it was more about uh working the opposite muscle groups. So one evening would be uh biceps and triceps, chest, back, you know those sorts of routines. But I've moved away from that for quite some time now to be truthful. It's uh more for me I go in I do a full upper body workout and I may throw some cardio in with that and uh then do you know a low body workout and throw cardio with that as well possibly. I do that generally, you know, two days for upper body and two days for lower body for a 7-day period. Mhm. So, you're probably training each body part two maybe three times every week. Absolutely. And in the gym four or five times per week as well. Per week. Yeah. And then every day probably you're doing something active, right? Probably. Yes. There are very few days that I'm not uh venturing out to being involved in activity on some level. But a lot of the uh cardio that I do, of course, especially in the summertime, is done outside. Uh whether that's bike riding, which I love. It's probably my favorite. Uh running, hiking, love hiking. So, yeah, I try to get as much of my cardio happening outside as often as I can when the weather is cooperating. I think you said uh before the workout you did a 7 km run or something. Is that right? Yeah, I did. Uh, for me to go run 70 km and then go train, that would be a regular thing. And the truth was, I was so pumped after doing that workout with you, I just wanted to go and run another 78 km. And I probably could have done that without it sounding boastful, but it is something that I have done for such a long time that I'm definitely able to, you know, do a lot of cardio and enjoy it. It's not like I'm doing that and it's a chore. where I actually enjoy the the cardio training and certainly if I'm doing it on the the sun, right? Um because like a lot of people on the internet are afraid that if they do cardio they're going to lose all their muscle. It's like a classic thing. Um but you've obviously shown that that is nothing to really be afraid of. Um I want to talk about your diet for a little bit. Um so you obviously maintain like a very impressive level of leanness year round. Um the first question, do you think the amount of cardio uh that you do plays a role in that? And then also what does your diet generally look like? So like what would be a typical day for you? So I mean definitely the cardio plays a role in that and it's probably why I do so much of the cardio to be truthful because my caloric intake is not super low. If I'm like right now I'm at a weight that's a little heavier than I like being. So with those extra, you know, four or five lbs on, that means that my caloric intake is higher. So that could be anywhere from 17, 18, 1900 calories a day, but I'm still doing the cardio and the strength training, which helps keep me at this level of fitness. If I want to lean out, which I generally do over the summer months, then uh yeah, I'm going to have to cut my calories back a little bit. But I rarely eat less than 14,5 100 calories a day because my activity level is high enough that I'm still able to consume that amount and still drop those 3 or 4 5 lbs which I plan to do again within the next uh couple of months because your caloric intake is always relative to your body weight. What is your typical body weight range? So generally in the, you know, during the summer months when I like being a little leaner, I my weight would be 107 189 pounds. But during the winter months when I'm not being as mindful and the calories are a little higher, then my weight then would be anywhere from 112 113. I'm uh like I say, I'm more comfortable when I'm at the leaner amount, but you know, you got to enjoy life as well. And so for me, having that extra piece of cheesecake once in a while or, you know, that little chocolate, then I certainly like incorporating that in and having a lifestyle that you can live with and you can enjoy life without feeling that you always have to be, oh, I can't have that, I can't have that, and it's just about salads and chicken, right? In terms of the macros, like do you you say you eat a high protein diet and then with carbs and fats, how how do those look or do you usually just focus on overall calories? More often I focus on overall calories, but uh I find when I'm trying to shed those few extra pounds, being more mindful of the macros uh certainly helps me in that capacity. Um I try to have about 100 g of protein a day. I do 20% fat and then the rest are carbs. And because I am so active cardiovascularly, I need the carbs in order to keep the energy high. And so I'll go back to the training just for a little bit. So now you're running an upper lower split. About how many exercises are you doing per body part? Some days I go into the gym and I I'm I may just do a 8 km run outside. So while I'm at the gym doing the strength training, have a little more time. So I'll do a little more. On those days, I'm going to work about four exercises per body part. So for biceps, I would do four exercises. So that could be dumbbell bicep curls, it could be cable curls, it could be preacher curl. And so then I I do the same for the other muscle groups as well. If I'm incorporating my cardio at the gym and a little price per time, I might do three exercises per muscle group, but it's always three or four exercises per body part, right? And then do you do multiple sets per exercise or is it just one set for an exercise and then moved on to the next one? Sometime it varies. So I may do, for example, two uh alternating dumbbell curls and do two barbell curls and then I'm done. or I may decide to split it up where I do, you know, four different exercises even though four of them are four biceps. Okay. So, you're so you're usually doing probably four sets per body part per workout and then you're doing that probably two or three times per week. And then what do the reps usually look like? Uh well, when I was doing the powerlifting, of course, it was a little different because that's when I was trying to get stronger and uh as you know, I only did that for a short period of time. the reps were lower then so five six reps per exercise. I'll say my preferred choice of uh repetitions would be anywhere from 10 to 15 and generally I will stick with the 12. Mhm. Um and do you ever go up above that? Like do you ever do any burnout work in say like the 20 to 30 rep range? Not very often. No. Okay. Once in a while I do, but generally no. I tend to stick more to what Yeah. you enjoy doing. I find when I'm doing 20, 30 reps, I just get bored with that. It's like, I got to get out of here. This is Yeah, it's crazy. So, I don't do a whole lot of that. Generally, it's 12 reps. You just save that for your cardio. Sure. Absolutely. I was just going to ask you a little bit about the powerlifting. So, I think you did two powerlifting meets, right? I did. And did very well, obviously, and probably could have been on the world platform if you wanted to. Um, but I know that you kind of have moved on from that. So, first of all, why is it that you decided to try out powerlifting? Is it something you'd recommend to other people? And then what is it that sort of led you out of it? Now, it was uh I think you know my interest in doing it was seeing you do it to be truthful and uh I saw it as an opportunity for me to do take on a challenge that I had never done with fitness on any level really other than to be part of a sports team or to set my own goals and challenges and reach those, but I'd never done it on a competitive level. And you know, the stage for me is not something that I've ever entertained doing or felt driven to be a pro at all. But the powerlifting, it enticed me a little bit. So, and I knew that I was relatively strong for my weight. So, I saw it as an opportunity to, I suppose, shine a little bit and just see how much I could push myself to accomplish that extra. What I found though is that in order to get stronger, it meant heavier weights. Um, and I'm not 25. So, for me, it became the challenge on my joints, and to have my knees hurting, my hips hurting. Uh, it just it wasn't worth it to me. So, I'm delighted that I did it and I've, you know, performed well with it and got some recognition and the reward of that was lovely. But to continue doing something like that and have myself set back in terms of mobility from, you know, injuries at this point in my life, no, absolutely not worth it. So, I've very much gone back to the regular routines of what I did pre uh powerlifting. Mhm. Yeah. And a lot of people ask me if you've ever competed, and I think people assume that you do, just because you do have that look. Um, but you I guess it's just not something that you value in and of itself. And you do value being fit and living, you know, a healthy lifestyle in and of itself. So that's sort of what you direct your attention to. Is that right? And I mean, I respect anyone who's chosen to take the stage because I recognize the the intensity of it, the the challenge of it, the perseverance that comes with that to actually, you know, get yourself stuff to stage level. Uh for me, I've never felt I've never felt that I I have discipline and you know I do. I mean I've been training for such a long time but I never feel that I have the discipline or the desire to take it to that level. So even though I admire people who do, it's it's not an aspiration of mine and uh I'm not sure that it will be at this point. I just go right in the masters. Yeah. No, I mean I think that's cool because a lot of people feel when they get enthralled in fitness that that has to be the end goal and you have to get on stage. But I'll tell people that that that doesn't have to be it. You can set your own goals according to what's important to you. You don't if you don't value getting up on stage then that probably shouldn't be a thing you shoot for because like you said it is a really difficult thing to achieve and it does require a lot of sacrifice often times. And so even though I've uh you know taken on fitness from a personal level, of course, as you know, it's also been professionally career for me and always to my clients, it's be your best. You know, choose a lifestyle that you can live with uh and you know, just be your healthiest best uh both from cardiovascular health as well as strength health. But yeah, it's living a healthy lifestyle and like you say, it doesn't have to be the stage necessarily for everybody. So, we'll wrap it up here. I hope you guys like that workout footage. Uh, she kicked my butt as per usual. Um, she tried. I'm not sure she succeeded. Are you sore? My shoulders are a little bit sore, but no. Okay. Um, so before we go, I just have one more question. Um, if you were to recommend say one piece of advice to someone who wants to make this a lifestyle and something that they can be successful with across their entire career, their life or whatever, what would you say to them? Say someone who's relatively new getting into this. Don't don't try to do everything at once. Sometimes people think that if they're started training, their cardio has to be good, their diet has to be good. baby steps, baby steps, and keep building on that. I mean, I've seen so many people go from here to here and just because they've done it in small stages. I think burnout happens quickly when we try to take everything on at once. So, you know, and consistency for me, it's always about be consistent with it, be persistent with it, and if you're doing that, then you're definitely going to achieve the results that you're looking for long term. And in your 20s, you're going to be, you know, living a certain lifestyle and wanting a certain thing. And as you go into your 30s, your 40s, your 50s, 60s, whatever that is, be your best. And what you value in being a healthy person and a fit person is going to change because what I value now in being a 50year-old is different than what I wanted when I started training at 27 and 1/2 years old. Mhm. Yeah, that's really well said. And I hope when I'm 50, I can be on that level, too. For sure. I'm sure you will. Um, so yeah, actually bonus question. Um, people on my Instagram are wondering if you're a natty. I asked Brad what that was. I was like, "What does that even mean?" I said, "That mean you're on steroids?" And he said, "No, I think it means you're natural." Yeah, it means natural. Definitely natural. I have never tapped into anything like even I don't take creatine. I don't. No. The only thing I do a little of is the whey. So outside of that, I've never tapped into any sort of supplementation. And not that I think that's all bad either. It's just that I've never felt that I need to do that. I eat healthy. I make sure I get the vitamins and minerals. And so yeah, I just say it jokingly because even to see you take a multivitamin would be a bit weird. You're just focused really on the diet and healthy foods and all that sort of stuff. So yeah. All right, guys. So that's going to wrap it up. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, don't forget to like it. Also, subscribe to the channel if you haven't already, and I will see you in the next video.