All right. What's going on, guys? Um, so just wanted to do a quick update for you guys. I'm going to do this video as kind of like a voice over over my training from the last week and uh just kind of summarize my thoughts on how the prep is going so far. Um, I recorded a podcast with Cliff Wilson uh just last week and uh that's up live on the channel now and also on iTunes. And one of the reoccurring themes that I sort of noticed in this conversation was that there are really no tricks. There's no secret to getting stage lean. And most of the time it really does just boil down to continuing to diet. Uh pushing a little bit harder, maybe digging a little deeper, and just giving yourself plenty of time to get ready. And even amongst, you know, the best coaches in the business, there really isn't any one secret protocol that we can turn to to get you there. Uh it's just a matter of continuing to push, continuing to grind, uh keep dieting. Uh even when you think you're completely ready, just continue to push it a little bit further. And this is something that I've really taken on in this prep. You know, I've given myself 20 weeks and I've already been dieting for eight weeks. So, I'm almost at the halfway point already. And in comparison to other preps, it just doesn't feel as though I've been dieting for 8 weeks already. The time has just completely flown by. I think that's because I'm just taking a slow and steady approach and everything is still just livable at this point. uh my macros haven't gotten reduced to the point where, you know, I feel depleted or hungry all the time or energy deprived or anything like that. Yes, once in a while, you know, my my mood will be a little bit more depressed or things that, you know, wouldn't typically annoy me so much might annoy me a little bit more, might be a little bit more irritable. But that was actually more so at the beginning of the cut when I first started than how I am now. And I think a lot of that has to do with the fact that I've just sort of embraced the fact that you know this is what I'm doing and it's what I want to do and you know these are just macros like it's just bodybuilding and uh it's nothing worth affecting your personal life over and uh I guess I've just settled into a way of prepping now where it just feels um more sustainable than it would have been in the past where you have a really strict deadline line. You feel rushed against the clock all the time. You feel like you're always playing catchup. That's something that uh I'm really enjoying about this prep. I've also really noticed uh a difference psychologically in having a coach take over. Uh on my last contest prep, I ran everything myself. And this can be a huge psychological burden for yourself because uh looking at yourself in the mirror and not sort of having that unbiased eye to give you a second opinion can constantly just play on your mind. You know, you can second guess things and even if you have a lot of experience uh coaching other people, it's still sometimes difficult to know when or how early to pull the trigger on your macros or make changes. Having Eric as someone who, you know, I trust in has allowed me to just relax and just follow the protocol, trust the process. I don't think I'll ever be going back to doing a prep on my own again. I just feel that I'm able to be so much more at ease with what I do when I know that having to worry about getting me in stage shape is in someone else's hands. And that isn't to say that you can't guide yourself through the coaching process. You know, I've done it myself. Uh but from a standpoint of just psychological health and um even just a little bit of extra re reassurance and stability, uh I would definitely highly recommend um just getting a coach because you know there are enough coaches out there who are science-based and we're going to lead you down the right path. I'm at 175 g of protein, 250 g of carbs, and 55 g of fat. And uh I don't always hit those dead on. Um I'll usually be off by, you know, 5 g on each up or down. So if I am say over 5 g on fats, um I will scale the carbs down say 10 g or so so that the overall calories will still be pretty similar from day to day. That's just a viewpoint that I've always had uh when it comes to contest prep, nutrition, and training and everything is that uh that little bit of extra dietary freedom um in the form of, you know, not focusing so much on the precision can allow for uh a lot less stress in my experience and it frees up your options to enjoy some different foods and things like that. Lately, I've also been doing something that I call bracketing my day. Uh, so I'll wake up, I'll have the exact same breakfast every morning, uh, which is scrambled egg whites with, uh, some fat-free cheese on it and then 60 g of oatmeal and some berries. Uh, and that just allows me to, for one, save some time. Uh, because it can be a pain. You know, you wake up, what am I going to have for breakfast today? Uh, if it's different from day to day, you can kill a bunch of time just thinking about what you're going to have. then you have to enter it all into My Fitness Pal individually. Um, I would rather have a little bit more set structure than that. Um, so when I wake up, I know exactly what I'm going to have. I can just copy it over from the previous day. And, uh, I just find that to be so convenient. And then I also will add in my last meal, which is usually my fourth or fifth meal of the day, um, at the beginning of the day. So, I know that I always have those macros there. And if I do want to change the meal a little bit, I at least have it accounted for ahead of time, uh, so that, you know, the end of the day doesn't come and I'm not super hungry going to bed. Um, and that last meal is, uh, a salad, just a ton of romaine lettuce, uh, with chicken breast and goat cheese, low-fat salad dressing, um, and usually like some berries, zucchini, mushrooms, or whatever. and it's just this huge pile of food so I can always go to bed um having a relatively full stomach and that just helps me sleep a little bit better and then in between those meals I'll have the freedom to fit my the rest of my macros how I please uh because I do take care of my fruit and veggie requirements in those two meals for the most part and then with the other meals in between I can uh fit in some foods that I enjoy and give myself a little bit of extra dietary flexibility without losing that sort of baseline level structure. Still just doing three to four uh cardio sessions per week. I'll either do that in the morning uh in the form of a walk outdoors uh or I'll do um the elliptical or the bike after my workout and during that I'll usually just read or listen to a podcast or something. And that hasn't become uh too much of a difficulty yet. Uh my weight has been stable for about 2 weeks now at around 156. So I'm anticipating that I'll be getting a drop in macros soon. Uh but I am ready for it. Uh like I said, I feel as though I've adapted to these macros and I just feel comfortable on them. So I feel ready to give it a little extra push at this point and just continue to take things as they come. I'm really excited for the rest of this prep. The Natty Professor is going to be competing at the same competition as me. He won the m the muscle mayhem in California this year and I won it the year previous. So, uh it'll be interesting to see what happens with that showdown. Um but that's just a little bit of extra motivation for me to keep pushing and uh keep training as as hard as I possibly can. All right, guys. So, that's going to conclude the commentary on the video. I hope that you guys enjoy the rest of this training footage and uh thanks for all the support and feel free to like the video and subscribe if you're enjoying this sort of content. Thanks again for watching. Come on. Come on. Yeah. You know what? You only got one life. You want heat.