So today, Robin and I are leaving for the Mr. Olympia contest in Las Vegas. Typical egg whites, turkey bacon, cream of wheat I've been going with for the last little while. It looks kind of gross now. It needs to be microwaved again. Um that's whole grain cream of wheat. Super filling. And uh pineapple yogurt with peaches and some strawberries mixed in. kind of are kind of anything too delicious. I'll uh be tempted to want more of them. So, I'll show you guys the macros. They're not fantastic, but I find these to be really filling because of the the nuts and the the fiber. So, 190 cals in this bad boy. There you are. Anything else? Got a salad and roast chicken sandwich. Robin got pretty much the same thing. Morning guys. First first day in Vegas. Our first stop is going to be D. I love about the states is they have the calorie information like on the menu. Egg whites, turkey bacon, grits, and a fruit cup. Heat. Heat. Oh, back to life is only real accumulating. You will always find a way to pray upon me. Open the floor. Calls me up before I am. tells me she's been walking a lot lately. Baby, you got to let go. The drugs that you taking are killing your soul. Baby, you got to let go. The drugs that you taking are killing the show. Is morphing distorting. I just don't get it. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. is moving. I just don't get it. I don't get it. It's so black and blue. How I'm drawing to you magnetic. magnetic. We're going to go check out the expo with my boy Josh and uh yeah. Robin and I are here at It's called Filthy Power Gym. It's like a hardcore powerlifting type facility. It's really nice. And we're just waiting on uh Bryce and Berto and I think maybe Lyanna and a couple of the other barbell one athletes to uh come here. And uh so today I'm going to be deadlifting and front squatting. And I'm pretty stoked to use some of this equipment. Oh, by the time the story really accumulated always find a way to pray upon the open calls me up 4 a.m. tells me she's been walking a lot lately. Baby, you got to let go. The drugs that you taking are killing your sh. Baby, you got to let go. The drugs that you taking are killing the sh. I just don't get it. I don't get it. Heat. Yeah. Heat.