Don't you want us to go and hang out on our balcony? Balcony is not the biggest, but look at the view though. A good view. Okay, guys. So, before going to the beach, I figured I'd come here and do a bit of work on my edit. Uh, so Steph is gone out for breakfast with her sister. I haven't had breakfast yet. Start with a late breakfast. I'm going to have a sub from yesterday. Show you guys basically how I edit. So, this is my Arm Science Explained storyboard. I use Final Cut Pro X. My edits are usually pretty crazy. So, I have all the audio stuff down here. These are my different voiceovers, uh, music, and then these are all the sort of main clips, and then I add sort of like animated components on top, all with key framing. So, yeah, I do all my titling and all of the animations and everything all in Final Cut. And yeah, that's it. Breakfast. So, the thing about Florida is it's so hot outside. I feel like people overcompensate by turning the AC all the way up inside. So, I get so cold if I had to do work inside for more than like an hour or two. So, I decided to come out here by the pool. Technically, I checked out, but I still have my like hotel wristband. So, figured I'd come to the pool and lays around here a little bit. Oh my. Oh my. What a wonderful time. Been a minute since I pulled up. Figured I'd get in a little bit of cardio on the beach. So, yeah, just going for a light walk. Hey, baby. How was breakfast? is good. Um, I bet you're hungry. Yeah, I am. Do you have any idea what you be? I don't know. Want something with protein? Oh, do they? This is my new obsession. These right here. It's the best Monster by far. I don't know if you can get them everywhere yet, but they're starting to show up in more and more places. Little pit stop getting some Monster and a quick snack. And then we're on our way to St. Augustine for the Travis Scott concert. I got Chick-fil-A. And this is what I always get at Chick-fil-A. Just get a grilled chicken sandwich and I dip a little bit of that in Chick-fil-A sauce. And I think this this is something like 400 calories. A decent amount of protein. Got 2 and 1/2 hours left of this drive. I'm going to check into our hotel, grab a quick shower, and go to the concert. I got sunburned a little bit today, too. I don't know if you can see it. It's the worst. The Florida sun. I try to I tried to warn this Canadian that um the sun is no joke here. I don't know what's going to happen to me in Egypt. I know. It'll at least even out. It'll just be all red. Every single person who's given me Egypt travel advice has been like, "Really prepare yourself for the heat." So, yeah, that's a very good location for Dunkin Donuts right next to our hotel holiday in Oh, wow. You just went into Dunkin Donuts parking lot. Seriously, I would assume they would connect. Okay, let's try this one more time. How does Dunkin Donuts close? Do you know? Cuz I'm going to be hungry after this concert. 7:57. The concert starts at 8:00. Uh, but we just realized that there's an opening act. Khaled. I've heard some of his stuff, but I'm not a huge fan. So, uh, we're going to miss him. Going to grab a quick shower and then head over to the concert. Oh my. What a wonderful time. Oh my god. You're going to be like, "These clips. Grab those." Concert started at 8. And we got a we've got a 22minute drive to the amphitheater, too. Oh, come on. Just getting here at the hotel and now we're heading over to the concert. We're going to grab some donuts at Dunkin Donuts first. Donuts are essential. Trying to do this as fast as possible. Oh, chocolate pretzel sounds good to me. The chocolate pretzel and the vanilla frost. It's good. Not as good as Tim Hortons, though. This is really good. It's like a combination of sweet and salty. The salt from the pretzel and then the sweetness from the caramel and the chocolate. It's really good. We're a bit late. Travis already started, but it's going to be good. I'm hoping on the seat belt. Yeah. Don't be scared to take off. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Everybody, that's right. Don't you open up that window. What's up everyone? Uh, so we just finished up at the concert. Travis Scott is just like crazy performer. He was like super super good live. We're here at Walmart now picking up some snacks to bring back to the hotel room. My honest take on the on the concert was that it was a little bit short. He apparently had a curfew at the venue and so he could only play a certain number of songs. It was a really short show, but the songs that he did play were super hype. Um so yeah, we're going to get some maybe some ice cream or something and then take it back to the to the hotel room. He wants something like baked or like popped chips. Want something I can eat like a pretty high volume of but not be like too high fat. They have a sour cream and cheddar baked chips. Wait, where are they? Right here. I think baked Cheetos. Baked. They're simply right there. Oven baked. Oh, nice. Is a very serious decision. See how he ponders. I kind of want I kind of want the baked Cheetos though. Do they not do you have the success? Are they a thing? I feel like it the baked Here we go. This is it. That's it. What else? We go like um light Pringles or something like that. Low fat. You done with the sour cream and onion lightly salted Pringles. Sounds good. I think they're all in pieces now. That butter chicken. Butter chicken chips. Some green beans. All their Pringles. Keeping it green. The next time we play we play, uh, Christian says, "Excited." And guys, those are good. But this one's pretty sweet. I think I'm going to get one of these. It means we have to play a game again. Oh, we have we should film the whole the whole thing this time though. Thank you for one night of snacks. All right, so we got our food. Oh, okay. Okay, so this is the postcon snack situation. Some water, some Powerade Zero, Swedish fish, oven baked chips, microwavable butter chicken, dinner, don't ask, and some lightly salted sour cream Pringles. And me, what did you get? Snap peas and Arctic Zero. I'm not pregnant. yet. Good morning everyone. It is Sunday, May the 7th, and we're still here in St. Augustine. We're just getting some breakfast. So, I've got egg white omelette, turkey sausage, a BUN. Is this called? Like a BUN? This is a biscuit. a biscuit, right? Okay. So, a biscuit, two pieces of whole wheat toast, banana, and some grits. So, I'm increasing my caloric intake uh leading into the trip to Egypt. We're gonna eat this. I'm gonna do some work on the computer, and then we're going to go train. Now, we're going to take some pre-workout and go to our first workout. I think 2 days for me. Yeah, we take two days. Two days. I just really want an upper body pump. My upper body, like, if I don't train for like 2 or 3 days, I feel like my upper body just starts to feel really flat, especially with my eating is a little bit inconsistent like it's been uh while we've been on the road. Not so much inconsistent as just like sporadic. Like my meal timing is really weird. Usually if it's early in the day like it is now. It's just like 11:45 in the morning. Um so I'll usually do two scoops of prolific then one scoop of high volume. You said two, right? Yeah. Two for you. Thank you. We're going for an unexpected leg workout. I didn't think I was doing legs today, but I guess I am. I have to do a good bit of warmup. I feel like my body is like stiff or something. I feel like flat cuz I haven't trained and I feel stiff cuz I haven't moved. Except at the concert last night. I moved a bit a little bit. Little bit. I don't know. I updated everything about like my powerlifting and my lower back injury in another video. I'll link that in the description, so I won't go into it again here. But I am working my way back up. Each week, I'm making small incremental increases in load and higher rep range. So, like 15 15 reps, 10 to 15 reps per set. Kind of just uh taking more of an intuitive approach with it. Lifting when my body feels like it can handle it. So, we're here at World Gym St. Augustine and we're going to hit a leg workout today. Hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey. hey, hey. Stopping briefly in Orlando for some food. We're here at Hi Hop. Let me get an omelette menu. Oh, thank you. Here's meal. Meal number three. I've got egg whites, four strips of turkey bacon, some hash browns, and these are strawberry cream pancakes. This is Steph's chicken omelette, fruit, and then some dry toast over there. Boom. See me down.