Hey. Hey. See you again. So, our Airbnb had some masker and Brad just discovered that that is the serving size. How are you going to mix that up, dude? I don't know. He probably has a blender somewhere. Dude, you're supposed to put the water in first so it doesn't clump. Definitely going to want to use a blender for that, man. like weight gainer is so thick. It's good. It's just like it there's like no taste. It's like Oh, really? Yeah. So, I don't think my scale is working because uh this is all that I get. Um so, I'm going to have some oats, but I guess what I'll probably do is just measure these out school style with the measuring cups. Go with half a cup. Not that I really care because I don't really need to be weighing stuff out, but I do like to weigh out like say my meats and that sort of thing and oats volumetric measurements are going to be uh less precise and probably a little less accurate than um weighing it on a scale. However, um precision is not all that important, especially when you're in the offse. whether you're using measuring cups or a scale or whatever. Um, as long as you have some idea of what you're eating when you are tracking. Um, and that's really all that matters. Some cold water and Splenda to that. That was how I used to always eat my oats when I first got into bodybuilding. Just a packet of Splenda and some cold water. I always make sure I bring Splenda with me when I'm on the road because um, I hate all the other artificial sweeteners. I just eat it just like that. It's actually pretty good. We are done uh with Montreal. Like we hardly spend any time here at all, but uh what we're going to do now is going to go for a workout, I think. And then from there, we're off to Toronto. I'm trying to find a gym here in Montreal, and the traffic is absolutely crazy uh in this city. I didn't realize um just how tough driving here is. Um, the whole city is under construction, so everywhere you look, there's a detour. Like, you literally you can't go anywhere. There's just a detour everywhere. Um, anyway, so I plugged into the GPS uh to go to Goodl Life and just because I have a membership there and I just figured that was simplest and it was a gym I knew of. Uh, so I just drove to Good Life only to find that uh Good Life here is a museum uh or something like that and not a fitness facility. Um, so now I'm on my way to another gym. It's called Gym Montreal. The gym are pretty clear with their signage. It's got to be it. That's the gym. We're just trying to get in there. Hey, what's up? I'm trying to get in and tailored. Tailored. Tailored. Hey, hey, hey. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, hey, hey. Tailored. Tailored. Tailored. Tailored. Yeah. Yeah. Not sure what this place is. Okay, so guys, I'll show you what I got. I'm going to attempt to eat this on the road, but I don't know how well that's going to go. Oh, snap. I didn't realize it came with fries. I literally thought it was just chicken and rice, but everything went much better than expected. So guys, we're almost at Toronto. We're about 2 hours outside, and I stopped to get a little snack. Uh, so I got some loaded potato chips, a Snickers bar, and regular Red Bull, not sugar-free. Just kidding, guys. This is my brother's going to say I was like, "Well, that's weird. I'm going to be eating it when we got here. Open as you enter Ontario. Hope there's more food in there. 192 km. What the lack tease? I'm assuming that's for Robin. Ibuprofen and more ibuprofen. That's actually a good gift because I do get a lot of headaches, but it's kind of helping stuff. I just took one right before Okay, so guys, it is 2:00 a.m. We've arrived in Toronto. Um, so if you guys like the vlog, don't forget to hit the like button, subscribe to the channel if you haven't already, and I will see you guys tomorrow. Is there another one for Ontario?