All right. Uh what's going on, guys? So, uh in this video, I plan on discussing how it is that I've progressed across the last uh four weeks since I've been following a bros split and how it is I would recommend uh setting up your bros split so that it not only makes sense within the the micro cycle or or within the the 5day split itself, but also across uh the span of say 4 to 6 weeks. Generally what we're looking for is to have maso cycles that themselves have some sort of progression scheme across line up in such a way that you know what you're doing at the beginning of the year is less than what you're doing you know at the end of the year uh or whatever time frame you have for yourself. That doesn't mean that in each and every block of training the total amount of work or the total amount of volume always has to increase. It doesn't have to be linear like that. We can have blocks of training where the volume goes down and say the intensity goes up uh or perhaps blocks of training where there's more of a focus on active recovery and intensity and volume are both low. The main thing that you're after uh when it comes to long-term planning for programming is to be at least capable of doing more over here uh than you were uh over here. And so how you actually get from here to here is going to be dictated by what it is that you do in those individual training blocks. So what I'm going to be doing in this video is zooming in on one of those blocks where I am running a bros split and covering how it is that across the course of that bros split I've ensured that I've made progress. Now I find that what a lot of people do is they tend to get overwhelmed and I find they sort of get paralysis by analysis when it comes to uh long-term planning. And when I talk about long-term planning, I don't mean that you know exactly what you're doing on this day, 1 year from now. Essentially, all it means is that you've set some goals. You're regularly reviewing those goals as you go along. And you're setting up plans on the short term to ensure that you get to that long-term goal. Um, I just want to outline quickly two points that I think are sometimes overlooked when it comes to progression. And those are eating adequate amount of calories and working hard. If you just have a fancy progression scheme and you're just going for a target number of reps or a target percentage of your one rep max and you're just consistently having laxidasical type workouts, um, then that's going to hinder your progression. So, the first option that's available to you in running a bros split is to take what I would call a fully intuitive approach to progression. And this is what I'm currently doing myself. And I found it to be uh extremely rewarding in terms of both progress and uh actually really enjoying my training. And essentially how this works is um you just have to give yourself feedback from the previous week and not change things too too much from week to week. The importance of tracking when doing an intuitive approach to progression um is something that I just can't emphasize enough uh without actually tracking the numbers. There's really no way to be sure that you're adding volume over time. All that you do is you basically look at what you did last week and you either add a rep or you add some weight or you add a set. And which of those three you choose to increase um can depend on what it is you're feeling that day. I look at my training journal from the previous week. I'll look at the exercises I used and I will keep most of them the same. I might switch one exercise out uh and alternate between exercises week to week. In which case, I'll just look at what I did two weeks ago when I did that exercise before and ensure that I either add a set or a rep or some weight. And there doesn't have to be any fancy periodization scheme. You don't have to undulate the reps weekly or anything like that. As long as you're able to add something to your sets across the course of the mess cycle, then what you've done is going to yield some progress for you. I think it's worth noting that um the easiest way to add volume across the weeks would be to add sets since you're able to just add so many more reps than just adding say one rep to each set or adding you know 5 lbs to the to the machine or or to the bar or whatever. So adding sets across a maso cycle can be a very useful tool in terms of drastically increasing your volume. So to ensure that I don't get too willy-nilly with my progression across the course of the maso cycle, um I do set two constraints on myself. Uh the first being a rep range constraint. So for any given exercise, I will either work in the 5 to 10, 10 to 15 or 15 to 20 uh rep range. And I try to ensure that about half of my training volume is coming from uh within the 10 to 15 uh rep range for for this particular training cycle. And then I also set some sort of RP constraint on myself. Uh I'm not too too strict with this, but I do generally try to leave about one rep in the tank. So I set myself generally speaking about an RP of nine. And then I'll typically take the last set of each exercise uh to failure. I won't always do that on the compound lifts like the squat, the bench press, and the deadlift. But I always leave notes for myself uh to give myself an idea of how a set felt the previous week. I have my own little notation system where an upwards arrow indicates that the weight was too light and I need to increase the weight next time. A sideways arrow will indicate that the weight was perfect that week, so I should probably keep that the same for the first set the next week. And a downwards arrow indicates that the weight was a little bit too heavy. My form probably got a little bit loose on the exercise, and so it might not be a bad idea to drop the weight back a little bit uh the next week. And in essence, the arrows don't really differ too much from the RP scale. It's really just a way of letting yourself know how difficult a given set felt. But I do find that the arrows sort of just directly let me know, okay, I need to decrease the weight next week. You're given an exact direction um with which you should take your your sets the following week. And then in addition, I will include um some other autoregulatory techniques such as the DAP system where you do one set that we'll call the test set. Uh after your warm-ups, you'll take that to essentially concentric failure. And then based on how many reps you get with that set, that's going to determine what it is that you do for your subsequent sets. So let's say that you have a target of six to eight reps for your working sets. um and you go in and you do your test set with a weight that you think you can probably do somewhere around six to eight reps to failure and you get 10 reps with it, then you underestimated your strength. You were stronger than you thought you were going into the test set. So, you would want to bump the weight up say by 10%. And then conversely, if you took your approximate 6 to eight rep max for that day to failure, but you only got four or five reps, then for the working sets, you would decrease the load by 5 to 10% and then carry out your working sets uh to failure with that uh adjusted load. So, this is a way of prescribing the loads that you use on any given training day based on how it is you're feeling that day. I find that part of the appeal to the bros split is just being able to be flexible and being able to do what it is you feel like you're capable of doing on that given day. There are of course other ways that you can progress across a bros split. Um I would direct you guys to a fantastic video. I'll put a link here uh done by Eric Helms of 3DMJ and he covers uh in quite a bit of detail probably what are the best progression schemes that are available. Um and I will just quickly touch on them here. And so the first one is uh essentially a percentage-based approach. Figure out what your one rep max is for a lift and then you prescribe your loads based on a percentage of that one rep max. Throughout the course of say 4 to 8 weeks you can undulate the load weekly or whatever. But the main idea is that at the end you're doing more than you were at the beginning. And when you're here you can test your maxes again, plug in the new numbers and now you've got more weight on the bar. Automatically you're handling more volume. Uh so another approach that we have in terms of a more uh structured progression scheme uh would be a simple linear progression. Uh so an example of this would be say you're working in the 6 to eight rep range and uh you have three sets to do on on a given exercise. Uh in week one you would do say 100 lbs for three sets of eight. Uh week two you would do 105 lbs. You'd add a little bit of weight but do three sets of seven. Um, in week three, you would do uh 110 lbs. So, add another another little bit more weight uh for three sets of six. And so, you can see that across the 3 weeks uh the volume has decreased, but the load that you're handling has gone up. Uh and so when the volume decreases and the intensity increases, we just call that linear progression. And then in the fourth week, you might want to do a little de lo or something. Um and then you would repeat the cycle. So when you come back to the beginning now in week five, uh you would be doing 105 pounds for three sets of eight. Uh so a little bit more weight and then there's your your increase in volume. And then you would just repeat that cycle as long as you're progressing. Um and then a third uh approach that I I like to use is sort of a reverse linear approach. Um so this works well in sort of the higher rep ranges where it's difficult to add uh load each and every workout. So, let's say the 12 to 15 rep range. Week one, say you have three sets of of 12. Week two, you're going to add a rep somewhere. So, say you do three sets of uh 13. Week three, you do three sets of or say say you do two sets of 13, one set of 14, and you just keep going until you get to three sets of 15. So, you don't add any weight to the movement until you max out the top end of that rep range. Once you max out the top end of the rep range, you go back to the beginning where you're doing three sets of 12, except now you've got uh more weight on the bar, so you increase the load. So, I think that an intuitive approach to progression is most appropriate when your intrinsic motivation is high and also when you have a desire for a little bit more increased flexibility. Uh and then on the other hand, I think that the structured approach, while it can be fitted into an an intuitive approach and they can be blended together, I think um I think that a structured approach uh is good for someone who who wants more structure, may not be quite as motivated in the gym and wants to ensure that they are in fact progressing. So guys, I hope that you you learned something throughout the course of this video. And as always guys, thanks so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. Come in your life and co.