What's going on, guys? It is September the 3rd. It is Saturday. Today, I'm going to start vlogging again, uh, consistently. Uh, so there's 2 weeks left going into the Mr. Olympia weekend. So, I will be in Vegas for that. Uh, not at any particular booth or anything like that, but just sort of chilling, walking around the expo, and enjoying my time in Vegas. I guess every other day I'll upload a video mostly just tracking my training and the process through my lean bulk. This is the beautiful view uh in Colona. And this is the Okonagan Lake. And if you look over here, you can just see how the lake meets in with the mountain ranges. I don't really know what they're called. Uh but today is a uh leg day. Uh so I'm going to kick it off with a leg day. I'm going to go check out a new gym called Global Gym here in Colona. Uh, so I'll probably see you guys in there if I don't check in before with my pre-workout meal. All right, guys. So, I just made it to the gym. Um, I obviously didn't mention this in the vlog because the last video I posted was my workout with Danny. Um, since then, I came down with uh just a cold. So, I've had a bit of a sore throat. Um, I'm a little bit stuffed up, so you might hear that in my voice. Um but for the last I think 3 days I just took off from the gym altogether. And now just now I'm starting to feel good again to the point where I can train legs. For the rest of this um two week block leading into the Olympia I'm going to be doing a pushpull leg split. Push pull leg split. Um so I'm not going to go into any detail about the specifics of my program right now. I'll do that in a later video maybe. Um, but for right now, I just wanted to get things rolling and introduce you guys to the new series and uh, show you guys what I'm going to be doing today. I just like the sound. Okay, what's up everyone? So, I'm back with a informative voice over for this leg training session yesterday. Um, so I kick things off with a little bit of dynamic stretching, uh, mostly for hamstrings. And you would have seen I actually did three sets of 15 standing leg curls. And this is what I call a pre-activation method. Uh, so I'm not a big fan of pre- fatiguing, uh, just because it's been shown in the literature to not really be effective at what it's intended to do. Um, so the idea with pre- fatiguing is to sort of generate some sort of metabolic response or fatigue in that muscle. So it'll be more active later in compound movements. Um, so for example, if you were wanting to make your pecs be more activated by the bench press, you would do a pec deck fly before bench pressing and presumably that would cause your pecs to be more stimulated during the bench press or whatever. Um this has actually been refuted in studies. Uh so for example, Brena Yatal 2009 found that it didn't lead to increased pec activation rather it only led to increased activation of the triceps which means that well since the pecs are fatigued the triceps kind of had to take over. So it did exactly the opposite of what you wanted it to do. In my case, uh I like doing this especially for hamstrings, uh because for one, it gets them more warmed up. Uh takes them through the range of motion and improves my range of motion a little bit for the compound movements that are to follow. Um especially with the leg press, I find my hamstrings do get a little bit tight. So, just doing a few of those uh hamstring curls beforehand really helps me. It also helps me establish a little bit of a better mind muscle connection for the rest of the workout. Uh, this was meant to be a hamstrings dominant workout. Um, and I'll talk about that a little bit more later, but I am alternating between a glute focused workout and a hamstring focused workout. And I let the quads just sort of get leftover work from any of the squatting or leg pressing that I do. And then also, it's important to keep in mind that in the literature when pre-exhaustion has been sort of debunked, it's always been done to neuromuscular fatigue. Uh so if as long as you're not taking you know those pre-activation sets uh to failure then I don't think they're going to have any negative effect in terms of activation uh for the follow-up compound movements. Um so that's the explanation of what I was doing at the beginning. Um after that it was onto a horizontal hack squat machine. Um so the reason I really like this machine is because for whatever reason my lower back has to do less stabilization. So, the strain that I would normally feel from an upright hack squat just isn't really there, and it's just a really good feel for me. After that, I moved on to this horizontal squat press. Uh, so this is very similar to the traditional leg press, uh, 45° leg press, except the plates are loaded in more of a pendulum fashion rather than a linear fashion. Uh, so just a slightly different way of loading this exercise. Not a big deal if you don't have one, but I do find it to be a little bit more of a natural for feel for me just the way that my leverages are set up. And it's always not a bad idea to sort of switch up the way that you're loading movements just in general. So, following the squat press, it was on to glute ham raises. Uh, these were particularly challenging for me on this day. I think it's just the way that the glute ham raise machine is set up. Uh really doesn't give you a lot of assistance with the knee flexion unlike some of the of the other glute ham raise machines with the sort of circular pad. I did three sets of eight reps. I think that this is probably my current favorite hamstring movement just because I'm not really able to do any hip extensionbased uh hamstring movements like a Romanian deadlift for example. So, this movement is able to train hip extension isomemmetrically while still training knee flexion. You hit the hamstrings both proximally and distally. Uh, and yeah, it's just a very challenging movement. So, I I really like this one a lot. And then for a hamstring focused day, that wasn't quite enough volume. Uh, so I finished off with three sets of 15 on the lying leg curl. Uh, so what I've been doing with this movement is plantar flexing. And I think I talked about this in another video, but I've been plantar flexing for the first 10 reps and or roughly 10 reps depending on the day. Um, and then I'll dorsif flex for the remaining five reps or so to extend failure further. Um, this sort of borrows from the so-called effective reps technique where you're just able to extend failure a little bit further. Um, in a sense, it's sort of like a drop set, uh, where you're just able to allow another muscle to sort of come into play. that other muscle being the calves. And then I finished off this workout with some hip abductions on this machine right here. So, it's a little bit of a different machine. You're really leaning back. Uh, normally I would lean forward on these. And I find that they're very similar, but I feel a slightly different part of my glutes when leaning back more like this as opposed to leaning forward. So, I just try to do as many different variations as I can as long as uh I don't get too willy-nilly with things. So yeah, this is a great exercise for the glute medius, kind of building the like outside part of your glutes. So I finished off with three sets of 20 to 25 reps on this machine. And that is going to conclude this workout, guys, and this commentary. I really hope that you liked the footage and I'll see you guys again in the next couple of clips. Okay, what's going on, guys? So, I just finished up with my leg workout. Um, I don't think I got to film quite everything, uh, just because my camera was dying and it's dead right now. So, I'm filming on my iPhone. Um, but in any case, uh, that is my first leg session back after my sickness. It was a really good workout. Um, now I'm just coming back to my mom's place where we are going to, uh, get ready to go out for dinner. Um, so that's going to be my post-workout meal and I'll show you guys what I get. Mom doesn't have any whey protein. So what? You don't? I figured you'd have some at the place here, but you don't. So, no, cuz you took it cuz you suggested to me a kind I didn't like. I know. I'm sorry. You liked. I'll take responsibility for that. Okay. I should reward that. Guys, I stole all of mom's way. So, there's none here. Exactly. So, before we go out, I did want to get some kind of post-workout. So, I'm going to chug back. Am I even in the frame? So, I'm going to chug a cup of uh egg whites. Not something I normally do because um it tends to limit the bioavailability. So, you're probably only actually absorbing somewhere between, based on what I've seen, 50 to 70% of the protein that's here when you eat it raw, whereas when you eat it cooked, it's like above 90%. Um but we go Excuse me. Yeah, it's not that it has a bad taste. It's just like it's just a weird consistency, I guess. But anyway, so that was a cup of egg whites. So 28 g of protein as listed. So if I'm being optimistic, what's 70% of 28? Like 20 21 20 g of protein, something like that. So guys, there was a 40minute wait at this restaurant. So we're going to go check out a different spot where there isn't one picero, is it? Or picaro picero. I think I'm going to go with the lamb meatballs. And then for my entree, everything sounds super good, but the spring chicken, it's kind of high protein and has some veggies, so I'm going to go with that. And then we're still not sure about this, but I think we're going to split this white chocolate cheesecake. This is a a gin foam drink. There's like a mint foam on top, and I forget. I don't know. I always forget this stuff, but it's like some kind of sweet cucumber base to the drink. That's it. Oh man, that is delicious. That's like That's like 9.5 out of 10. Yeah. So good. It would It's very sweet. Very tasty. You should try it. So these are the What are they called? What are they? Lamb meatballs. Yeah, I think there's goat cheese on top. They look really good. So this is the main course. It's a chicken with some potatoes and cauliflower. Someone copied me. Said someone copied me. This is a cheese. Um, what is this? White chocolate ras raspberry cheesecake. White chocolate blueberry cheesecake. So, this is going to finish out the meal. We're going to split that. Yo, guys. We finished up with the meal. Um, overall was very good. The cheesecake at the end was a little bit disappointing. Other than that, very good. say I would give it overall maybe a soft 7.58 out of 10. Um so yeah, good meal. Uh now for the rest of the night, just got a little bit of work to finish up and that's about it. So I'm going to call it a night. Hope you guys enjoyed the vlog. Uh if you like the video, don't forget to like it. Subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. Thank you very much for watching. I'll see you guys in a couple days.