You can regain body fat really quickly, but you can't regain lean body mass very quickly. So, I'm not sure that is a rationale for saying that should be the goal for everyone. As soon as the subjects had regained their original body weight, we see that there is actually no metabolic damage. The last thing you want to do is is take someone like Menowed who is eating 3,000 calories a day pre-cut, ends up at 2,000 calories a day, and jumps right back to 3,000. All right, everyone. Welcome to the Ice Cream for Pierre's podcast. My name is Jeff Nippard and I'm your host. And joining me this week, I've got an all-star lineup of guests with me. And I'm going to get to introducing them in just a minute. But first, I just want to get into what it is that we're trying to accomplish here with this episode. Um, so my basic goal here was to bring together who I think are really the best coaches and researchers and athletes themselves who are uh speaking about the topic of reverse dieting and uh host what's going to be a formal debate um around the topic. Uh so in case some of you guys aren't familiar with that term, uh we're going to be using reverse dieting to mean the methodical typically slow introduction of calories after a cut or a uh weight loss period. Um for the sake of improving metabolic rate and mitigating fat gain and basically how we're going to set this up is I will serve as the moderator. Um so for the sake of this discussion I will be completely neutral. um any of the preconceived ideas that I have about reverse dieting, I'll just leave off the table. And um I'll also encourage you guys to do the same. Um so whether you think reverse dieting is great or it's a pile of crap, um I just encourage you to really listen to the experts and hear what it is they have to say and then when you come out the other side, you can come to an educated decision based on the evidence presented. Just to introduce our our guests here. So, representing the against reverse dieting side in their speaking order, I've got Eric Helms on the line. Uh, so Eric is a pro-natural bodybuilder. He's a competitive powerlifter. He holds no less than two master's degrees, one in sports nutrition, the other in exercise sciences. Uh, he's currently working on his PhD in New Zealand. Uh, Eric has published multiple peer-reviewed articles in scientific journals, um, including articles on recommendations for natural bodybuilding that I would recommend to everyone. Um, and he is a coach at 3D Muscle Journey, uh, coaching natural bodybuilders and powerlifters around the world. Uh, so it's a pleasure to have you here and welcome to the show, Eric. Thank you so much, Jeeoff. I appreciate it. Also representing the against reverse dieting side, we've got Menow Henselman's joining us again. So Menow was on the podcast just a few episodes ago in episode 18 where we chatted about highfrequency bodybuilding and uh why he's not a huge fan of bro splits. Uh so for some of you guys who might not be familiar with Menow, uh he's an online physique coach, fitness model. He's a scientific author with multiple published articles and scientific journals. He's the director at Beijian Bodybuilding. He's got a master's degree with distinction from the University of Warwick. Um and Menow, it's great to have you back, man. My pleasure. So representing the four reverse dieting side, we have Dr. Elaine Norton with us today. So Lane is a pro-natural bodybuilder. He's a world record holding powerliffter. He's got a PhD in nutritional sciences. He's published multiple articles in several scientific journals. Um and he is the owner and online coach at Biolane LLC. Lane, it's a real pleasure to have you on the show. So thank you for joining us. Thanks Jeeoff. I appreciate being included. Then also on Lane's team for reverse dieting, we have Dr. Peter Fitchen with us uh in audio only. Um and so Peter was on the show uh a few episodes ago I think in episode 12 uh and we talked about hormonal adaptations to contest prep and discussed a case study that uh Dr. Fitchen did on himself and uh followed uh himself through his contest prep. Uh so Peter is himself a pro-natural bodybuilder. Uh he's got a PhD in nutritional sciences. uh that was earned or defended between uh these recordings. Uh so congrats Peter. And um he's also published, you know, multiple scientific articles uh and peer-reviewed journals and uh he he's the he's the founder and an online coach at FitBody Physique LLC. Uh so welcome back, Peter. H thanks for having me back. All right, guys. So we're going to get on with it. Um so how this debate is going to be structured is we will allow all of our guests to uh speak once. Uh so there will be two opening statements uh one from Eric and one from Lane. Um and then we will have a round of rebuttals. So then Menow will speak uh and then Peter will speak. Um, and then after that, we're just going to have an organized discussion where uh the debaters can ask questions of one another and uh I will do my best to moderate that and make sure that it stays uh organized. Uh so without further preamble from me, um Eric Holmes, you can take it away. Sweet. Well, thank you so much for allowing me to start. Um, first I just want to start with kind of saying that the probably the most important thing that I hope everyone gets out of this is that you can have disagreements in a respectful way that actually improved everyone's knowledge and understanding of something. Um, for just a brief bit of background, most recently Menow and I had like a oneweeklong debate on protein and now we are on on the same side of the table. Um, and you know, only a year ago, uh, Peter and I were were co-authors on evidence-based recommendations to natural bodybuilding. And only three weeks from now, I'll be presenting in Australia with Lane. So, I think I I hope everyone understands from that that we don't necessarily have to be at each other's throats when there's disagreements and that this can be something very productive. So anyway, um I'm of the opinion that the primary goal post show is to recover as fast as possible psych psychologically and and physiologically. Uh and that some of the models of reverse dieting are focused too much on trying to prevent fat gain when in fact uh the fastest way to recover metabolic rate and tde total energy expenditure is to put fat back on. Um the only reason uh for a physique competitor, let's say a male physique competitor or bodybuilding competitor to have strided glutes is if they're going to be on stage. Um and the the quickest way to get in a state where they are healthy again uh mentally and physically is to get out of that state. Um, so, uh, I think some of the the the problems quote unquote with reverse dieting really come down to how it is applied and what it is meant to mean. And for every person who says reverse dieting, there's probably another definition of what reverse dieting is. So, uh, before I start talking about this, I just want to apologize if I straw man the other team um, uh, based on what I'm discussing because it may be that there are more similarities rather than differences in the approaches that we think are optimal. But I will talk about the one that I think is problematic. uh the approach where you stay in a calorie deficit for a prolonged period uh say three, four, five, six, seven weeks or even months post show before getting into a surplus uh in the hopes of you know adding food while staying lean uh is basically just prolonging the diet. And I think uh this approach not only um creates further complications mentally and leads people down the pathway towards struggling with eating disorders u but also subverts the offseason and it's longer before you get to a point where you're hormonally in a in a place to make gains, have enough body fat to actually train as hard as as they could. Uh and it's just they're not in a position to make progress. Um and the the claim that building metabolic capacity where people who have taken an offseason or two to slowly very very slowly build up calories allows them to diet on higher calories I think is often coming from people who spent multiple seasons basically in a perma dieting state like we talk about perma bulking but a lot of the people who I have seen who have had quote unquote success with this slow drawn out reverse diet come from a background where they were competing every single year and doing so in a very harsh state. So yes, it is better to be in this kind of slow extended very conservative slow build to a surplus, but that doesn't mean it's the optimal way to approach it. It just means it's better than being in this constantly metabolically suppressed state, if you will. Um, what would be optimal would be to get yourself out of a deficit immediately and purposely gain fat to the point until you're probably at the low end of your settling point and from that point on start the the more slow methodical approach to increasing calories to reach a target rate of weight gain that is appropriate for putting on muscle gain. Uh, doing so prevents a lot of health issues in women specifically. Um the loss of the menstrual cycle is a is a common thing and in some categories say bodybuilding it's more common than not to have it go away and the uh hormonal adaptations that occur uh that that result in amenorhea uh can have long-term consequences for health such as bone density. Um and on on the physical side of it, uh we als sorry on the the psychological side of it, we also know that eating disorders are not simply just a state of mind, but they are a biological consequence of dieting to extremely low levels. We know from the Minnesota semi- starvation study uh that many of the symptoms that we associate with anorexia uh were induced by dieting. So, a lot of the problems that come from dieting and and the the psychological stresses that a competitor incurs are due to having to diet down and being in a prolonged state of dieting is is not an ideal way to get out of that. Um, I think we have to approach a recovery diet looking at people as people rather than purely as bodybuilders. Um, and even if you were to go back two years ago or or a year and a half ago, uh, 3DMJ ourselves, we used what would probably be considered a an overly conservative reverse dieting approach. And we ended up stopping because we had about a 10% success rate. It's so common for people to say that the period after a show, the reverse diet, is harder than the diet itself. And we accept this at face value. But I actually think there's something wrong with that. That really should give us pause. It should make us think, is this the best way to do it? Are we actually, is the sacrifice of having only one out of 10 people actually be able to follow the quote unquote plan worth the potential benefit of maybe being leaner or having a, you know, faster metabolic rate or being able to diet on higher food? And then we actually have to question whether that's true. Um because now that we have a few years of not using the reverse diet compared to having used the reverse diet, even in the people who were successful, our anecdotal experience has been that they don't get the diet on higher food the next season. They don't necessarily start leaner. Really, the only goal should be to prevent binging, to prevent fat overshoot, and to allow a person to have a productive offseason. And while a reverse diet can get you there, it does so with a lot of stress. Uh and in most cases we found that following a rigid reverse diet prompts uh almost what you could describe as as bulimia. Not necessarily actually throwing up, but this I try to follow a strict reverse diet. I blow it. Okay. So then I'm going to come back down in the reverse diet and it's this self-created cycle of not being able to follow this rigid diet because there's not the same goal of getting on stage. Um so so that's the practical side of it. From a pure physiological evidence-based side of it, uh we know that while there is a large downregulation and total energy expenditure over the course of a diet, um the vast majority of that quote unquote metabolic adaptation is actually neat. It's the reduction in non- exercise activity. Um and we don't necessarily have enough data to know whether or not or how that responds to changes in food intake. there is a reduction in RMR uh especially when you get very very lean but it's maybe at best only 20 to 30% of the uh downregulation and total energy expenditure. So from even a a mechanistic kind of hypothetical standpoint there are some issues with the idea of trying to correct quote unquote metabolic adaptation which is predominantly activity based. Um, however, I would agree that part of that activity is actually efficiency of skeletal muscle, things you can't modify. So, anyway, because of the psychological downsides of of getting incredibly lean and the physiological downsides to getting incredibly lean, uh, and just the the the lack of success and the high rates of failure, it makes a lot more sense to get yourself to the low end of your set point and then slow it down. And that's why we promote what's called the quote unquote recovery diet. Uh we think not only will this just prevent some of these downsides, but it's also more beneficial in terms of a productive offseason because you're not spending three, four, five months or however long and this extremely low body fat suppressed state uh and a a non hormonally optimal place for muscle gain. If you can get yourself to a better body fat, you're eating more food, uh you can get back to training and being in a more sane state immediately so that you can make more productive progress. And that is my opener. Okay. Thank you, Eric. Um, no worries. So, so now I'll give Lane an opportunity to uh to speak his thoughts. So, Lane, you can take it away. Okay. Sure. Uh, thanks. Thanks, Eric. So, there's not a whole lot I would disagree with. Um, the first thing I'd like to start out with is that, um, Eric made a good point to say that reverse dieting means something different to everybody. And I think especially uh based on some of the criticism I've got, I think some people say, "Well, Lane wants to keep people in extended deficits for long periods of time." And I can tell you right now, my my ideal reverse would be to quickly jump calories up pretty high, get somebody feeling really good to the point where, you know, there's not that there's there's not that um kind of psychological drain. and then slowly add calories from there. Um the issue becomes uh I'm always trying to fit this in the context of what the particular client wants and there are several there's a lot of people out there who say they are not willing to accept fat gain in any way, shape or form or especially with regards to women. I would love to be able to convince some women to put on some weight. It's not the easiest thing in the world to do. And oftentimes what I've found is yes, I have seen some people who reverse dieting when you start adding it slowly, they just can't handle it. And that's not a judgment on any of them. And so I'll either tell them like, look, this isn't working. We need to add we need to add calories faster. It's not appropriate for your situation. But there's also people who when they go up to when they quickly kind of put that fat mass back on for them, it triggers immediately I want to diet back down. And a lot of times they're going to if I don't if I don't diet them at that point because I'll refuse to. They'll immediately go and do it on their own. And so I'm always kind of all right. So what do I find that's a middle ground that's going to get them from doing that? Okay, that being said, anytime I feel that somebody is getting to the point where they're having an unhealthy relationship with food or they're really struggling with this sort of thing, I mean, I I've had clients come to me and said, you know, I I understand I'm going to feel a little bit worse for a little bit longer, but I'm willing to accept that if we can limit fat gain a little bit more, as long as they do that kind of in a eyes wide open sort of way and I don't detect them start starting to get those psychological cues that something's wrong, I'm okay with that. But I'm also okay with somebody saying, "Hey, I want to feel I just want to feel normal faster." And if that comes with some weight gain, I'm okay with that. What I find is, not to go off on a tangent, but a lot of people don't want to eat mindfully in any way, shape, or form. And they want to they want to go out and kind of eat whatever and just hope and pray that nothing they don't gain fat. And that's not how metabolism works. Um, I wouldn't say I I think we also have to keep think about general population versus competitors. So in terms of competitors, I completely agree with Eric there. There is absolutely no reason to stay super lean year round. I've seen people who they reverse I mean I've seen a guy who we got him up to almost 450 grams of carbs a day which was definitely above his maintenance that what he was previously and he was maintaining very very very lean weight and he came to me and said hey I just got my testosterone checked and all this stuff and it was low and I feel bad about that. I said okay well listen we can add more calories but you have to understand that we can be more aggressive. you're going to have some fat gain. Are you okay with that? And he said, "Well, I don't know." I said, "Well, listen. You you told me you didn't want to gain fat. Now you're telling me you're worried about your hormones. I can tell you personally if your if it's affecting your health, you need to stop and we need to get more aggressive." And we did that. So, I think it's not as clear and dry as just one sizefits-all. And I think you have to be very nuanced with how you do it. Um I have seen people and again the the problem with this is you know science scientific studies I always say are like a blunt instrument. They tell us what exactly what not to do. Like if we see something happen in science and you go directly against that that's the blunt instrument telling you not to do that. But coaching is a little bit more of an art form and that there's going to be some things and I'm sure some the coaches on here if you don't agree with reverse dieting or my implementation of it, there are some things that you're just not going to have a scientific study on to reference necessarily. I have observed people and I've got AI've got a gal's numbers pulled up here just wanted to reference them. She started with Oh, where my goodness gracious. Here we go. I can never find it when you need it, right? Okay, so she started with me at and this is again there's always the issue that somebody may not be reporting correctly and that's that's a totally legitimate criticism but this is pretty robust. She started with me at 121 lbs at 101 gram of carbs and 66und 66 gram of carbs 101 gram of protein 41 gram of fat. Obviously, that's not something you want to be on for long term. And she claims she was maintaining probably. Was she having some binges here and there? That's my guess is yes. Over the course of time, we got her up to 130 pound 30 and a half pounds at her. Now, she got there at around 165 gram of carbs, 70 57 gram of fat. She stayed there uh up till 315 grams of carbs and 81 grams of fat. So, she did not gain any more weight during that last time period. Again, to Jeff's point, get somebody up to a certain point and then slowly raise calories. I agree that's the best way to go about it. She has now dieted down to 108 lbs. Again, keeping in mind she started at 121. She's now down to 108 lbs at 130 gram of carbs, 45 gram of fat. Now, I wouldn't say that that's a super high level of food intake, but I would also say that is significantly more than she was gaining on when we started. When we started, she was gaining pretty steadily, even up to 100 grams of carbs a day and 40 gram of fat. So, again, if you want to argue that that's all somebody under reporting and all that sort of stuff, you can do that. But I've seen this with some other people that there does seem to be, now I agree with Eric, some people you can get their food up to a certain point in the offseason, they will get their they'll be able to maintain their weight on higher food, but then you go to cut down and you have to get back down to the exact same level. Okay? Uh and typically I find that in people who were very very very restricted for for a long time before that. um if you look at and I can't remember the name of the paper but there was actually a research paper showing that um really strict restriction for five to eight weeks produc produced adaptations in metabolism um and even gene expression that lasted up to a year later. So it seems like the body has kind of just like we have muscle memory the body has some kind of memory when it comes to fat loss and weight regain. The one other thing I want to point out, and again, this was in rats, so you know, however much weight you want to give to that, but I don't see how it's a study we could have done in humans. Um, there was a study done where they they basically they dieted animals down about they lost a seventh of their body weight and then they said they basically add libid and fed them. And what they found was they they regained and they regained past their original body fat level. and they went and looked at their fat cell number and when they started they had a certain amount of fat cells. when they regained, they actually added about 50% fat cells. uh 50% more from a rapid regain of weight and they did not stop gaining until their individual fat cells were again the same size as what they were before they started dieting to that's kind of um uh supporting the contention that body fat set point is not necessarily a body fat percentage number but rather it's sensing the actual size of the fat cell and flux across the of calories across the fat cell. So my concern would be raising calories too fast postrestriction from a simple perspective of there's a possibility that we could create actually create a higher body fat set point especially when you start getting into weight cycling. And that's again why my last point I want to make we always like to get this idea that that metabolism is is a is a math equation. And it is it is a math equation. It is it is absolutely calories in versus calories out. But everything that makes up calories in, calories out is unbelievably complex, nuanced, and we don't even have all the parameters for it. That's in my opinion. Um because you can see there was a weight cycling experiment in animals by Brown Lell and they fed animals the exact same total calories over the course of time. They had one group just steadily overfeed and they had another group diet cyclical where they would go up down with their calories. Um, so they would restrict them and then let them eat and restrict them and let them eat. The group that did the calorie the the weight cycling put on more body fat over time even though over time total calorie intake was the same. If we were a simple math equation and just a basic math equation, we should see them be the same over time. All right, Lane, that was great. Thank you. Um, now we'll have Menow come in and, uh, respond to what Lane just said and perhaps had any ideas, uh, that he has on his own. All right. Um, let me preface this that I am technically on cocaine at the moment here in here in Ecuador. Cocoa leaf tea is legal. So, but it's um more of a technicality since the effect is usually compared to the effect is usually compared to caffeine. I actually don't feel anything from it any stimulant effect whatsoever. But I thought that disclaimer was appropriate. Um as for the discussion I think in large terms um application wise we are actually very much in agreement and rather than uh be uh lames critic here I think this discussion will benefit most um from becoming a bit more concrete some more data and figures and terms um and for that I'd like to start with the idea of metabolic damage because uh my research assistant Anastasia Senko and I um recently co-authored a paper that's currently in review about metabolic damage and uh to touch on a few terms that have been used in the debate. uh metabolic damage um as defined in the literature that we reviewed at least is basically the idea that after underfeeding for a prolonged period of time you induce negative metabolic adaptations that persist after weight regain or after refeeding. So basically um if you're at a certain body composition at time point X uh 2015 or something and you go uh in a deficit for a whole year, you enter contact shape and then you revert back to your original body composition over time. The metabolic damage theory is basically that at that point your energy expenditure will be lower than it was before. So we reviewed the literature on that and um this is very closely linked with the idea of fat stores memory that Lane touched on. Um which is basically the idea that there is a set point or uh at least some memory mechanism in your body by which your body fat percentage or total fat mass or normal fat cells has an effect on your metabolism and that you can basically um damage your metabolism this way. So what we did is um unlike many of the literature we used a method to relate measured to predicted resting energy expenditure or basal metabolic rate sleeping energy expenditure. Those terms are usually used interchangeably in the literature or they are not but the methodology is actually the same so they should be used interchangeably. Um we used um set of formulas that correct for body fat percentage, body composition and have shown uh accuracy that is comparable with that of organ-based measurements. And that is very important because it's not just lean body mass that affects your basal metabolic rate. But of lean body mass, organ mass has a far higher contribution to your energy expenditure than uh muscle mass. So you want to correct for that. And uh with the formulas that we used we did this we um calculated measured and predicted uh basil metabolic rate over time in a series of uh data and for one is the Minnesota starvation experiment very well known uh guys dieting to an average of um I believe 5.5% body fat for untrained individuals basically untrained they were quite active but not resistance trained that is drastic and many competitors although readily believe that they um are 2% or something. It's actually quite hard to be um less than 5.5% body fat. Even if you are resistant strength and carry a lot of muscle mass um even for men, for women it's absolutely out of the question, basically you'd be dead. Um, and basically what we did is when you use the correct uh methods, you can actually see that in the Minnesota starvation experiment, as soon as the subjects had regained their original uh body weight, we see that there is actually no metabolic damage. So their their basil metabolic rate was exactly as you would predict. The change in the ratio of measured to predicted was actually not different. And this is a a new finding because other research especially Alfred Dulu has argued that it's fat mass that determines these things and that's why the fat stores memory model comes from. We show that if you use the right equations you correct for body fat percentage which indirectly um serves as a proxy for organ mass. We see that once you have returned to your original body composition or when you correct for your body composition, your metabolic rate is actually the same after even prolonged chronic not just dieting but outright starvation as before. And these results have been replicated. We reanalyzed data of the biosphere experiment. Same thing. Several more studies of chronic and overfeeding cycles. Same thing. We also looked at uh data of malnourished individuals and this is perhaps the most striking point of our data set. We looked at the literature on anorexia nervosa patients and we find that uh even in that case when body composition has returned from you know just outright malnourishment self starvation um really clinical situations there is actually no evidence of metabolic damage. In fact, in this is probably something uh genetic, but we found a trend for the opposite that anorexia nervosa patients once they had recovered their original body composition, their basil metabolic rate tended to be higher than before drastic uh fat loss. We also looked at um the two papers which are the only literature we have basically on body bowlers in contest prep and using the same method we find that once you correct for body composition there is actually no metabolic damage. So this is really important for the idea of um reverse dieting because we have to look at why why does your metabolism increase after um I got time. Yeah. Okay. So why does your metabolism increase after um the weight loss period? And we can look at these factors mechanistically and then predict um how fast we should increase caloric intake. Most of um or at least a very large part of the change in your energy expenditure is simply due to your basal metabolic rate which is very strongly tied to your body composition and in particular your lean body mass because fat mass in itself has a very marginal effect on energy expenditure compared to lean body mass especially compared to organ mass. So uh body composition is pretty fixed. If you increase it faster your metabolism will increase faster. If you increase it slowly, your metabolism will increase more slowly. Second factor is the firmic effect of food which is basically the energy or you can view it as the energy your body expends while processing food energy. So if your firmic effect of food is 10%, you eat 100 calories, your body burns 10 calories in um harvesting the energy from that food. This is directly and acutely proportional to your energy intake. So if you increase energy intake by a th00and calories or 2,000 calories, it doesn't matter your formic effect of food, the percentage is generally the same. So this is acute and we have no control over this other than um setting caloric intake. It won't affect your metabolism otherwise or in a chronic or permanent fashion. It's a purely acute effect. The most interesting aspect of your metabolism is probably adaptive formogenesis. and Lane rightly quoted uh research showing that adaptive formogenesis which is um basically the the decrease in metabolic rate beyond that predicted by your body composition um can in fact be permanent and it is if you maintain um the leaner body composition. So if you stay in contest shape your metabolism will stay suppressed and you have little um control over this. Now um we also in our paper we reviewed the literature on the effect of energy intake on um adaptive formogenesis and basal metabolic rate and um this is quite interesting. I think they found that adaptive formogenesis can be measured during both under and overfeeding in as little as a day and generates one to three days before measurement instruments can detect the difference in your energy expenditure. And even for the more uh prolonged adaptations like thyroid hormone which is mostly linked to body composition or sympathetic nervous activity which regulates needs your non-ex exercise activity formogenesis that we talked about before. These things at most take 8 to 14 days to recover. And the more acute changes are believed to be due to changes in insulin secretion, heart rate, creatine clearance, u negative fluid balance and water clearance rates. So these are the more uh small scale stuff and that recovers almost instantaneously. The reason that it's not really instantaneous is probably a limitation of of our measurement instruments. And the longer um adaptations again are in at most two weeks they clear. So after you return to your maintenance energy intake even if your body composition doesn't change you have reverted these negative metabolic adaptations and then um you are back to the point where your energy expenditure is almost directly mathematically computable. um if you take into account your current body composition and the firmic effect of food the factors that um regulate um energy expenditure your metabolism. So um basically mechanistically speaking we can say that um after a diet what you should not do and why I think reverse dieting has a lot of merit is revert back to your original maintenance intake. So, say someone starts a diet at 3,000 calories maintenance intake. Typical 80 kilogram male bodybuilder ends up at 2,000 calories. What some people do and where I think um the reverse dieting shines is that they think that is still their maintenance intake. It is not because you're you have lost probably lean body mass but certainly body weight. Uh your energy intake is lower. So, the formic effect of food is lower. You can by looking at these mechanistic factors, you can predict that your energy expenditure will be lower than before in a highly predictable fashion. So once you're at the point, what you should not do is go back to 3,000 calories. I think that's my maintenance intake, so that's where I go. What you should do is you can go straight back to maintenance or um I generally have people go basically straight into a surplus but with a conservative estimate that often ends up being maintenance for one week or at most two weeks before I increase caloric intake further. Um, you should take into account that you get them to the uh level that you want them to be, which is usually a M surplus or maintenance, taking into account the changes in their body composition. And then um which is probably quite similar to what Leorton said that usually in practice that means you start with um a more drastic increase in caloric intake after contest prep and after that it builds more slowly. All right. Okay, I think that covers I'm out of time and I covered what I wanted to cover. Okay, that was great. Thank you, Menow. Um, so now we'll let Peter do some talking. All right. Uh, thanks, Jeff. Um, I think I'm I'm on I I guess I'm on the same page with I think most of us. I think it sounds like we're in agreement on a lot of the big things. Um, I think one big thing to keep in mind, at least in my opinion, is is context of of when you're reversing. um you know, someone who's coming out of stage lean, you don't want to reverse them slowly because as as we've discussed, there there really isn't a point of keeping someone that lean. All it's doing is derailing uh the amount of time. It's just going to extend the amount of time needed uh to get them feeling normal again and be able to make progress. Um, but someone who's, you know, not dieting to stage levels of lean, who maybe is just a general pop person who diets to non-stage lean, uh, you know, isn't feeling the detrimental effects, doesn't necessarily want to gain a whole lot of fat back. I'm all right with pushing them a little bit slower, but again, we're for the purpose of this talk, we're, you know, this argument or debate, um, I think we're focusing on stage lean. And so, you know, I I think that initially you do need to bump, you know, calories up um to get the person feeling normal. you know, a decent bump in food p reduction in cardio to get um you know, to get them closer to maintenance and and then work food up at a rate that, you know, kind of balances them feeling normal um with not letting body weight gain go out of control because, you know, as everyone so far has discussed, you know, the last thing you want to do is is take someone like Menow said who is eating, you know, 3,000 calories a day pre-cut, uh you know, ends up at 2,000 calories a day and, you know, jumps right back to 3,000 or even more. You know, what one thing that's very common is just the uncontrolled um binge that turns into just eating whatever you want for a while and the and the body fat overshooting that that it's been talked about so far. Um, and that's that's what you want to avoid. And so um, you know, I I'm on board with with most things everyone else has has said, you know, and and the rate at which I reverse someone kind of after that initial bump is going to be dependent upon a few things. Um, one's going to be how far, you know, where where can they sit comfortably? Where where do they feel normal? Uh, how much muscle mass do they or how much how much weight and and muscle do they want to try to add in the offseason? How long is their offseason? You know, how much room weight wise do we have to work with before they might be getting too heavy and need to cut again? Um, and just psychologically, can they handle um, you know, mentally gaining? and and I still try to push them as fast as they'll allow me to push. Um, but but you know, some people mentally it's it's hard for them to stay on track after reversing. And so it's a matter of just let's reverse faster, let's gain weight back quicker, let's get you feeling normal, and then let's slow this down to a more reasonable rate. Um, others tend to, you know, psychologically not be able to handle that as much. And so it's it's let's bump you closer to maintenance and and, you know, increase slow, you know, more slowly. Um, and assuming that they're able to be compliant and you're not seeing kind of like Lane said is assuming they're able to be compliant, you're not seeing a lot of the psychological issues associated with that, I'm okay with that. But if again, if it starts affecting their health or their their mental physical health, um, we got to increase faster. Um, and you know, ultimately my my goal for someone is to get them feeling normal, but still control how much they gain in the process so that you have room to actually sit in a surplus for a while and a very slight surplus maybe and make progress. Um, you know, the last thing I want to see out of someone is for them to binge their way back up to their pre uh cut weight and then, you know, where do you go from there? um you know a lot of people would want to cut again right away and that's in my opinion a terrible idea because then you get that as Lane was talking about that gain restrict gain restrict cycle and um that that at least in animal models does seem to increase um fat gain over time and and so we want to avoid that and so if we can get a person if I can get a person feeling normal uh you know and then increase at the rate at which they'll let me increase that's appropriate for them and their situation So, again, it's not a one-sizefits-all. Um, you know, that's that's kind of my goal. And I think one takehome from all of this too that I think we'd all agree on is that, you know, once you do start feeling normal, um, you know, you want to stay in a state where you feel normal and you're not dieting for a majority of your training career, um, you know, that's where you're actually making progress. You're not making progress when you diet. Um, you're not making these huge transformations in your physique. you're pretty much especially in the late stages of prep just trying to hold on if you know especially if you're a natural um it's just a matter of trying to hold on to what you can in those late stages and so you know really if you graph out your entire training career and I know uh Alberto Nunes has done this and and I saw that and did it for my own career and saw the same thing um where you look at you know how many months have you spent dieting versus not significantly more should be not um and and I think you know this is one one of the many reasons why, but that's kind of a side note and kind of a different topic, but I think, you know, to to sum sum things up, um I'm I'm on board. I think I don't think we're all that different. I mean, I know I know we're sitting on opposite sides of this debate and there might be some nuance details we differ in, but it sounds like big picture we really are on the same page with things in terms of getting someone to feel normal again after a show and then, you know, based on the individual and their situation, start pushing food up um at a rate appropriate for the situation. All right, guys. Thank you so much for your opening statements and uh rebuttals. Um, so I I'm pleased to see that there's a lot of agreement amongst you guys. And I can't say that I'm really surprised. Um, so what I want to do though is really cut to I think like the heart of the disagreement here, which seems to be one of degree and not principle. Um, so I think that all of you guys more or less agree that it's not a good idea to be ultra conservative and ultra slow and prevent fat gain on principle, but it it rather should be more Pete, would you mind muting your mic? Sorry. Uh but it should be more so a matter of the the athletes preferences and their personality and so on. Um so it seems like Menow has probably the most assertive position. He's seems to be saying that you should bump them up to their old maintenance right away whereas perhaps Lane and Peter might be sorry not not their old they're they're new their new maintenance. Okay. Yeah. I thought you said we actually totally that's one of my main criticisms for people that say just go back to your maintenance. I said, "Well, if it was your maintenance, then you wouldn't gain weight by definition." So, that's a huge thing that some people miss. And I'm glad Minnow touched on that because that's a that's a huge difference. So, I guess what I find puzzling about that is if you're just going to go to your current maintenance, then presumably your body composition shouldn't change. Um, so how is it that you're expecting to improve the body composition or gain fat, which is actually seems to be the goal from your point of view, Menow? Right. So, um, what I actually do is I try I have a conservative estimate of the surplus I want them in. And usually that ends up being very close to maintenance or maintenance for the first week. Okay. And that makes sure that any negative metabolic adaptations will um have been reversed or at least the ones not conditional on energy intake or uh in so far as you can upgate that or body composition. And then basically the next week I start increasing and they'll be in a surplus and they'll be gaining weight or at least usually they will be. So um yes I think definitely the goal is to get them in a surplus and gaining weight um quite rapidly within two week time frame to be precise. Um, and I think um um a good question for for Lane um that I have and I think will uh clear up a lot of the confusion is I'm getting the impression that a lot of people associate your name lane with reverse dieting and they basically take the meaning of reverse dieting as literal. So basically that means that a six-month contest prep means a sixmon reverse dieting phase before you're um well uh bulking again or however you want to call it. So um is is that what you define as reverse dieting? Is that your method? Reverse dieting I just is very very general in my in my terms. Like I said it just depends on the person and what their goals are, what they want to do. Um, I think that, you know, if you're willing to tolerate more body fat gain, then you can go back to feeling normal faster and get your metabolic rate up faster. The question is, the question is always on this hand, will the trade-off for how much body fat I gain be worth what I get metabolically? And if the answer is yes, then it totally makes sense. If the answer is no, which is where I, like I said, the data on weight cycling and what I've seen with some people who tend to the way they tend to do it is binge immediately restrict again. Binge immediately restrict again. I think that's about the worst way you can go about it. So, part of reverse dieting that I started um not that I started, sorry, actually I don't even think I I'm not even the first person to use that term. I actually think Berto was the first person I saw use it. Um, and as far as metabolic damage, I uh I sincerely regret using that term. Um, that was this popular term that was put out by I think named guy named Scott Ael. And because it was the popular term, I used it and then suffered uh the wrath of of various people. Um, and so yeah, he's nice guy. That guy, he's a nice guy. Um, I know. I know. So, um I think I would have suffered his wrath regardless. But, uh uh in any case, I think that um you always have I I think so the weight cycling is something that concerns me. And one of the reasons that I started having people do this reverse diet was just to get them consistent and try to get them doing something that they could try to have a good way for them to think about adding calories. Um, and because for a lot of people, this idea that you're going to add calories is completely counterintuitive. And you know, people say, "Well, isn't that bad for me? Isn't that bad for me?" And it's like, "Well, not necessarily." The other thing I wanted to bring up was, you know, if you look at the data for weight loss, it's extraordinarily grim in terms of who actually can maintain weight loss. I mean it's if you want to be depressed look at the data on weight loss and who can maintain weight loss for three plus years. So I also think about this not just in terms of competitors. I actually think about this more for okay what do we do with obese people right? So somebody who needs to lose 100 pounds something like that. Um if they lose that 100 pounds they're going to have reduced metabolic rate reduced you know all these issues. Do we just take them back up? Okay. we just take them to back up very quickly, right? Um or do or do they have to stay in a deficit for the for for for prolonged period? Now, I would argue that at a certain point your metabolism adapts and you will eventually reach unless you're just on complete starvation, you'll reach a point where you're you do not lose more weight. So, by by definition, that is a new maintenance. Um, I don't know too many people who would live who would want to live on 1,200 calories a day the rest of their life or 1500 calories a day the rest of their life. And so, I have, again, there's no research on this. I'm wanting to put more research out. I'm wanting to fund some studies um so we can get some answers for this because at the end of the day I don't care what the I don't Yes, I care about being right. I'm not I'm not going to sit here and tell you I don't care about being right. Of course I do. I I'll jump up and down in my living room when I'm right, but I don't care more about being right than I care about getting the right answer. So, I just want to get the right answer because I want to do the right thing. Okay. Um I have a quick question. Yeah. Um, so it seem it seems like Menow made the case that the physiological aspect of reverse dieting is a little bit of a fool's errand since the adaptations to to dieting are are are completely predicated upon the body composition of the person. Um, so Minnow, when you say body composition, are you referring to restoring lean body mass or are you referring to going back to the actual body fat percentage that they were before the diet started? What what what I actually was going to ask was, do do you think that this is a psychological conversation? And is there any physiological reason to actually slowly increase calories? Does that make a difference in the absence of changes in body composition is my question. So there's there's there's I can only tell you what I've observed. Um I have had CL and this hasn't been the case for everyone by by any means, but I have had clients who have gotten their calories up to an amount of calories that could not be explained by the amount of lean body mass they added. I mean, uh, Katie Rutherford would be one person that I worked with that, uh, would be a great example of that to where she got up, she to where her maintenance changed so drastically and yes, she probably put on 3, four pounds of lean body mass, but it simply wouldn't explain what we were observing. Now, is she an outlier or is that something we can look at? I don't know. Menow, what do you think? No. So the question is um what my explanation would be for someone that gained uh an amount of extra energy expenditure because I didn't sorry to jump in. Were you talk were you you didn't get a chance to answer. Were you talking about uh lean body mass restoration or restoring of the the actual body fat percentage before they started dieting? Both. So you need to take both into account. That's the one thing that um our reanalysis of all the data sets um makes it new is that you you need to take both into account. So um and that that serves as a proxy um for organ mass as well. But lean body mass is most important and we actually run a lot of analysis just using lean body mass and you get pretty close with just lean body mass. U but as for your question no I've seen the same. I mean, um, I have numerous clients where you increase, uh, where we're able to increase energy intake beyond the level that, um, they were on before or that they would just get ridiculously fat on. And usually that is indeed the case of, um, prolonged lean bulk or worse diet, however you want to call it. However, I think that that is almost always um, explainable by um, increases in muscle mass. And yes, just the increase in muscle mass won't um lead to a high predicted increase in metabolic rate. But we know that there is very high inter-individual variability. In fact, the highest factor of interindividual variability in human metabolic rate is how adaptive someone's metabolism is. So um the adaptiveis component itself and formic food all this stuff. If you get um a sample of, you know, 50 people and you bump up their energy intake by 2,000 calories, all of them, some people will just get ridiculously fat. Others will basically their metabolism will increase all the way up to that level and they're that will almost be their maintenance. So that's something you should definitely take into account. Um so yes, I believe that is very much possible. Uh can if I can I jump back in and I'll promise 30 seconds. Um, great point. And I think that I I have seen people who have, for lack of a better term, I call them adaptive metabolisms. Typically, um, so I can almost predict, uh, not always. Some people who reverse up really well drop down really well, too. But I I can see somebody who's really struggling to come down that they're kind of sticking really frequently. A lot of times they'll do really well with slow calorie increases because they'll kind of adapt very well in the opposite direction too. They seem to their bodies seem to almost resist change, want to resist change in either direction. And I usually have to I usually find I have to be a little bit more aggressive with with calorie changes that I can't just do small adjustments like I usually do. I have to get a little bit more aggressive. So that would support what you're saying, Minnow. Yeah, I I agree 100% and my experience and I think the literature indication as well is that when you have an adaptive form adaptive metabolism, it goes both ways. So, you know, people like to mellow in uh um or they like to be melancholic and think I have such an adaptive metabolism, you know, when I go on a diet, I have to get really low in calories. But I'm actually one of those individuals. Um I need to go to 2,000 or below to reach photo shoot condition. um assuming a pretty sedentary lifestyle. Um and I can bulk or at least I could bulk on um well over 4,000 calories. So the difference and the difference in body composition is not great for me anymore at all between being bulking and uh being in photo shoot conditions. So that's a 2,000 calorie gap. And that's just because my metabolism is so adaptive. And I think that's the case for most people that they um you you can't be screwed both ways basically. That's the bright side. Um, so Eric, I have a question for you. Um, so you you mentioned in your opening statement about having someone return to their low end set point. Um, can you describe what it is you mean by that and how it is you go about keeping someone at their low end and is the goal to keep them then at their low end until their next prep? Uh, or what are your thoughts on that? Good question because that's actually not what I meant. Um, and I probably should have said if I didn't settling point because as we've kind of discussed with regards to set point whether that actually exists what the actual mechanics of it. I think in pragmatic terms really what we're talking about is what point at when their body fat increases and also their lean body mass recovers are they no longer food focused uh hormonally suppressed and in a basically a poor place to to start a le a lean bulker or or offseason whatever you want to call it. So, the goal of getting to that low end of the settling point is just basically saying, "Hey, here's a target for us to get to to start the offseason rather than saying we're going to slowly slowly increase calories um and and stay as lean as possible while increasing food." I I think while you mentioned that that a lot of our disagreements are probably in degrees rather than principle, I do agree with what people think the principle of reverse dieting is, which is to add as much food as possible while staying as lean as possible. And I think that unfortunately caters to people's neurosis. And for people who are very uncomfortable gaining fat post show and who have body image struggles, um that becomes an excuse to maintain a behavior which is unhealthy. So I I think why I'm relatively outspoken in the way I say the goal is to gain fat is to really try to turn that on its head so people understand that right I don't I shouldn't be in conscious shape unless I'm on stage. So anyway, to answer your question directly, um I like to see people getting up to say five% over their stage weight within two to four weeks. So if you competed at 180 pounds or you know 82 kilos or something like that, you're up 4 kilos or I'm probably doing math wrong here. Yeah, you're up four kilos or or close to 10 pounds within a month post show at least and more. And it's not necessarily bad. Uh but the goal is to get to the end of the set point and say, "Okay, good. We've got out of the quote unquote danger zone and now we can take a more measured approach and we should get get heavier uh you know based on how how how soon your next season is, how fat we we need to get, how how struggle how much of a struggle you have dieting down, etc." So my follow-up question then would be um if the goal is to get to a certain body composition that's healthy and feels good and has the athlete performing well and recovering and so on um why the twoe buffer period or why any buffer period. Um why not give the athlete an ad liibbitum control on their diet? Let them eat what they want. Let the body fat come on. Um, and then once they get to that point, which you're calling say the low inset point or somewhere in the middle of their settling point or what have you, um, then really encourage them to say, "You got the binging out of your system. Let's now control for caloric intake and move on from there." Lane, I see you shaking your head. So, I I I'm going to say probably the same thing Lane would, but if you look at actually like the clinical treatment of anorexia, it's not just eat whatever you want. You know, the reason is is because just I'm trying to say this nicely. You're not sane after after after a show. You know, uh you don't have hunger signals that are functioning and there is a lag for those to return to normal. And some of some of the times even when the physiological markers return to normal, your behavioral changes haven't returned to normal, if they were even normal in the first place. Uh because remember, you're you're someone who decided to get on stage in a speedo and cover yourself in tanner and shave yourself. you're you're we're not normal people. Um yeah, exactly. Uh sacrifice to win, right? So, um nonetheless, uh the point being uh that you you can and will overshoot. Some people, if you approach it as a coach with that attitude, some people will do just fine with that. They'll get it out of their system in a week. They'll be 15 pounds over stage weight, and then they'll get back to normal. Um to give you a personal example, in 2007, my reverse diet plan was a list of restaurants. That that was it, right? And uh I was up 48 pounds in two months before I started to feel uh unhungry and normal again. So I had to spend the next 48 pounds in two months. Yeah. I went from 178 pounds on stage to 226 two months later. Uh and that was a free eating plan uh that eventually very quickly became, oh my god, I'm gaining way too fast. I need to pull back. And then I couldn't pull back behaviorally. So So yeah, in in yeah, in theory, awesome. If if you were to regain all that control just from a few days of of going nuts, that'd be great. But that's unfortunately not what happens. So what I actually do in practice is I tell people, enjoy your night. Well, it's saying they're not they don't have any more shows in the season, assuming that. Saturday night, enjoy it. Do whatever you want. Just don't throw up kind of thing. Uh and then and then Sunday, I give them some loose structure. you know, here are are uh you know, have three square meals. Um don't eat between meals, but eat what you want. Go to a restaurant three times a day. It's fine. And then on Monday, I give them some kind of structured numbers. Uh but they are more flexible numbers and they're higher numbers because bodybuilders crave structure. So if you don't give them any structure, they tend to go off the deep end in most cases. Um men, I'll let you talk in just just two seconds, but I just want to kind of clarify when I say add libitum uh eating. I what I really mean is is what's being called an intuitive approach where you have constraints on your eating but they aren't tracking based. So you're not actually tracking but you have the requirement to eat for physiological rather than psychological reasons. So you're not going to have someone going 50 pounds over their stage weight if they're purely eating for physiological reasons. I I would argue. Um I would agree. But when the rubber hits the road, you've got to tell someone what to do. Yeah. And um you know I could do that now. Absolutely no problem. I did in 2011 I looked up one day and I was only n pounds over stage weight four months post show and I was like I'm more interested in pizza than my wife when she's naked. This is stupid. I'm going to get fatter. I had the control. I had the experience because I've been competing for you know 5 years um to have a quote unquote intuitive approach. But what I think we forget because all of us are experienced competitors uh is that and it's easy to remember when you have clients is that the the stages of of neuroticism that you had is that a word neurosis whatever to get through to get to a place where you could intuitively eat was predicated on you doing things wrong for a long time. So, you can't lose the perspective and tell your clients, "Hey, hey, don't worry about it. Be like me and just just, you know, have some constraints and eat eat as you feel post show because if it's their first season, they're going to lose their shit." Yeah. Yeah. I I'm in agreement. Men, go ahead. Yeah. What what I'd like to add is um to both Lane and Eric is that one of the most overrated concepts I think in nutrition is um this this hippie idea that you should intuitively eat or listen to your body and your emotions. I mean the whole reason we have an obesity epidemic is because people listen to their emotions. That's why they're fat. And basically what we are doing and the whole essence of the method I created Beijian bodybuilding is predicated on the belief that with rational thought we can overcome our emotional limitations and learn to control our physiology in a way that is superior to um that how our emotions will intuitively let us. So again the idea with intuitive eating is not to fall to the whims of your emotions but rather to not do that. Right? I mean, in in the in the way that I'm describing it, right? But I obviously um would agree and I feel like not moderating anymore, but yeah, listen to the right signals, that kind of stuff. Yeah, Eric, go ahead. Yeah, I I I agree with Minnow and I think it um a great example, you know, like I said before, bodybuilders are not normal. You know, we're we are very different than the rest of society where we're losing the quote unquote fitness middle class where if you just live your life, you will be obese. And the people who are not obese are the ones who are actively doing things for through rational thought to try to reduce energy intake or increase energy expenditure. However, uh the the end result should be to try to adopt new behaviors so that you can autoregulate your life and maintain like a healthy place. I think sometimes we get to we get to if it fits your macros or or some some version of that and we think that's the end goal. Um, I do think long term for a bodybuilder in the offseason, you should get to a point where you do just intuitively eat and that results in the things that you used to track and create a lot of regiment to get to. But to get there, it does require a purposeful uh behavior adjustment and time period of doing that. So, um, and and it's the same approach regardless of whether you're, you know, obese or a bodybuilder. It just it looks a lot different, you know. Um, sure a bodybuilder, there might be points in a in a diet where you're trying to hit within plus or minus five or 10 grams on all three macronutrients. But a it might be as simple as for an obese person just going, I'm going to adopt these new behaviors. I'm going to start understanding that there are calories in foods and that I have to budget my energy intake like I do my bank account and then eventually that becomes automatic. But I I totally agree with Mayo that it we intuitive eating is predicated on a behavior change in the first place. So yeah, Lane, you seem like you're dying to speak. Yeah, but I think Peter wants to say something. I won't let him go because he's been quiet for a while. I just gave up the microphone. That has never happened before. Dr. Finch, you should be very, very honored. Thank you, Lane. Um, yeah. So, I guess my thought along the same lines is I don't know if you guys take a similar approach, but I generally try to loosen up what someone is doing in terms of tracking as their off seasonason goes also. So, what I mean by that is maybe as we're reversing, we still have macros for them to hit. Um because again, you give someone I mean I'm four weeks out from a show. You tell me to eat whatever I want right now and it's not going to go well. And so, um you know, so I I have them track macros initially, but as they start feeling more normal, as we start getting to this point where they're in a better spot psychologically, maybe we switch to like a wider macro range, or maybe we just change to like a calorie range with like a protein minimum and a fiber minimum. Or maybe for some people, like Eric was saying, we get to a point where it's more intuitive. Um, but I don't know about you guys, but I find some people just really can't handle the intuitive side. You still have to have some sort of structure for them. Um, it doesn't seem I don't know, maybe it's just that they haven't tracked for long enough or psychologically they're not in a good spot, but it it really does seem like some people need at least some sort of structure. But I still try to loosen up what that structure is um in the offseason because when it comes time to diet again, you know, you want to be ready to diet. Like when you're prepping for a show, you know, it's it's you know what, a four, six, eight month, you know, commitment depending on where your body fat is when you're starting and how fast you're losing and where you have to get down to. And the the last thing you want is to just be like, I don't want to do this at the start. like you want to be in a spot mentally when you start a prep that you're you're willing to diet. Um, and I can tell you right after a show you're not, but giving yourself an offseason, maybe having a looser tracking method, if you can handle it, can allow you to get to that point so that you can have a longer, more sustained career. Yeah, that's that's that's great. That's really well said, Peter. I I think um on that note, I I want to make a few points and I promise I'll keep them as short as possible. But um to Peter's point, my friend Dr. Corey Probes uh she had a really great statement. I think it it makes sense because people think, "Oh, Lane's the flexible dieting guy, the if your macros guy. You got to track down to the gram every No, I I don't do that." Okay. Um as Corey said, self-control is fatiguing. And that is I f I think that's 100% correct. If you're always trying to be neurotically tracking everything to the down to the gram, I mean, you're gonna you're gonna have the same effect as basically eating clean, binging, eating clean, binging. I mean, it's going to be the same thing. It's just you're changing your neurosis of where it is. Um, so typically what I do post diet, um, and I've told people is kind of similar what Eric does. I say that night, listen, go out, eat till you feel physically full, and then stop. And we all know that you do know the difference between physical fullness and you know that there's a difference between being physically full or or hunger and the actual com being compelled to eat. There's a difference. And as far as intuitive eating goes, people think I'm not a fan of intuitive eating. I actually think intuitives eating is great if you can do it. But I talked with Dr. Megan Clabunde uh on our on our on our podcast and basically what she said is anybody who's had an eating disorder there's evidence that they probably never get back to a point where they can intuitive eat that it's just their signals are so disrupt disrupted and how their brain is wired that it's just not going they're always going to need some kind of structure to keep them from falling back into those kind of areas of extreme because it's either going to be extreme overeating or extreme undereating depending depending on how things are going. Um, two more points I want to make is um, going back to the actual topic, reverse dieting. Um, the first one is a lot of people will say on that note, they'll say, "Well, Lane, if you're saying add like let's say you're being conservative and adding 10 grams of carbs and two grams of fat in a week, how can you actually add that to your diet?" Like, how can you add that? Like two grams of fat is nothing. And the point to be considered is that yes, within food labels, there's a bigger error than what you're getting from adding two grams of fat to your diet. So you have to look, I call these macro clouds, just like electron clouds. You can never predict exactly where an electron is going to be because of quantum theory. But we have an idea of where it is based on a cloud and probability. Eric, I know you love this. Um so yes I just brought in uh quantum theory into uh reverse dieting but let's say if we add those two grams and we do it over 20 weeks now we have made a substantial difference right so you're what you're looking for is to slowly move that kind of cloud of macros up okay so some days I tell people if you're within five grams of every single one of the macros that is 100% compliance because there is no such thing as hitting things down to the macro just because of how much error is inherent in food labels. So, but we have to we have to understand that, you know, even when you're perfect, you're not perfect. And so, just being kind of in general in that area is important. And then the one last thing I'll put in that you you know, you mentioned Jeff, well, why not just have somebody regain weight really, really quickly? I I think the first thing to that is you you can regain body fat really quickly, but you can't regain lean body mass very quickly. and Doo showed that you're your the hyperphasic response and kind of a lot of these adaptations that take place don't return back to normal until your lean body mass is back to normal. So I would say regain body fat at a pace that matches your regain so that they when they meet they're meeting together as opposed to your body fat getting up real quick and then your lean body mass taking much more time to get back up. Um, and then also the again this has only been shown in rats, but it has kind of matched what I've observed in some people who really weight cycle a lot and that they tend to be able to maintain weight on less calories and that they have they now sit at a higher body fat level. Um, that they're they're just their body's more comfortable at that higher body fat level after they've gone through weight cycling. And so that that's a concern for me. I want to be able to keep people at a whatever their set point is to not have that change because nobody's set point is 400 lb, right? Like nobody's set point is 40% body fat. Something changes whether it be physiologically or psychologically or I think probably both to bring them there. And so what I want to avoid is just rapid regain. And we don't know, you know, again, one study in rats. I just really like the study because I thought it was very very cool. Um it's by uh man by the way if anybody wants to look it up. Um but I just my concern is I don't want to gain somebody to gain body fat so fast that possibly causes that increase in fat cell differentiation and possibly changes their their set point because that would be a major problem. Yeah. Um okay. So Lane, first I just want to say that um I'm going to link that podcast episode in the show notes because it sounds really fascinating to hear hear an expert speak on eating disorders and intuitive eating. Uh so for our listeners, I I will link that there. Um and then just to uh I guess clarify what I'm trying to say here and because we're limited on time, maybe we can have a a longer discussion later or something. Um, but I I think that if we're ending up in a place where you have a certain body fat set point, it seems irrelevant to me from the position of someone who doesn't really care from a psychological perspective if there's a period of time where they look a little bit fluffier if they're then going to end up in a place where they have gained muscle. because we're we're we're all trying to get to the same place where you have someone at a a reasonable body fat percentage and they're also making progress in terms of adding lean body mass. So, for me, from a psychological perspective, I feel as though if we can allow that fat gain to come on a little bit more quickly, even though the the LBM might be behind a little bit, um then that would allow them to psychologically recover and then also be able to just train harder and add lean more lean body mass. So 6 months down the road, we're in exactly the same place given that it's someone who is comfortable with uh you know allowing that fat to come on more quickly from the beginning. And to Eric's earlier points, someone who probably has experience and isn't going to be likely to overshoot uh coming out of the the diet. So you can respond. But the the important thing to realize is that we all see things through different prisms and we all have different perspectives. And your perspective, everybody's own perspective always makes sense to them, right? Um and so you might look at somebody say, "Why the hell would you go slow?" Like just get back to that. But for some people, putting on body fat quickly is a trigger for them to to want to diet back down immediately. Yeah. And when I get that person and they start to get in that weight cycling sort of thing, that is for me the worst outcome that can happen. So, um I I mean, if you were my client, Jeff, and you said, "Hey, I I do not care about being a little bit fluffier." Sweet. Do your thing, man. Like, that's exactly what I would say. And as long as you're getting to a point where you feel good at the end of the day, I mean, I'm going to sound very, you know, I'm going to sound very hippie-ish. Um but I just care if my clients are happy. If you're happy at 20% body fat, then by God, be 20% body fat. I don't give a [\h__\h] Do it do what you want. I'm a libertarian. Do what you want. But um you know, it it's for a lot of people that, you know, they aren't happy with that. And so trying to come up with kind of this that middle ground for them is kind of where I'm at. Yeah, that's that's an awesome point and of course agree. Um, so, uh, I feel as though there's a lot of agreement on the table. Um, so that's good to see. Does anyone else have any questions for any of the the other panelists before we wrap things up? Yeah, I do. I um like to add a little context to what Eric said. Eric, when you said you were more interested in pizza than sex, what kind of pizza were you talking about? Good question. Any pizza, bro. Any pizza. And and Mayo's seen my wife, so that that that should tell you how bad it can get. You know, I'm saying she's attractive. So, I hope that was clear. Eric, I I I have a a measuring bar for when I I feel like I know when people are back to normal. So, I I actually asked this to somebody else in the gym today. I said, "How long does it take you to prepare your breakfast?" I'm like, "What are you what are you talking about?" I'm like, "If it takes you longer than 30 minutes to prepare your breakfast, you are not back to normal." Cuz I know when I'm in that delusion, that that deranged I'll get up and I'm like putting this together and I'm putting that together and I'm making sure everything's just right. And I'm sitting there now when I wake up, I'm like, "Okay, what's the fastest way I can get this done and get to work?" You know? So, that's kind of my measuring bar is how long does it take you to make breakfast? I I can relate. How long you at, Peter? Right now, about an hour, 45 minutes. Uh, yeah. I I'm I'm one of those guys who all the way through grad school, I would just like slam oatmeal and protein with some water so I could just get to work right away in the morning. And during prep, I mean, now I make like elaborate egg dishes with like sauteed vegetables in them and whatnot early in the morning. So, yeah. Um, one thing I actually just thought of is, uh, one thing that I did want to comment on actually, and maybe I'll have Eric comment on this because it's something that Lane noted that in your example, you had a female diet on or she was on 100 cal or 100 carbs a day rather. You increased her body weight from 120 up to 130 while increasing her carbs only to 165. Then you reversed her carbs up to 315. uh while maintaining the 130 pounds body weight. Then the next time you dieted her down to stage weight, she got even lighter to 108 pounds and her and her cars were higher. Yeah, I shouldn't put She wasn't stage lean when she came to me. So, we were she was she was kind of um felt like she really had trouble losing body fat, but she was already on low calories. What do we do? So, that's kind of where we went with. So my question would be is there value in increasing calories in this way in a controlled and methodical manner in the offse um while maintaining you know a low-end set point or or what have you. So, so yeah, I mean I think it probably depends on one the individual because I have had um like I said I had AI had a she was a IFPB bikini pro. I don't want to say her name but she was she came to me and she was maintaining her body weight and about 130 gram of carbs and 45 grams of fat per day and I forget her protein intake. Um and we got her she lost this is going to sound crazy but I'm not kidding you. She lost 10 lbs going up to slowly I think we ended up at 350 grams of carbs a day and 80 gram of fat. That's one of the biggest outliers I've ever seen. Eric, can you maybe Yeah, hang on. Let me But we started dieting her down and this was somebody who's very restricted before. We're talking about under 1,000 calories a day, over four hours of activity, like all the terrible coaching horror stories you hear. We started her dieting her down. She did not lose a single pound going down to under 100 grams of carbs a day. It was the craziest thing I've ever seen. Eric, yeah. What was the specific question to me? Do I think there's value in trying to add add calories at a low end set point? Yeah. Yeah. Well, first I wanted to say that I I've I think we've probably all seen some crazy outliers like like that. And I' I've had people the same way where they lose weight while you add food or all these things. Um, and it goes back to my opening statement of sometimes we're inheriting some very very bad cases, you know, where people have come from a a background where they are quote unquote very suppressed when they come to you. Um, so a lot of the times you're just getting Eric. I may even Ly now stabs me in the back. No. Uh, just kidding. Ly, love you, buddy. Um, but um, don't wait. It'll happen. Yeah, just wait. will happen. Hi. Anyway. Anyway, um yeah, I think a lot of the times what's happening there is you're getting someone back to where they would be normally and and not in this place where they're they're totally jacked up. So, I'm not sure that is a rationale for saying that should be the goal for everyone. However, I would say that's kind of just what you do in an offseason. Like if I'm if I'm working with someone, uh, I want them to gain at a certain rate, you know, because I don't want them to get because if based on their training age and and their body size of what I think is appropriate for them to be able to put on muscle mass and anytime I can get away with adding five 10 grams of carbs or fat, I do it because then it's more food. Um, I think the real question is is how persistent are the increases in calories that we can get in the offseason in terms of does that translate into what you can then diet them down on during contest prep? And I I've experienced the same thing that some other people are are saying is that some people it does seem to translate into higher calories and prep, but for others like myself, I'm exactly the same thing that Mayo described. Like I can I can eat over three. Okay, I'm 32 now, but back in my old off seasonasons when I was in my 20s, I could be up around 4,000 calories and slowly gaining weight. But then, you know, Lane might remember in 2009, I was doing like five hit intervals, seven list sessions, and my average calorie intake on my low days was like 1,800 to get half a pound of weight loss per week after we'd been stalled for three months at 190 pounds, you know. So, um I'm one of those people who it doesn't doesn't seem to stay, you Can I ask Menow a quick question? Um, what what do you think is is accounting for that swing or like the adaptive metabolism? Is it just individual differences in the adaptiveness of their NEAT levels or is it something else? Mostly yes. It seems that most of the adaptomogenesis is um indeed neat and um interestingly many people are inclined to point to uh the thyroid and more directly metabolically related measures of physiology but it actually seems that the nervous system regulates a lot of your energy expenditure. Is there is there any way of consciously altering that? So, for example, if Eric's neat is being massively suppressed because his brain likes to do that to him, can he just add in more cardio, say, than the next person or consciously try to be a little more active throughout the day? And do you think that would opp offset the adaptation at all? Either Eric or or anyone? I'll take that one if you guys don't mind. Um, sure. You got to be you got to be careful like uh because for example, you you could say, "Hey, I want you to get a step counter and make sure you get 10,000 steps a day." you know, we're not going to be able to change the fact your muscle efficiency goes down, your subconscious physical activity goes down. Can't change that stuff, but maybe you should get a step counter. Um, some people will run with that until it becomes an unhealthy behavior where it's just one more thing where their entire life now because I mean, they're already living meal to meal, right? It's already like, okay, every every four hours I've got to hit my macros. Now, now it's 247. Now it's am I being active? So, they're sitting watching TV going, wait, I should be fidgeting. And I've actually seen competitors get in that mind state where the whole day is about am I losing fat. Uh and I think that can be just a huge energy suck and drain out of their their brain motivation. So I think you have to create some structure for it and systematize it so that they can still autoreulate it. Like a big thing I say, you know, these days with how shredded we have to get to be on stage and be competitive, we're looking at four to eight month preps. Like Peter said, we've got to find a way for it to become mostly automatic so that we only have to really dig dig dig when it gets crazy hard. So if you if on day, you know, if in two weeks when we're seeing these down regulations and neat, you're thinking, okay, I got to burn calories, you're going to burn out super quick. So you've got to find some way that it is not a constant uh drain on the psychology of them having to think about how to do that. But but in theory, yes, you could you could offset neat by adding neat. But some of the adaptations to neat, it's not just activity. Yeah, I think that's that's a big thing. People I don't have a problem saying that reductions in NEAt is actually metabolic adaptation because if your skeletal muscle gets more efficient, if you're uh you know subconscious physical activity goes down, the mechanism doesn't really matter. The fact is is that something you can't control that is affecting your TDE is going down whether it's actually BMR or not, you know. Um so you got to be careful. I don't want people to think that neat adaptations are purely just like now you're a slug, you're always sitting down, all that stuff. Like I noticed, so people might know, might have seen me dance or do some silly things in videos. I come from like a hip-hop background, right? So I listen to like rap and all kinds of nonsense. Um, and I was in the car in in 2011 and I was listening to my favorite song and nothing was happening. I was just driving thinking and I realized I was like, "No, my head is always at least bobbing." like I I don't know how to not dance to music, but all of a sudden that behavior changed from starving myself. So, it it's it's a it gets you everywhere, I think, which is something that people don't realize. Yeah. I I think the other thing, too, is like um as Eric mentioned, look at how much activity he was doing exercise-wise. Like, I mean, does would fidgeting really make that much difference on top of, you know, doing three hours of activity a day? I mean it it you know I mean does it make a difference? Sure. But in a practical sense I mean compared to what you're already doing does it really make that big of a difference? So but even Eric I mean I think you would you would you would agree that even though you're going to probably have to get down to the same level regardless and we've agreed that some people some people do get a benefit from that where they can diet in higher calories. You still see benefit to being able to eat more in an in an offseason maintain on higher calories during an offseason and eat more. Um, I would say, you know, I hell just cuz more food's always fun. At least for me, I'm not one of these people who's everybody's different. I've had people say, "Lay, I don't like all this food. Is there anything we can do?" And then it's like, and I look at him, I'm like, "Oh, okay. Well, you're weird." But, um, you know, I'm like, you know, if you really haven't uh having that hard of a time, go eat something that's more calorie dense, you know. But, um, I think that um there's still value there. it probably just isn't as apparent in terms of the the metabolic outcomes as as somebody who we can't get them up higher and then they can diet down on a higher amount of calories. And I think the other thing too is again that comes back into coaching being an art form. Finding out which clients are outliers, where are their outliers at or do they fit right in the middle of the Gaussian distribution and then exploiting that to the best we can, right? because we can know what because remember science is just means on data right you are not a mean you are an individual data point so if we know something about your individual data point based on previous experience and this is why I like to work with people in the offseason before I take them into contest based on my experience I'm going to try to exploit whatever metabolic outcome that we've observed to hopefully put you in the best possible position to do the to do as as good as we possibly can in the healthiest way possible. Yeah, I would agree with that. And um I I would say though that it's worth a shot, right? So let let's say you you upregulate meat as much as you can in the offseason and maybe it will maybe it won't have an impact on what you can diet on, but it's at least worth a shot, right? Like why not, you know? And um however, I would say that if we're going to talk about what are the most effective tools in our arsenal as coaches to keep calories as high as possible during a diet to make the process easier, I would say things like diet breaks, uh nonlinear calorie distributions across the week, potentially your quote unquote refeeds are probably going to be more important than how did two years ago your your your the six-month period after your show go unless you did something like right back in a diet dieting or have that cyclical, you know, bit. Yeah. I mean, I I have people refeed, do higher calorie days, but I mean, this is going to go into a whole another and Peter has actually written a paper for my website on this. Um, but I've been pretty underwhelmed on the metabolic effects of refeeding. Um, I mean, it just seems like, yes, you get a bump in metabolism, but it just goes right back down as soon as your calories come back down. I I have people do them just more so for psychological effect um than for actual physiological effect. But uh yeah, that that could be a topic for a completely different uh debate. Yeah, there's there and there's so little data on it in the context of of how we actually refeed. Most of the data that's on it is on kind of intermittent calorie restriction where people are maybe in a deficit two days a week and a fairly severe deficit and then maybe maintenance for the other five. And and so we don't really have great studies, you know, on on refeeding or diet breaks or maybe taking a mini reverse diet in the middle of your prep or, you know, there there's a lot of methods that coaches, you know, implement that we really don't have a lot of data on other than anecdotally. So, I I'll I'll make sure that I I link that article once it goes live in the show notes as well. Um, and well, actually, it's uh in the membersonly area section of Okay. Well, I'll link I'll link join bioline.com. Um, Menow, I noticed that you mentioned something about a one to two day uh time frame uh in your opening statement. Would you like to just comment on that briefly about the the effects of refeeding? Right. Okay. In the interest of time, yeah, I will instead defer you to um the interview I did with Sigma Nutrition Radio. It's on my website and it's the first question. What are my thoughts on refeeding? And I can say uh I largely agree with Lane Norton. Okay, awesome. All right, guys. So, I'm gonna wrap it up here. Uh I just want to thank all of you gentlemen so much for your time and for uh coming on the show. It was a real pleasure getting to listen to and chat with some of you guys. Um so, instead of uh plugging all your social media here, I will just note or or rather annotate all of your guys' uh social medias and websites and so on in the show notes. Um, so listeners can find you guys there. Um, so to our listeners, thank you so much for listening to another episode of the Ice Cream for Pierre's podcast. I hope that you learned something and we will see you in the next episode. I was surprised there was there was more agreement than I like thought going in. But that's good. That's usually what happens when you get science when you get people together is you know most of the disagreement is in what everybody's heard from everybody else said about something. You know what I mean? I know we're sitting on opposite sides of this debate and there might be some nuance details we differ in, but it sounds like big picture. We really are on the same page with things. No, I mean people love to um what's the term in English pull us against each other. They're like, you know, Lane says this, Menow says this, you know, let's fight.