who had the best physique in each decade. The 1900s go to George Hackenmid. Ridiculous quads and shoulders with a verified 269 lb single arm overhead shoulder press. For the 1910s, I've got Clavio Maximo. His last bread would turn heads at Nashville Pro shows today. Steroids don't come around until the 1950s, but this is a verified 100% natty physique. The 1920s go to Allan Knee. Crazy shreds. He even had striations in his glutes. And just look at him next to Natural Pro Eric Helms. Their physiques are so similar, yet the pick of Allen was taken 102 years ago. 1930s go to John Grim. He mostly used heavy barbell lifts to build his physique, and he was in his own league when it comes to muscle shape and roundness. 1940s, the last decade before steroids. Steve Reeves was the most famous, but I think Melvin Wells had the best build. If he was an influencer today, most of you would say he's not natty. The 1950s are when steroids first come in. And I'm giving the best physique from this era to Regg Park with multiple Mr. Universe titles. Greg did maintain that he was a lifetime natty, but this is where the really freaky size and shape starts before it gets completely out of control. 1960s, Larry Scott was the first ever Mr. Olympian and to this day has some of the best biceps ever. He made the preacher curl so famous that some trainers still call it the Scott curl. The 70s obviously go to Arnold. Probably the most iconic physique ever with his scalloped chest and peak biceps. His training was brutally high volume, often doing two workouts a day with marathon higheffort pump sessions. The 80s go to Lee Haney. He was known for his famous stimulate don't annihilate training philosophy, which I really admire for emphasizing building muscle while avoiding injury and emphasizing proper form and proper recovery. I'm giving the '90s to Dorian Yates simply because his physique ushered in the mass monster era. Way too big for the average person, but bodybuilders still admire his grrey new look. He made super low volume training famous. Just one or two allout max effort sets for exercise. The craziest physique of the 2000s obviously goes to Ronnie Coleman. This is the freakiest combination of size and strength that anyone has ever seen. Ronnie had striated glutes on stage close to 300 lb. He trained like a power builder, combining 800 lb squats and deadlifts with high volume pump training. I'm giving the 2010s to Phil Heath. He brought this bubbly three-dimensional look to bodybuilding and some of the craziest arms ever. Phil trained with a lot of machine work and a big emphasis on mind muscle connection. For the current era, I'm going with Chris Bumstead, who brought back a classic look, smaller waist, and vintage aesthetics. Chris trains using progressive overload, meticulous technique, and an intelligent focus on longevity.