 EUColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColColCol It's literally raining right now. How are you feeling about being in this glorious conditions? Well, much better than Dubai or Morocco because it's really hard there. If it's not, this is not much better than Dubai or Morocco. What are you thinking? That is also an interesting look. Although you're from Prague, right? So this is like not dissimilar to Prague weather. Very similar. Very similar. Okay, I'm going to eat your bulking diet today. Should I be scared? I am a bit scared. Yes. I should be scared. Yes, definitely. Yeah, because keeping in mind the conditions that you were under, you're not eating much. I'm still trying to re... Yeah, to be fair, it should be good because I'm trying to regain. I've got another five kilos to regain, so it should be quite handy. Yes? Yeah. Okay, we'll see. Okay, it's raining. We've probably got inside. It's raining. Let's get to breakfast. Oh, you're feeling it. Okay, so we'll cappuccino first because I was struggling without cappuccino. So now we'll get boys full breakfast because I want the full... Okay, nice. Full experience. Yeah, experience. What eggs would you like with that? Toast. It's a good choice. Yeah, I'm happy with that. So, and buttermilk baking. You've got to choose like fruit on it or bacon and maple syrup? Bacon, bacon and maple syrup. What'd you get? Bacon? Yes. That's weird. Okay. Can I just get exactly what she just ordered? Like the same thing. That looks sick. And bacon, white cakes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Nice one. Enjoy. It looks sick, but straight away, that is a bit... Come on, that's quite weird, isn't it? Because you've got syrup and bacon. No, I love it. Yes, exactly like the way I like it. I know that is a thing. I just can't get my head around that. There are lots of things in life that are nice, but they shouldn't be put together. Like I like banana and I like swimming, but I wouldn't eat a banana whilst I'm swimming. That's weird. Like pineapple on pizza. Processually, literally. Say again. Pineapple on pizza. Well, you like that? No. Okay. So this is just like a full English, basically, right? It's like quite a bougie full English. Aesthetically stacked. What do you mean? It's quite classy. If you were to go to like a normal cafe and get a full English, it wouldn't look like this. What's in there? Okay, I see post eggs. Beans. Beans, but they're like special beans. That sounds weird. They're like, they're bougie beans. Normal baked beans would be more orange. These are like classy, exotic beans. You're messing with me or something? No, I'm being serious. They look different. Fab, tell her what you mean. He's messing with you. I'm not messing with you. Shut up. They're just beans. Bacon, sausage, mushroom, and that is black pudding under the mushroom. No, it's black sausage, I think. It's called black pudding. In England, it's called black pudding. Really? Why pudding? To be fair, it's a good point. You've got to eat it last. It's a good point. Last? Yeah, you've got to eat it after you. It's like your dessert. No, it is honestly called black pudding. It is honestly called black pudding. I hate you. I hate you. That's tough. Messing with me all the black pudding. Pretty good. You think about beans? I think caramelised onion. It's quite sweet. Matt, do you not like bacon on pancakes? Why are you fat? My shit. Whenever a fat wears headphones, he talks ridiculously loud. Bacon on pancakes. I like bacon. I like pancakes. I like syrup. But I just feel like it's a weird combination for me. Also, if I'm really thirsty, that's fine, because I've got a thirst quenching cappuccino. As if you haven't got a normal drink to drink. Like an orange juice or something. It's like the worst drink to have with this ever, mate. I'd rather drink the syrup than drink that. Go on, man. Okay, I will. That's really sweet. Whoever loses the race has to drink their whole syrup. It's not really. It's too stressful. Also, this toast is really dangerous to eat fast. It's like sharp. Do we race or not? I don't understand. No, let's not do a race. Wow, it is really, really filling. You've only eaten like two bits, mate. Huh? You've only eaten like two mouthfuls. I can't say it's filling already. Yeah, but it's like full of fat. Come on. By the way, we've got Mehdi here and Sez, who also ordered. We've got a lot of food on this table. Have you been to this stage before? No. I'm being sick, innit? This is a cool place. Cool place. You haven't been? No. Looks like I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to eat. I'm winning. Yeah, right. Who doesn't? I'm eating a sausage and I am. Very cool. I feel like when you're not bulking, you eat clean, don't you? Yeah, still. Like what I usually eat clean all week and then at the end, you know, I can just kind of relax and eat whatever. If you're having that off day, like the cheat day type of thing, what would be your favorite thing to eat? Shaksuka with shrimps. For breakfast? Yes, but it's small. It's feeling... It's controversial. I'm eating 6,000 calories a day the last like week. So I'm eating like... I'm eating a big breakfast, a big lunch. What do you mean? I'm absolutely massive. What are you talking about? You're just jealous. Jealous of my side. You cheated, okay? No, you don't do it. You've got to drink at least a bit of it. Just syrup, it's fine. Good for you. Good for your cholesterol. I don't believe nothing to say, okay? Just a little bit. Come on, it's good. No, I will make myself sick. We go straight in with it. I have had this before, but I'm just not... I can't get my head around it. I feel like if I put loads of syrup on it, it would just cover the bacon. Yeah, but you ate like a third of your... It doesn't count. I was saving space for this. That's not allowed. It's not part of the rules. You're disqualified. No. Also, by the way, these are really good. You're not going to eat. You're not going to eat. You're not going to eat. No, no, no, no, no, no. Put that back right now. No, you're not going to eat. Put that back. This is your bowl. No. This is your plate. He wasn't eating it. That's my plate. That's your plate. Yeah, that's because he distracted me. You let down your country. Yeah. No, because he distracted me. Breakfast is done. That was good. Enjoy that? Yes. Great English breakfast. Okay, we've got stuff to do, but more importantly, we've got a new car. Okay, that was quite an abrupt car, I read it. I had to shoehorn it in at some point. I know there's some absolute dweebs out there that want to see it. For the car dweebs, it is a Defender 110. It's the V8 because I'm a great guy and I wanted to get a... My last car was quick because I felt like I had to get an equally quick car, but this is just way bigger and like way more comfortable. Like, Saez, you hated the last car, didn't you? She hated the last car. This is way more comfortable. I'm just not interested in the car. She's not a car person, but this is a way more like comfortable, enjoyable experience. Anyway, speaking of enjoyable experiences, we were just eating about 3000 calories of breakfast. I'm going to go and train legs. I am nine out of ten on the fear scale. As you should. Three more. No, it's one more. Three more. It's not three more. That's three more. That's quite heavy now. Up. Push. Eight. Two more. That's one more. One. Don't worry. Ah! Ah! What would you recommend for gluten recovery? Gluten recovery. No, no, no. Don't worry. Go. You're up later. I will go for a Donburi. Donburi, yeah. Donburi. Donburi. Donburi. Donburi. So you want to make your own one, yeah? Yes. Do you want to do single or double with the protein? Single? Single, yeah. Yes. We will choose one with beef brisket. Yeah. Just white rice. Not sticky. Okay, cucumber. I will go for this one. Agent soy, yeah. And then you get one more. Red onion. Red onion. Oh my god. Onion. Yeah, and bau bau bau with duck. Also, can we add two power juices? Yeah. Oh, it's my problem. How are you doing? How are you doing? Yeah. How are you doing? Yeah. How are you doing? How are you doing? That's clean, do you do this clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean of beef in it and then what is this this is like a duck bao BUN yes garlic onions i love it controversial choice mate are you gonna eat it with these really and that was a power thing that you were drunk why are you doing this so aggressively well we've come to wagamomas because you're a big fan of asian food right recently i've been to vietnam okay so good oh my god what is this wagon was like tight no what is you mean is it specific me just draw the asians by the way my glutes are very sore like i feel like i shouldn't have sore glutes just sitting down eating them i can't i can't do anything with this i can't operate this that's good beeping that's good that's so disrespectful now watch this right is it normal to come to wagamomas and order a flat white i've never seen someone who knows on the menu who does that he's unlocked a weird secret menu a flat white flat white and a chicken and prawn pan thai weirdest guy ever just like you drink it and it's like that's nice and then you're like hang on a minute and then it's just a bit like spicy unnecessary so much onion as i sat there thinking of ways to avoid having to drink this weird green sludge i remembered i brought an emergency huel a precaution that any self-respecting member of society should take anytime they leave the house this is the black edition ready to drink which is an absolute staple of my diet these days i literally don't go anywhere without one in my bag the chocolate flavor is my firm recommendation but the strawberry and banana is really good as well now what i've also been using a lot recently particularly on days when i'm working at home is the black edition powder it's got 400 calories and 40 grams of protein per serving but it's cheaper than the ready to drink and it allows me to stay busy and get all my work done without wasting time in the kitchen oh and the cookies and cream flavor is sick so if you want to try anything from you'll you can use the link at the top of the video description and the code matt and you'll save 10 pounds on your first order what trying to guess like me here or what i'm just enjoying my bowl of onions now every every spoon is just like a spoon of onion it's dangerous why would it be dangerous if you eat more than 12 grams of onion in one portion you can have a seizure you can live with that that's fine oh let's go let's get the cake this is all your normal stuff oh nice they have czech ones as well oh yeah see okay context we have come to we managed to find like in the eastern europe is this eastern european store that has all the things that vlada loves and this is a challenge right vlada you're going to get snack and dinner okay and dessert as much as possible yeah this is this a classic thing you does when vlada was growing up you had one of these a day that's the secret isn't it odds on you eating the whole thing absolutely zero present odds let's go let's go vlada come on fill that up well sturdy let's turn around for a second what is this though he shakes what why i don't know what any of this stuff is you're gonna eat too that looks like a lot it's very high in price right no it's not that was not it's 0.1 the protein content is 0.1 grams per 100 grams but for this one we need the just bread and butter the one that you can put in the toaster right as opposed to what other bread what break can you help it in there no maybe too big or too small so uh cottage cheese cottage cheese if you like it if you like it if you like it you get it but i like cottage cheese and fish eggs that is the worst combination ever i'm gonna get some of that surely wait i need to uh yeah yeah yeah that's come on that's good that's gonna be good i think it's this one napoleon i took this cottage but usually i like in russia this one is the best because it has it's like a powder it's not powder you can't eat that surely yeah let's try this one instead of this okay i'll put this one back but i will throw up wait then yeah this one i loved when i was really little or this you did not love this when you were no no i love them she was 15 and she loved dry fish especially with beer also where did they find this guy that's the worst that's the least convincing part i've ever seen come on that's definitely check look at this like look green fanta that screams no we have to get you quaz okay yeah give me some kvass i don't know what is that why are you laughing you will know you will you'll see oh is it really bad easily the weirdest shop i've ever done i don't know i don't know 35 pounds of unknown items unexpected item in bagging area everything who in the world in the way i need everything trust me i hear what you're saying but i like just know what you're telling me okay weirdest dinner ever would you agree would you concur i'm very my last it'd be my last meal you just said that is a very damning review okay i'm very intrigued to try quite a lot of this i want to know what this is is it bread it's got bread is it bread juice it's similar to kombucha come on put the whole thing not putting the whole thing right let's go oh i like it really okay yeah you actually like it no really i like it there are better versions of course but it's good what's it taste like it's not that bad it's just like weird dirty water yeah yeah like a stagnant swimming pool water that's a bit like that with bread in it imagine you put loads of bread but loads of bread in the swimming pool and left it there for like 12 years and then you scoop it up that's what it looks like it as well sweet yes chocolate but it's made of sunflower seeds you know that got mashed i love this i was i would die for this it's not bad it's kind of like you know like reese's thingies yeah you know butter cups which is called again hold up no one you know what goes with halva no weird packets of dry fish with fab as a dress as a pirate on the front of them no no no it says come over here now big sniff with that it's like really salty fish is that what it is yeah yeah i can see it i can see i'm gonna i'm actually gonna throw up oh what this is actually edible be careful okay because there are bones you can like like i cut myself many times how do you bite that it's not i feel like food's not meant to sound like that it's not it's not possible for it to taste anymore i'm gonna rank them right the best ones go here that's there at the moment that is like oh it wasn't bad but here it's just like down here peanut christ and i think they have this in the wine as well it's something in the middle it's gonna melt it's gonna melt it's not actually ice cream really so it's definitely ice cream no it's not yes yes no it's not you're joking i thought it yeah but i like eating them when they're really frozen no it's bad no it's bad i thought it was gonna be ice cream that tastes like cheese this is worse than the drink really no i don't believe it i don't like it like this maybe you got the good one these are gonna be good surely this is gonna be good what is it like condensed milk in a wafer inside is a condensed milk that's good i think it's gonna go here it's a couple of items here i'm really putting off like this let's leave the most interesting for the end the fish fish eggs with the worst protein content in the world i already don't like cottage cheese this is like give that a try now really yeah get it out i feel like i should eat it last and i just throw up and it ruins my whole meal they eat with peanut butter yes should i get peanut butter i thought it was a terrible idea this is a terrible idea it just looks disgusting but what's mad is it smells worse than a bit fruit you know honestly you might be sick can i eat this no you're stopping a baby i hate like creamy like this kind of thing is like my worst thing to eat okay would you rather train that glue session again or eat this bag of this with the club this is good compared to that it smells good smells good okay this one will be good kind of weird it's like it's like cake but like a biscuit do you mean compared to like compared to that it's like the best thing i've ever ever where are you putting the cottage cheese on the leaderboard off the tip off out the room this goes like in between that and the fish is this is what i need to yeah they're good yeah what's inside the potatoes potatoes and the mushrooms good use lor fat is lor fat big in russia no we don't have that i think it is give it a couple of years it's great i mean that's that's your one i'm not having that many come on that's unrealistic that looks it does look quite cool what does it what does it taste like i know i'm going to literally about to find out but if it can you tell me so i'm not like shocked say again it's not that bad it's not that bad you just change it on purpose i think you're okay yeah it's like it just tastes of salt it's really better if it just just had butter on there because it's just like it's just i don't mind the taste but it's just really wet and like wet and cold and yeah like tiny balls just a bit weird this goes like here it looks like mining you have like malt loaf it's like yeah yeah i feel like if you toasted it and put butter on it it'd be good no you don't do this why not you can you can't stop me i could go and do it now you eat it with fish why are you trying to ruin it why you could you could just toast it and put butter on it i'll put it this is going to go napoleon save the best till last i mean i i remember it looks like that thingy cake says pretty good pretty good um let's have a look guys okay i mean we're done that was ranking eastern european food with matt and vlada straight away she just told me this is fake because like she told me fish eggs are really rich in protein this has per 100 grams 0.1 grams of protein anyway i picked what they had they had i'm gonna kick back enjoy this literally just a flat dry dead fish can you do the rest of the outro please thank you for watching and it was not that bad don't trust him everything was good if you had a great day the best days of your life would this be in the top 10. um well i can say that