 If eating fast food was an olympic sport, there's a good chance I'd be a gold medalist. Whether it's Pizza Hut, McDonald's, dominoes or 5 guys, when it comes to fast food, I'm an absolute connoisseur. But due to my elite metabolism and need to make viral videos, the goal is typically to consume as many calories as possible. However, I'm acutely aware that for the average person, that's not the case. Loads of calories is definitely not ideal. And high protein, lower calorie options are way more useful. So it got me thinking. What are the highest protein fast food items out there? And which chains have the best calorie to protein ratio? Well today, I'm making it my mission to find out, as I'll be visiting all of the major UK fast food chains and ranking their best items on my state-of-the-art matter meter. Let's go. McDonald's, the UK's most popular fast food chain. But is it a good option for protein? Let's find out. Are you okay? Yes, good mate. What is the highest protein item on the menu? Okay. The highest protein to calorie item on the entire McDonald's menu is the double quarter pounder with cheese. I thought it would be something more like, so bear in mind it's protein to calories. I thought it would be, I don't know, something less. Like it's just got cheese, do you know what I mean? It's got a lot of non-protein in it, right? So stats, right? 50 grams of protein, 749 calories. Now how are we going to calculate this score, right? 50 grams of protein, there'S4 calories in a gram of protein, right? So 50 times 4, 200 calories. That means 200 calories of this burger comes from protein. 200 calories within 749 total calories is 27%. So this gets a Matameter score of 27%. Is that good? I don't know. I think there'll be better than that, you think? Yeah. I think there'll be better items than that, I think. I think this could be, I don't know, low to mid. Doesn't look the best. It's not ideal, no. But I mean, I'm, I've not eaten today. I'm really hungry, so it's great for me. It's interesting. I always get a Big Mac with just cheese and ketchup, which is, this is obviously very simple. I've taken the Pickle Zap, but it's very similar to that. Yeah, I don't know why you don't just get that as your order. Because, oh, so straight away, I might do, because this is actually better. The burgers are like more burgery, do you know what I mean? Yeah. I'm sure a Big Mac burger is thinner. Yeah, yeah, Big Mac's thinner. This is meatier. Yeah, so I can see why the protein, I mean, 50 grams is not mega, but it's pretty good for a burger, right? Okay, so double quarter pounder with cheese is the highest protein to calorie ratio item. But what is the highest total protein item on the menu? I've got it in my hand right here, mate. It's 20 chicken nuggets, which I guess that isn't surprising. No, but I thought they'd be more protein. So, yeah, okay. So I thought, I also thought that, right? This entire box, 20 chicken nuggets, 52 grams of protein. Yeah, that's weak. It's pretty dead. I don't know. I would have thought close to 100. 52 grams of protein, 869 calories. So the ratio is not as good, but in terms of total protein, it's the highest item on the whole menu. What I'm going to do today, running concurrently alongside the matter meter, it's going to be the fatter meter. And the fatter meter is simply highest total protein. We don't care about calories. Which item has the highest amount of protein? And this is the best that McDonald's have to offer. I mean, I'm going to try it, but they're just chicken nuggets. Do you know what I mean? They are good. They're a classic item. Do you know what I mean? You can't go wrong. No, if you're a vegetarian, you're good. I'll be honest. Considering it's the highest protein item on the entire menu, I feel like 52 grams is pretty underwhelming, but I'm fairly confident there's going to be some significantly high numbers later on. In fact, stick around for one place in particular that has an absolutely wild item. Okay. That was disappointing, I'll be honest. Let's see if our next place can do any better. Rotisserie style. Awkward. Okay. That's how I feel about this video, by the way. Right. Oh, it's gone everywhere. So, the highest protein to calorie ratio on the entire Subway menu is a six-inch rotisserie style chicken sub. This is 25 grams of protein and 310 calories, which gives it a matter-of-meter score of 32%. So, that's number one. That's currently number one. That has overtaken a double quarter pound of a cheese because the calories are low, relatively speaking. I mean, straight away, it looks like a cucumber onion sandwich. There is a severe lack of chicken. Oh. Oh, there you go. That is a bit. It's not, I mean, it's not great. This is the highest protein ratio item we've eaten today. Surely we're going to beat that. It looks, I mean, it looks dead. Let's find out. It tastes like a cucumber sandwich. I'd definitely rather eat a double quarter pound of a cheese. So, if you think about it, if you were to eat two of these, that would be 50 grams of protein, 620 calories. So, the same protein as a double quarter pound of a cheese, but like 130 calories less. Anyway, that is the highest protein to calories ratio. What is the highest total protein item on the menu, not even caring about calories? I'll tell you what it is, mate. It's in my hand right now. It's definitely gone on my leg. Why is this? This is the worst, it's got my leg. This is the worst day ever. I'm officially retiring from making these videos after this. I did like a meet and greet in McDonald's last reviewing chicken nugget. Mate, let me finish, give me two minutes, I'm finished. I'll come get you, okay? Don't worry. Why am I doing this? Right, so this is foot long double steak and cheese. 980 calories, 74 grams of protein. So, this goes straight into number one in Fat-O-Meter. I don't know, I feel like 74 is pretty good. Yeah. I still think we can beat that. It's a lot of calories. That is a lot of calories. Yeah, it is to be fair. But chicken nuggets for like 870 and it's 52. So, how is that possible? How can this? This has a better ratio than chicken nuggets. What else is in the chicken nuggets? They're literally chicken nuggets. That makes no sense. It also looks like it's been involved in a car accident. It's way better than the other one. Which you expect it to be, right? All of the Fat-O-Meter items should be way better than the other one because they've got loads more calories to play with. Right. We're on the up. The presentation and taste wasn't great but the protein content is getting better. By the way, Nando's. That is a place we will not be visiting today simply because it's too obvious. Do you know what I mean? It's just chicken. Everyone knows that will be the best protein content. But if you want fast food and you're getting Nando's, it's like eating chicken at your grandma's house. It doesn't count. Right. Our next place I think could be even better. Let's head over there now. Okay. Forget everything I just said. This is definitely just chicken. But in my defense, it's greasy. It's fried. So, it still counts. It's different. I am on the hunt for the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu. Okay. Would you like to go for... Okay. Is this controversial? So, the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu is a chicken fillet. Now, we got into the details of like breast versus keel. I think this is keel. Is that keel? Breast? It looks like a keel. Does it? You didn't know what keel was about two minutes ago. Either way, I mean, I say controversial because it's... Does that count as a... You can order that. That is a single item you can order. So, it counts, right? The rules are, if you can order it and it's an item that comes as it is, which is that, I think it's fair. So, 23 grams of protein, 220 calories, which gives it a mat-a-meter score of 42%. And that's almost half. It's almost half of this is protein. That's pretty impressive. Like I was saying, Nando's is just dead. This is chicken, but it's just nice. You know what I mean? This is nice chicken. Nando's is dead chicken. I think 42% is going to take some beating. Mate, it's time for the fat-a-meter. What have we got for that? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. What is the highest total protein item in all of KFC? It's got to be high, right? It's surely going to be high. 10 mini fillet bucket. It's not mini fillet. They're quite big. I expected... I've got so much chicken. I'm so over this video now. I've only done three places. So again, you can buy this as a single item. I mean, if you'd buy that as a single item, you're an absolute monster. You've got bigger issues in your life. But this is 1,300 calories, 137 grams of protein. There is the option to get 14, but it comes in a mad meal with like four drinks and 15 portions of fries, which obviously completely throws off the numbers. It's a design for about six people. That doesn't count. This is the most realistic, highest protein item on the menu. Is that a mini fillet? It's just a fillet, I'd say. It's also really hot. KFC for me is the best. I never come here. I come here like once a year, but it is the best, like nicest tasting form of chicken out there. Do you agree? Yeah, it's good. I think it's got to be. It's my favorite chicken. 137 grams. Is that beatable? I've got an item in mind that we're going to get in a bit that I think can beat that. I don't know, but I think. Guys, would you like some chicken? No, no, I would think. Sure? Go, mate. This is literally fresh. Why does it need to come? What have you done to it? Nothing. We're doing like multiple places. This is like number four. So I can't consume this much food. Do you know what I mean? Excuse me, mate. I need chicken. No, I'm not. You sure? I've found a hand. I can't. Okay, fair. This is better, but that's fair. It's fair. Can I interest you in some free untampered with chicken? I'm good, thanks. You sure? Yeah, yeah. I'm watching it. Promise it's completely 100% here? No, totally, yeah. Okay. That guy may not want free chicken, but I'll tell you what he does want. 50% off the Morsier app. That's right. The Morsier Black Friday sale is now live. And that means we're offering up to 50% off all app subscriptions. So right now, you can jump on an annual plan for just over £4 a month, which is the cheapest it will ever be. So if you'd like me to help you transform your physique, just like I did with all of these guys, use the link at the top of the video description and I'll see you in there. How are we still going? Can you please like this video? Please. Welcome to the highest protein to calorie ratio item in all of Pizza Hut. This is the individual handcrafted meat supreme. Handcrafted just means like thin. It's like thin, stretch base. 11 inches to be precise, which is I'm very familiar with. And it is 27 grams of protein, 528 calories, which is actually not that bad. 20% matter meter score, which is again, isn't that bad. That's like not that far behind a double quarter pounder. Calories are good. I mean, cheese, people forget cheese has protein in it. It looks really good. Yeah. I feel like I mean that is the presentation. This is number one today, isn't it? Presentation so far. I never ordinarily get peppers, etc. on my pizza, but I'm willing to give it a go in the name of YouTube. No good. No good. Yeah. That's the best tasting item I've had so far today. Really? Yeah. At 20%, this may be bottom of the matter meter, but our next item is top of the matter meter. That's right. We have a large stuffed crust meat supreme. So, I mean, it's the same thing, but just way bigger. It's like that pizza on steroids. Ready for it. 154 grams of protein. This pizza has more protein than a massive bucket of fillet chicken. How is that even possible? What are the calories on it? Okay. That's where it falls down. So it's top of the fat and meter. Disregarding calories. The calories, 3,179. To be honest, I'm probably one of the only people that would actually consider this as an option because the calories will be quite useful. Pretty terrible ratio. But like I said, in terms of overall protein, this is going to take some beating. 154 grams. So good. South cross is so, you know what I mean? So good. It's literally getting dark. How are we still doing this? Okay. So Pizza Hut had both our lowest matter meter score, but the highest fat meter score. Our last place, however, may just surprise you. And talking of surprises, I'm surprised that more of you haven't tried Huel's. It's an absolute lifesaver for me and I literally don't leave the house without one. So if you want to level up your nutrition and try it for yourself, use the link in the video description in the code Matt and you'll save £10 on your first order. Hello. Hello. Can I please get... Okay. Five guys. Probably my number one go-to fast food place. Five guys? This is the fifth place as well. Why have you said that? That is not going to make the edit. I think you'll find it is. Because the food is expensive, but the food is very good. IMO. And if you need calories, which I regularly do, it's a great source of calories. So, the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu is the menial double hamburger. Smell like fart. Yeah, rude. Okay, two observations. Firstly, when I opened it, it did smell like fart. Like quite a strong fart smell. Secondly, it does look really basic, but that does strike me as a cutting. Do you know what I mean? The cutting, that strikes me as a good meal. However, you'll be surprised, or I'll be surprised to know, 44 grams of protein. Not terrible. 840 calories. Which means this gets a Matamita score of 21%. That's second to bottom. That's only fractionally above a Pizza Hut pizza. How can a two burger burger... That's unexpected. Yeah, be only 1% better than a Pizza Hut pizza. That's horrendous. Why? Do you know what I mean? What is in this burger that fills out all the rest of the calories? Only 21% of that is protein. Like, what's the rest of it? Do you know what I mean? It makes me suspicious. Like, is it the oil that it's cooked in? Is it the fart smell? Like, what is it that... Do you know what I mean? I don't know what's doing that. Anyway. I love Five Guys. That's the worst Five Guys burger I've had. Seriously? Yeah. I think the cheese, I think the lack of cheese just makes it... I don't know. Do you know what I mean? It's just so bland. I just don't understand what, like... What is the other 79% of this burger? Where are those calories coming from? I don't even want to eat this. It's not even good protein. What am I getting from this? If you think that's bad, wait until you see this. The highest protein item on the Five Guys menu is a bacon double cheeseburger. I've ordered this burger so many times under the assumption that the protein will be incredible, right? 49 grams of protein. 49 grams of protein, 1,060 calories. That puts it bottom of the Fat-O-Meter leaderboard. Like 49 grams. I feel like I've been living a lie. In fact, I get this frequently without the bacon, so it'll be even less protein. If I would have put this top tier, turns out it's not. The one redeeming feature is that it is very good. Okay. That is it. The experiment is over and the results are in. I mean, you've already seen them, but I can tell you. Number one place on the Matameter is KFC. And the item is the original recipe chicken fillet. The one fillet. 42%. That was way out in front as the best item. I mean, it's a little bit of a, like I said, a bit of a sketchy one because it is just a bit of chicken. But still, that is enjoyable. Subway was next. Subway, annoyingly, has done well. Like, it's done well in both leaderboards. But for me, the massive trade-off is the taste. Subway was just dead. McDonald's, kind of middle of the road for both. Like, not amazing protein. The ratio was kind of okay. Surprising that both McDonald's and Five Guys, I would have had them as being up the top. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, same. But the protein ratio was surprisingly low. Pizza Hut, unsurprisingly, the ratio was pretty terrible. But, like, still not that bad, given it's a pizza. And then when it came to the Fatameter, pizza absolutely ran away with it, mate. 154 grams of protein. The mini fillets from KFC, again, pretty impressive item. 137 grams of protein. Anyway, that is that. It's been a largely unenjoyable day. But the best thing about the video is that we're now finished. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, it's been funny watching Matt get recognised reviewing. Yeah, I've got to change my strategy now because I can't. I don't do, like, I used to see these videos all the time back in the day. I don't do them anymore. And I think they need to stay that way because getting people to be like, Oh, look, it's legend. Why is he talking about a chicken fillet? It's just, it's really embarrassing. Okay, I'm done. Let's go home. That puts it Fatam. Oh. Ow. James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James