 zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, zOlgi, z Big Mac, the most iconic meal, McDonald's meal. Do you know what I mean? I feel like it's pretty world renowned. We've got a large Big Mac. I've kept all the stuff in it, by the way. If you follow my channel for any period of time, you'll know I always get just cheese and ketchup. I am not an advocate of all of this in a burger. For me, that's just too much. But I'm gonna go with the Commando meal. This burger is 509 calories. We've got a chocolate milkshake. That's 488 calories. And then we have large fries, 443 calories. And that puts the entire meal at just over 1,400 calories. I don't mind it, it's just not as good. It's a very different diet. I get it just cheese and ketchup. That, for me, is how a Big Mac, in my head, I've conditioned myself to believe that a Big Mac is just cheese and ketchup. And in reality- That's literally the best fit, mate. No, but they're not though, are they? That's not true, is it? If you're going to get like an acai bowl, but this is like a burger, do you know what I mean? What? Why do you have gherkins in the outside bowl? I don't know why I said that. Classic. Chocolate milkshake is like, that's top tier, isn't it? Yeah. It's like a lot of calories, but it's worth the calories. I mean, in terms of calories for the meal, I feel like 1,400 for a meal is on the upper end of the scale, but still, this pales into insignificance when compared to some of the items we have later on. We have some mega calorie meals coming up, so we're starting out low, basically. So, by the way, the rules are pretty simple. I've got the highest calorie meal available from every restaurant we're going to go to. So, when I say a meal, we've got a burger, fries, and drink, I'm going to follow that pattern for the whole video, and this is the highest calorie option on the menu in terms of a whole meal. It's just a sauce. Do you like that orange sauce? Yeah. Why, though? Why? Without my roastiness and stuff. But that wouldn't even surprise me, to be honest. It's just cheesy ketchup is what you have when you're at, like, a 12-year-old's birthday party. Why are you going to 12-year-old's birthday party? Do you think McDonald's fries are the best fast food fries? Five guys, I reckon. I really... Yeah, I think theirs are really good. There's just too many, though. It ruins it. Do you know what I mean? You think better than... I feel like Burger King. Burger King. But is it there about 300 pounds? Right, as well as doing the highest calorie meal on the menu, we're also going to do the highest calorie bite. Let's find out which chain has the highest calorie single bite. I have my trusty scales. That's quite weird attracting some strange looks. I've already weighed the Big Mac, right? I know this Big Mac burger is 210 grams. So I'm going to take a bite. In fact, let's find out what it is now. I'm going to take a massive bite, deduct the weight of my bite. That gives me the weight of my bite, and I can then look at the calories. Right, 148. 148 grams. I'm going to go for the biggest bite you can reasonably get. That means my bite was 41 grams. Oh no, it's got a quarter of the burger. That's quite a good. It's not, it's a quarter of the burger. I've eaten a quarter of the burger in one bite. That's good. That means... 210 divided by 509. It's going to take a while. 509 divided by two, 10, One calorie of Big Mac, is 2.4 grams, no, one, one gram of Big Mac, so, 47 times that line, divided by two, 10, yeah, there we go. take a while. 509 divided by 2.10. One calorie of Big Mac is 2.4 grams. No, one gram of Big Mac. So 47 times that line divided by 2.10. Yeah, there we go. That one bite of Big Mac was 114 calories. So to burn off one bite of a Big Mac, you'd have to walk for about 30 minutes and do about two and a half thousand steps. That's pretty terrifying. I'm interested to know actually how high we can go. Do you know what I mean? How high can you get with one bite? Next stop, Burger King. Flame grilling since 1954. I'm feeling hungry. Let's get in the door. Cut that out of the video. That's not making the edit. Okay. Highest calorie meal at Burger King UK is the following. We have a Bacon King, which by the way, feel the weight of that quality. Just like. I was going to ask how it's so much more calories than a Big Mac, but like it's clear because that is very, very heavy. So this burger is 1,043 calories for a single burger, mate. Then you have the bacon and cheese loaded large fries, which come with a fork. Pretty classy. What's not classy though is just the whole appearance. Like what? That is awful. Yeah. What is that, mate? What has happened to these chips? It looks like someone's just squished it out of a, like a toothpaste tube. The bacon is making me feel sick. It's like the off cuts of like, do you know what I mean? It's like it's kind of out of a machine. Also, so the large fries are 420 calories. These are 492 calories. And I was like, how can adding cheese and bacon only add 72 calories? But I think it's the most measly. Do you know what I mean? They've added about three grams of cheese. So that does actually make sense. And then lastly, you have the large vanilla milkshake. Now this is the male one, right? This is 968 calories. What? That's double the calories of a McDonald's shake. What? How? It's the same size. How can it be double the calories? I don't understand. It's definitely way thicker. I wouldn't say it tastes like, yeah, it's way, right. It's way thicker, but like a McDonald's shake actually tastes nicer. That's just a massive waste of 500 calories basically. So that brings a total of this meal to 2,503 calories. That's like a solid thousand calorie jump for the McDonald's meal. I feel like it's probably going to be more filling, but I don't know. So your average intake in one meal. Yeah. It's literally the average person's intake in one meal. I thought, shit, why is there so much sauce in that? See the sauce? That's worse. That's more sauce than the big man. That's making me gag. That is just outrageous. Why have you done that? I'm not a fan of the burger, but what I would say is it's definitely, you can tell it's more dense. The burgers are thicker. There's definitely more protein. So it makes sense to be more calories, but a thousand calorie burger seems like quite a lot. Right. So far this meal has been extremely underwhelming. I'm not holding out much hope for the fries, but let's see what 492 calories of cheese and bacon loaded fries is like. Cheese is so bad. You know that proper like liquid, like spray cheese. That is the least cheese tasting cheese I've ever had. That's not cheese, is it? It's like loosely cheese flavored liquid. This is easily the worst two and a half thousand calories you could ever eat. We're going to find out the highest calorie bite. So burger, total burger weight is 410 grams. I'm going to weigh it in its current state. 272 grams. Let's get the bit. I'm going for a mega bite here. 212 grams. That's a 60 gram bite. 410 gram burger, 1,043 calories, 60 gram bite. God. That means that bite is just under 150 calories. 150 calories, mate. You'd have to ride a bike for about 20 minutes at a comfortable pace to burn that many calories. 20 minute bike ride for one bite of this extremely mediocre burger. Definitely not worth it. Come to Burger King, don't get this meal. Come on, mate. You've got a price thing here, look. You're here. That's cool. Genuinely could be the worst fries I've ever had. Let's rewind to when Matt said Burger King fries were the best. Better than I thought Burger King. Yeah, you said that they had the best fries. Not with weird orange cheese flavored toothpaste and bacon on there. Definitely had the hair in as well. I'll just wash it down with this 1000 calorie milkshake. If only there was something better I could be drinking right now. Oh wait, there is. I spend so much time traveling for work and whether it's a YouTube shoot, a TV show or just day to day meetings, what happens nine times out of ten is that because I'm busy or just don't have access to decent food, I end up eating absolute sh**. And as a result, I'm hungry again 20 minutes later and I end up eating more rubbish. But that's where Huel comes in. Now, whenever I go anywhere, I throw a couple of black edition shakes in my bag and I know that no matter how hectic things get, I've got my protein and nutrition covered. So, if you want to give Huel a go and see what all the fuss is about, you can shop my favorite products through the link at the top of the video description and if you use the code MATT, you'll save money on your first order over £60 and get a free gift. Honestly, the worst two and a half thousand calorie meal I think I've ever had. Like I actually can't eat this. Just got to pray the next place is better. Hey mate, can I get the highest calorie meal on the menu please? Yeah, of course you can. Nice one, thank you very much. No worries. Okay, slim chickens. We have the Buffalo tender mac and cheese, which by the way, I mean that easily is the best looking meal so far, right? Yeah. Compared to the, compared to the Birkin, it's a solid step up. Then we have a large fries, then we have a flake shake. So numbers wise, flake shake, 645 calories. Considering that, I mean that's quite small, right? It's a decent number of calories, but I feel that's a good amount for a milkshake. Buffalo tender mac and cheese, 1450 calories, which I guess makes sense. I mean, it's quite a lot of cheese in there, do you know what I mean? It's very cheese dense. Then you've got the fried onions, the fried breads, the tender bits, and then the large fries comes in at 900 calories. I mean, that is an excessively large portion to be fair. Total for the whole meal, 2,995 calories. So straight in at number one. But I'd like to think, unlike Burger King, a better use of the calories. This looks like it should be more enjoyable. I still feel a little bit sick from the weird toothpaste and bacon fries from Burger King, but hopefully this is going to rectify things. That's very good. Looks like a nine out of ten. It's really good. Good mac and cheese. You know what? I love mac and cheese here, but you obviously want some protein. This is mac and cheese with chicken in it. That is a dream combination. Disclaimer, by the way, we're doing meals, right? Now, this is enough for a meal. That is a meal, right? You've got your carbs right here. If you're ordering this and fries, you've got problems. But for the purposes of this video, we're trying to get as many calories in a meal. So technically, meal, side, drink. That counts. Flake shake. God, that's very good. Yeah, that's like five guys level. It's really, really good. That's honestly a ten. That's actually a ten. Really? Like genuinely, I would come here to get this milkshake. It's so good. I know it's small, but 645, that isn't like, 645, that isn't horrendous for a milkshake. Like considering the five guys is like a thousand plus. It's not terrible. Fry check. Solid. I've got 7.5. You know how mac and more fries are just very, you can just tell they're fast food fries. Yeah. These are like a bit more classy. I'd say not quite as good, but they're still good. Honestly, that's like one of the best milkshakes I've ever had. This is definitely, by the way, definitely the best meal so far. Easily. Yeah. Okay, moment of truth. How many calories in a buffalo tender mac and cheese mouthful? I've already weighed this price diet. It was 500 grams, just over 500 grams of food weight. I'm having some issues getting this on the scales. This is going to be messy. I apologise in advance. 190 calories. That's a lot. That's pretty wild, isn't it? Makes sense because it's like, it's liquid, do you know what I mean? Liquid cheese makes sense, but it's really nice. But is it 190 calories for one mouthful nice? To burn 190 calories, you have to do 20 minutes of shadow boxing, which Fab does like every day. So, you're good. Probably thinking, Matt, how are you eating a large portion of fries with no condiments? Cheese, mate. Cheese. Most versatile substance. You're weird. You have like no sauce with anything. That's literally not true. That's a good thing. You can just shadow box, mate. In the middle of steamed chickens, you can be quiet. I'm going to reference that clip in all of our videos now forever. That's going to be the new channel intro. Try and hit me now. The food's really good, so I've eaten more than I would have eaten. I feel like I've eaten way too many fries today. 2pm. You shouldn't be eating three different portions of fries before 2pm. Increasing in size as well. Almost done the mac and cheese. Pretty much done. Pretty much done the plate shake. I'm just hoping the next place doesn't involve more fries. Last size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size size world's, as far as I'm aware, the UK's biggest single portion of fries. Is there anywhere in the world where you can get a bigger portion of fries than this? I don't think there is. Unless it's just like, you know, Steve's basement, but that's not a real place. That is... It's like somewhere you'd be able to. I have. Trust me, I have. 1,450 calories in one portion of fries. I don't get the logic. Yeah, I don't understand. I get it, you know, they're obviously trying to be generous and like value for money, whatever it is, but even half of this bag would still be a massive portion of fries. Do you know what I mean? I've just taken a portion of fries. This is like, even a family. Like, I could come here with Sayers and both boys and that would be the fries between us and that would be fine. Such an excessively large portion. And for me, that like epitomizes everything that is wrong with like food serving in this country. Like, I'm fine with fast food, but just be sensible. Do you know what I mean? That is not sensible. Then we have bacon cheeseburger, absolute classic. I've ordered this so many times. 1,060 calories, but that is now the biggest burger of the day. I did this in a video semi-recently. It must just be the amount of like fat and oil that it's cooked in because on the surface it's not that huge. It's not that, it's not mega heavy. It's just over a thousand calories. And I suspect a lot of that comes from oil. It is very good though. Very, very good. Probably my favorite fast food burger. And while we're on the topic of ranking things, why don't we rank my favorite gym clothing? In it number one is Gymshark. Because they sell incredible items such as this training quarter zip as well as other favorites like Onyx, Power and the new Physique collection. And the best part is if you use the code MATT10 at checkout, you'll save money on your order. And then lastly, we have a Biscoff and Oreo shake with whipped cream. Does that, again, does that need to be on offer? I ordered this and I was immediately offered whipped cream on top. One of the average person is probably going to say yes to that out of all goodness. 920 calories. 920 calories in a drink to go with the meal. It's just not a good idea. It is very, very good though. How many meals you've got to be added? Too many. Way too many. It's my fourth milkshake. I've had a milkshake at every place. That puts, what is that? Why are my fries shedding their skin? I already felt rough. That's not helping. Anyway, as I was saying, total meal, from five guys, 3430 calories. Straight into number one. Don't get me wrong. It's a very enjoyable meal. But the average person cannot be eating three and a half thousand calories in a single meal. How am I still eating fries? I've been about 10,000 calories of fries today. There's a lot of cheese in that burger. I really do. Yeah. It goes some way to explaining the calories. How can you slate Big Mac sauce and then dip your chips in there? At this point, I'm just trying to break up anything other than just fries. I'm just trying to break the cycle. They are good fries. They're good fries. There's just too many. Like I've eaten a lot and the bag still feels really full. Let's find out how many calories within a single bite of five guys. Total burger weight is 310 grams. 20. Quite consistent. Come on, eat that. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. About 10,000 calories. To burn 212 calories, almost 40 minutes of leaf blowing. Bear in mind. Come on, eat up. Is this the most burgers you've eaten in one day? The funny thing is, it probably isn't. I mean, it probably isn't. Also, if you haven't already, you need to like the video and subscribe. If you haven't subscribed, why have you not? Why would you not want to see more videos of me eating 17 milkshakes? I've honestly been eating these for ages. I've eaten loads of fries. They're just not going down. I don't know if you could come back in 2000 years and I'd still be sat here eating these fries. Hello. Please can I get a large stuffed crust meteor? Yes. The pepperoni loaded fries. Yes. And then just a bottle of Coke, please. Of course. Thank you very much. Just the lad 90 say, hey, that's for you, you little rat. Oh, you actually do that? Yeah. Okay. And then start talking. Oh my God, that's so bad. Okay. You actually want me to do that? Yeah. You actually? Yeah, I'll do it. Okay. Okay. We have Domino's large stuffed crust meteor. Ignore the bite. That was for the intro. 3,259 calories. By some distance, the highest calorie item of the entire day. I mean, I know pizzas are calorie dense, but like, it's not even that big. Do you know what I mean? It's obviously, it's deep. To be fair, it's stuffed crust, isn't it? Forget that. Stuffed crust straight away. You just have a huge snake of cheese the entire way around. That's going to add a lot of calories. Plus there is a lot of meat on it. Like I imagine these little meatball things probably quite calorie dense alone. Then as a side, again, very dubious. If you're having this as a side, loaded pepperoni fries. I've never had this before. That's mad luck. That's 737 calories. And then finally, bottle of Coke, 210 calories. I mean, it's just lucky that if they had milkshakes here, then this would be like off the charts, but it's still 4,206 calories. So straight into number one by some distance in terms of the meal. Now, straight away, if you're ordering that as a side to your pizza, seek some kind of counselling. But technically that is a side, this is a meal. So this is a feasible combo as a meal. This seems mad to me, but I feel like there probably are some people that on a Friday night as a takeaway would order a pizza and get a side. So it's not out of the realms of possibilities. Just don't do that. Do you know what I mean? Unless you are desperately trying to gain weight, don't do it. It's a good pizza to be fair. It does look good, doesn't it? It's just fries, cheese and pepperoni. It's not bad. The grease, mate, look at the look. I mean, all of the meals, but particularly as the meals are getting higher up the chart, the amount of grease and fat on show is just like exponentially increasing. You know what I was saying? I didn't know how I had so many calories in. The densest thing ever. It's like so dense. The stuffed crust is so dense. It's like the five guys burger. It's like the five guys burger. It's so heavy that you can just feel like literally can feel the calories. it all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It all. It's like the densest thing ever. It's like so dense. The stuffed crust is so dense. It's like the Five Guys burger. It's so heavy. You can just feel, like, literally can feel the calories. The moment you've all been waiting for, how many calories are in a bite. I mean, I said it in the intro. I think so. You already know. But for the purposes of this, this is a 100 gram slice, 360 calories in one slice, which means... 55 gram bite of pizza is going to cost you 200 calories. That's the equivalent to seven and a half hours of horse riding. Where are you getting those snacks from? It's Alan Goto. What are you doing? You're filming. What are you actually doing? Done. I'm done. Experiment's finished. There's no chance. No chance to make it happen. Experiment's done. I've got, like, my body on the line in the name of science. Made some very insightful discoveries. My domino shift starts in five minutes. I need to go. You can give me time. I'll deliver it before then. Yeah, that's fine. What? Can you go? I'm trying to work. Go out of my restaurant. Go away. Go. Go away. Go. Go away. Go. Go away. Go. Go away. Go. Go away. Go away. Go. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away. Go away.