 This is me, in hospital, in hospital, back in August, I'd just had surgery to reattach my bicep tendon, but I'd also been throwing up multiple times a day for over a week and was eventually diagnosed with acute gastritis and esophagitis. At my worst, I didn't move from my bed or eat a single bit of food for 12 days, and over that period I lost 14kg in body weight. It was easily the worst few weeks of my life. But, fast forward to today and I'm back, lifting heavy, eating everything inside, and as of yesterday, having regained all the weight and as of yesterday, having regained all the weight that I lost in hospital. But how did I do it? Well, today I'm gonna take you through the exact diet that I ate to gain 30 pounds in 30 days. Good morning! It is breakfast time, but first, look at this, right? So that is me, straight out of hospital with my tiny withered arm. Look at me now, mate! I'm back, my arm is jacked, what a time to be alive. Anyway, breakfast. I think I was smaller than before. Shut up! Even when I was at my smallest, I was still bigger than you. Breakfast, right, so, for about two weeks, I basically got out of hospital and I progressively ramped up the calories. I can literally show you, I can show you right now, my calories and my body weight. I tracked everything for almost a month, I think. I basically ramped up, firstly, to make it doable, but also because I had to, because my stomach was absolutely mashed. So, like, when I came out of hospital for the first week, all I could eat was, like, soft stuff. So I was eating yogurt, mashed potato, and porridge. Like, I literally ate baby food for a week, which was pretty grim. But I slowly added more food, like, more normal food, and I slowly ramped up the calories. And it got to the point where I was at my peak for over a week, I was eating six to six and a half thousand calories, which is pretty wild. The mad thing as well is that I was eating it easily. Like, my appetite was the biggest it's ever been. I was handling it pretty comfortably. Basically, to get six thousand calories and to make it sustainable, you've got to kind of find sneaky ways to get calorie-dense food. And this is one of the best ones, right? Crunchy nut clusters, man. I'm telling you, this is a diet hack. I mean, it's a diet hack if you want to be really fat, but for someone that's bulking, it's really handy. You've been hanging around with your brother too much. Yeah, yeah. This is basically, this is a much better, cleaner version of Ben's bulking diet. Okay, so we're going to go 150 grams of crunchy nut clusters, and then 250 millilitres of semi-skinned milk. Why not whole milk? That would be interesting. I don't know. That would have made more sense. To be fair, it's better calories, but I'm not a big fan of like, super creamy stuff and like whole milk. Particularly when you're not used to it, it's just, I don't know, you know that creamy vibe in your mouth? Yeah. Too much. I know you know that. Fab is very familiar with creamy taste in his mouth. And lastly, just to get my protein, some vitamins and to top up my calories. We've got a chocolate ready to drink here. And that my friends is the breakfast I ate pretty much every day for about three weeks. In fact, up until a few days ago. Basically, I'm not a breakfast eater. Prior to this happening, I didn't eat breakfast because I'm not hungry in the morning. And unless you're trying to gain weight, if you're not hungry in the morning, just don't eat like it's a waste of calories. But obviously, I was desperately trying to gain weight. And so I can't afford to not eat food for that like few hour window. Now, my two priorities for this whole period were number one calories. That's like, you know, all the other priorities down here. Calories was like number one. That was king. If you're trying to gain weight, calories rules over everything. So that was it. And then beyond that, easy calories. Because again, if you're trying to get over 6,000 calories, I cannot stress enough. If you're trying to eat clean food, like if you're eating chicken, rice and broccoli and potatoes, you will not get 6,000 calories. And if you do, you're going to spend half your day on the toilet and it will be horrible. So it's about making it as sustainable as possible. Now, just quick disclaimer, because I get this a lot in my videos. I would not recommend you do this. Like eating how I'm going to eat today, it's not too bad. It's not the end of the world. It's not as bad as like Ben's diet, right? But it's definitely not optimal. It's definitely not something I'd recommend. It was very much a means to an end. I did it to get back to where I am now. Now I'm here, I'm kind of transitioning back to a more like, you know, normal, clean kind of, yeah, less crazy diet. But this was just serving its purpose to get me to where I needed to be. By the way, really weird that this is my job. For everyone watching, this is my raw audio. Calories for this cereal and this yule, 1,220 and then 55 grams of protein. That's the thing you find, because I think obviously when you're cutting, protein is mega, mega important. Like the most important macro biomark, right? If you're bulking, particularly if you're bulking as hard as I was on 6,000 calories, you can kind of chill on protein because if you're eating 6,000 calories, the chances are you're going to be eating a lot of protein as well. Do you know what I mean? You wouldn't think particularly a bowl of cereal is a good amount of protein, but that's 20 grams of protein right there. And with the 35 there, it's 55. So basically for me, it was about calories and then the protein would pretty much work itself out. What are you doing? Why did you do that? My nutrients. You eating your super nutritious breakfast? Um, yeah. Nutrients covered? I'm showing everyone my 6,000 calorie peak hospital diet. Post-hospital, my thoughts for Matt were, let's try and add some sort of greens and nutrients into this. You were more calorie focused. Yeah, so this is like the, so this is like the, Your gut health. Aubergine. Stuff like that. On my shoulder, they're just like currently reminding, constantly reminding. To be fair. Aubergine on your shoulder? Yeah. To be fair, I always eat loads of fruit and I was, I was eating loads of fruit here, but vegetables. The thing is fruit, you eat it by itself, right? Whereas vegetables, you wouldn't sit down and eat a cucumber. That's weird, isn't it? I was like cutting them up, carrots, cucumbers and hummus. There aren't many meals I would enjoy having vegetables with. Do you know what I mean? I'd eat the meal and I'd eat the vegetables after just to get them in, but I don't really enjoy them. Done. And that was like the easiest 1,200 calories ever. Oh, I'm going back to the vegetable and the vitamin thing. That's another reason why these are really handy, right? Because they've got 26 vitamins and minerals in them, 7 grams of fiber and omega-3. Plus, I never really talk about this, right? But Huel is plant-based. Obviously, I'm not vegan, right? I eat meat, but I've had probably 15 years of having whey protein twice a day, every day. And I think there's definitely something to trying to mix up your protein sources. So getting some from whey and some from plant-based stuff. Plus, I have loads of friends that have like stomach issues. When they have too much whey or too much dairy. So it's just a really handy way to get it in and to mix up your protein source. I get so many questions about it. Just try it, mate. There's a link in my description. If you use the code MATT, you'll save 10 pounds on your first order. Just give it a go. Oh, by the way, look. Paul update. Come and look at this, mate. Look at those bad boys. So basically, I don't know if you remember, this finish, we were getting like, it was going damp. But water was getting into this stuff. And we had like some damp patches around here, where water was just sitting on the edge. So we've got these same tiles and we ran this upstand the whole way around. And upstand normally is like this high, but our designer said it would be a good shot to go higher. And I think it looks sick. Looks sick, right? It's a cool design feature now. So it looks sick. And more importantly, no water is ever, ever going to get in there again. So we're good. We're secure. I'm trying to get Matt to do a triathlon in his house and he won't do it. Because it's a, I'm not riding a bike around my house, mate. No, Joe, we're doing it in your house. Who wants, comment below if you want us to do a triathlon in Fab's house. House update number two, the world's most aesthetic bike shed. Look at this, mate. That looks really cool. I want to open that. Here we go. We've got bikes. Halford has sent us loads of bikes and they're nice. And I wanted to look after them. So we now have a lockable bike shed, which you could literally live in. In fact, I've had your sleeping is night, come on, look. I'm going to put your bed down there. Is that right? It's better than the other room. Look at the space. It's sick, isn't it? Yeah, that's sick. The guy that built the gym, Will, he built this. He's the sickest guy ever. And he's also, his attention to detail is mad. Like he gets everything super symmetrical. Oh, and house update number three slash gym update. Technically. It's meant to be an eating video. Yeah, I'm changing the video title to house, house, new house, news. First gym update. I've got a hex bar. I haven't deadlifted for like three years, like since Cladet is basically because of the risk and reward thing. But I'm just mindful. I don't really have a major posterior chain movement. And a hex bar deadlift just means you can get a very similar movement that's hamstring and glute focus. But because you're here, it's just so much safer. And the risk on my back is minimal. So hopefully that'll be good. But the main one is this, mate. My rack is now a Smith machine. I know everyone always says, Matt, you have the best rack in the world. Thank you. But it's even better now because it's now a cable pulley. I can put the things on to make it a squat rack and it is now a Smith machine. Bulldog sent me this. It's like a prototype. Basically, you've got these two things here that make, you put, this is my bar. It goes in, it rolls and acts as a Smith machine. You put these pins wherever you want to do it. You've got the safeties down here. And it's now turned this rack into like, you can do anything on it. It's an absolute dream, particularly the last like month with my bicep. And obviously using dumbbells is risky. Now with this, I can stabilize stuff and it is absolutely ideal. Anyway, it's time to train. I'm going to do a push workout, chest, triceps, shoulders, the bicep. Look, you see the scar. It's like pretty much, it's not exactly the same, but it really isn't far off now. So training is almost back to normal. Should be good. Let's come in. Let's go. Done. And that was good. My training was mad. Outside of Gladys, when I'm just doing my normal day-to-day gym training, it gets boring. Like I'm almost footy. When you train for that long, it gets boring, right? Because of this injury, I've gone back to square one. I've had to start from scratch. Weirdly, it makes it more fun. Like my training for the last month has been the funnest it's been in ages. I'm actually really enjoying it. Strength is almost back. I think I'm probably, I'd say another two weeks, I'll be back to normal. The last two things to add into my training will be climbing and then the contact rugby stuff. I'm going to climb this week, I think, and then it's just contact and that's it. I'm back. I've made the fastest bicep recovery of all time. Let's get some lunch. Let's go. go lunch is served and can i just say where you will not witness better egg preparation than this that's just commando in the pan look at the symmetry nothing's broken foul come on mate that's the stuff i've done i mean you know that i've done either in this same lunch every day or you know 90 of days for almost two years now and i assume i'll get bored of it but it's not happening if anything i like it more than at the start we have five eggs we have four bits of toast i go heavy with the butter so the butter on the toast and the pan is 80 grams then got orange juice which by the way you know when you go to like somewhere in europe and you get fresh orange juice and it's like the best thing ever ms orange juice that's the one the ms i don't know what's called ms like fresh or whatever it's called fresh orange juice fresh friggin tasting whatever it is i've tried every one that is the best one in the uk that you can get from a shop imo then we have some blueberries we have a fairly questionable banana uh this is i can tell you right now 1950 calories and 54 grams of protein so this is another big hack for me as with the morning when i say hack i mean don't do it because it's not ideal but for as a means to an end butter butter is an absolute calorie hack like the 80 grams of butter i get on this toast and in the pan i forget exactly but i think it's close to 500 calories if you're one of those people that i know this is uncommon if you are struggling to gain weight just add more butter and more oil to your food and it will make it considerably more easy so that's probably like the 500th time i've eaten that meal in the last two years and still like mega enjoyable can you see that it's like i think why it's sticky on the outside it looks bad bananas are a good metaphor for life don't judge a book wise cover because look at that mate that's a textbook banana if any of you eat that or that you literally should be arrested immediately i'm gonna eat this i'm gonna eat probably like like 100 grams of blueberries and then maro and luke will be back from score oh what a finish mate oh man watch out i'm slipping this straight in the top bins oh it's literally straight in mate oh score i've got the goalie quick it's an open goal mate rescue me yellow car but you can't give me a yellow car you can oh mate can i order delivery please follow me boys follow me hello um i have a large pepperoni passion from domino's guess the calories that uh 2 600 is that a genuine guess have you looked at it already 2 642 that is is that impressive or is that actually a terrible damnation of your terrible indication of your no you're not you're a human domino's consumer i'm gonna also have about i don't know like 500 mils about 100 calories of cranberry juice top up my vitamins and also says he's on veg watch today says official veg instructor she's given me some cucumber and some carrots i'm not even gonna track those but it's just micronutrients what a lovely backdrop by the way yeah right when it's nice we can't pee all the time because it is sick isn't it we came up for breakfast didn't we nika yeah good cold come on here oh that's the one i choose can you give me a barabite excuse me bye that's a man it's not a man is it really insulting radio brachialis that's that one which is that's actually stronger for flexing your elbow than your bicep is how weird is that no one knows that yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay welcome to the future and by the future i mean a place where you can eat protein ice cream have a look at this mate this is right so the one i made obviously i'm not a wizard that's going to be i'm going to be having that tomorrow but this is what i made yesterday like blue peter style this is the chocolate black edition powder now look at that mate come on does that not look sick fab mate yeah are you not i'm impressed salivating and then we added some poppets do you remember poppets like from the night the word poppets annoys me poppets it's not poppets they're like 90s if you're old you remember them 90s like chocolate just go straight in i'm really hard that is wild the macros on this right so this is 650 calories 58 grams of protein that's 58 grams of protein now i'm gonna eat half so that's like 325 29 grams of protein apple and a kiwi as well fyi and that takes me to 6125 calories for the day 239 grams of protein which is actually quite high i think when i was eating 6000 i probably more like 200 so i've gone a bit i mean the pizza had like 110 grams of protein i think that's that's pushed it a bit higher but this is like so sick like obviously you could make it with the black edition powder you could use one scoop and you could use water and you'd have like a massive thing of chocolate ice cream and it'll be 20 grams of protein 200 calories like that's nuts for that amount of ice cream that's absolutely wild remember you want to get anything from you use the link in the description and the code matt and you will save money on your first order i mean i appreciate that not everyone has an ice cream machine so you can just get like the black edition powder and use it as a normal person the good thing about the black edition powder over the ready to drink is that the powder is it's cheaper right it works out as like one pound 70 a serving but the numbers are basically the same it's like 40 grams of protein 400 calories per serving there's loads more flavors the flavors are sick so i would definitely recommend it but that my friends is that i'm going to end the video here 6 000 calories i'm now back to being an absolute gigantic monster although you can't actually see look you notice you know it's my lap my lack of lat flare so i have a lat it is there it's just my scapula is winging and it's pulling my lat around but the good news is it is coming back so that means that hopefully in the next few weeks i'll get normal scapular function back but that's that that was a really long intro that trail wasn't it if you're still watching this now what literally what are you doing go away go and do something else with your life this is literally a waste of your life stop watching this video