promprompromissprompromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromisspromiss The gym is just not really fit for purpose anymore. So over the next few days We're gonna be completely rebuilding it to give me my wife and her friends the greatest home gym on the entire planet What the f**k Morning Good morning What is going on here? Oh my god Where's everything gone? Well fab let me take you back 48 hours So before we could do anything we had to clear the entire gym all the machines had to come out We had hundreds and hundreds of kilograms of dumbbells and plates to remove and we had to get all the old flooring out Which if you ever carried one meter square gym flooring, you'll know is a pretty rough job Then on day two we had to remove all the old light fittings like we literally had 21 down lights Which left 21 holes that will had to individually patch and make good then finally it was the moment I've been dreading we had to remove the old mirrors now not only were these massively cracked They were both huge. So this was a pretty terrifying experience But we managed to get them out without losing any body parts and with that done. We're back to real time Get in here mate Woah it looks bigger Obviously got no machine It does doesn't it look way bigger Way bigger but also really f**k as well You know what mate? Day three Okay plan today is numerous things we've got to finalize the finish the decorating so we're painting all of the walls and the ceiling Should make a big difference to the light Mirrors are coming in this afternoon and then lighting we have 120 meters of strip lights going in it's gonna be very bright Have you got your gym sunglasses? I hope you have sunglasses yeah So there's a lot to get done today this is Will Do you want a track massage? Woah that's weird what I've made it with Will is basically just doing everything he's just gonna be literally running the entire show Well I mean he built this gym Yeah that's true actually Will Will built this whole gym back in the day And then ripped everything out of him Ripping it all down Way better Without him this would not be happening so he's a hero We have a lot to get done Sayers you need to go I know Cause this is the last you're gonna see it Can you get some anthology thing in here maybe? Sort of making ridiculous the mind We've accommodating Sayers in lots of ways to this gym but she's taking the f**k now You need to go you can come back when it's finished I'll see you in three days mate Okay we've got a lot of painting to do Let's go How'd you say that? This is gonna take no time at all It is with that roller mate How satisfying is this? It's like ridiculously satisfying So this colour we were debating Cause originally I was gonna go for a grey Basically the gym is black right Which looks cool but it's a nightmare Trying to film in a black gym is an absolute nightmare So we wanted to go lighter Grey is just a bit basic Do you know what I mean? It's this colour green grey Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Wear green Just make the world green. Wear green, paint green, eat green. Just never smoke green. It's like the paint inhalation is getting to work. Yeah, there's no ventilation. It's pretty long. Yeah, good work, man. Come on. Almost there. It's amazing. The painting is complete. Extremely satisfying. Not the most satisfying we've ever seen. Yeah, mate, it compliments that really well. What a time to be alive. Let's move on to lighting and mirrors. Okay, firstly, I had to pretend to kick a bag then to get a transition. Secondly, it was meant to be a cool transition where we turn and the mirrors turn up and it's all exciting and they're coming in. It turns out it was too good to be true. Everything was going too well, so we had to go wrong. And it has gone wrong because our mirrors are not here, mate. The mirror guy was meant to be here two hours, 15 minutes ago. I've not heard from him all day. It hasn't got back to me. I'm pretty sure he's done a runner, which is extremely annoying and stressful. We have no mirrors. We have... You're probably thinking more about that. Yeah, but okay, so context. These are the old mirrors. This is why we can't use them. This is like, there's two mirrors. There is one of them. It's obviously very cracked. There's cracks down the bottom as well. Uh, yeah. I'm not really sure what to do now because we have two days left. But tomorrow, the gym flooring is going to turn up and the equipment is going to turn up. And the mirrors need to be in. Otherwise, it's going to be in the way. The lighting guys are here. They're finishing today. They obviously need to run lights around the mirror. They can't do that because we haven't got a mirror. Their custom mirrors, they're two meters high. You can't just pick those up from somewhere. I'm like B&Q. Plus, I have subscribed written in massive letters on my wall, which has backfired. So, yeah. Do you know anyone that does mirrors? Well, basically, we're filming. We're rebuilding the home gym. We're in the middle of a YouTube video. And the guy that's delivering mirrors at 2 o'clock hasn't turned up. He's not answering his phone. Me and Will spent the best part of the next hour on the phone. But nowhere had mirrors of the size we needed available at such short notice. And it was starting to look like we might have to delay the whole project. That was until... Let me make some calls and I'll see what we can get. If we can get... Okay, mate. We can get it for you before I close the play. If you're closing play at 9 o'clock tomorrow night. Okay. Right. Nice one, mate. Thanks, pal. Thank you, mate. Cheers. Okay. I don't want to jinx it, but I think we have a solution. That is ridiculous. I think we have mirrors. It's like 20 phone calls. Yeah. But I'm now scarred after my previous experience. I don't know. I don't trust anyone anymore. But I think, fingers crossed, we have a mirror coming tomorrow. Okay. And whilst I went inside to pray to the God of mirrors, the lighting guys got to work on the monumental task of installing 120 metres of strip lights. Now, the plan is for the lights to wrap around the acoustic panels, the mirrors, and the ceiling, which will not only look sick, but I'm hoping will make the gym way brighter and more evenly lit than it used to be with those old spotlights. Good evening. It is 9.43 p.m. The lights are, I mean, straight away, mate, come on. Is that not the sickest thing you've ever seen? It's so bad. I mean, you can see this has got the diffuser on. These haven't got, you see how that's kind of soft, whereas that's like not soft. The diffuser is going to go the whole way around, so it'll all be nice and soft. Then we've got to do the rest of the ceiling. You're going to have like five strips, a perimeter one, and then we're going to do this panel as well. Yeah, the lighting's taken way longer than I thought, so it's going to spill over to tomorrow. But that works because they need to run lights around the mirror, and the mirror isn't coming till tomorrow, so they're going to be here anyways. Hopefully, it all works. But for now, that's most of it done. And the last thing for tonight is what we're going to do. We're going to paint this floor. Baby! By paint the floor, I mean seal the floor, technically. Now, this stuff is called bitumen, and it will basically create a waterproof protective layer to reduce the risk of damp in the gym. It's like tar, doesn't it? It literally looks like tar. See you in the morning, mate. It's now about 10.15. I'm hallucinating a bit, which I think is because of the paint fumes. I'm going to bed. See you in the morning. Good morning! It is day four, and what a glorious day it is. I'm feeling very excited and rejuvenated. There is a lorry full of equipment about to turn up. Let's go and get it. Neighbors are going to hate me so much. Good morning, Dave. Let's go! This may well be the best delivery I've ever had. And in case you hadn't already noticed, I decided to partner up with Primal for all of the gym equipment and flooring. These are about to explode. You'll see why at the end of the video, but the quality of their kit is unbelievable. Put on top. On top. This delivery driver is basically like four having to pull an aeroplane. Like the man. Anyway, before any equipment can go in, we need to lay the new flooring and install the sled track. That's right. I'm getting a sled track. And I know what you're thinking. That's definitely not going to fit in your gym. And you're probably right. But we're doing it anyway. Equipment is unloaded. I'm now officially the most unpopular man in my town. Flooring is coming out. We're stacking it up. Ready to go in. I'm very excited. It's going to make a massive difference. Let's lay some flooring. This is where things started to slow down a bit. It took us ages to figure out the best place for the track so that the machines could fit either side of it without getting in the way. Meanwhile, the guys were unboxing and laying out equipment on the lawn so they could start the building process outside to save time. All right, let's go. Sick, mate. We have a track. This is very, very exciting. We have a sled track. We're going to have the world's smallest sled track with a sled because it will be very useful. And also, sled pulling is like the best knee. Like, if you want to be old and have great knees, pull a sled around, mate. It's great for your quad tendon, eccentric contractions, et cetera. This is going to go down first. Then we're going to put the tiles around it. Then equipment comes in. This is very stressful. Everything is falling into place, I think. Hopefully, maybe. Also, like cattle. We pick it up on this edge. Yeah? Then it hangs. Yeah? And then put it down on that line. Stressful. This is stressful. If we get this wrong, the whole track's ruined, mate. Are we evenly spread? Yeah, okay. I pick it up. Put it on up. Oh, my God. This is terrifying, mate. Are you tight? Get it tight, though. Right? It's floppy as **** right now. Over my head. Why is it so floppy? Okay. Oh, my God. Will's done it. Oh, my God. Will's done it. Oh, my God. Will's done it. Oh, my God. Go down. Go down. Go down. Go down. Yes, wait. You need to come towards me to laugh. Yeah. How's that possible? It needs to come this way. It needs to come this way. This is in line here. Let's get that way a bit. Can you stop dancing? We're trying to get the floor down. This is unprofessional. That was extremely stressful. That was top three stressful moments of this gym build so far, but the track is down. It reminds me of, you know, when I was little, you've got new carpets in the house, and I used to, like, get naked and just roll around. Shall we do that, boys? Let's get naked and roll around. I was joking, my mother. That's weird. Somebody stepped in the group. Fab? Welcome to Matt's school of floor installation. Okay. Okay. Time for the day. I decided to go with this grey fleck flooring from Primal because in the original gym, we'd use plain black flooring. And that was honestly one of my biggest regrets of that build because it just looked dirty all the time. Like it was impossible to keep clean. All it took was one person to walk through the gym with their shoes on, and it was game over. Final piece of the floor, and then we're done. Let's go. Is that not the most satisfying thing you've ever seen in the history of the world, mate? The floor is down. Look at this track. I want to get a sled on it right now so badly. Things are falling into place. I mean, the floor is very dirty. We've got to clean this, but I'm not going to clean it until we're all done because it's going to get dirty for the next 24 hours. Mirrors are coming later on today. Fingers crossed. For now, the light guys should be here any minute when we can finish the lights, and we are in a good place. Oh, I don't know your feelings are. I was just helping the guys build the machines. So, because the floor is going in there, and we're an efficient team of workhorses, me and Greg. It's not really how I made that up. We are going to build this outside because then we can bring it in when it's built and we haven't got to try. Because trying to build everything in the gym is going to be horrendously stressful, particularly as we still have mirrors and lights to come. So, the more we can build outside, the better. I'll put your finger out quickly. Put your hand up. Close your eyes. Hello. Hey, do you have the problem? Hello. Yeah, I'd like to report gross misconduct at work. Go on, man. Starts going up. We all going dumb, not stupid. Trying to keep up with me. I told them all that it's foolish. I heard this song and I turned it right down. It's muted. Update. Update. We have some machines partially built. So, we have a leg extension, leg curl, calf raise, Viking press. Let's check this. Oh, that is going to be sick. Then we also have a bicep tricep machine. These are the only ones that we can build that will get through the door. All the others are too big to get in the door. We're always going to try and take the doors off, but they can't come out. So, we're just stuck. We have enough to worry about without breaking the doors to the gym. Good afternoon. Made a lot of change. A lot of change since you last came. I didn't like the lights, so I've taken them down. I was just going to go for like one, just like a chandelier in the middle. Okay. Is that right? And whilst the lighting guys, who probably hate me at this point, got back to work in the gym, all of my prayers to the God of mirrors were finally answered. We have some mirrors. Let's go. Mate, you're an absolute hero. How long was the journey? What? How long was the journey? Five. Five. Five hours. Five. Five hours to get me mirrors today. That is what I'm talking about. That is what I'm talking about. Are they still in time? Oh, they're broken. Are we good? I feel cracked, but that's all right. Yes, I've got no. Okay. That's one stress over. The next is just getting them into the gym without breaking them. That's really, really scary. So long, come on. As you can see here, I've got the hard job. Whatever you do, please don't drop it. Don't drop it. You're the first game. One. Almost. Don't talk to you, dude. It's your top, Matt. It's your top. Stay at that height. Stay at that height. One down. One down. Whilst we try and get these last two mirrors in without any of the things that I'm going to do, it's your top. You're the first game. One. One. Almost. Don't talk to you, dude. Don't talk to you, dude. It's your top, Matt. It's your top. It's your top. Stay at that height. Stay at that height. Stay at that height. Stay at that height. Stay at that height. Where are we going now? Woo! That's such an enjoyable experience. What a nice, relaxing day I've seen Harry's in massive moods. Oh my god, this is scary. This is scaring me, mate. One down. Whilst we try and get these last two mirrors in without incurring any debilitating injuries, I want to say a massive thank you to Duncan from Glass and Mirror Technology, who sorted us out with the exact mirrors we needed on ridiculously short notice. What an absolute hero. I want to move it. I want to move it. I want to move it. Woo! Let's go! Okay. Mirrors are going up. So, guys. By the way, it's dark now. It's dark. Well, it's not as late as yesterday. So far, we're okay. Mirror. Bear in mind we had one screw in the mirror last time around. That obviously wasn't legit because this is a lot more now. We now have these four brackets here which sit on these. So these get screwed to the wall. Like right there. We've just done it, mate. Like that. Sits on that. Quite cool because you've got this little lever so you can like, you've got a bit of slack basically. Leeway. And then down the bottom, we have magnets, mate. I know what you're thinking. Surely a magnet can't hold a mirror. Yes, it can. That's not coming apart. Whoa! Okay, moment of truth. If we drop this and it cracks. If the measurements are wrong, it's... If the measurements are wrong, then we'll ruin the entire project. Whoa, that's dangerous. Boom! Is this magnet? There is four magnets at the bottom there. Okay, come to me a tiny bit. Whoa! That was sweet. That was sweet. I know what you're thinking. Wow, Matt. You always look so great in those Gymshark clothes. I wish I could have some, but at a heavily discounted price. Well, good news you absolute cheapskate. You can. Because the Gymshark mid-season sale has just gone live. It's up to 50% off selected items, plus an extra 10% off when you use the code MATT10. Stuff's going to sell out quickly, so use the link in the video description and pick something up before it's all gone. Although, watch this video first. Oh, yes! Good? Yeah, the bottom's clear. Oh, these are sick mirrors as well, mate. Oh, it is late. Will's gone home. I had a shower, right? I was, my hands were covered in like glue and so I had a shower. I need to go to bed. We both need to go to bed, not together in separate bedrooms. The guys from Made AV, Rob and Ash, are still here. Absolute heroes. It's like, yeah, quarter past 10. They've got another hour at least to do, so just a couple of absolute monsters. Top work. But we need to sleep. We have a big day tomorrow. Very excited to see how the lights look in the morning. I'm just going to leave this here. Tomorrow. Good morning. It's day five, AKA the final day. Excitement is high, stress is even higher. Let's go and have a look. We've got everything outside. Lots of plastic, lots of cardboard. We had a guy come yesterday and take away about 400 wooden boxes. Just so the locals don't absolutely hate me. They do. They already do. I'm just trying to, it's just damage limitation. All this has got to be built. I know, mate. It's also more alarmingly, it's got to fit in the gym, which is my concern. I'm trying to minimise the gym being a mess. It's probably not going to work. But this is how we are looking currently. Everything's in. Floor's in. Lights are mostly in. Will's putting in the very final bit of flooring. Will, AKA the man that can literally do everything. Will, should we get married? That's maybe not a bad idea. Okay. Me and Will are getting married. We're basically ready to start getting machines in. That's where it's going to start getting very stressful. But without further ado, let's go. This is the rack. It's an MRX rack. It's like the biggest thing in the world. It's literally going to take about a quarter of the gym. But it does everything. You could basically just have this and you'd be good to go, to be honest. There's someone further by in the country. Actually. Third one. Let's go. Two, two, seven, one, seven, two, one. What's he doing? Right. We need to go. This is the worst possible time to go. We've got another video to film. It's going to take like three or four hours. We have to film it now because it's our last chance to do it. Which means I've got to leave everyone doing this, which is a horribly stressful feeling. It also looks like it's about to rain. Which would, it's meant to be clear today. If it rains, that will be disastrous because we have everything on the floor outside. And just to rub salt into the wounds, all of the LED lights, the strip lights that were kind of hanging off ready to go up today. They were turned on this morning and they've now overheated and melted through all of the plastic like coating. So they've all got to be replaced now. So we are struggling for time. I'm getting very stressed, but we need to go, which is extremely far from my deal. I'm basically putting everything in Will's control. I trust him. We're going to do it. Let's just hope for the best. Quiet and out of the way. Stop replying mate. I'm trying to... You're embarrassing me in front of the drive-through person. Be quiet. Take care. I'm here when you meet me. We are back. Straight away, it's been raining. Perfect. All the stuff is wet. I don't think it's that bad, but that was not ideal. I mean, there's still quite a lot of stuff outside. I'm getting a little bit nervous. I'm hoping that we're close to being done because it's quite late in the day. I've got a stone in my shoe as well. There's a lot of people in my gym right now. Boy, this is sick. F***. God, it looks good. It looks good, but there is still a lot to get done. We do not have much time. Satisfying mate. Oh my God mate, that's ridiculous. That's like extremely satisfying. And the gym is complete. Like it's done. It's literally done. I can't believe I'm saying this. We have managed to finish the gym. Just think back to how it looked literally a few days ago. Like there was so much work that we needed to do. And there were so many bits we needed to fix. It might have been the most stressful five days of my entire life. And there were numerous occasions when I thought it was never going to happen. But somehow we have pulled it off. And so I'm extremely, extremely excited to welcome you into the new home gym. I'm still coming to terms with it. I've been here for like an hour now and I'm still... Like it looks like an AI gym. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, it actually does. This is insane. Honestly, I didn't expect it to be this insane. I'm still coming to terms with it. I've been here for like an hour now and I'm still... It looks like an AI gym. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, it actually does. I can't believe this is my gym. It's so different as well. Do you know what I mean? Everything about it. The colour. I love the colour. The lights. I've never seen lights this cool. They look so sick. Before they were so harsh. So you get really strong, overexposed bits and you get really dark shadowy bits. I want it to be softer and this is like, doesn't matter where you go in the gym now. I've just tried it on my phone. I can film anywhere on my phone. It is like studio quality. So not only just for life, but for work. It will be so, so handy. Let's do a run through of what we have. Primal have done an absolute mad one. We have my new prize possession. This is the glute, the hip thrust. The glute drive is a hip thrust basically. It's a hip thrust machine. Oh my God, I'm too big for this. Like this. Got these swivel things with your feet. You unwrap that and then, oosh. Let's go. Glutes are important. I have always historically squatted and deadlifted. I don't deadlift anymore because of my back. Because the gladiators, it's just too risky. I don't have a big posterior chain, glute focused, hip hinge movement. Now I do mate. No pressure on my back. I can load the plates up. This is going to be an absolute dream. Just come back in six months and wait for my butt cheeks to be exploding out of my trousers. That is a weird line. Then, very excited for this. I have, this is the calf raise Viking press. So I had a hack squat before which I calf raised on. It was annoying because my feet would slip off. And because of the angle of it, I couldn't get a stretch. I'm not wearing shoes now, but you still get the idea. Like I can get a full range of motion all the way down, all the way up. My feet aren't slipping at all. Absolutely ideal. And then in keeping with, it's obviously a relatively small gym. You want to get as many dual machines as you can. So this then doubles up. As if I come down to here, it's a Viking press mate. That's really heavy. Viking press calf raise. We have the classic leg extension, leg curl. That's a nice range as well. Also, by the way, how satisfying is this? We have legs down here and then we have upper body down here. So we have this seated chest supported row. I had a low row lat pull down. I much prefer this. Basically for me, my vertical pull is a pull up. I do pull ups twice a week. I don't want to do a lat pull down. I want a horizontal row. A chest supported horizontal row is so far superior to a, if your chest isn't supported, it hurts your back. You end up moving. When you're chest supported, you can just lock in and it's just such a better movement. You can go single arm. This is going to be an absolute dream. Very excited for this. The machines I've got that are just single use, I've gone in on like the really valuable ones. That is a very valuable, that is not valuable. I mean valuable in terms of useful. Very valuable. Then, I had this before, but this is a sick variation of it. We have a bicep and then tricep machine. So another dual use. We have a chest press, shoulder press, which is currently very low. That's going to be sick. I mean, to be honest, this was a bit of a luxury item. I used to have an assault bike here. I wanted to get, I thought I might as well fill the gym. You can obviously chest press. I'll be chest pressing primarily there. You can shoulder press here. But it's useful for the girls. When there's a bunch of them in here, the more stuff and the more dual machines, the better. Because they can all be training simultaneously. Then we have the most aesthetic gumbo rack I've ever seen. Like, come on. Is that not just so... That is the most satisfying thing ever. Just so nice, so clean. Cupboard's been done, by the way. Then, this is the piece, the resistance. This is the main, this is, this is... You could basically just have this in your gym and you're good to go. It's the MRX9. It's only just come out and it is literally everything in one machine. You have a full rack. You have a Smith machine, dual cable pulleys. You have, mate, you've got four. You could literally have four people doing rows simultaneously. You've got a stack, stack there. You've got two cables there which you can attach. But like, so you can, I mean, I actually can do that pull-downs here. You've got these low rows here which you obviously, the cables can be adjusted. So you've got like, a full cable pulley. There are a million attachments. Like these things. How sick of these, mate, for pull-ups. They obviously move. You said this turns into a leg press as well. Oh yeah. Alright, so we've got loads of... There's a lot of bits I haven't brought in yet. So this can become a hip thrust. It's got an attachment, a massive plate that goes on here. So you can lie on your back and do leg press like. Genuinely, you could do every single movement on this machine. You'd need nothing else. Now there's a few bits I've not brought in yet. So I have another bench I need to bring in. We have the sled, which by the way, obviously the track. But I haven't mentioned the track. This is going to be so, so sick. Now, when I thought about this, I thought it was unrealistic. I thought there's no way we're going to fit it in the gym and get all the machines that I wanted. But I thought, we have managed to do it. I'm so like... We had to stick this down before anything else. And I was so scared about the location of it. We went for this and it's worked out like, yeah, almost strangely well. Everything just about fits in. Like, I love it. And this, the reasoning for the track. Firstly, for conditioning, like sled pushing and pulling is great, right? It's fun. It's a fun form of anaerobic exercise. But also for me, gladiators, like one of the games, Everest, you're pushing a massive heavy wall. I can use the sled to train for that event. Last year, I was just pushing my car off a hill, which is not really safe and not ideal. Whereas here, I can do it and it would be great. It would be fun for the boys as well. And it just looks sick. Do you know what I mean? It just mixes it up. It looks really sick. I'm so happy with the layout. Like I was really... Even earlier on today, we were getting things in. I was trying to move stuff around and I thought the chest pressure, I thought this was going to have to go. I was thinking we might not fit this in here, but we've tweaked things. We've moved stuff around and everything works. And also we have, I wanted to have, you've got a big spot here of just clear mirror. Like it's nice to have a bit of full length mirror. I've literally achieved everything I wanted in this gym, honestly. And just the, the aesthetic, like it's just blown my mind. This is genuinely the coolest gym, I've just like home gym ever. I'm putting it out there. I do not believe there is a more aesthetic home gym in the UK. Correct me if I'm wrong in the comments. I believe this is now, I believe I'm now in possession of the most aesthetic and the coolest home gym in this country. And now there is one more thing to do. We need to get Saez and her friends and the boys in here to get a reaction. They've been literally sat in the house desperate to come in. I've got a seat of anything. Yeah. I've kept them out. Keeping the boys out was hard. Keeping Saez out. Saez is like my right hand out. I needed her help, but she's not been here. We've deliberately kept her to one side. They're all very excited to come in. So let's go and get them. Okay. Let's go. By the way, we have Tatiana, who is the head of Saez's gym crew. And also, also our designer. She designed loads of the house and loads of the gym. She's an absolute hero. Keep your eyes closed. Keep your eyes closed. Keep your eyes closed. Keep your eyes closed. Come in. Close your eyes. Are you ready? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. That was exciting, Luke. I'll put you down. Ready? Three, two, one, go. What? No way! Oh my goodness, that looks so different. That looks like a completely different place. I'm mind-blowing. She looks like this. I'm like this out of the house. By the way, by the way. My brokers egg skiing, that's why. Context. No, it looks really good. That'll be, yes, a secret. That's where's the pop machine? Yeah, I'm on the pop machine. The pop machine. The pop machine. Come out there and you're in there and you go. Woohoo! Oh, mate, that's awesome. I've got to show this. Fish, nice, mate. Go! Yeah, then when you go, they do it. You can twist your hand and hammer on the way out. It's a bit of wobbly. Let's go. Now, I've summarized the gym in two words. Go! That's one word, mate. Silly! Say, guys like the video. Guys like the video. Say, otherwise you're going to hell. Otherwise you're going to hell. So, after a crazy five days, it all came together. And I still can't believe how good it looks. Like, as if this is my gym. Now, I want to finish by saying a huge thank you to Primal for providing all the equipment and flooring. The build quality on the kit is definitely the best I've seen. Like, it's honestly so good. And the guys have been super helpful throughout the whole process. And yeah, there's nothing else to say really. Other than, thanks for watching, subscribe, and whose gym should we build next? Wow, you missed the camera.