 nolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantmolcantm Good! What the? The big man, he's ready. Ready for the big day. Come on in guys. But Ben, how does Ben Morty start his day? Well, two key components. Firstly... Why do you have so many Witos? Well, you say that now, but... Two kilograms of Witos, mate. We'll have some Witos. And these bad boys. Which is like 800-ish calories. With full fat milk, obviously. Why are you using a bowl that big? So this is Helen's bowl from this morning. Oh! That's bad. But this is what it's really all about, Ben. This is the key to everything right here. What a time to be alive, man. With your fresh bottle of olive oil. Obviously, if you're not familiar, this is the old classic oily actamil yogurt drink thing, you know? Some of us are mad. I've always had loads of trouble bulking and gaining weight. But losing weight is super easy. I just eat what I want. Gaining weight is like a nightmare. So liquid calories is like by far the easiest method. So, the reason why we're doing this specifically now... I went away for a week and lost like four kilos in body weight. So, I've got to put more weight back on, basically. Is that true? I just can't take you seriously when you're about to pour olive oil in a bottle of actamil and then eat some Witos. You know what I mean? This is... All credibility. I'm like the Galileo of the 21st century. Any cereal I used to have as a kid, when I have it now, it's nowhere near as good. They've ruined basically every cereal. So, I'll be interested to see what Witos have. No, no. Witos have gotten better at me. I'll be the judge of that, mate. What a time to be alive. Matt, you excited? Yes. You see what I mean about the bolts? This is why I have so many Witos. We've got the big boxes here as well. So, I could win a big prize here as well. Double down. Just tell me what it says on the top of the box, please, then. Loved by kids, approved by parents. Exactly what you are. What are you doing? Just back to the air. This stuff dreams are made of. Look at this. You're thinking, wow, no way can you fit any more milk in. What are you doing? What are you doing? That's how kings live, mate. This is the 21st century. We've made it. Let's put on text. That's a 1500 calorie bowl of Witos with about 45 grams of protein in it. The perfect meal. You're not meant to get that. You know you've got too many Witos when you're getting 45 grams of protein. That's not meant to happen. Oh, yeah. It's the exact right amount of Witos. Whip out the old Actimels and top those up of olive oil. And we'll have a shake as well. Again, we'll go full fat milk, two scoops of protein, and then olive oil. That's the beauty of olive oil is really- Well, if you're someone who struggles to gain weight- Don't drink- Don't drink olive oil, mate. If someone who struggles to gain weight, do not drink olive oil. Alright, let me bring these over real quick. Here you go. You're welcome. I want that one, mate. You fondled it. You fondled it. I fondled it both, mate. I fondled it. You just did that again. You just did that again. You just got milk again. Yeah, of course, mate. Otherwise, it's just a waste of calories. What is the sugar on this? That's gotta be like- Mate, sugar's good for you. Sugar, this is a common misconception. Sugar's the- sugar's what- You know, we need it to live. It's the key. The key to everything. Yeah, they are really good, actually. Oh, here we go. From the horse's house. That's one of the only childhood zeroes I've re-had that is- Like, not weight worth. Fairly similar to what I remember it being like, yeah. What does that look like for you? Perfect space for olive oil. That is what I was thinking as I opened it, that's what. Yeah, exactly. I think that's intentional. I think that's what Actamale- I think that was the concept initially. Yeah, so, top that up. That's a lot of olive oil, mate. A little shake. The reason why you keep the cap is so you can actually shake it. So this, with the olive oil in, because that's like almost 40 grams of olive oil. That's like 400 calories. Look how it's like congee-like. No, no, no. Honestly, you shake it up and drink it, and you'll be amazed. Like, genuinely amazed by how nice it is. It's mental. We have a 1,500 calorie bowl of Wheatos. We have a 500 calorie protein shake. That's two scoops of protein, whole milk. And then we have two 400 calorie Actamale and olive oil concoction. Team 2,028. This is a 2,800 calorie breakfast. You don't know your voice. Yeah, yeah, it's too big. Yeah, it's too big. Yeah, it's too big. Yeah, it's too big. This will surprise you. Come on. It's mad, right? Be honest, be honest. That is actually- Right? Every time I give them something, they're always like, nah, no way. For some reason, Actamale just completely masks the oil. That was 400 calories and I did that in about- Yeah, it's the easiest 400 calories. Three seconds and it was like nothing. For most people, that's not a good thing by what. It's really good calories. Also, I think it's good for you, right? Do you know what I mean? I think the potential damage to stomach lining from the oil is counteracted by the Actamale, you know? It was better if you were just not putting the olive oil in there in the first place. It's just when you think about it, that's the issue I have. I'm the founder of the olive oil technique, right? One of those things, it's like the- Have you ever created the atomic bomb? They're probably really upset they did that now looking back. I wish I hadn't done it, but I used to put olive oil in my protein shakes when I was powerlifting just to desperately get calories in to fill my weight class. For me, it's the thought of it. You can drink it, but then as soon as I start thinking of the fact that I've just consumed olive oil, I can just feel it. You definitely should get bigger spoons, by the way. I'm going to be honest, I genuinely really enjoy this. This isn't like a challenge, but it's a nice- I eat this happily every day, you know? Okay, so this is like 115 grams of protein. A bowl of wheat is a protein-shaking 2 Actamales of olive oil. 115 grams of protein. But then it's not surprising because it's almost 3,000 calories, do you know what I mean? But given there's no meat, like, I don't know, I thought those are really- Yeah, but you'll struggle to eat 3,000 calories of anything and not get protein, do you know what I mean? Unless you're literally eating like Haribo. Oh, okay, this is going to blow your mind, mate. You know, Haribo has really high protein content. No, it doesn't. Right, right. No, it doesn't. Okay, wait, wait, wait. This is going to blow your mind, mate. No, it doesn't. This is an earth-shattering revelation. Right, so a little bag of Haribo, not even a big bag, right? How much protein do you think is in this bag here? 2 grams. 6.6 grams of protein for 100 grams. What is that? Come on, that's surprising. Be honest, that's really- Right? How bad is that? It's just 10 grams of protein, one of these bags. Yeah. There are products that will market themselves as high protein snacks that have less protein than that. What is this, mate? Hey, 125 grams of protein, guys. What's going on in here, mate? It's like 9.30 and we've consumed like 3,000 calories and loads of olive oil. And you know what the best thing to do after having consumed 3,000 calories and loads of olive oil? A gym session and then be judged by an IFBB pro posing coach. So we're about to do, we're about to basically get a pump and then do some like bodybuilding, posing, and we're going to literally be judged. Perfect. There we go, right. That's actually really nice. This one goes to- Okay. This, this might make some people cringe. I'm going to put it out there. But, I mean, these are vital, vital calories. It's going in for more. Do you know what I mean? We're not messing around. How much of that are you going to use? Oh, I mean, it's only a small bag, innit? Do you know what I mean? There we go. So this will be extremely solid numbers. We'll just stir this around a bit, let the butter melt. How come you don't eat much meat then? And you just not? Well, a couple of reasons. A, I discovered, like once you understand the nature of like, protein and amino acids. Firstly, casein, like dairy, is a complete protein. And just like cost as well, I think. I mean, to be honest, like when you're trying to hit, you know, five, six, seven thousand calories a day, it's not really realistic to think you can have a ton of meat in there. At least in my opinion, because it just costs so much money. Like again, despite how insane this might all seem, the cost in terms of cost of calories is actually really, really reasonable. It does look good to be fair, doesn't it? I don't know about that. I don't know about that. Here we go. Matt, you excited? Can you contain your excitement? Are you still using that? Have you cleaned that bowl? Yeah, what do you mean? I don't know. I smell good to be fair. And also, I'm actually, weirdly, I'm actually quite hungry now. God, right, get the, get the, can you hear this, let me just get this audio, ready? I mean, it's very good numbers. It pains me to say it, but it's actually really good. Yes, mate. There we go. Cheese just makes, you can basically make anything nice with cheese, I mean. We've got a quarter of a kilo of cheese in there, FYI. Perfect. The thing is, after having the Weetos and the Acta Metal, I was thinking it'd be good to get some like varied nutrients, you know what I mean? A range of like vitamins, so. What is your first cheese of the day? A bowl of literally pasta and cheese. I consume so much fat today. Mate, you're going to die in about two months, if you can do it. All I can smell is cheese. I feel guilty for enjoying this, this much, mate. That's the, that's the thing, like the thing is, when you're doing this every single day, it has to be, it can't just be absolutely grim. Yeah, but this wouldn't, yeah, but I wouldn't enjoy this every day. Okay, all right. That's the starter. What are you doing? Don't worry, don't worry, you're going to love this. You can't have a main meal without dessert, right? Yeah, sure, actually. I think we do need a bit more fat today, so that's good. Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Healthy fats. Normally, to be completely honest, I'd actually have all four of these, but because you're here, and I'm a generous guy, we're going to go two each. They're only 150 calories each, so it's actually pretty calm, and they're super easy to eat. I haven't had these for years. They're extremely nice. Yeah, yeah. And they're 150 calories, I'm surprised. They're quite small. They're quite small. That is, like, suspiciously low. I don't know if I believe that. What is he doing? Ben, what are you doing? Push day, mate. I always mow on push day. Could he get any weirder? Yes, he can. Yes, he can. I know what you're thinking. Sitting here watching Ben mow his lawn topless is a bit weird. You know what's not weird, though? Gymshot Live London. That's right, the Sickas event of the calendar year is back, and it's coming to London on Saturday and Sunday, the 30th and 31st of August. All of your favourite Gymshot athletes are going to be there, including the biggest athlete of all, me. There's going to be massive lifts, meet and greets, open workouts, exclusive merch drops. Basically, it's going to be incredible. Can't wait to see you all there. Back to the video. Okay, okay, okay, okay. Oh, mad man. You're a mad man. I'll use the back of my fingers, mate. Oh, risky. What's the plan, nads? Dinner time, mate, obviously. Is that not self-evident? Is it? Is it, though? You're starving. I can hear your stomachs rumbling right now. Neither of us are even remotely hungry. Well, look, the thing is, I know, I appreciate it's not been the most nutritionally broad meals so far, so we're going to flip it on its head, go for a complete, a truly complete meal here, okay? Matt, how are you feeling about your child's consumption today? It's about to get worse. Yeah. Like, based on our lunch, if there was one thing I would say I wouldn't want to eat, it would be a pizza. Ben is off colluding with the waitress right now, so I have no idea what to expect. All I know is that I can see an ice cream factory right there, which is not ideal. Here we go. You excited? To be honest, I've been really kind to you. Also, what have you done to it? Why is it like that? Where's yours look? Why is mine so spread out? That's how it comes to it, it's a special request. I've been nice to you here, I could have very easily gone stuffed crust, I normally would. It's really hot. Good though, right? It is really good. It's like genuinely really different to how it is when you get it delivered, like 100%, that's surprising. Yeah. You know you're in a bad way when the only micronutrients you get in your diet are through the tomato on a Pizza Hut, just sharing margarita. It is like 1,700 calories, which basically brings our total to close to 7,000 calories. It's actually really good. It is really good pizza, yeah. If it hadn't taken like 10 years, it would be a solid 10 out of 10. I prefer the fact that it took a long time. Are you going to have your next birthday party in here, do you think? Yeah, do you think? Yeah. What do you think this is right now, though? What do you think we're here? The thing's perfect, it's like. Is it? No. Not good. Sorry, I didn't realise. Matt will never forgive me if I don't source this up. I've got some incredible news, Matt. I've put in a special request for Mr. Whippy. Is that chocolate sauce? Yeah, boy. I hope so. Chocolate sauce is terrible, don't it? Yeah, come on. It's a good idea. I have no issue with the, like, all of the food has been nice. I'm sure there's some crime we've committed. They should push us over to 7 and a half K as well. They should push us over to 7 and a half K as well. I have no issue with all of the food has been nice. It's just from an ethical standpoint. It feels like I've just broken some kind of unspoken moral law. Like convention, the Geneva Convention of Calories. I'm sure there's some crime we've committed. They should push us over 7.5k as well. Oh, what are you doing? That's mental. Thank you. We are done. That was a depressing day. I'm going to summarize the day in one word. It will be cheese. Dairy. Definitely cheese-centric. That was a lot of cheese. We've hit our protein requirements for the day. That's what really matters. I've eaten 7,000 calories of cheese today. There's no reaction. I'm fairly full, but I could literally eat more, which is just wild, isn't it? Well, it's a testament, isn't it, to how tactical it's decisions of your intake. Yeah, that is partly true. But at the same time, I would just implore you to eat more vegetables and fruit, because you are going to die otherwise. Well, we're all going to die, aren't we? For some sooner than others. And this guy's on his way out. Anyway, that was that. What a wonderful time to be alive. I'm going to go and throw up aggressively in that river. Have a great day. Nice. Right?