 B istiyorumaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceace I can only eat at independent places or make my own food. And rule three, I only have 10 hours to complete the challenge. It's currently 10 a.m. That means we have until 8 p.m. tonight. That's not much time. Let's make some breakfast. And breakfast is served. And what an outrageous breakfast we have. This is made by Saez, by the way, who's now gone to get a haircut. Selfish. We never get food. In these videos, we never do food at home, so it makes a nice change. And I think this looks pretty incredible. So we have a savory waffle stack and a sweet waffle stack. We've got waffles with bacon, eggs, and hot honey. This is just under 2,000 calories. And then we have the sweet waffle stack. So we've got waffles with mixed berries and cream. And that is about, or just under, again, 1,500 calories. I'm also going to add some maple syrup. Oh, that looks good. It's flying. Oh, my God. It's literally just gone into my pancakes. Really? Waffles. Pretty sure it's just gone in there. No way. Really? Yeah. Why are you flies? How many calories? I'll add on five. Yeah. Right, so maple syrup is an additional two to three. Let's play it safe and say 200 calories. Calories in a small fly, approximately 0.04 calories. So that's negligent. This is about 1,700 calories. So we're looking at 3,700 calories of breakfast if I complete it. I'm extremely hungry. I'm going to go. Why do I go controversial? I'm going to go sweet first. I'm also just going to have to hand it, I think. You can't cut into that, can you? It's just disrespectful. Okay. The fly's going to come out at some point. She must be dead by now, surely. That is extremely good. Oh, my God. It's honestly unreal. Honestly, this is incredible. If I got this in a restaurant, I'd be ecstatic. What would you do? I'd like dance. Really? Yeah. Give me a reenactment. I'd be like, woo. You need to do that from the video. I'm just hearing the audio here is just free. I hate the noise of eating so much. If you're watching now, right? Go and stand near your parents or your friends. Crank the volume on max, but don't show them your phone screen. Honestly, this is like 9.5 out of 10. This is incredible. Sayers, mate, what an unbelievable job you've done. I wish you were here to see this. She's not dead, boys. She's just getting a haircut. Okay, I'm going to flick. Controversial. I'm going to flick into savoury. What do you think about that? No, I would do the same. But I would have started savoury, then go sweet. All right. Aren't you great? I can't do this without dessert. I could lift it up, couldn't I? Do I just not use cutlery? What, Nick? I'm just going to... I don't need cutlery. All right. Okay, we're going in. Well, no, you're not. It was at my door, mate. Hey, mate. I asked you to pick up today. To pick up? Yeah. Mate, I have no idea. My wife's fault, mate. Absolutely not, mate. Right, no. No worries, mate. Thank you. Turned on stairs already. There's a parcel to pick up, but there's no parcel there. Guarantee... This is evidence. I guarantee she'll be annoyed at me now, but what do you mean? Can you see a parcel there? There is no parcel there. It's right there. No, it's not. What's that? A bacon. I was going to say, you said you don't like bacon. I'm really not a bacon, though. I like the taste of bacon, but I just don't like, I don't know, just what it is. Just knowing what it is and looking at it just really puts me off. I'm going to add some more. I need some more. All right, that worked quite well. I'm going to do the same thing. Got the fly? That did... 100% the fly. Deadly serious. Deadly serious. The fly just flew out of the waffle. It's probably good, though, isn't it? Like, the RSPCA, it's probably good that I was going to be in trouble. Oh, okay. It's all just coming out again. That was a waste of time. Oh, it's quite sloppy. Oh, it's quite sloppy. Okay. Sweeping up. Then that's the sweet element done. If I eat this in one bite, you have to like the video and subscribe to my channel. Oh, my God. Done. That was a terrible idea. Because there was so much in there, it was like pressing on my throat and making me gag. But done. 3,700 calories down, mate. What a time to be alive. Yeah. Right, we're heading out on the hunt for more calories. I'm feeling pretty good, to be fair. My stomach feels a little bit sketchy, but I feel quietly confident about my chance. That's true. So, as part of the annual birthday 10K video, there are a list of challenges that I've got to complete in order to be successful. So, let's see if we can tick one of them off now. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Thank you very much. What are the chances of you singing Happy Birthday to me? I don't sing and I don't know many singing songs. Not even Happy Birthday? On my actual birthday? Happy Birthday. Thanks, mate. Many, many happy returns of the day. How do you sing Happy Birthday? Well, you just, I don't know, you've just got to... I don't know. You don't know? Okay. No, I don't know. How do you sing that? It's just a song, just like a... Hey, bud. Right, today is my birthday. Today. Sorry? Today's my birthday. Okay, Happy Birthday. Thank you. Is there any chance of you singing Happy Birthday to me? Um, I cannot sing. Can't sing it? No. Okay. No worries. I appreciate the conversation. Nice, guys. It's just too much. It's too much. It's too much. See, that woman's just looking at us. I put the camera away. I also need someone to sing Happy Birthday to me today. I'm coming to show you, not. Sorry, mate. Today is my birthday. Oh, it's your birthday? Happy birthday. Yeah. Thanks, mate. Any chance I need someone to sing Happy Birthday to me? What are your thoughts? Please. Because it is literally my birthday today. Oh, why not? Yes! Okay. Okay, my throat's a little rusty. It's fine, mate. It doesn't matter. All the counts. What's your name? Gary. Gary? Yeah. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday, Gary. Happy Birthday to you. That was honestly really good. Very good birthday. Thanks, mate. I appreciate it. How did you pull that off? Let's go! Come on, that is an absolute result. What a time to be alive. Best birthday ever. Let's get some lunch. Oh, God. I quit this job. What? I had to ride the motorbike. Please forget the smokehouse barbecue board, please. Oh, my goodness. Okay. Oh, that looks amazing. Thank you very much. Okay. We are in Korean Cowgirl, which is a pretty cool place. I've gone for the barbecue platter. I saw the googly. We need to look pretty sick, so I thought I'd go for it. It's quite intimidating, I won't lie. My confidence was high, like, five minutes ago. It's now a little bit lower. I've got fries as well. I thought it was going to be messy. Do you know what I mean? I feel like I've eaten a lot of messy food today. And it's a lot of meat that's going to fill you up as well. Yeah, that's true, actually. I didn't think about that. Yeah, so we've done some rough calculations. It could be, right, so this is hard to calculate. We're going to go, I'm going to go, all my calculations, I'm going to go on the conservative end, right? So no one calls me out for not eating enough. So I reckon we're going to say 2,900 calories. Could be more, but I'm going to play it safe. OK. It's really good. They look good. Yeah. They are really good, but this is just a lot of protein, isn't it? Yeah. In hindsight, this is a terrible choice. At least you're covering the protein today, but you're going to be anywhere. For about three days. I'm going for the poor pork. Good. Sausage. This is good. That's good. That's easy to eat as well. I don't mind ribs. Wings to me. It's just the amount of effort you've got to put in is not worth the, you know what I mean? It's a lot of mess and a lot of work for a tiny bit of meat. A little steak. Oh, yeah, that's really good. Oh, that's brisket. That's what it is. It's brisket. This makes a nice change from McDonald's and Five Guys. It does. It does. It's just, in hindsight, there's a reason I choose the places, because they're just so much easier to eat. Do you know what I mean? Like McDonald's, you can eat calories so easily. This is way harder. It's just the chewing as well, do you know what I mean? Like my jaw is taking a pound in. Let's try and make a sandwich. Nice protein-dense sandwich ever. Sounds get hard now. Why am I even doing this? Do you know what I mean? Why is it, why? It tends to be enjoyable as well. Why are you making me do this? You can't just sit there, you know what I mean? You do have to eat the rest of it. The thing as well is getting, like, the longer you wait, the worse it gets, do you know what I mean? It's not even helpful. This is actually, I need to do this. This is, I've got a lot of brisket left. It's actually maybe the best item. Please start getting the Smoked House. Oh, I'm really, really full now. Okay, I have literally a few fries, one rib, a bit of pulled pork, a wing, and a couple of bits of brisket. I'm on the, very much on the home straight now. You've still got all that there. That's a garnish. It doesn't count as part of the meal. Yeah, it does. That's incorporated into the calories that you calculated. My next video is going to be, I force my videographer to eat 50,000 calories. Can I get the bill, please? Happy birthday. You've got to be scummy. OMG, you absolute hero. That's sick. Thank you very much. That's good, because I haven't eaten that strawberries today. That's good. Good brownie. I mean, it's literally the world's smallest brownie, but it's really good. It's also, I mean, this is free, right? This is technically free. That means I've done that as my free food challenge. That counts, mate. It's free. No, I didn't make the rules. That's literally, it's free. I'm halfway done my challenges. Yes, please. Can I use code MAT10 on this? That was awkward. And whilst they may not accept code MAT10 at the Korean cowgirl, do you know where they do accept it? Gym Shark. That's right. The world's greatest fitness clothing brand. Items such as the stunning oversized tee and power joggers that I'm currently wearing, plus loads of other incredible bits which make you look like an absolute Adonis inside and outside the gym. And if you use the code MAT10 at checkout, you'll save 10% on your order. We've come to Sumo Donuts, which as its name suggests, has some pretty mega donuts. I am not even remotely hungry. In fact, I feel quite sick, but... Why you stood so close to my camera? Sorry, I don't know. Sorry, sorry, sorry. But I feel like no matter how full you are, you can always go from savoury to... I can always do that. I always have a capacity to eat sweet stuff after a meal, so I should be good for a bit. If I can just get another chunk of calories, we'll be, you know, on the home strength. Okay, please can I get one of the strawberry iced and then... What was that one I got to talk about again? Stinky coffee. Yes, one of those people. That would be amazing. There you go. Thank you very much. Can I pay? No, they're on us. You sure? Yeah, definitely. Oh, yes. What does that mean? You've got it twice. Three items. Yeah, double points. What an absolute hero. This stage has picked up dramatically. It's my birthday, guys. It's my birthday. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Thank you very much. May you buy the donuts? Oh, let's go. What did you get? A glazed one? Yeah. That's good, though. That's good, isn't it? Yeah. Very good. Sumo donuts. What a place. Right, so I've got sticky toffee pudding, mate. That's like top three desserts for me. Top tier dessert. And it turns out you can get a donut of it. Now, we've got that. We've also got, this is the classic. Do you know what I mean? That's like the Homer Simpson donut, which is, again, it's just like an amazing donut staple. Combined, this is 400 calories. This is just under 600 calories. We're looking at about 1,000 calories, which if I can eat these, which is a pretty big if, it's going to put me in a very strong position. You're doing well. Thanks, mate. Thanks, mate. That means a lot. I'm just doing a donut review. No one cares. I'm about to get run over. We just saw a motorbike. Yeah, Fab wasn't filming, but a guy just literally crashed his motorbike 10 seconds ago. Why is there, but what are you doing? Okay, I'm going to go this first, because I think I'm already struggling. If I eat that first and then try and do it, it could be too much. Good. It's got toffee inside it. Have a look. It's pretty intense. Yeah, in my current state, this is enjoyable, but also it's a lot. It is a lot. It's emotionally traumatic. And then you're in. Thank you so much. No worries. Nice to meet you, mate. How much was your bicep? It's good, mate. It's all good. Yeah, thank you very much. Is it back on telly? We're... It's Saturday. This comes back this Saturday. Okay. The big one's down. Now this should be comparatively easier. What was that, mate? I got blinded. Oh. Have hundreds of small emitters... That's good. I actually prefer this. The other one was good, but I actually prefer this. Oh, my God. I wish I'd been filming. I did warn you that was going to happen. This... Why is this walk so... It's my birthday today. Happy birthday. Thanks, mate. Sorry guys, it's my birthday today so I was just Thank you, looking around Okay, final bit Let's go That puts me Nearly 8,000 calories And as disgusting as I feel I'm almost there I can see the finish line You haven't done the biggest challenge Which is the motivational speech You should be good at this one What's it going to be about? Oh my god It's going to be like a birthday speech Guys, hello Today is a very special day It's my birthday Shall we Clap maybe Okay, that's enough That's enough The most important thing here Is that we're all In Canterbury Having a great time Remember that You need to stay grounded Even on your birthday Because you never know What's going to happen You could die, couldn't you? Realistically, it could happen You might fall over You might crash your motorbike You could get your camera lead Caught on a thing Lots of dangerous She's filming, that's not ideal Lots of dangerous things can happen So just remember Stay motivated Like these guys over here You've got to believe to achieve, haven't you? Yeah, you've got to believe that's important And also Just have a great Hawaii guys Film is not allowed That's it, I'm out I'm out Woo! Thank you Yeah It's possibly the most awkward 30 seconds of my life Just did a weird birthday speech In front of a bunch of German Exchange students Okay, let's go home Terrible idea Not on my stomach Not on my stomach Yeah Yeah Yeah You've got less than two hours left Oh, okay Don't touch my stomach So, Mara, have a guess how many calories I've eaten so far today How many? Almost 8,000 I know You don't know Almost Why are you not impressed? Almost 8,000 calories 10,000 I know Classic How many's left? How many's left? Didn't you do that last week? Yeah I just dig it out in my video Okay, I've got less than two hours Just over 2,000 calories to go But if I eat anything right now I'm definitely going to be sick So, I'm going to try and work up a bit of an appetite So that I can get the last few calories in Hello, Kazuki Hi, can I order some sushi please? Okay Done Done Thank you For that I don't know why I decided to do squats But I did four sets of squats After eating Nearly 8,000 calories is a terrible idea Nice one, mate Thank you Okay It all comes down to this I have 20 hot sushi rolls Hot crunchy Sushi rolls they're called But I'm not That sounds weird saying that That is just under 2,500 calories That means If I can finish this off And that's a big if That puts me just over My 10,000 calorie target The time is 7,17 7,18 That means I have 42 minutes remaining To complete this challenge I was already feeling sick The leg workout honestly Has made me feel worse And when I shall see a cream Like this cream Even the smell of it Is making me gag So I don't know This could be Could be a serious vomit warning Got soy sauce If you eat sushi without soy sauce You're an absolute animal I can't use chopsticks But I'm going to use them Because it's culturally appropriate Let's go I think that's like a Chicken I don't know It's good Too much soy sauce And I was thinking The soy sauce Tastes like marmite You know what I mean It does It does a bit That was really good Same as some of those bits From the barbecue place earlier I can objectively appreciate That's a nice sushi roll But I just can't I can't enjoy it In my current state That was a chicken one I don't even know what this is That mango That looks like mango to me That strawberry Is a mad I just made this sushi roll I don't know how to drink Marwich What do you reckon Before you go to bed You think that's gonna Can I have to bed You just drank like most of my water I need that You can say night to dad Night Night Night mate I feel like I'm going to save the cream And the shawby ones till last Because they're going to make me feel sick But then it's going to be even worse Can I have something? I need to eat it mate Can I give him one? Let me do the maths Let me do the maths Each one Oh no I can Each one's 125 calories Yeah Yeah you can have one mate Which one do you want? That's the best one I think What do you want? I guess I need the calories mate Which one? That one? That's a good one Come on That is actually Honestly that's the best one I think that's either chicken or prawn Good? Yeah? Yeah Come up in a bit Come up in a bit Fab amend the number to 2400 In fact 2375 Oh that one wasn't very good Oh no It's starting to get bad Oh my god That's going to be really saucy Oh no This is not good Oh I'm really struggling now And the problem as well Can you see I'm I'm You left the bad ones Yeah Do you need a motivational speech Or are you alright? Yeah Remember that You need to stay grounded Even on your birthday Because you never know What's going to happen Stay Motivated You've got to believe to achieve Haven't you? What is that? It's got a cream in it Honestly I think there's a chance I'm going to be sick here Yeah Soy sauce on the cream I was trying to mask it Oh man It's a bad idea Oh my god Is it that bad? You've got three of them So I'll just go for two Yeah I'm going to get I'm getting a bowl Come on You've got it Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on You've got it Oh Oh my god that was horrible. That was really, do you see the first bit was really close. I can see the finish. I'm just gonna get, I'm getting the cream off that mate. I can't do it, I'm serious. Call yourself a gladiator. Oh, nearly done it. Nearly done it. Enjoying that? Like honestly the least enjoyable sushi. I can tell it's good but I've not enjoyed it. One more left then. The strawberry ones, I was this close to throwing up with the strawberry one. One bit of sushi left. Do you know what I just think you should do? Eat the sushi. In the ice bath. It would be really good for the video. I'm not eating it. Everyone there is gonna be like, like, like, like, like. It's about zero degrees, it's pitch black, I feel sick. There is a shit. There is no way, there is no way I'm eating this in the ice bath. Oh my god. Come on, all the way down. You've got two minutes to eat that sushi. Let's go. Oh! Ten thousand calories, baby! Woo! Hope you enjoyed the video. Ah! Make sure you like it. Ah! That's why I'm really cold. Ah! See you later. Ah! Ah! Ten thousand calories, baby! Woo! I hope you enjoyed the video. Make sure you like it. That's why I'm really cold. I'll see you later. Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Oh