 fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte fuerte All right, let's eat. Is this a place you go often? Semi-often. Semi-often. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How about you? Never been here. Never been here. Okay, what were your... I'm intrigued. I'm very intrigued to see what your diet consists of. How are you? Okay. Can we order some breakfast, please, man? Go for it. Okay, can I please get the butcher's breakfast? Can I go three eggs in that, please? You absolutely can, yeah. Nice one, mate. Then can I also get the mixed berries and cream pancakes? Can I get a Berry Blitz smoothie, please? Anything else for you? Yes. So can I get just a toast? Yeah. One slice, some avocado, and with an egg on top. Is that possible? Do you have decaf coffee? Yeah. Yeah. It's a black decaf coffee. Decaf americano? Yes, please. Not a problem. Nice. Thank you. There you are. And a decaf americano. Yes. Perfect. Oh, no. That's food just coming out now. Thanks so much. Okay. That's yours, man. All right. That's yours. Just to clarify, a decaf black coffee. Drink that slowly, mate. You've taken all the... Because I love the taste of coffee. But even with no milk? Yeah. Even though there's no milk. You just removed all of the good components of the coffee. Would you put sugar in? Nope. I would not put sugar in. And... But there's still like 5% caffeine in it. So there's still a bit of caffeine. I know coffee is like a purest thing. But for me, coffee without milk is just so much worse. These days already started bad. Let's go. We've got the sauce. Avonipotade. Thank you. And then we've got the butcher breakfast. Fried fried eggs. Oh my God. Pancakes. Berries and cream. Thank you very much. This looks delicious. Too bad I'm not going to get to eat it. This is upsetting. This happens every time. This is crazy. Whenever I swap the lights, I forget. And I order and I get excited. Like, look at this. And now I don't get to eat it. That's... That's... How many calories do you think that is? This has got to be like 12, 1500, I reckon. And then this would be like... I don't know. What do you reckon, Fab? 1,000 maybe? Yeah. 800 to 1,000? It's got to be near 1,000. Yeah. I reckon you're looking at a solid 2,500 here. And you would be able to finish this, you think? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I would eat this. Yeah? Just ideally not directly before climbing. Okay. Okay. Why did you order one egg, by the way? I thought the toast was a bit smaller. If I knew it was that big, I would probably have ordered two. Do you know what you mean? It would have been good for me when I was 12 years old. I just feel like, now it's not enough. You've just deprived me of all of the things that I need here. Do you know what I mean? God. Are you a good eater? Are you a... No. I'm a terrible eater. Yeah, but also, the funniest thing is, what have you got an infected wisdom tooth? Yeah. I almost couldn't open my mouth this morning because it's infected. So chewing is really hard for me. Perfect. So what better solution, what better course of action than to eat as much food as possible? I feel bad, but it's quite funny. Oh. Because I'm pretty heavy for a climb. How heavy are you, man? Right now, 74 kg. I'm pretty heavy. But I just tried creatine for the first time in my life. So I used to be 17 and I recently gained like 4 kilos. That's incredible. I think it's going to take me two weeks to eat this though. Mostly because of my wisdom tooth, not because of my stomach. Oh, dropped something. What's wrong, man? You've not touched your decan. It's like 20 degrees outside. I have to drink what I eat. You know what I mean? This is literally the worst case scenario. What's your diet like? Do you eat a lot of meat, vegetables? Yeah, I have like, compared to the average fitness athlete person, I have a very liberal diet. I eat lots of fruit and veg, and I eat loads of protein, and then beyond that, I just fill the gaps with whatever I want, basically. That was good, but that was like 10% of my milk. Can you pull it yet, man? Yep. And I haven't even started on the pancakes. I have to give up on this, and then start on pancakes. No, you're not. The pancakes, I'm going to do a better job at though. I'm going to leave this here. What's that? It's a horrible thing to do. Honestly, I'm more hungry now than I was before I ate my meal. I think a lot of people will be surprised with how you look, that you actually eat pancakes and sweets. Yeah, yeah, I think that's a big misconception. Yeah. That you can't, like you said, yeah, that people think you can't eat that kind of food. You can, just obviously in moderation. That's the key, right? You could eat anything, but it's not too much of it. Yep. Unless it's like cyanide, you can't eat any of that. Otherwise, you die. Oh, this is so good. This is really good. Got like a little sausage in there, maybe? No, I'm not. I'm okay, I'm okay. I'm okay. This is an insult. This is an insult to me and my whole family. And the country, actually. The country. This is like you're laughing at the UK. If Magnus said off camera, he hates the UK. I did not say that. I did not say that. It's like even though I'm so full, there's always space for this stuff. Is that clotted cream? Mm-hmm. That's like, that's the most calorie dense thing on the planet. Are you eating the salad as well, please? Make sure you get that in there. I've never seen pancake with salad before. Is that easy to eat? That must be easier on your mouth, right? It's easier, yeah. Yeah. Also, have you made up? Is that really, is that actually a thing? You just created this story so you can just get away with eating less food. I need to see dental. I need medical records. You can look into my mouth afterwards. I want to see medical records. You can see it. I need to see it. Well, I'm going to run for the toilet quickly. Yeah, fine. What are you doing? What? Did you see my breakfast? Yeah. If you gave me one egg, that's nowhere near enough food. Luckily, it's not a problem because I've got this. Pure Black Edition powder. This is the cookies and cream flavor, which is sick, by the way. And it's also my safety net, right? On days like today where I know I've got a lot of stuff to get done, or I know I'm not going to have a chance to sit down and have a proper meal, or I'm swapping diets with a guy who literally eats like a small child. This looks delicious. Now, it's super simple. All I'm going to do is add two level scoops to about 500 milliliters of water. It's going to give me 40 grams of protein. Also, crucially, all of the essential nutrients my body needs. Right? And what that means is I can get all the stuff done I need to get done today, but I'm not having to compromise on my diet, and I can keep everything on point. Also, it tastes really good. It takes literally 10 seconds to make, and this serving costs like £1.70. So, it's way cheaper than a crappy meal deal, or whatever other rubbish food I would have brought from a train station previously. Plus, it's going to keep me full for a lot longer, and that means I'm not going to overeat later in the day. So, if you want to try Huel for yourself and see what all the fuss is about, you can use the link at the top of the video description and the code MATT, and you'll save £10 on your first order. Plus, you'll get a free gift. You okay? Yeah, all good, all good. You've gone for a while. It's just, um... Stomach. You good? I don't think I'm done. I've got to say, I ate so much more than I thought I would. This is probably the biggest breakfast I've had in... Your life. Maybe my life. What would you, if you had to estimate, what would you, what would you reckon your daily calories? Vaguely, roughly, ballpark. 2,800. Oh, that's not, okay, that's not, that's not really low. This is literally painful. I'm so hungry, and this is just sat here. Even that, as I am now, I would not hesitate to eat someone's leftovers. That wouldn't be a problem. Okay, climbing. How's your stomach holding up? Oh, I feel pretty heavy, to be honest. This is the one benefit of having that tiny meal, is that now I'm good to go. Do you know what I mean? I'm light. You feel good? I'm gonna be quick. I'm gonna be very quick. Ooh. Okay. We're done. By the way, how did you, having eaten that breakfast, how did it impact your climbing compared to normal pre climbing food? Not too much, to be honest. Oh, really. But I think it was like, it was semi healthy. Yeah. Yeah, I was hoping it would be more of a hindrance, to be honest. No processed food. It was all made from scratch. I feel pretty good. Okay, that's good to hear, because we're now about to get some McDonald's. McDonald's. Game on. Hello. Yellow, okay. Please can I get a large Big Mac meal. Right, I'm wondering. With a, let's go with Fanta, please. But in the burger, can I get just cheese and ketchup, please? Okay. And then can I get another, just a double cheeseburger by itself, and then can I get nine chicken nuggets, please? And then lastly, just an apple pie, please. Did you just order for your whole family, or is that only for you? This is my go to order. Eat some or take a look? Eat him, please, mate. Can I get a double cheeseburger and a strawberry milkshake? Is that a medium or a large? The milkshake? Yeah. Medium. Hello. Thank you. Thank you very much. Enjoy. I was looking forward to my strawberry milkshake, but I don't think I'm going to have any of that. Order the apple pie, too. These are, these are the best thing ever. Oh, yeah? Although also, they're like suspiciously hot. Okay. Like, it doesn't make sense. It defies physics how they get them that hot. I want to eat this so bad. Is this what you actually order, though? Yeah, yeah. Like, I've made this exact order a hundred times. Like, if I'm hungry and I go to McDonald's, or like, I'm down on my calories for the day, this will be my go-to. You can eat this so easily. Scary easily. Sorry. What is this? A little lunch to stay light. I mean, it's one egg and a cheeseburger and a milkshake, mate. I think Mauro could eat more than this, to be honest. Okay, this is going to be upsetting. Just leave it at that. I think I need the rest, too. All right. Here we go. What are your thoughts, by the way, on the only cheese and ketchup? Did not like it. Why, though? What would you get? Pickles, onions, like, I wanted all that stuff, too. Why do you want it so plain? Because this is just organic. It's how it's meant to be. Do you know what I mean? This is how God intended. That's how that's meant to be eaten. Just the burger, the cheese, the BUN, all the good stuff. Why do you have to remove it, then? That's where it peaks. It's like speed climbing. This is like speed climbing, and then your weird s*** is like, do you know what I mean, after climbing. This is the purest, fundamental burger. This is going to have all the stuff in it, isn't it? It's what? Oh, yeah. It's going to have all the gherkin and all that weird s*** in it. What is it that you don't like? All of it. I don't like the weird burger sauce, whatever that is. I don't like the gherkins, the lettuce. This is just so plain and boring, though. Look, there's nothing. It's so dry. Just a little bit of ketchup. It's not a little bit. I didn't choose the quantity. I just said ketchup. It's not my fault. It's going to be like the... I'm so hungry. It's going to be the quickest lunch consumption in the history of mankind. What's your review on there? The gherkins and the... That's how it's meant to be consumed. That is how it's meant to be consumed. Imagine that burger. I don't know. But it's worse. That's what it's like. Donald's milkshakes, though, are good. Do you ever get that one? I'll get it as a dessert. I wouldn't want to have it to accompany my meal. Do you know what I mean? Like today, I've had to eat breakfast with a black decaf coffee and have my lunch with a milk, like the thickest drink in the world. That's not ideal. I need more lubricant. Do you know what I mean? I've got a quick metabolism. I train twice a day and I'm active. Do you know what I mean? Do you know what I mean? I think I've burned a lot of calories through my activity. Have you put it in the morning? I'm going to have a quick metabolism. I've got a quick metabolism. I've got a quick metabolism. I've got a quick metabolism. I've got meals in isolation where I need the calories. Do you know what I mean? So this will be a classic example. It'll be like, I've been working, I've been busy, and then it's the evening and I've like, I need, you know, I've missed a meal, for example, or I'm just really hungry. This will be my go-to. But how are you able to stay so thin? I mean, you must be like, a single digit. I've got a quick metabolism. I train twice a day and I'm active. Do you know what I mean? I've got two kids. Like I do, yeah. I think I've burned a lot of calories through my, like, activity. Have you tested that? How many calories you burned? When I was powerlifting and I was, like, trying to fill my weight class, I was bulking on, like, 6 to 7,000 calories. There was a time, towards the end of it, when, like, 6,000 calories was almost my maintenance. Like, I wasn't really gaining weight on that. Wow, that was such a satiating meal. I really enjoyed the 400 calorie cheeseburger. And I'm already full. No, you're not. You've had two thirds of a big man. I had the biggest breakfast of my life. That was ages ago. That was three hours ago. I would eat that meal in, like, five minutes. And my wisdom tooth is hurting, too, so. Oh, yeah. At least this is a bit softer, though, right? So, not as bad as the, yeah. I'm not even chewing it. Have you had a McDonald's apple pie before? Maybe a long time ago. Okay, you're in for a treatment. This is absolutely incredible. Everything you thought you knew about desserts is about to change. Look at his face. It's that face of a guy that's having a great time. That's good, yeah. It's good, right? By the way, this is literally torture. My desire to just grab and eat this food now is so high. And this is all the soccer. Yeah. I feel like you're mocking me, basically. It's the most unsatisfying meal in the world. Right, we are now going to go and do an army test for Magnus' video. I feel fine. I feel good. I feel, I'm hungry. I'm stuffed. Perfect. I think it's way better to feel light and ready for that test. I'm torn. On the one hand, I do want to eat more food, but I'm kind of feeling quite smug. Part of it is a run and that's going to be, I feel bad for you. Well, boy. Well, boy. Well, boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy boy How are you feeling? Still full. You're actually? I am still full, yeah. How was the food in your stomach whilst you were? Surely running was not ideal. Not ideal. That was impressive though. That was an impressive run considering the circumstances. Yeah, I wanted to throw up really bad. Okay. But that was good. How are you feeling? I am extremely hungry. I feel like I've gone way beyond hunger. Okay. I'm definitely in a deficit right now. I've expended more calories than I've consumed. The thing is, since I'm so full, I'm not going to order a lot. Just don't do that. Don't be selfish. Can I get the Sunshine Mixed Grill, please? You know this has two people, right? Yeah, yeah. Big guy. Can I get the pasta with King Proms, please? And the sparkling water. That's fine. I've definitely done that to be a ****. Oh, look at the size of that. That's sick. You know the milk's good when there's a candle featuring inside the milk. Is that in a pepper? It's literally... Oh, yeah, it is. It looks amazing though. This is a... You know. I keep forgetting I'm trying to get it. I want to eat this. I keep forgetting that. Cheering that is going to be hard though. Yep. Thank you. It's the perfect size. Look at this. I don't know why I'm laughing. This is literally the worst thing I've ever asked about. It's an absolute joke. It's got like two prawns on it. Yeah, pretty much. All right. Switch. Look at this. I can't believe. I wouldn't physically be able to fit all this food. What is this, mate? What is this? How do you like sparkling water? Sparkling water. It's just such a terrible drink. No, it's so refreshing. Is it all right? Yeah. Very good. Yeah. Thank you. The candle with the tomato like that is sick. That's a nice touch. Have you got any more meat? Got any more meat? He's joking. He's joking. It's literally got two prawns in it. Oh, it's still good, but it hurts. It's amped down. My protein consumption today is dangerously low. I feel like you're trying to sabotage my physique. I'm like massively catabolic right now. I'm so deprived of the protein. I'm just going to eat the entire prawns and eat the protein. I'm not. It's like having needles in my mouth, eating it. Terrible timing for this video, isn't it? I know. And it happened like two days ago, too. How's that feel? That's probably the worst thing you could have by now. No. To be honest, you, Magnus, do you regret agreeing to this collab? Yes. But I think he would regret it even more, so. Yeah. My speed climbing victory will, that's like, etched in my memory forever now. It's never going to die. I might change my channel name to Best Speed Climber on YouTube. Matt does really fast speed climbing. Matt does faster speed climbing than Magnus. How did you come up with that name, Matt Does Fitness? It's hard, like, for a long time. We've got loads of development and stuff and outsourced on a bit to teams and stuff. How did you come up with your channel name? My parents did. Nice. Because it's just my name. Come on. You've got this, mate. That was the last one. That was the last one. Really? Yeah, I'm done. I think I finished a lot. Honestly, this is... To be fair, yeah. When you started, I thought, yeah, you've done better than I... In fact, you've done way better than I thought you would do. How many calories do you think I've eaten today? I reckon maybe you've done, like, five today. Five thousand? Yeah. Okay. Which for you is, like, almost double what you normally eat, right? That's a lot. We're done. That's it. That's the end of the video. You feeling? I'm feeling so full. The fact that you're that full is just... It makes it even worse for me. I wish I could transfer some of that full into my stomach. It's been my lowest protein day since I was about 11, I reckon. Prior to this, I was looking at your channel. You've got almost no food-based content. Right. I think it's interesting to see a little bit of insight into your day-to-day diet. Yeah. And it's protein spice. Yeah. Straight away, that could be a secret. I'm just saying. If you double your protein intake, you could be way better at speed climbing. Better at speed climbing. I mean, we'll do a rematch in a year or so. Yeah, yeah. You'll be like 90 kilograms. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Right, sick one. Thanks, man. Appreciate it. I'm going to go and cry. What? Go. Leave me alone. Go. Well there we'll see these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars here in these cars