

=== FILE: Eating The Highest Protein Item At EVERY Fast Food Chain [itA-webg8sI].txt ===

 If eating fast food was an olympic sport, there's a good chance I'd be a gold medalist. Whether it's Pizza Hut, McDonald's, dominoes or 5 guys, when it comes to fast food, I'm an absolute connoisseur. But due to my elite metabolism and need to make viral videos, the goal is typically to consume as many calories as possible. However, I'm acutely aware that for the average person, that's not the case. Loads of calories is definitely not ideal. And high protein, lower calorie options are way more useful. So it got me thinking. What are the highest protein fast food items out there? And which chains have the best calorie to protein ratio? Well today, I'm making it my mission to find out, as I'll be visiting all of the major UK fast food chains and ranking their best items on my state-of-the-art matter meter. Let's go. McDonald's, the UK's most popular fast food chain. But is it a good option for protein? Let's find out. Are you okay? Yes, good mate. What is the highest protein item on the menu? Okay. The highest protein to calorie item on the entire McDonald's menu is the double quarter pounder with cheese. I thought it would be something more like, so bear in mind it's protein to calories. I thought it would be, I don't know, something less. Like it's just got cheese, do you know what I mean? It's got a lot of non-protein in it, right? So stats, right? 50 grams of protein, 749 calories. Now how are we going to calculate this score, right? 50 grams of protein, there'S4 calories in a gram of protein, right? So 50 times 4, 200 calories. That means 200 calories of this burger comes from protein. 200 calories within 749 total calories is 27%. So this gets a Matameter score of 27%. Is that good? I don't know. I think there'll be better than that, you think? Yeah. I think there'll be better items than that, I think. I think this could be, I don't know, low to mid. Doesn't look the best. It's not ideal, no. But I mean, I'm, I've not eaten today. I'm really hungry, so it's great for me. It's interesting. I always get a Big Mac with just cheese and ketchup, which is, this is obviously very simple. I've taken the Pickle Zap, but it's very similar to that. Yeah, I don't know why you don't just get that as your order. Because, oh, so straight away, I might do, because this is actually better. The burgers are like more burgery, do you know what I mean? Yeah. I'm sure a Big Mac burger is thinner. Yeah, yeah, Big Mac's thinner. This is meatier. Yeah, so I can see why the protein, I mean, 50 grams is not mega, but it's pretty good for a burger, right? Okay, so double quarter pounder with cheese is the highest protein to calorie ratio item. But what is the highest total protein item on the menu? I've got it in my hand right here, mate. It's 20 chicken nuggets, which I guess that isn't surprising. No, but I thought they'd be more protein. So, yeah, okay. So I thought, I also thought that, right? This entire box, 20 chicken nuggets, 52 grams of protein. Yeah, that's weak. It's pretty dead. I don't know. I would have thought close to 100. 52 grams of protein, 869 calories. So the ratio is not as good, but in terms of total protein, it's the highest item on the whole menu. What I'm going to do today, running concurrently alongside the matter meter, it's going to be the fatter meter. And the fatter meter is simply highest total protein. We don't care about calories. Which item has the highest amount of protein? And this is the best that McDonald's have to offer. I mean, I'm going to try it, but they're just chicken nuggets. Do you know what I mean? They are good. They're a classic item. Do you know what I mean? You can't go wrong. No, if you're a vegetarian, you're good. I'll be honest. Considering it's the highest protein item on the entire menu, I feel like 52 grams is pretty underwhelming, but I'm fairly confident there's going to be some significantly high numbers later on. In fact, stick around for one place in particular that has an absolutely wild item. Okay. That was disappointing, I'll be honest. Let's see if our next place can do any better. Rotisserie style. Awkward. Okay. That's how I feel about this video, by the way. Right. Oh, it's gone everywhere. So, the highest protein to calorie ratio on the entire Subway menu is a six-inch rotisserie style chicken sub. This is 25 grams of protein and 310 calories, which gives it a matter-of-meter score of 32%. So, that's number one. That's currently number one. That has overtaken a double quarter pound of a cheese because the calories are low, relatively speaking. I mean, straight away, it looks like a cucumber onion sandwich. There is a severe lack of chicken. Oh. Oh, there you go. That is a bit. It's not, I mean, it's not great. This is the highest protein ratio item we've eaten today. Surely we're going to beat that. It looks, I mean, it looks dead. Let's find out. It tastes like a cucumber sandwich. I'd definitely rather eat a double quarter pound of a cheese. So, if you think about it, if you were to eat two of these, that would be 50 grams of protein, 620 calories. So, the same protein as a double quarter pound of a cheese, but like 130 calories less. Anyway, that is the highest protein to calories ratio. What is the highest total protein item on the menu, not even caring about calories? I'll tell you what it is, mate. It's in my hand right now. It's definitely gone on my leg. Why is this? This is the worst, it's got my leg. This is the worst day ever. I'm officially retiring from making these videos after this. I did like a meet and greet in McDonald's last reviewing chicken nugget. Mate, let me finish, give me two minutes, I'm finished. I'll come get you, okay? Don't worry. Why am I doing this? Right, so this is foot long double steak and cheese. 980 calories, 74 grams of protein. So, this goes straight into number one in Fat-O-Meter. I don't know, I feel like 74 is pretty good. Yeah. I still think we can beat that. It's a lot of calories. That is a lot of calories. Yeah, it is to be fair. But chicken nuggets for like 870 and it's 52. So, how is that possible? How can this? This has a better ratio than chicken nuggets. What else is in the chicken nuggets? They're literally chicken nuggets. That makes no sense. It also looks like it's been involved in a car accident. It's way better than the other one. Which you expect it to be, right? All of the Fat-O-Meter items should be way better than the other one because they've got loads more calories to play with. Right. We're on the up. The presentation and taste wasn't great but the protein content is getting better. By the way, Nando's. That is a place we will not be visiting today simply because it's too obvious. Do you know what I mean? It's just chicken. Everyone knows that will be the best protein content. But if you want fast food and you're getting Nando's, it's like eating chicken at your grandma's house. It doesn't count. Right. Our next place I think could be even better. Let's head over there now. Okay. Forget everything I just said. This is definitely just chicken. But in my defense, it's greasy. It's fried. So, it still counts. It's different. I am on the hunt for the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu. Okay. Would you like to go for... Okay. Is this controversial? So, the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu is a chicken fillet. Now, we got into the details of like breast versus keel. I think this is keel. Is that keel? Breast? It looks like a keel. Does it? You didn't know what keel was about two minutes ago. Either way, I mean, I say controversial because it's... Does that count as a... You can order that. That is a single item you can order. So, it counts, right? The rules are, if you can order it and it's an item that comes as it is, which is that, I think it's fair. So, 23 grams of protein, 220 calories, which gives it a mat-a-meter score of 42%. And that's almost half. It's almost half of this is protein. That's pretty impressive. Like I was saying, Nando's is just dead. This is chicken, but it's just nice. You know what I mean? This is nice chicken. Nando's is dead chicken. I think 42% is going to take some beating. Mate, it's time for the fat-a-meter. What have we got for that? Yes, it is. Yes, it is. What is the highest total protein item in all of KFC? It's got to be high, right? It's surely going to be high. 10 mini fillet bucket. It's not mini fillet. They're quite big. I expected... I've got so much chicken. I'm so over this video now. I've only done three places. So again, you can buy this as a single item. I mean, if you'd buy that as a single item, you're an absolute monster. You've got bigger issues in your life. But this is 1,300 calories, 137 grams of protein. There is the option to get 14, but it comes in a mad meal with like four drinks and 15 portions of fries, which obviously completely throws off the numbers. It's a design for about six people. That doesn't count. This is the most realistic, highest protein item on the menu. Is that a mini fillet? It's just a fillet, I'd say. It's also really hot. KFC for me is the best. I never come here. I come here like once a year, but it is the best, like nicest tasting form of chicken out there. Do you agree? Yeah, it's good. I think it's got to be. It's my favorite chicken. 137 grams. Is that beatable? I've got an item in mind that we're going to get in a bit that I think can beat that. I don't know, but I think. Guys, would you like some chicken? No, no, I would think. Sure? Go, mate. This is literally fresh. Why does it need to come? What have you done to it? Nothing. We're doing like multiple places. This is like number four. So I can't consume this much food. Do you know what I mean? Excuse me, mate. I need chicken. No, I'm not. You sure? I've found a hand. I can't. Okay, fair. This is better, but that's fair. It's fair. Can I interest you in some free untampered with chicken? I'm good, thanks. You sure? Yeah, yeah. I'm watching it. Promise it's completely 100% here? No, totally, yeah. Okay. That guy may not want free chicken, but I'll tell you what he does want. 50% off the Morsier app. That's right. The Morsier Black Friday sale is now live. And that means we're offering up to 50% off all app subscriptions. So right now, you can jump on an annual plan for just over £4 a month, which is the cheapest it will ever be. So if you'd like me to help you transform your physique, just like I did with all of these guys, use the link at the top of the video description and I'll see you in there. How are we still going? Can you please like this video? Please. Welcome to the highest protein to calorie ratio item in all of Pizza Hut. This is the individual handcrafted meat supreme. Handcrafted just means like thin. It's like thin, stretch base. 11 inches to be precise, which is I'm very familiar with. And it is 27 grams of protein, 528 calories, which is actually not that bad. 20% matter meter score, which is again, isn't that bad. That's like not that far behind a double quarter pounder. Calories are good. I mean, cheese, people forget cheese has protein in it. It looks really good. Yeah. I feel like I mean that is the presentation. This is number one today, isn't it? Presentation so far. I never ordinarily get peppers, etc. on my pizza, but I'm willing to give it a go in the name of YouTube. No good. No good. Yeah. That's the best tasting item I've had so far today. Really? Yeah. At 20%, this may be bottom of the matter meter, but our next item is top of the matter meter. That's right. We have a large stuffed crust meat supreme. So, I mean, it's the same thing, but just way bigger. It's like that pizza on steroids. Ready for it. 154 grams of protein. This pizza has more protein than a massive bucket of fillet chicken. How is that even possible? What are the calories on it? Okay. That's where it falls down. So it's top of the fat and meter. Disregarding calories. The calories, 3,179. To be honest, I'm probably one of the only people that would actually consider this as an option because the calories will be quite useful. Pretty terrible ratio. But like I said, in terms of overall protein, this is going to take some beating. 154 grams. So good. South cross is so, you know what I mean? So good. It's literally getting dark. How are we still doing this? Okay. So Pizza Hut had both our lowest matter meter score, but the highest fat meter score. Our last place, however, may just surprise you. And talking of surprises, I'm surprised that more of you haven't tried Huel's. It's an absolute lifesaver for me and I literally don't leave the house without one. So if you want to level up your nutrition and try it for yourself, use the link in the video description in the code Matt and you'll save £10 on your first order. Hello. Hello. Can I please get... Okay. Five guys. Probably my number one go-to fast food place. Five guys? This is the fifth place as well. Why have you said that? That is not going to make the edit. I think you'll find it is. Because the food is expensive, but the food is very good. IMO. And if you need calories, which I regularly do, it's a great source of calories. So, the highest protein to calorie ratio item on the menu is the menial double hamburger. Smell like fart. Yeah, rude. Okay, two observations. Firstly, when I opened it, it did smell like fart. Like quite a strong fart smell. Secondly, it does look really basic, but that does strike me as a cutting. Do you know what I mean? The cutting, that strikes me as a good meal. However, you'll be surprised, or I'll be surprised to know, 44 grams of protein. Not terrible. 840 calories. Which means this gets a Matamita score of 21%. That's second to bottom. That's only fractionally above a Pizza Hut pizza. How can a two burger burger... That's unexpected. Yeah, be only 1% better than a Pizza Hut pizza. That's horrendous. Why? Do you know what I mean? What is in this burger that fills out all the rest of the calories? Only 21% of that is protein. Like, what's the rest of it? Do you know what I mean? It makes me suspicious. Like, is it the oil that it's cooked in? Is it the fart smell? Like, what is it that... Do you know what I mean? I don't know what's doing that. Anyway. I love Five Guys. That's the worst Five Guys burger I've had. Seriously? Yeah. I think the cheese, I think the lack of cheese just makes it... I don't know. Do you know what I mean? It's just so bland. I just don't understand what, like... What is the other 79% of this burger? Where are those calories coming from? I don't even want to eat this. It's not even good protein. What am I getting from this? If you think that's bad, wait until you see this. The highest protein item on the Five Guys menu is a bacon double cheeseburger. I've ordered this burger so many times under the assumption that the protein will be incredible, right? 49 grams of protein. 49 grams of protein, 1,060 calories. That puts it bottom of the Fat-O-Meter leaderboard. Like 49 grams. I feel like I've been living a lie. In fact, I get this frequently without the bacon, so it'll be even less protein. If I would have put this top tier, turns out it's not. The one redeeming feature is that it is very good. Okay. That is it. The experiment is over and the results are in. I mean, you've already seen them, but I can tell you. Number one place on the Matameter is KFC. And the item is the original recipe chicken fillet. The one fillet. 42%. That was way out in front as the best item. I mean, it's a little bit of a, like I said, a bit of a sketchy one because it is just a bit of chicken. But still, that is enjoyable. Subway was next. Subway, annoyingly, has done well. Like, it's done well in both leaderboards. But for me, the massive trade-off is the taste. Subway was just dead. McDonald's, kind of middle of the road for both. Like, not amazing protein. The ratio was kind of okay. Surprising that both McDonald's and Five Guys, I would have had them as being up the top. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, same. But the protein ratio was surprisingly low. Pizza Hut, unsurprisingly, the ratio was pretty terrible. But, like, still not that bad, given it's a pizza. And then when it came to the Fatameter, pizza absolutely ran away with it, mate. 154 grams of protein. The mini fillets from KFC, again, pretty impressive item. 137 grams of protein. Anyway, that is that. It's been a largely unenjoyable day. But the best thing about the video is that we're now finished. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, it's been funny watching Matt get recognised reviewing. Yeah, I've got to change my strategy now because I can't. I don't do, like, I used to see these videos all the time back in the day. I don't do them anymore. And I think they need to stay that way because getting people to be like, Oh, look, it's legend. Why is he talking about a chicken fillet? It's just, it's really embarrassing. Okay, I'm done. Let's go home. That puts it Fatam. Oh. Ow. James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James James

=== FILE: I Gained 30lbs in 30 Days ｜ My 6,000 CALORIE Bulking Diet [Ihqp6ufGUtI].txt ===

 This is me, in hospital, in hospital, back in August, I'd just had surgery to reattach my bicep tendon, but I'd also been throwing up multiple times a day for over a week and was eventually diagnosed with acute gastritis and esophagitis. At my worst, I didn't move from my bed or eat a single bit of food for 12 days, and over that period I lost 14kg in body weight. It was easily the worst few weeks of my life. But, fast forward to today and I'm back, lifting heavy, eating everything inside, and as of yesterday, having regained all the weight and as of yesterday, having regained all the weight that I lost in hospital. But how did I do it? Well, today I'm gonna take you through the exact diet that I ate to gain 30 pounds in 30 days. Good morning! It is breakfast time, but first, look at this, right? So that is me, straight out of hospital with my tiny withered arm. Look at me now, mate! I'm back, my arm is jacked, what a time to be alive. Anyway, breakfast. I think I was smaller than before. Shut up! Even when I was at my smallest, I was still bigger than you. Breakfast, right, so, for about two weeks, I basically got out of hospital and I progressively ramped up the calories. I can literally show you, I can show you right now, my calories and my body weight. I tracked everything for almost a month, I think. I basically ramped up, firstly, to make it doable, but also because I had to, because my stomach was absolutely mashed. So, like, when I came out of hospital for the first week, all I could eat was, like, soft stuff. So I was eating yogurt, mashed potato, and porridge. Like, I literally ate baby food for a week, which was pretty grim. But I slowly added more food, like, more normal food, and I slowly ramped up the calories. And it got to the point where I was at my peak for over a week, I was eating six to six and a half thousand calories, which is pretty wild. The mad thing as well is that I was eating it easily. Like, my appetite was the biggest it's ever been. I was handling it pretty comfortably. Basically, to get six thousand calories and to make it sustainable, you've got to kind of find sneaky ways to get calorie-dense food. And this is one of the best ones, right? Crunchy nut clusters, man. I'm telling you, this is a diet hack. I mean, it's a diet hack if you want to be really fat, but for someone that's bulking, it's really handy. You've been hanging around with your brother too much. Yeah, yeah. This is basically, this is a much better, cleaner version of Ben's bulking diet. Okay, so we're going to go 150 grams of crunchy nut clusters, and then 250 millilitres of semi-skinned milk. Why not whole milk? That would be interesting. I don't know. That would have made more sense. To be fair, it's better calories, but I'm not a big fan of like, super creamy stuff and like whole milk. Particularly when you're not used to it, it's just, I don't know, you know that creamy vibe in your mouth? Yeah. Too much. I know you know that. Fab is very familiar with creamy taste in his mouth. And lastly, just to get my protein, some vitamins and to top up my calories. We've got a chocolate ready to drink here. And that my friends is the breakfast I ate pretty much every day for about three weeks. In fact, up until a few days ago. Basically, I'm not a breakfast eater. Prior to this happening, I didn't eat breakfast because I'm not hungry in the morning. And unless you're trying to gain weight, if you're not hungry in the morning, just don't eat like it's a waste of calories. But obviously, I was desperately trying to gain weight. And so I can't afford to not eat food for that like few hour window. Now, my two priorities for this whole period were number one calories. That's like, you know, all the other priorities down here. Calories was like number one. That was king. If you're trying to gain weight, calories rules over everything. So that was it. And then beyond that, easy calories. Because again, if you're trying to get over 6,000 calories, I cannot stress enough. If you're trying to eat clean food, like if you're eating chicken, rice and broccoli and potatoes, you will not get 6,000 calories. And if you do, you're going to spend half your day on the toilet and it will be horrible. So it's about making it as sustainable as possible. Now, just quick disclaimer, because I get this a lot in my videos. I would not recommend you do this. Like eating how I'm going to eat today, it's not too bad. It's not the end of the world. It's not as bad as like Ben's diet, right? But it's definitely not optimal. It's definitely not something I'd recommend. It was very much a means to an end. I did it to get back to where I am now. Now I'm here, I'm kind of transitioning back to a more like, you know, normal, clean kind of, yeah, less crazy diet. But this was just serving its purpose to get me to where I needed to be. By the way, really weird that this is my job. For everyone watching, this is my raw audio. Calories for this cereal and this yule, 1,220 and then 55 grams of protein. That's the thing you find, because I think obviously when you're cutting, protein is mega, mega important. Like the most important macro biomark, right? If you're bulking, particularly if you're bulking as hard as I was on 6,000 calories, you can kind of chill on protein because if you're eating 6,000 calories, the chances are you're going to be eating a lot of protein as well. Do you know what I mean? You wouldn't think particularly a bowl of cereal is a good amount of protein, but that's 20 grams of protein right there. And with the 35 there, it's 55. So basically for me, it was about calories and then the protein would pretty much work itself out. What are you doing? Why did you do that? My nutrients. You eating your super nutritious breakfast? Um, yeah. Nutrients covered? I'm showing everyone my 6,000 calorie peak hospital diet. Post-hospital, my thoughts for Matt were, let's try and add some sort of greens and nutrients into this. You were more calorie focused. Yeah, so this is like the, so this is like the, Your gut health. Aubergine. Stuff like that. On my shoulder, they're just like currently reminding, constantly reminding. To be fair. Aubergine on your shoulder? Yeah. To be fair, I always eat loads of fruit and I was, I was eating loads of fruit here, but vegetables. The thing is fruit, you eat it by itself, right? Whereas vegetables, you wouldn't sit down and eat a cucumber. That's weird, isn't it? I was like cutting them up, carrots, cucumbers and hummus. There aren't many meals I would enjoy having vegetables with. Do you know what I mean? I'd eat the meal and I'd eat the vegetables after just to get them in, but I don't really enjoy them. Done. And that was like the easiest 1,200 calories ever. Oh, I'm going back to the vegetable and the vitamin thing. That's another reason why these are really handy, right? Because they've got 26 vitamins and minerals in them, 7 grams of fiber and omega-3. Plus, I never really talk about this, right? But Huel is plant-based. Obviously, I'm not vegan, right? I eat meat, but I've had probably 15 years of having whey protein twice a day, every day. And I think there's definitely something to trying to mix up your protein sources. So getting some from whey and some from plant-based stuff. Plus, I have loads of friends that have like stomach issues. When they have too much whey or too much dairy. So it's just a really handy way to get it in and to mix up your protein source. I get so many questions about it. Just try it, mate. There's a link in my description. If you use the code MATT, you'll save 10 pounds on your first order. Just give it a go. Oh, by the way, look. Paul update. Come and look at this, mate. Look at those bad boys. So basically, I don't know if you remember, this finish, we were getting like, it was going damp. But water was getting into this stuff. And we had like some damp patches around here, where water was just sitting on the edge. So we've got these same tiles and we ran this upstand the whole way around. And upstand normally is like this high, but our designer said it would be a good shot to go higher. And I think it looks sick. Looks sick, right? It's a cool design feature now. So it looks sick. And more importantly, no water is ever, ever going to get in there again. So we're good. We're secure. I'm trying to get Matt to do a triathlon in his house and he won't do it. Because it's a, I'm not riding a bike around my house, mate. No, Joe, we're doing it in your house. Who wants, comment below if you want us to do a triathlon in Fab's house. House update number two, the world's most aesthetic bike shed. Look at this, mate. That looks really cool. I want to open that. Here we go. We've got bikes. Halford has sent us loads of bikes and they're nice. And I wanted to look after them. So we now have a lockable bike shed, which you could literally live in. In fact, I've had your sleeping is night, come on, look. I'm going to put your bed down there. Is that right? It's better than the other room. Look at the space. It's sick, isn't it? Yeah, that's sick. The guy that built the gym, Will, he built this. He's the sickest guy ever. And he's also, his attention to detail is mad. Like he gets everything super symmetrical. Oh, and house update number three slash gym update. Technically. It's meant to be an eating video. Yeah, I'm changing the video title to house, house, new house, news. First gym update. I've got a hex bar. I haven't deadlifted for like three years, like since Cladet is basically because of the risk and reward thing. But I'm just mindful. I don't really have a major posterior chain movement. And a hex bar deadlift just means you can get a very similar movement that's hamstring and glute focus. But because you're here, it's just so much safer. And the risk on my back is minimal. So hopefully that'll be good. But the main one is this, mate. My rack is now a Smith machine. I know everyone always says, Matt, you have the best rack in the world. Thank you. But it's even better now because it's now a cable pulley. I can put the things on to make it a squat rack and it is now a Smith machine. Bulldog sent me this. It's like a prototype. Basically, you've got these two things here that make, you put, this is my bar. It goes in, it rolls and acts as a Smith machine. You put these pins wherever you want to do it. You've got the safeties down here. And it's now turned this rack into like, you can do anything on it. It's an absolute dream, particularly the last like month with my bicep. And obviously using dumbbells is risky. Now with this, I can stabilize stuff and it is absolutely ideal. Anyway, it's time to train. I'm going to do a push workout, chest, triceps, shoulders, the bicep. Look, you see the scar. It's like pretty much, it's not exactly the same, but it really isn't far off now. So training is almost back to normal. Should be good. Let's come in. Let's go. Done. And that was good. My training was mad. Outside of Gladys, when I'm just doing my normal day-to-day gym training, it gets boring. Like I'm almost footy. When you train for that long, it gets boring, right? Because of this injury, I've gone back to square one. I've had to start from scratch. Weirdly, it makes it more fun. Like my training for the last month has been the funnest it's been in ages. I'm actually really enjoying it. Strength is almost back. I think I'm probably, I'd say another two weeks, I'll be back to normal. The last two things to add into my training will be climbing and then the contact rugby stuff. I'm going to climb this week, I think, and then it's just contact and that's it. I'm back. I've made the fastest bicep recovery of all time. Let's get some lunch. Let's go. go lunch is served and can i just say where you will not witness better egg preparation than this that's just commando in the pan look at the symmetry nothing's broken foul come on mate that's the stuff i've done i mean you know that i've done either in this same lunch every day or you know 90 of days for almost two years now and i assume i'll get bored of it but it's not happening if anything i like it more than at the start we have five eggs we have four bits of toast i go heavy with the butter so the butter on the toast and the pan is 80 grams then got orange juice which by the way you know when you go to like somewhere in europe and you get fresh orange juice and it's like the best thing ever ms orange juice that's the one the ms i don't know what's called ms like fresh or whatever it's called fresh orange juice fresh friggin tasting whatever it is i've tried every one that is the best one in the uk that you can get from a shop imo then we have some blueberries we have a fairly questionable banana uh this is i can tell you right now 1950 calories and 54 grams of protein so this is another big hack for me as with the morning when i say hack i mean don't do it because it's not ideal but for as a means to an end butter butter is an absolute calorie hack like the 80 grams of butter i get on this toast and in the pan i forget exactly but i think it's close to 500 calories if you're one of those people that i know this is uncommon if you are struggling to gain weight just add more butter and more oil to your food and it will make it considerably more easy so that's probably like the 500th time i've eaten that meal in the last two years and still like mega enjoyable can you see that it's like i think why it's sticky on the outside it looks bad bananas are a good metaphor for life don't judge a book wise cover because look at that mate that's a textbook banana if any of you eat that or that you literally should be arrested immediately i'm gonna eat this i'm gonna eat probably like like 100 grams of blueberries and then maro and luke will be back from score oh what a finish mate oh man watch out i'm slipping this straight in the top bins oh it's literally straight in mate oh score i've got the goalie quick it's an open goal mate rescue me yellow car but you can't give me a yellow car you can oh mate can i order delivery please follow me boys follow me hello um i have a large pepperoni passion from domino's guess the calories that uh 2 600 is that a genuine guess have you looked at it already 2 642 that is is that impressive or is that actually a terrible damnation of your terrible indication of your no you're not you're a human domino's consumer i'm gonna also have about i don't know like 500 mils about 100 calories of cranberry juice top up my vitamins and also says he's on veg watch today says official veg instructor she's given me some cucumber and some carrots i'm not even gonna track those but it's just micronutrients what a lovely backdrop by the way yeah right when it's nice we can't pee all the time because it is sick isn't it we came up for breakfast didn't we nika yeah good cold come on here oh that's the one i choose can you give me a barabite excuse me bye that's a man it's not a man is it really insulting radio brachialis that's that one which is that's actually stronger for flexing your elbow than your bicep is how weird is that no one knows that yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay welcome to the future and by the future i mean a place where you can eat protein ice cream have a look at this mate this is right so the one i made obviously i'm not a wizard that's going to be i'm going to be having that tomorrow but this is what i made yesterday like blue peter style this is the chocolate black edition powder now look at that mate come on does that not look sick fab mate yeah are you not i'm impressed salivating and then we added some poppets do you remember poppets like from the night the word poppets annoys me poppets it's not poppets they're like 90s if you're old you remember them 90s like chocolate just go straight in i'm really hard that is wild the macros on this right so this is 650 calories 58 grams of protein that's 58 grams of protein now i'm gonna eat half so that's like 325 29 grams of protein apple and a kiwi as well fyi and that takes me to 6125 calories for the day 239 grams of protein which is actually quite high i think when i was eating 6000 i probably more like 200 so i've gone a bit i mean the pizza had like 110 grams of protein i think that's that's pushed it a bit higher but this is like so sick like obviously you could make it with the black edition powder you could use one scoop and you could use water and you'd have like a massive thing of chocolate ice cream and it'll be 20 grams of protein 200 calories like that's nuts for that amount of ice cream that's absolutely wild remember you want to get anything from you use the link in the description and the code matt and you will save money on your first order i mean i appreciate that not everyone has an ice cream machine so you can just get like the black edition powder and use it as a normal person the good thing about the black edition powder over the ready to drink is that the powder is it's cheaper right it works out as like one pound 70 a serving but the numbers are basically the same it's like 40 grams of protein 400 calories per serving there's loads more flavors the flavors are sick so i would definitely recommend it but that my friends is that i'm going to end the video here 6 000 calories i'm now back to being an absolute gigantic monster although you can't actually see look you notice you know it's my lap my lack of lat flare so i have a lat it is there it's just my scapula is winging and it's pulling my lat around but the good news is it is coming back so that means that hopefully in the next few weeks i'll get normal scapular function back but that's that that was a really long intro that trail wasn't it if you're still watching this now what literally what are you doing go away go and do something else with your life this is literally a waste of your life stop watching this video

=== FILE: I Turned My New House Into a £500,000 Luxury Recovery Centre [jOfGPRwB8cg].txt ===

 I've turned my new house into the ultimate recovery center. I've turned my new house into the ultimate recovery center. Starting with my bed. But this is no ordinary bed. It's an eight sleep mattress, which contains the temperature of both sides of the bed independently. And that's really cool for me in stairs, because she always gets cold at night, I get hot at night. So it can make her half of the bed warm, and my half of the bed cold. Particularly useful in the summer. Also has loads of cool metrics that it attracts, like your deep sleep, your REM sleep, how long you've been snoring for, your resting heart rate, etc. And the coolest thing is, it will make changes to the temperature of your side of the bed to try and boost and improve your sleep. And as everyone knows, sleep is one of, if not the most crucial variable, when it comes to recovery. But the downside is that one of these will set you back about two and a half thousand pounds. So for that reason, I'm going to rank it A tier. And this is just one of ten recovery protocols that I'm going to be ranking in today's video. One of which is literally proven to add years to your life. So make sure you stick around for that. But next up are these compression boots from Current Body. Right, these are a sick tool. I use these like once or twice a week. They're particularly good after leg day, obviously. You can see now, like the, can you see that? Like the Mitchell and Man Leg. They basically just compress. It feels like, imagine a massive person with huge hands, just pressing your leg and slowly moving their hands up your leg. Not in a menacing way. It's like super nice, therapeutic feeling. The way it actually works, physiologically speaking, is that the compression essentially forces your blood vessels to constrict. And then when they release, they dilate. So you get that pumping effect through the body, which, and I'm reading this off the website now, helps flush away metabolic waste, reduce inflammation and reduce the byproducts of inflammation. So obviously that is really, really useful when it comes to recovery. It also pushes the deoxygenated blood back to your heart and then helps to send oxygenated blood to your muscles. Again, very useful for recovery. There's even evidence that suggests they can increase sleep quality if you use them for bed. You'll see a lot of bodybuilders will use them like in the evening. I definitely feel very chilled after using them. The only thing is, as with the Eight Sleep, they're not cheap. Like a pair of these will set you back about 700 pounds. So for that reason, I'm going to rank them B tier. Anyway, onto our next recovery protocol. Oh my God, I'm sorry. I literally cannot. Is that not the most disturbing thing? Like imagine waking up at night and that's just next to you. It's absolutely... It does not happen. It's absolutely horrifying. It does not happen. Anyway, that is the red light mask again from Current Body. It says, thoughts? I like it. From more like a therapeutic setting though. Do you know what I mean? Do you think you would like... I've got the benefits. I've got the benefits. So supposedly the red light mask boosts collagen production, cell function and regeneration. So basically how it works, the red light targets an enzyme which helps make ATP and that can essentially expedite healing. The only thing I'd say in this case is that that's only on your face. Right? So it's only going to heal your face unless you've trained your face. I've seen you can get like whole red light... I mean in hindsight we should have got a whole panel, right? You can get a whole panel that obviously covers your entire body. I would say because of the fact that it's only on your face. Also by the way, I looked it up. That costs £400 to buy. Like that, you can get them for cheaper but that specific mask is £400. I can't wear it though. If you wear it every day. You're scraping the barrel here. It says it's a red light mask. Red light mask salesman mate. I'm telling you £400 for me is hard to justify. So for that reason I'm going to rank it C tier. I'm going to do A. It's my ranking mate. You can't. It's C tier. It's my ranking. It's a C tier. La la la la la la la. C tier, C tier. Now we're going to move down to the end of the garden. And things are going to get serious. Seriously cold. Because our next recovery protocol is the ice bath. Oh, this is a horrible, horrible idea. By the way, it's literally zero degrees. But because of the wind, it says it feels like minus four. And it's raining. This is perfect conditions for an ice bath. Oh my God, I'm so scared. Why am I doing this? Why am I doing this? Oh! By the way, this ice bath is from New York. Ice bath is from the ice bath company. Absolute heroes. They literally installed it yesterday. On one day's notice, mate. Right, so the benefits of an ice bath are pretty well known. In terms of recovery, because it's so cold, right? Your blood vessels constrict. And then when you come out, you get the vasodilation. Your blood vessels then expand again. So firstly, in the short term, on an acute basis, it can reduce inflammation because it stops blood flow to the area. Like say you've got like an injury or you're mega, mega sore. It can help reduce muscle soreness. It can help reduce DOMS. There are some studies that suggest it could slightly impede hypertrophy if you were to do it, say, every single day. So for me, it's more, say, a two or three times of the week kind of thing. But I would also say for me, the biggest benefit is the psychological benefit. Like ultimately, right now, this is a horrible, horrible, really, really hard experience. I don't want to do it. Because I'm forcing myself to do it, I'm becoming more resilient. If you can do an ice bath a few times a week, you can do anything, mate. Do you know what I mean? It's about like conditioning and developing resilience. So I think those psychological benefits outweigh everything. That's for me is the key factor and the key reason I would use an ice bath. So amazing product. The only downside is it is the most expensive item we've had so far coming in at just under £4,000. Now, that seems like a lot, but it is a luxury item. Like it's got a filtration system that not only filters the water, but can also heat it and cool it. So you can get freezing cold water like this. You can also turn it into a hot tub, which is pretty sick. And it only costs £1 a day to run. But because of the cost, I can't go S tier. I'm going to rank it A tier. See, bizarrely, I now feel warm. You immediately feel warm when you come out, which is again that vasoconstriction, vasodilation thing. Oh, God. Okay. All of that stuff is great. But if you haven't got your nutrition on point, you're going to find it really hard to recover. Which is why I have the Huel fridge. That's right. An entire fridge dedicated to Huel. And the products I'm stocking at the moment are the Black Edition ready to drink. I literally have one of these every morning. The Black Edition powder. This one's handy as you still get the high protein content, but for less money. And then finally, Huel Life. Which is absolutely ideal if you're trying to cut calories. As it's 20 grams of protein for only 190 calories. Now, it's important to remember that Huel isn't just a protein shake. It's essentially a small meal. And when you compare it to the kind of crappy meals you tend to eat when you're busy, not only is it a million times healthier and more protein and nutrient dense, but it's also way cheaper. Like a meal deal from a supermarket is upwards of a fiver. Whereas one serving of the Black Edition powder starts at £1.79. And it's 400 calories, 40 grams of protein and 26 vitamins and minerals. So if you want to give Huel a go, use the link in the video description and the code MATT and you'll save £10 on your first order. Anyway, our next protocol is the pool. Swimming is a great form of active recovery. Essentially the movement stimulates blood flow to your muscles and your joints, which helps reduce soreness. And there are loads of studies that show that active recovery like swimming is way better on a rest day than just doing nothing. Plus, if you've got an injury, because it's not weight-bearing, swimming is a really good option. Now, I appreciate this is not a normal pool. It's obviously quite lavish. The pool building in total was nearly £500,000. But you could obviously do an outdoor pool without a building for way cheaper. So with all of that in mind, I'm going to rank the pool A tier. And sticking with the pool theme, our next recovery protocol is the swim jet. Matt? Matt? Alright, so primarily a swim jet is obviously designed to swim against. It creates a really strong current. But I use it and you can use it as an extremely deep tissue massage. A similar way to the compression boots. Just way more intense. You obviously get that vasoconstriction and vasodilation. But it can break down knots. My glutes right now are taking an absolute pounding. The downsides are that if I could lock myself in here and obviously wasn't holding a microphone, it would be way easier. But in its current format, it's really hard. It's not very sustainable trying to get a massage here. Plus, it's not cheap. This swim jet was nearly £5,000. And like one wrong move, you're going to end up in an anal hospital. So for that reason, I'm going to rank the swim jet C tier. Next up, we have the back and neck massager. Now, I'll be honest. At this point, I was kind of scraping the barrel a little bit. I wanted to get 10 items, so I thought I'd throw this in. I haven't used this properly really ever. It's actually quite sick. Like I'm not even holding it. My arms are just resting in the things. This is giving me a mega like neck and trap massage. Like to get this level of deep tissue massage on this area, you need to get an absolute monster to apply pressure. This is actually quite sick to be honest. Obviously works similar principles to any other massage. Same as the swim jet, same as the compression thing. It's like applying pressure to muscle so you can get rid of knots. You can stimulate blood flow, help flush out like toxins and stuff. It just helps recovery. And again, it feels good. It has that therapeutic, like relaxing sensation. Like if you pull it, if I pull this hard, like, ah, that is deep, mate. I think a human would struggle to apply that much pressure. Now, compared to some of the other items, this is actually pretty cheap. It comes in at just over a hundred pounds. And like I said, I feel like you would get, if you train, I think you would get some decent use out of this. You could just wear it, use it in the evening when you're watching Netflix or whatever. Kind of pains me to say it a little bit as I've just graded that 5,000 pound swim jet as a seat here. But I'm going to rank this B tier. Moving on to the penultimate item on the list, my prized possession. And in my opinion, the most effective recovery tool in existence, the sauna. This might as well be my front room because I spend so much time in it. Like I'm in it most evenings. I bring the boys in all the time. Saers comes in all the time. It's just such a sick tool. Like firstly for recovery, on an acute basis, it's very similar to lots of the other protocols. You get that increased blood flow, that vasodilation, which means it helps flush away the toxins and the waste products. You get increased oxygenated blood to all of your muscles. And there are longer term benefits. So stuff like it reduces your resting heart rate. You get reduction in blood pressure. You get increased circulation. There are pretty substantial studies done, particularly in Scandinavia, that have shown regular sauna use can reduce your risk of heart disease by up to 50%. Like that's pretty mad. In layman's terms, using a sauna regularly, i.e. most days, will essentially make you live longer. For me, it is an absolute staple of my recovery protocol. The sauna is from a company called Steam and Sauna Innovations. It costs just under £9,000. But it is a custom build because we had like a bit of a weird shape room that we had to house the sauna in. But given how much I use it, given all of the benefits, I have no choice but to rank the sauna. S-tier. We've done it. We've finally gone S-tier. The question is, can it be beaten by our final protocol? The sea! I'm fortunate enough to live right next to the beach. The sea is literally on my doorstep. I've already told you all the benefits of cold water. Plus, it's literally free. So like the video. I'm going to get hypothermia. See you later. Wait, the ranking. Matt! What's the ranking? We need to know the ranking Matt! Oh for f**k. Matt! Matt! Matt! Where's he? puede! puede!

=== FILE: It’s My Birthday so I Tried to Eat 10,000 Calories in 10 Hours [9YBo4lU1Hig].txt ===

 B istiyorumaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceaceace I can only eat at independent places or make my own food. And rule three, I only have 10 hours to complete the challenge. It's currently 10 a.m. That means we have until 8 p.m. tonight. That's not much time. Let's make some breakfast. And breakfast is served. And what an outrageous breakfast we have. This is made by Saez, by the way, who's now gone to get a haircut. Selfish. We never get food. In these videos, we never do food at home, so it makes a nice change. And I think this looks pretty incredible. So we have a savory waffle stack and a sweet waffle stack. We've got waffles with bacon, eggs, and hot honey. This is just under 2,000 calories. And then we have the sweet waffle stack. So we've got waffles with mixed berries and cream. And that is about, or just under, again, 1,500 calories. I'm also going to add some maple syrup. Oh, that looks good. It's flying. Oh, my God. It's literally just gone into my pancakes. Really? Waffles. Pretty sure it's just gone in there. No way. Really? Yeah. Why are you flies? How many calories? I'll add on five. Yeah. Right, so maple syrup is an additional two to three. Let's play it safe and say 200 calories. Calories in a small fly, approximately 0.04 calories. So that's negligent. This is about 1,700 calories. So we're looking at 3,700 calories of breakfast if I complete it. I'm extremely hungry. I'm going to go. Why do I go controversial? I'm going to go sweet first. I'm also just going to have to hand it, I think. You can't cut into that, can you? It's just disrespectful. Okay. The fly's going to come out at some point. She must be dead by now, surely. That is extremely good. Oh, my God. It's honestly unreal. Honestly, this is incredible. If I got this in a restaurant, I'd be ecstatic. What would you do? I'd like dance. Really? Yeah. Give me a reenactment. I'd be like, woo. You need to do that from the video. I'm just hearing the audio here is just free. I hate the noise of eating so much. If you're watching now, right? Go and stand near your parents or your friends. Crank the volume on max, but don't show them your phone screen. Honestly, this is like 9.5 out of 10. This is incredible. Sayers, mate, what an unbelievable job you've done. I wish you were here to see this. She's not dead, boys. She's just getting a haircut. Okay, I'm going to flick. Controversial. I'm going to flick into savoury. What do you think about that? No, I would do the same. But I would have started savoury, then go sweet. All right. Aren't you great? I can't do this without dessert. I could lift it up, couldn't I? Do I just not use cutlery? What, Nick? I'm just going to... I don't need cutlery. All right. Okay, we're going in. Well, no, you're not. It was at my door, mate. Hey, mate. I asked you to pick up today. To pick up? Yeah. Mate, I have no idea. My wife's fault, mate. Absolutely not, mate. Right, no. No worries, mate. Thank you. Turned on stairs already. There's a parcel to pick up, but there's no parcel there. Guarantee... This is evidence. I guarantee she'll be annoyed at me now, but what do you mean? Can you see a parcel there? There is no parcel there. It's right there. No, it's not. What's that? A bacon. I was going to say, you said you don't like bacon. I'm really not a bacon, though. I like the taste of bacon, but I just don't like, I don't know, just what it is. Just knowing what it is and looking at it just really puts me off. I'm going to add some more. I need some more. All right, that worked quite well. I'm going to do the same thing. Got the fly? That did... 100% the fly. Deadly serious. Deadly serious. The fly just flew out of the waffle. It's probably good, though, isn't it? Like, the RSPCA, it's probably good that I was going to be in trouble. Oh, okay. It's all just coming out again. That was a waste of time. Oh, it's quite sloppy. Oh, it's quite sloppy. Okay. Sweeping up. Then that's the sweet element done. If I eat this in one bite, you have to like the video and subscribe to my channel. Oh, my God. Done. That was a terrible idea. Because there was so much in there, it was like pressing on my throat and making me gag. But done. 3,700 calories down, mate. What a time to be alive. Yeah. Right, we're heading out on the hunt for more calories. I'm feeling pretty good, to be fair. My stomach feels a little bit sketchy, but I feel quietly confident about my chance. That's true. So, as part of the annual birthday 10K video, there are a list of challenges that I've got to complete in order to be successful. So, let's see if we can tick one of them off now. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Thank you very much. What are the chances of you singing Happy Birthday to me? I don't sing and I don't know many singing songs. Not even Happy Birthday? On my actual birthday? Happy Birthday. Thanks, mate. Many, many happy returns of the day. How do you sing Happy Birthday? Well, you just, I don't know, you've just got to... I don't know. You don't know? Okay. No, I don't know. How do you sing that? It's just a song, just like a... Hey, bud. Right, today is my birthday. Today. Sorry? Today's my birthday. Okay, Happy Birthday. Thank you. Is there any chance of you singing Happy Birthday to me? Um, I cannot sing. Can't sing it? No. Okay. No worries. I appreciate the conversation. Nice, guys. It's just too much. It's too much. It's too much. See, that woman's just looking at us. I put the camera away. I also need someone to sing Happy Birthday to me today. I'm coming to show you, not. Sorry, mate. Today is my birthday. Oh, it's your birthday? Happy birthday. Yeah. Thanks, mate. Any chance I need someone to sing Happy Birthday to me? What are your thoughts? Please. Because it is literally my birthday today. Oh, why not? Yes! Okay. Okay, my throat's a little rusty. It's fine, mate. It doesn't matter. All the counts. What's your name? Gary. Gary? Yeah. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday, Gary. Happy Birthday to you. That was honestly really good. Very good birthday. Thanks, mate. I appreciate it. How did you pull that off? Let's go! Come on, that is an absolute result. What a time to be alive. Best birthday ever. Let's get some lunch. Oh, God. I quit this job. What? I had to ride the motorbike. Please forget the smokehouse barbecue board, please. Oh, my goodness. Okay. Oh, that looks amazing. Thank you very much. Okay. We are in Korean Cowgirl, which is a pretty cool place. I've gone for the barbecue platter. I saw the googly. We need to look pretty sick, so I thought I'd go for it. It's quite intimidating, I won't lie. My confidence was high, like, five minutes ago. It's now a little bit lower. I've got fries as well. I thought it was going to be messy. Do you know what I mean? I feel like I've eaten a lot of messy food today. And it's a lot of meat that's going to fill you up as well. Yeah, that's true, actually. I didn't think about that. Yeah, so we've done some rough calculations. It could be, right, so this is hard to calculate. We're going to go, I'm going to go, all my calculations, I'm going to go on the conservative end, right? So no one calls me out for not eating enough. So I reckon we're going to say 2,900 calories. Could be more, but I'm going to play it safe. OK. It's really good. They look good. Yeah. They are really good, but this is just a lot of protein, isn't it? Yeah. In hindsight, this is a terrible choice. At least you're covering the protein today, but you're going to be anywhere. For about three days. I'm going for the poor pork. Good. Sausage. This is good. That's good. That's easy to eat as well. I don't mind ribs. Wings to me. It's just the amount of effort you've got to put in is not worth the, you know what I mean? It's a lot of mess and a lot of work for a tiny bit of meat. A little steak. Oh, yeah, that's really good. Oh, that's brisket. That's what it is. It's brisket. This makes a nice change from McDonald's and Five Guys. It does. It does. It's just, in hindsight, there's a reason I choose the places, because they're just so much easier to eat. Do you know what I mean? Like McDonald's, you can eat calories so easily. This is way harder. It's just the chewing as well, do you know what I mean? Like my jaw is taking a pound in. Let's try and make a sandwich. Nice protein-dense sandwich ever. Sounds get hard now. Why am I even doing this? Do you know what I mean? Why is it, why? It tends to be enjoyable as well. Why are you making me do this? You can't just sit there, you know what I mean? You do have to eat the rest of it. The thing as well is getting, like, the longer you wait, the worse it gets, do you know what I mean? It's not even helpful. This is actually, I need to do this. This is, I've got a lot of brisket left. It's actually maybe the best item. Please start getting the Smoked House. Oh, I'm really, really full now. Okay, I have literally a few fries, one rib, a bit of pulled pork, a wing, and a couple of bits of brisket. I'm on the, very much on the home straight now. You've still got all that there. That's a garnish. It doesn't count as part of the meal. Yeah, it does. That's incorporated into the calories that you calculated. My next video is going to be, I force my videographer to eat 50,000 calories. Can I get the bill, please? Happy birthday. You've got to be scummy. OMG, you absolute hero. That's sick. Thank you very much. That's good, because I haven't eaten that strawberries today. That's good. Good brownie. I mean, it's literally the world's smallest brownie, but it's really good. It's also, I mean, this is free, right? This is technically free. That means I've done that as my free food challenge. That counts, mate. It's free. No, I didn't make the rules. That's literally, it's free. I'm halfway done my challenges. Yes, please. Can I use code MAT10 on this? That was awkward. And whilst they may not accept code MAT10 at the Korean cowgirl, do you know where they do accept it? Gym Shark. That's right. The world's greatest fitness clothing brand. Items such as the stunning oversized tee and power joggers that I'm currently wearing, plus loads of other incredible bits which make you look like an absolute Adonis inside and outside the gym. And if you use the code MAT10 at checkout, you'll save 10% on your order. We've come to Sumo Donuts, which as its name suggests, has some pretty mega donuts. I am not even remotely hungry. In fact, I feel quite sick, but... Why you stood so close to my camera? Sorry, I don't know. Sorry, sorry, sorry. But I feel like no matter how full you are, you can always go from savoury to... I can always do that. I always have a capacity to eat sweet stuff after a meal, so I should be good for a bit. If I can just get another chunk of calories, we'll be, you know, on the home strength. Okay, please can I get one of the strawberry iced and then... What was that one I got to talk about again? Stinky coffee. Yes, one of those people. That would be amazing. There you go. Thank you very much. Can I pay? No, they're on us. You sure? Yeah, definitely. Oh, yes. What does that mean? You've got it twice. Three items. Yeah, double points. What an absolute hero. This stage has picked up dramatically. It's my birthday, guys. It's my birthday. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Thank you very much. May you buy the donuts? Oh, let's go. What did you get? A glazed one? Yeah. That's good, though. That's good, isn't it? Yeah. Very good. Sumo donuts. What a place. Right, so I've got sticky toffee pudding, mate. That's like top three desserts for me. Top tier dessert. And it turns out you can get a donut of it. Now, we've got that. We've also got, this is the classic. Do you know what I mean? That's like the Homer Simpson donut, which is, again, it's just like an amazing donut staple. Combined, this is 400 calories. This is just under 600 calories. We're looking at about 1,000 calories, which if I can eat these, which is a pretty big if, it's going to put me in a very strong position. You're doing well. Thanks, mate. Thanks, mate. That means a lot. I'm just doing a donut review. No one cares. I'm about to get run over. We just saw a motorbike. Yeah, Fab wasn't filming, but a guy just literally crashed his motorbike 10 seconds ago. Why is there, but what are you doing? Okay, I'm going to go this first, because I think I'm already struggling. If I eat that first and then try and do it, it could be too much. Good. It's got toffee inside it. Have a look. It's pretty intense. Yeah, in my current state, this is enjoyable, but also it's a lot. It is a lot. It's emotionally traumatic. And then you're in. Thank you so much. No worries. Nice to meet you, mate. How much was your bicep? It's good, mate. It's all good. Yeah, thank you very much. Is it back on telly? We're... It's Saturday. This comes back this Saturday. Okay. The big one's down. Now this should be comparatively easier. What was that, mate? I got blinded. Oh. Have hundreds of small emitters... That's good. I actually prefer this. The other one was good, but I actually prefer this. Oh, my God. I wish I'd been filming. I did warn you that was going to happen. This... Why is this walk so... It's my birthday today. Happy birthday. Thanks, mate. Sorry guys, it's my birthday today so I was just Thank you, looking around Okay, final bit Let's go That puts me Nearly 8,000 calories And as disgusting as I feel I'm almost there I can see the finish line You haven't done the biggest challenge Which is the motivational speech You should be good at this one What's it going to be about? Oh my god It's going to be like a birthday speech Guys, hello Today is a very special day It's my birthday Shall we Clap maybe Okay, that's enough That's enough The most important thing here Is that we're all In Canterbury Having a great time Remember that You need to stay grounded Even on your birthday Because you never know What's going to happen You could die, couldn't you? Realistically, it could happen You might fall over You might crash your motorbike You could get your camera lead Caught on a thing Lots of dangerous She's filming, that's not ideal Lots of dangerous things can happen So just remember Stay motivated Like these guys over here You've got to believe to achieve, haven't you? Yeah, you've got to believe that's important And also Just have a great Hawaii guys Film is not allowed That's it, I'm out I'm out Woo! Thank you Yeah It's possibly the most awkward 30 seconds of my life Just did a weird birthday speech In front of a bunch of German Exchange students Okay, let's go home Terrible idea Not on my stomach Not on my stomach Yeah Yeah Yeah You've got less than two hours left Oh, okay Don't touch my stomach So, Mara, have a guess how many calories I've eaten so far today How many? Almost 8,000 I know You don't know Almost Why are you not impressed? Almost 8,000 calories 10,000 I know Classic How many's left? How many's left? Didn't you do that last week? Yeah I just dig it out in my video Okay, I've got less than two hours Just over 2,000 calories to go But if I eat anything right now I'm definitely going to be sick So, I'm going to try and work up a bit of an appetite So that I can get the last few calories in Hello, Kazuki Hi, can I order some sushi please? Okay Done Done Thank you For that I don't know why I decided to do squats But I did four sets of squats After eating Nearly 8,000 calories is a terrible idea Nice one, mate Thank you Okay It all comes down to this I have 20 hot sushi rolls Hot crunchy Sushi rolls they're called But I'm not That sounds weird saying that That is just under 2,500 calories That means If I can finish this off And that's a big if That puts me just over My 10,000 calorie target The time is 7,17 7,18 That means I have 42 minutes remaining To complete this challenge I was already feeling sick The leg workout honestly Has made me feel worse And when I shall see a cream Like this cream Even the smell of it Is making me gag So I don't know This could be Could be a serious vomit warning Got soy sauce If you eat sushi without soy sauce You're an absolute animal I can't use chopsticks But I'm going to use them Because it's culturally appropriate Let's go I think that's like a Chicken I don't know It's good Too much soy sauce And I was thinking The soy sauce Tastes like marmite You know what I mean It does It does a bit That was really good Same as some of those bits From the barbecue place earlier I can objectively appreciate That's a nice sushi roll But I just can't I can't enjoy it In my current state That was a chicken one I don't even know what this is That mango That looks like mango to me That strawberry Is a mad I just made this sushi roll I don't know how to drink Marwich What do you reckon Before you go to bed You think that's gonna Can I have to bed You just drank like most of my water I need that You can say night to dad Night Night Night mate I feel like I'm going to save the cream And the shawby ones till last Because they're going to make me feel sick But then it's going to be even worse Can I have something? I need to eat it mate Can I give him one? Let me do the maths Let me do the maths Each one Oh no I can Each one's 125 calories Yeah Yeah you can have one mate Which one do you want? That's the best one I think What do you want? I guess I need the calories mate Which one? That one? That's a good one Come on That is actually Honestly that's the best one I think that's either chicken or prawn Good? Yeah? Yeah Come up in a bit Come up in a bit Fab amend the number to 2400 In fact 2375 Oh that one wasn't very good Oh no It's starting to get bad Oh my god That's going to be really saucy Oh no This is not good Oh I'm really struggling now And the problem as well Can you see I'm I'm You left the bad ones Yeah Do you need a motivational speech Or are you alright? Yeah Remember that You need to stay grounded Even on your birthday Because you never know What's going to happen Stay Motivated You've got to believe to achieve Haven't you? What is that? It's got a cream in it Honestly I think there's a chance I'm going to be sick here Yeah Soy sauce on the cream I was trying to mask it Oh man It's a bad idea Oh my god Is it that bad? You've got three of them So I'll just go for two Yeah I'm going to get I'm getting a bowl Come on You've got it Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on You've got it Oh Oh my god that was horrible. That was really, do you see the first bit was really close. I can see the finish. I'm just gonna get, I'm getting the cream off that mate. I can't do it, I'm serious. Call yourself a gladiator. Oh, nearly done it. Nearly done it. Enjoying that? Like honestly the least enjoyable sushi. I can tell it's good but I've not enjoyed it. One more left then. The strawberry ones, I was this close to throwing up with the strawberry one. One bit of sushi left. Do you know what I just think you should do? Eat the sushi. In the ice bath. It would be really good for the video. I'm not eating it. Everyone there is gonna be like, like, like, like, like. It's about zero degrees, it's pitch black, I feel sick. There is a shit. There is no way, there is no way I'm eating this in the ice bath. Oh my god. Come on, all the way down. You've got two minutes to eat that sushi. Let's go. Oh! Ten thousand calories, baby! Woo! Hope you enjoyed the video. Ah! Make sure you like it. Ah! That's why I'm really cold. Ah! See you later. Ah! Ah! Ten thousand calories, baby! Woo! I hope you enjoyed the video. Make sure you like it. That's why I'm really cold. I'll see you later. Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Ahh! Oh

=== FILE: My Local Gym Closed Down, So I’m Rebuilding It [o10Zi3KNc4M].txt ===

 When I started my YouTube channel, nearly 13 years ago, I used to train in my local sports centre gym. This was literally the gym that my channel was built on, and although it was a bit rough around the edges, I loved it, and I've got so many awesome memories in this place. But fast forward to today, and due to serious financial issues, the sports centre has been closed down for over a year, and it's now in a pretty sorry state. The place I once trained in, pretty much every day of the week, is in a really bad way, and there's only one man that can save it. And that man is me! What about me? Oh yeah. This is Dan. He's the CEO of the Sports Trust, who have just bought the sports centre and literally saved it from extinction. They're now planning a complete redevelopment of the entire site, including the gym. And that's where I come in. I'm actually stuck. See, we've built three smaller, moresy gyms in the past. Well, four of you include my gym. But this is bigger. It's a lot bigger. And building a gym of this scale is something I've always wanted to do, particularly in my local area. And so today, we've been given full access to the site, so we can see exactly what we're dealing with. Okay, Dan, we're here. By the way, this is the exterior. Welcome to the Folkston Sports Centre. What a glorious, it's going to be a glorious place to be. Dan, can we go in, please? Of course we can. So why have you, was that you? Do you have your graffiti sign? I used to, when I was like 12 years old, I used to sit here and wait to get picked up by my mum after doing like football or sports camps and stuff. That was the entrance. It is now boarded up. This is the current entrance. Can we, do we have active ice cream? Is that a... We did find some ice cream. Oh, yeah. You're welcome to it. Yes. Okay, come in. Right, this isn't, I mean, this isn't technically part of it. It is, but it's not. Right? Like, what actually is this? This was the old golf clubhouse, but for the last several years, it's been a cafe and a bar. It's had different iterations. Where's your ice cream? Oh, let's go. Put some of these in, please. Is that an option? It's frozen in. It's frozen and it does smell of fish in there. You got a spoon? This was the cafe, yeah. This was, yeah, yeah. It was a cafe, it was a bar. Yeah. There we go. Sports bar here, cafe here. So when I used, so I came here for like 10 years, maybe more actually, in my childhood, and it changed, towards the end it changed a bit, so I'm still a little bit disorientated. So here we go, Fabs. This is where, this is the entrance. This is where you would be coming in. Through here. Oh, vending machines are empty. That's disappointing. Is there anything in there? That's my nan's fireplace. Toilet's here. Then we have reception. You wanted to come in? Yeah. Dave, Fabs? Use the pool, please, mate. That'd be $79.99, please. Oh, by the way. That's a swimming pool down there. Right. Well, as well. Gym. Yeah, it's full. Gym. This is the exciting bit. Are you ready for this, Fabs? The gym is like big, and it's across a few spaces, so bear with me. Basically, it's in here. Girl, don't call my phone. I'm away from it. You like to get messy when you out with your friend. You want to see KSI doing this? Yeah. Yeah. I'm not keeping that. Okay. So we have this big open space here. This can go down, right? We can get rid of it. Yeah. This is going straight away. It's an unnecessary wall. It looks like there's going to be a drop, but then... Yeah. There's not. There's not this safe. This bit's already finished. I'm ready to go here. Are these yours from earlier on? They are. Yeah. Dan was getting a workout. It's a new record. I mean, there was. You can see there was like CB stuff all down here. I'll show you this in a sec. If we come around here, you've got... So this, I mean, this is the biggest like single area, right? Yeah, at the moment. But then there's quite a lot more. We looked at this. Can this go? This can't go, can it? We've got to explore that more, but we can definitely open it up more. There's basically loads of bits. Like, you know, if that was gone, for example, this would be a huge open space. What's this? That's a small office that can go. It can go? Yeah. Yes. Straight away, if that goes, you've got a nice big open run here. These are all the machines. So I'll show you a bit. The gym you all know from my channel back in the day is downstairs. This then became the gym. So I trained here for a few years as well. I mean, loads of stuff's still here. Is this something that you used to use? Yeah, I literally use this stuff. You remember your PB, like... This is it. Three kilos on the thingy. Yes. There's the PB right there. It's like all the hoist stuff, you know, where the thing moves as you sit on it. Comes around here. There's actually loads. There's like a lot of room. That's the back of a staircase, isn't it? It is. That's not going anywhere. On a lift. That's not going anywhere. I'm stuck. Comes all the way down here. You've got a torch there. You've got a climbing wall as well. Perfect. That's ready to go. There actually are footholds as well. Yes. Completed. What are you going to do with this one? So let me show you around here. There's a... Basically, there are potential options where we can expand and open up the space, which would kind of change what we do. Provisionally, like what I want to do is split the gym out. So you have like push area, a pull area and a lower body area. Then you have like a lifting bit because we want it to be for like athletes, for actual lifters as well as like the general population and, you know, like parents and general beginners and gym goers. But one option we have is... If you look over here, Fab, there's like a kid's pool over here, which is empty. But there is scope potentially to bring this floor out, right? There is. Is that right? Potentially. Comes down to cost. Comes down to cost. The building. Effectively, we think that we could either expand the whole way out. And again, it all depends on what funds we can raise. But it's so important that we have a good enough space. So the gym is then sustainable and it's for the community. And as you say, working with you, hopefully we can then get exactly what's needed. So potentially even down to the end. Potentially, yeah. Look how much like that would literally double this floor. Do you mean? If we went there, then the size of this space would be absolutely outrageous because I want to split out the area. So like, for example, the free weights bit with the racks and stuff and like maybe a functional bit, I think you'd want to have over to one end. So for example, down there, because what you don't want is like a bunch of racks here and then people having to walk past it to get to their bit. I mean, you want that to be kind of almost separate so that no one in terms of health and safety is walking on anyone else's toes. But then if you had like the push area, the pull area, the legs area, that would be sick, wouldn't it? Come on, that would be absolutely ideal. But yeah, we need to kind of pin down the space that we're going to have before we can start figuring out where stuff can go. For example, you could have legs here or you could have CV. I don't know, but basically having the little areas means you can have really clear designated like sections. The end goal would be, it's a gym for anyone, but it's like also a serious gym. Do you know what I mean? So if you're an actual lifter or an athlete, sparring athlete, you can come and train here and we've got everything you need. Do you know what I mean? No one's like treading on anyone's toes. So if you're like a lifter, you've got your space where you can train. If you are a mum that's got a spare half and I want to come in and jump on the bike or whatever, you have your area where you can train. Do you know what I mean? Everyone kind of interacts, but no one is kind of getting in anyone's way or killing the vibe. I'm going to quickly do a one rep max. Machine abduction. I haven't done this. Oh my God. I haven't done this since I trained with Lana. It's probably a terrible idea. I thought I'd be glad it was live tour in like two days. Let's tear my adductor off. Why is it so heavy by the way? Why is it so heavy? Use that. That's so weak. I'm going to have this machine. As you come in through the main door, I think you'll come in and let's walk in. But yeah, I think this space could be absolutely wild. It is massive. Like if I compare this to the other Morty gyms, it's like three, four, five times the size. It's massive. I want to see your old training. Oh yeah. I should definitely do that. Come on, Dan. Let's get down there, mate. So by the way, so down in the sports tracks, they're the guys. You know where I climb? F1. That's their place. The track where I sprint, that is also their place. They've done some like really, really cool bits in the area. When I think back to when I used to train here, I was like an international athlete. Then I was a powerlifter. And if I had the facility that we're looking to build now, it would have made my life so much easier and my training so much better. So that is basically the plan, just to make it as good as it can be. Also, by the way, while we're here, this sports center currently has like loads of mad stuff. Like it's got a sports hall, a swimming pool, and a dry ski slope. But the bit everyone's been waiting for is downstairs, fam. Let's go. But before we see the old gym, I've got something equally exciting to tell you about. Gymshark Black Friday. That's right. Gymshark's maddest sale of the year goes live on the 16th of November at 4pm UK time. It's going to be up to 50% off the entire site. Plus, if you use the code MATT10, you'll save an extra 10%. Now, as always, stuff is going to sell out ridiculously quickly. So make sure you're ready to go with my code on the 16th. Good luck. I hope you get what you want. I'm actually very excited to see this. Oh, we're going through. Is that not connected anymore? That way, Ruth? It's literally drilled up and covered. No way. Just for context, when I used to come here, right, I'd come down those stairs and then I'd walk down. This is Christian, by the way. Just looking. I'd go down there and then round. I made that journey like five times a week for about five years. By the way, on a side note, this is a massive sports horn. Look, you've just got to... I was going last one. You could just scrape it out. Oh, you could definitely climb this. This is just asking to be climbed. What are the rules here? If I do it like this, please do not use the climbing rule. That's the rule. And legally, how high can I climb that? I want to climb this so bad. I don't think it's illegal. Let me just go step one. Come on, step one. It's fine. Oh, my God. I could just climb. I want to climb that so bad. I used to come and do like five a side. You know, like those classic like Easter holiday like sports camps. Yeah. Get ready for the greatest gym. What have they done to it, mate? This is absolute sacrilege. This used to be an incredible... Right, fab. I was literally like... Squat rack was like here. Under rack. Walk out. I hit so many PVs in here. Then I'd be deadlifting like here. Deadlift here. It used to be like a dual cable pulley over here. There was like a lap pull down here. A bench. I used to bench press here. This is like a fixed bench press down here. I literally trained here hundreds of times. Yeah. Loads of my... I don't know. First five years of powerlifting PVs were all done in this gym. So as well as all the gym stuff, we're going to have ideally what? A couple of studios? At least. It all depends on the size and space. Here you've got another studio. There's so much space. This is the bucket collection. So this has just been sat here for like two years and no one... A year and a bit, right? Shot last July. Yeah. Wow. Can you come see the pool? Let's go see the pool. Come on. Matt's dying to jump in the pool. The temptation is so high. Fab, through here, my friend. Can you... See you later. Class that used to get changed on there. Really bad memories. Fab shower gel. Head and shoulders. Great brand. It actually works. Come out here, Fab. Look at this, mate. This is a massive pool. It used to be a flume. Oh, yeah. Back in the day, right? It used to be a flume that came from up there. Came down here. This is like a massive inflatable. I remember using this again in like the holiday camps and stuff. Do you know what's mad? Come look at the deep end quickly. Look how deep this is, mate. Three metres. I want to jump in so bad. Come stand here quickly. Imagine. What would you see if I did that? Would you laugh? How would they get away with that? No, I wouldn't like to see your breaststroke. That doesn't. This is definitely from like the 70s, surely. So this is the, what do you call it? Baby pool? Learner pool. Kids pool. Learner pool. But that's the gym up there. So that's where we're saying potentially that floor could come the whole way across here. Still decent height. You'd still have like that ceiling up, which is pretty good. But look how much extra space you'd get there. Oh yeah. What's around here? So you need to see the sensory room. Sensory room? I didn't even know that existed. I don't know. Oh, this is sensory, mate. Oh, it's actually really comfortable. And for thickets. Whoa, that is dangerous. Can you actually pull me out? I'm stuck. I'm actually stuck. I feel like the amount of bacteria in this floor. And I know, don't grow up. Grow up. Are you ready to see the world's oldest pool plant room? No, you're not. Art room from 1870s. No, I need to go get a key. Where have you gone, Dan? Where have you gone? I need to get a key. Need to get a key. I'm going to run up and get some. No, you don't. Just kill you, though. Okay. So I've taken at least a few physique. I used to take physique pictures in this mirror. Yeah, yeah. This is back when I think when I was still doing athletics. We're talking like 15 years ago. 15 years ago, I've got pictures in this mirror here. I'm going to find the picture. Yeah, what's that? I mean, that's actually got a nice soft light. But at that point, I had no idea how to pose. Look at the size of these, mate. Are you kidding? We have like... I guess I have an equivalent for my ball, but it's about this big. Watch out. Crazy. This is wild. You could definitely film a horror film in here. A hundred percent, yeah. We have had a zombie film, Ask. Really? It would be amazing. It would be great to capture it. Prime. Like 28 days later, it would be prime, wouldn't it? This would be so good for that. I'm very disoriented. I don't know where we're going to go. Watch head and feet. Ah, okay. Because that's the gym. That's the old gym there, isn't it? Yeah. So that used to be windows. So at times, I'd even sneak round the back and come down here and come in. I'm just not paying. Sorry, I said it. Ski. Going this way, sir. That's where I used to train in there. I'd have the doors open to make it colder. And you'd get kids that were skiing just coming and standing. Like when I was deadlifting and like, ah, they're shouting. You get lines of kids just standing there awkwardly watching. Look at this, mate. I feel like there aren't many sports centers that have a dry ski slope. Although right now, it's very dry. It's like the driest ski slope in the world. It's way slower than snow, but it's still sick to be able to practice before you go away. Also, this video has just turned into Matt's childhood. Reliving. I'm going to call the video Reliving My Childhood. That's basically what it is. Okay. Tour done. Biggest tour. Longest tour ever. This has got to be top three for you, surely. Yeah. Okay. So people are going to want to know timeline. Ballpark timeline. Next week. I was thinking next week, maybe. For the gym. We talked about tomorrow, no? Yeah. Tomorrow. Finish. See you there. Now, I mean, for us, the crucial parts is going to be the pool, the gym and the sports tour. Everything else is really important to us. But the guys who ran this beforehand did an amazing job keeping it open for the community for 50 years. We need to make sure it's got another 50 years ahead. It's got to be done right. But ideally, we want to get the pool open by next July. That way, it would have been shut for two years. Yeah. Which is still too long. But at the same time, same with the gym. If you can get on it, then. Yeah. Well, it's just doing it properly, isn't it? That's the whole point, right? There's no... You don't want to rush it. You want to do it. I want the gym to be legit the best gym anywhere near this area. So, yeah. We're going to make it sick. On that, if you have any... I mean, I probably ignore them. But if you have any input and suggestions on what we should do, things we could add, ways we could make it even better, then let me know in the comments. But I'm excited. I'm very, very excited. Good. It's going to be sick. It's going to be sick. Let's go.

=== FILE: My Neighbour was Overweight, So I Challenged Him to Get Abs in 60 Days [m_sT75sOjUg].txt ===

 sgifatgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitgitg his physique oh and just to make things a bit more interesting if tim manages to get visible out by the end of the challenge he'll win 1 000 pounds cap tim here we are yeah in your office this is actually a pretty sick setup to be fair um how are you feeling how confident are you you actually get shredded well 10 000 pounds i think it's not 10 000 it's not right it's not 10 000 pounds so i i've seen some pictures of you when you were lighter yeah i wouldn't yeah you were leaner but i think we want to raise the bar significantly like i would like you to get shredded basically jacked and shredded easy okay that's bold that's bold more importantly are you going to have abs by the end of the challenge yes what i'm planning on doing is just training abs five days a week that's not an option because i'm making your plans that's not an option okay so you've got big dumbbells over here this is your cable pulley that's sick mate literally in your office more dumbbells here full dumbbell rack how heavy these dumbbells go 32 and a half you've tim where's he gone all right tim tim what the f*** are you doing so i think it's fair to say we have quite a lot of work to do but before we can get stuck in i need to assess tim's starting point okay we've seen the gym i've seen the kitchen i need to see the physique i need to see what we're working with okay yep tim doesn't look tim here is this is going to be from here on in this is your physique zone here we go okay shut off can we get the shirt off please i know this is very uncomfortable for you come on you have to get used to it let's see what we're working with okay so right so you're 102 kilograms right now just over here okay so i can see i can see you have a good amount of muscle mats you just have body fat in the way particularly on your abs i think 102 i think if we get to even to 90 i reckon we'd i reckon that's like close to ab territory do you know what i mean fad you reckon yeah yeah there's good you've got good a good base frame yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you've told you've guaranteed me on camera you're gonna get abs easy yeah you can't go back now that's true he's backtracking already okay we have 60 days are you ready ready game on let's go right now that i've seen what i'm working with it's time for me to build the training and diet plan that tim's going to be following for the next 60 days using the morse wrap and what's really cool is that tim's exact plan is now live in the app so if at any point in the video you want to give it a go you can use the link in the description and try it for yourself so it's day one currently half past four in the morning i'm heading to matt's gym they're very kindly said i can use his gym while i'm doing this it's not sure what they say about him um and we're off to do a push session while lifting weights is going to form a huge part of this challenge the cardio element will also be crucial in burning some extra calories and making the diet sustainable and seeing as tim loves running we've decided that will be his go-to form of cardio for the next 60 days go on dex go on daddy not only i don't know how i can't run this morning now park around 2k stay dex um matt is somewhere in there the snoring coming from there it's unbelievable clearly tim is an extremely motivated guy like getting up at 4 30 a.m every day to train is no joke but the question is can he handle the inevitable food temptations that come with having a family because if tim can't stick to his daily calorie targets all the hard work could be for nothing so matt said i have to do cardio this morning but my back is hurting a bit so let's do a run doing a walk i've got this 20 kilo weighted vest on i am sweating coming into week two tim is in a really solid position and has lost almost a kilogram in body weight but he's about to face his first real test of this challenge as he's about to go away for a mini break with his family i've come away for the weekend and i thought i'd check out the gym and actually as hotel gyms go is pretty good they've even got dumbbells that go above five kilos something like coming away for the weekend and finding the hotel gym still quick 5k on the treadmill so tim's doing us proud and he's putting in an absolute shift but the question is how does he look well i mean look at that mate okay how are you feeling about the physique progress uh good progress so far i i'm confident you've lost no muscle mass or if you have it's a tiny bit so that is that weight is basically all fat and water which is amazing all those extra steps and tim just being an absolute robot means that he dropped another 2.7 kilograms whilst on holiday which is insane another day another 5k workout already done and it's not even 7 o'clock boom so matt has dropped my calories again from 2200 to 2000 so now my lunch which used to be fried eggs on toast it's just fried eggs not only is tim's plate looking sad but so is the weather like he's literally running in storms at this point but one thing that's not looking sad is tim's physique mate right how are you feeling about your physique it's all my way to go i think realistically i've got to get below 90 for it to be really good right just checked in with tim and to be honest he's flying like the guy is an absolute machine so much so that i never thought i'd say this i actually think he's losing weight too quickly which sounds mad to say but i wouldn't normally advocate losing weight this fast however i know the kind of person he is he's very like objective numbers driven i know he's desperate to get below 90 kilograms and so i think having that goal is going to motivate him a lot more and get a better end result plus we've only got 60 days so i'm gonna let him crack on and continue doing what he's doing we just need to make sure that he keeps protein super high and he pushes it really hard in the gym because if you lose weight quickly and you don't do those things you're just going to lose muscle so to hit his goal of a sub 90 kilogram body weight tim has around six kilograms left to lose in just 30 days so about halfway through now i think i forget what day it is um but eight kilos down almost running's getting easier i'm feeling good what size is he like uh 11 12 have you tried squat shoots before no it's so much easier when you try and squat if you go on your toes it's like way easier to get depth yeah because it eliminates the need for like angle door structure so basically it makes it easy to get a beat oh let's go that's textbook yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there we go down under 95 okay go get naked looking leaner you're definitely looking leaner yeah yeah in fact yeah yeah in fact that's actually a pretty significant difference from the last time we checked in i think this is definitely harder some days than it is others training's fine that's not a problem it's it's the food that i miss it's um i've got bread in six weeks i miss dairy i miss chocolate i miss pizza pizza really salted french fries and cardio wise the weather is rubbish so it's cold it's dark it's raining it's windy and you just you just don't want to go out and do it it is four o'clock monday morning it's my birthday and there's nowhere else i'd rather be with tim starting to struggle a bit and given the fact it's literally his birthday today there's only one thing to do happy birthday happy birthday happy birthday happy birthday you shouldn't have you're welcome what is it it's like a protein bar it's a protein bar nice how many calories in that let me put them out uh hundred fifty i'll just wish have some more calories i'll wish good buddy aww i love this i think they're extra small now because i've got literally no it's oversized as far now i know what you're thinking wow tim's gonna look great in that new gym shark hoodie and you're not wrong but the good news is you can also look great and save money doing so by shopping gym shark and using the code matt10 at checkout you're welcome so there's two weeks left to go now i'm excited feel good somehow put a kilo on over the weekend but i'm sure that'll go pretty quick but uh yeah two weeks to go push push push push push subscribe subscribe oh yeah it's officially 10 kilos down oh that was a hard one it's freezing it's raining it's windy but it's done i'm 10 kilos down and i'm almost at the finish line a week and a bit to go right just chatting to tim i know i keep saying this but he's doing so well like it's ridiculous he's honestly he's absolutely smashing this what a hero we're in the last couple of weeks that we're literally on the home straight and i would never normally do this but i'm gonna drop his calories below 2000 which is definitely not ideal it's definitely something i would never advocate doing but it's very much for us now it is a means to an end because i know how desperate he is to get below that 90 kilogram target so now that i'm down to 1800 calories which isn't a lot sometimes all i have for lunch is a pack of prawns what a treat tim in his natural environment what are you making a chicken and tomato salad thing nice top work mate i'm just gonna i'm gonna sleep in your kitchen for the next four days by the way tim's sub 90 kilogram goal which seemed ambitious just a few weeks ago is now very much a reality but with only days left until the challenge ends there's a problem i'm going to brew tomorrow for the weekend with friends slash family and when we booked a month ago i had visions of chocolate shops and beer and christmas markets i don't know what i'm gonna do comes a brew they said it'll be nothing but chocolate and beer good not you again how are you doing more importantly mate how are you doing good i'm good are you good how was the weekend oh the weekend was really good yeah yeah good to get away and have a bit of fun and uh not have to worry about tracking every little calorie in the world but okay that's concerning okay elephant in the room how is your how is your physique looking because i feel like i mean i feel like it's gone well i'm confident i think you're quite confident oh i'm actually nervous are you nervous no you're nervous i am nervous i'm excited though right tim get into your position please 60 days 60 days of outrageous commitment early morning runs training eating reduced calories okay game on you ready oh my god i'm very nervous so let's go all of it top both tops mate one go this means quite tight in the name oh you're gonna get legal ready what what that is wild mate oh my god are you actually joking that is wild what what hey ridiculous the veins in your shoulders that is wild that's ridiculous that is wild that is ridiculous let's go 60 days as well it's not even that long are you happy tim with how you look better than it was that's for sure sure wait that is nuts that's a crazy transformation the difference from day one to day 60 is absolutely wild how much weight how much total weight loss we're going to do that in a second oh yeah we'll oh yeah yeah we'll need to go yeah let's hit the scales okay has he hit the sub 90 goal okay scales required let's put a 25 down because the floor is soft so you won't get a reading unless unless you have a hard surface okay this is the optimal environment moment the truth when we started you were 101.9 that's it 101.9 and the goal a very lofty goal was sub 90. here we go get on the stairs oh let's go 88.6 oh my god ridiculous you lost 13.3 kilograms 29 pounds almost 30 pounds i think it's fair to say that tim's transformation is absolutely incredible and shows just how much you can do in 60 days if you actually commit in fact it's gone so well that i want to do it again but with as many of you guys as possible so that you can make a transformation of your own so the morseer 60 day challenge will be starting on monday the 5th of january and entries are now open if you want to transform your physique and make a genuine change to your life just like tim did use the link at the top of the video description and enter the challenge today once the 60 days start i'll be there with you every step of the way to make sure you stay on track plus we'll be giving away some insane prizes including a holiday to ibiza massive gift cards and 1 000 pounds cash so use the link at the top of the video description and let's start 2026 in the best shape of your life tim yep celebratory genuinely this is from cavern the beach yeah i love it i literally spoke to your wife man this is literally my favorite thing from i've not had one of these in months you have to have a bite is the right because you have to otherwise it ruins the whole journey look i've worked for eight weeks to get like this listen we have a longer term plan well so the plan is right we're going to run a reverse diet because you're obviously the last week and a bit you've been on 1800 calories which is which is low it's too low so we're going to run a reverse diet over the next few months we'll get your metabolism back up to like two and a half thousand maintenance wait so what keep track and gatherings for next two months you don't pretend it's hard you find it easy and then we can cut down the line and get rid of that last week plan okay yeah plan's good to meet you gotta keep your promise by the way tim's got visible abs i said visible abs one thousand pounds one thousand pounds honestly you should be extremely proud of yourself there are not many people that can do that for in eight and a half weeks is absolutely ridiculous just to remind you like that's what you look like eight and a half weeks ago is that not completely ridiculous yeah i didn't realize how bad it looked blimey let's go okay let's see what will work i'm feeling good push push push push let's go this is definitely the hardest thing that's ever been in the w's oh that was a hard one what that is wild mate oh my god are you actually joking

=== FILE: My Son is Abnormally Strong, So We Tested His Strength [8kCO9m7Zlx8].txt ===

 This is my son Mauro. He's four years old and he's an absolute beast. He eats a huge amount of food, mainly dessert to be fair, and he's pretty massive for his age, like he's literally in the 99% off for his height compared to other four-year-olds. Now, he likes to come down to the gym with me when I train sometimes, and if he's in the mood, he'll smash out some press-ups, or see how much weight he can move on the cable pulley. And to be honest, it's actually quite impressive. So he got me thinking, how strong actually is he? Well today, I'm gonna take him through a series of strength tests, and we're gonna find out. Oh my goodness, that was a Romani and Deadlift, mate. Okay, today's the day. The day of reckoning. Do what that means. It means that we're gonna find out how strong you are. How strong are you? Really strong. What have you done to your knee? Hurt it. How did you hurt it? Tucked that goose. Tucked that goose? That's a dangerous game. Okay, so we're gonna do four different strength challenges, and we're gonna see how strong you are. Yeah. Feeling confident? Yeah. Okay, nice. Number one, let's go. I don't think I'll be able to hit. Now, a bench press. Have you had a bench press before? Yes. No, you're not. That's not true. Okay, here's the bar. This is a 10 kilogram barbell. Straight away. You think you can lift this? If you can't lift this, it's gonna be awkward, okay? Also, by the way, who remembers this t-shirt? If you remember this, you are a committed OG fan. This is the t-shirt that Luca wore in the gym shot video years ago. Mary, step into Luca's shoes. I'll try to find out how much Luca did. Yeah, let's do that. Right, I just watched the video. Luca bench pressed six kilograms. We had a smaller bar. He's one of those adjustable dumbbell bars for Luca. That's 10 kilograms. So Luca, when he was four, he did six kilograms. That bar is 10 kilograms already. So if you get that, you're straight ahead of Luca. Okay, so I'm gonna hold it here, and you're gonna hold it, and you're gonna go down, and then all the way up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. When you bring it down, don't put it on your face. Now, turn your hands around the other way. Put it all the way around, mate. Go to...come out to my finger here. Yeah. If I let go, are you gonna drop it on your face? No. Are you sure? I'm not confident. Right, you ready? I don't think... It'll be a PB, mate. 10 kilograms. Yeah, okay. You ready? Yeah. Good luck. Okay, I'm gonna have to keep my hand under it. You ready? Go, Mary. Press. Okay, that's all we do. We start from here. Come down. Push. Go. Oh, let's go. We're at five over. Oh, there we go. Right, let's put some weight on. What should we put on? 20s? Yeah, 20. 20. What do you think? Actually, one. One. We should collet as well. That keeps it on. I'm sure how it works, look. Is that one? That's 1.25 kilograms. Is that easy? Yeah, we'll figure it. Lift up. Is that heavy? Not really, right? So if I put these on, you've got 10 kilograms. These two together makes 2.5 kilograms. Yeah, that looks... So 10 plus 2.5 is 12.5. Can I hold it? Yeah. Is that how easy, innit? Not really hard, actually. Not really hard, right? When I say go, put it on this end so it doesn't tip over. Ready, steady, go. Yeah, and then try and kick that thing down. Alright, let's go. Right, this is 12.5 kilograms. Easy peasy. Easy peasy. Right, let's do it, man. This will be a lifetime PB. You good? Put it on you and then lift it up. Come down. Go, lift. Push, push. I mean, should we go again? That's wobbly. Let's go again. Try and keep it straight. Push it towards me. Ready? Okay, ready? Go, push. Push, push, push, push, push. Let's go. You want to leave it at 12.5 and then go 15. That's double what Luca did. Luca did 6, you've done 12.5. Is that even more? Double, mate. Do you want to go heavier? Do you want to leave it at 12.5 or go 15? Go to 15. Are you sure? Yeah. Okay. So look, that's this one. I think that might be a quake. You guys need to have a cup of it on there. I don't care. What do you think? You got this? Yeah. You sure? Yeah. Push, push, push. This one's got to push more. Ready? Push, push, push, push, push, push, push. That was close, mate. Okay, that was very close. So that was 15. You missed that, but you got 12.5kg. So your bench press PB is 12.5kg. Mara, what is your bench press PB? 12.5kg. Okay, so we're going to, I'm going to put you on there and we're going to see how many pull-ups you can do. By the way, I forgot. We weighed him semi-recently. I think he was like 17kg. So maybe let's call it 18. Maybe he's got to be a heavy 18. You're pushing a body weight. You almost get a body weight bench press here, mate. That's pretty impressive. That's your microbe. Hello. Do you want chalk? Okay, fine. Okay, good. The one that I use, the liquid one. You know what I mean? Pull-ups. What do you think? Are you confident? I don't think he's going to do it. I don't know. He can hang for like minutes, indefinitely. Even on one arm, he can hang for a while, but I feel like for a four-year-old pull-ups is pretty ambitious. I would say if you get more than two, I'll be happy. Do you get two or more? Yeah, maybe. Yeah? Okay. All right, you ready? Good luck, mate. Turn that on. This one on the racket. Down here. And then this one comes here. This way a bit. Let's go. Nice. Go again. All the way up. Two. Nice. Here you go. Three. Let's go. Three. Any more? One more. Come on. Try. Go, go, go, go. That was epic. You did four pull-ups. Let me see your hands. They saw how they're feeling. That's your world record, isn't it? Four pull-ups. You happy with that? When does it come off? It stays on forever. Does it actually? Yeah. Is that all right? No. What was the problem? It comes off in like four days. Does it? What are you doing? Does it actually? Does it actually? Yeah, four days. That's fine, right? What's the date? Tuesday. So you just got Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. What's the truth? Go, what's the truth? I'm joking. It's two days. Okay. So just Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. What's the truth? I'm joking. You just watch it off. He's whining to me, bro. Date number three is your specialist subject. This is your best one, I think. This is press-ups. Now I know you can do a lot. I've seen him do a good amount of press-ups. And also he loves clean form as well, don't you? He likes time under tension and clean form. You ready? So we're all the way down to the floor, all the way out. Straight body. Okay, you ready? Yeah. Okay, as many as you can, mate. Good luck. Okay. Go. One, all the way down. Nice. Keep going. Nice. Feel the mud, mate. Right, look. Head down, head down. Head down a little bit. Keep going. Seven. Eight. Right, this might take a while. So what a better opportunity than right now to tell you that Gym Shark Onyx is back. Everyone's favourite gym clothing to make you look absolutely jacked goes live on the 16th of October at 7pm UK time. And this time there's going to be two new colourways. But as always, the stock is limited, which means once it's gone, it's gone. So make sure you're ready to go on the 16th and use the code MAT10 to save money on your order. Nice. Nice, mate. Keep going. Yeah, nice. Arms down. Put your body down, mate. No, no, no, no, no, no. Arms back to where they were. All the way down. All the way up. Yeah, two more. All the way up. All the way down. All the way up. Yeah, let's go, mate. That was sick. What are you doing? Literally doing loads of things. Right, fourth and final event is the dumbbell deadly. Okay. What do we do, we do, we do, we do, we do, we do, we do. All you've got to do is pick those up. Okay, but when you should look at me, look at my back. Try not to do this with your back. Try and keep your head up. Straight back. Yeah. You ready? 2.5kg. Okay. Was that really hard? No. Was it easy? Yeah. Can you bicep call those? Oh, nice form, mate. A fat form, mate. Whoa, there, whoa, there. 10kg. Easy. Can you get that? Yeah, easy. Want me to give you some back slaps? Can I go now? Back slaps? Okay. Are you going to shout that? Really hard. I'll do medium. That way, there there. That's it, yeah, there you go. Right, let's do it. Oh my goodness, that was a Romanian deadlift, mate. That was easy. That was 10kg. Deadlift, BB. Deadlift, BB. Nice, mate. Shall we go heavier? Yeah. This is 15kg now. Easy. You pick. That was still pretty easy. I'll put them down. You're good. That was easy. That's almost your body weight. That is impressive. How do you feel about that? I can pick myself. You can what? Pick yourself up? What are you doing, mate? You're giving yourself a massive wedgie. Are we going heavier? Yeah, bye. Are you ready for this? Yeah. This is 20kg, mate. Easy. If you get this, that is more than body weight deadlift. Are you sure? Yeah. Okay, good luck. What? How have you just done that so easily? Are you kidding me? Yeah. We've got to go heavier, surely. Now, shall we go heavier? Oh, one heavier. One heavier. The next one is 12.5kg. That's 25kg. Yeah, easy. What do you say, any air easy? This will be a 25kg deadlift. Baby, you're almost crazy. You can do that. Send it. Good luck, mate. Have a sec. Have a sec. Have a sec. Have a little rest. Got it, got it. Oh! You got it, you got it. Oh! That was so close, mate. I think we should stop there. You've got 20, mate. I think we should stop. You've got 20kg, don't you? Yeah. 20kg. You were very close to 25, that's it. Good. Now, you're done. Now, you can't don't leave. We're doing the outro, mate. Great job. That's a shake hand, mate. That's to me. OK, let's review. So, we did. Bench press first, 12.5kg. Give it a mark out of 10. Good. Good out of 10, nice. OK, then we did pull-up. You've got four pull-ups, remember that? Yeah. What do you think about that? Good. You can't just say good for everything, mate. That was better than good. Four pull-ups is epic, mate. Although you are four years old. Press-ups. And you've got 15 press-ups. Yeah. That's not a review. Right, I didn't say at the time, I've seen him bang out over 20 press-ups. Like, you can do a lot of press-ups. He doesn't look at that. I think, do you reckon the bench press, maybe you made you a bit tired? A bit fatigued? Yeah. Yeah. But still 15 is good though, isn't it? OK, and then finally, we did the dumbbell deadlift. 20 kilograms. That's more than your body weight. I don't care. Oh. What do you care about? I don't care. What do you care about? Nothing. What, nothing? What about sweets? Yeah. OK, so you do care about something. OK, we're done. That's the video, but I mean... I'd like to see you. Why make that noise? Do you even think there is a straw? I'm not even funny, mate. Do you think, listen, is there a stronger four-year-old in England than you? What, you think there's a stronger four-year-old in the UK? You just said no. You do think you are or you don't think you are? I am. Very nice, mate. I'm sure there are some absolute units, but I feel like he'd be up there in the leaderboard of four-year-old kids for strength. I'm saying he's got to be... Yeah, four and a half. Top ten. I'm just leaving. I'm out. When does it come off? It stays on forever. Does that show? Yeah.

=== FILE: This is the UK’s Most Popular Cheat Day (so I tried it) [UFjqTsa0Na4].txt ===

.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.''.'' most popular breakfast by some distance is the full English which is why I have it right here but I've even got one better I've got the most popular items I've basically assembled the most popular items of the most popular breakfast I'm going to eat it for your viewing pleasure 83% 83% of Brits said they love a full English breakfast let's find out why straight away I've got some questions what has this tomato had to endure I mean it's been to like Guantanamo Bay why does it look like that I've just bite that for me just have one bite for one I don't understand the rest of it though hash browns textbook sausages just know they're going to be good beans classic fried bread you big fried toast fried bread fan back when I was fat this is the best example of you cover something in oil do you mean anything anything in oil is basically good bacon not a big bacon fan I love the taste of bacon but it just makes me uncomfortable the fat and where it comes from I'm almost certain these sausages are going to be incredible so good there probably hasn't been a day in the last 20 years where at some point I haven't started like eating a feeling like you just always feel like you can always do that yeah it's just so easy they do elements of it but yeah they find it weird having all the stuff like on a plate together by the way we're in the airport cafe which is like an absolute set like textbook greasy spoon cafe we're going to catch a flight to the next place hash browns are really good by the way this is like nine out of ten breakfast for me but the problem is I just all I'm thinking is I've got so much food to eat today do you know what I mean so I'm really enjoying it I really want to eat it but in the back of my mind the whole time it's just to pace myself because otherwise I'm going to be in a bad way Matt you should really get some vitamins in considering the amount of grease you're going to have today is that vitamins though does that count do you know what I mean after what this is endured is it still whether any vitamins remain in do one each I do one you do one that's the deal that's honestly really bad it just looks dodgy put it in your mouth right now breakfast is done and it was extremely enjoyable I'm just a little bit cautious about the volume of food that's to come anyway it's 11am which is apparently the UK's most popular snack time hey bud um can I please get one sausage roll yeah I'm assuming I mean straight away I've never had a correct sausage roll in my life never no why are you doing this being an idiot if it's not good I'll be very disappointed that is really good it's like an 8 out of 10 sausage rolls maybe a 9 guess right how many Greg sausage rolls are sold every year in the UK about 10,000 130 million that's enough right for a single person to eat a sausage roll every day for 356,000 years that was a top tier snack I'm now extremely full which is useful because a lunch location is a long long way away hey bud can I get a foot long italian bmt please almost 33% of lunches consumed in the UK are a sandwich can you believe that I have a sandwich every day so yeah you actually yeah every day can have one today mate that's a lie um so that means for every three lunches eaten in the UK one of those lunches is a sandwich it gets even more crazy though right so if all the sandwiches consumed in the UK 60% of them come from subway is that I don't know that's a subway stat that can't be right surely that sounds like some kind of subway propaganda that can't be accurate but I'm told that it is so I'm gonna go with it the most popular sandwich by some distance is the Italian bmt this is ordered how are you going mate you good you a big Italian bmt fan this is this is the most popular subway sandwich you know that it is that's their most popular sandwich I'm disappointed to be honest bmt meat what's the the t is tomato right bread meat tomato no it's the b you can go on the final mate you know that sorry that was awkward um you know the bmt what does bmt stand for get these here don't even i actually know bmt stands for biggest biggest basically ah actually that's great info okay two things firstly just collapsed the counter that was really really embarrassing let's brush over that more importantly bmt stands for biggest meatiest tatiest biggest meatiest tastiest like subway is a mad place i want to get out of it as quickly as i can it's not it's not bad it's growing on me i think it's more the additions i asked the guy to put in the most popular stuff there's quite a lot of stuff in there a lot of lettuce and cucumber and this onion as well i'm not a big fan but i'm not a big fan of the but i'm not a big fan of the but i'm not a big fan of the but i'm not a big fan of the but i'm not a big fan of the that guy's literally just ordered my sandwich it's living proof i'm gonna ask him just get the italian bmt! yeah that's the most popular item on the subway menu you know that yeah yeah you actually all right don't lean on this counter because it collapses a bit earlier lunch is done it was reasonably substantial but i can't help but feel like we're missing something hi good afternoon can i take order all right can i just get one portion of fries please nice one mate it's you it's me hey how are you i'm good mate how are you is it common that someone orders just fries by themselves fries are the most popular item apparently by a mile on the mcdonald's menu right i'm gonna get it nice of the done see you again mate we couldn't do a fast food uk-based cheat day without coming to mcdonald's it is comfortably the most popular fast food chain in the country and when it comes to mcdonald's the most popular item by some distance are the fries which initially i was surprised by but if you think about it it makes sense right because you get fries every meal you get you get fries you know what i mean so everyone's getting fries in fact mcdonald's sells about nine million pounds of french fries daily nine million pounds which adds up to about 3.29 billion pounds a year 3.29 billion pounds of french fries a year that is absolutely wild what i mean what is there to say about french fries they're good mcdonald's fries are one of the most one of the items that are most reliant on being warm you mean french fries madden's french fries are like a eight or nine out of ten right if you get them 10 minutes later they're like a two out of ten you need to eat them fresh and i'll tell you what else is fresh the ridiculous offer that you are currently doing on their protein starter kit for a limited time it's 30 percent off so you get pretty much every flavor of the black edition ready to drink shakes so chocolate vanilla strawberry banana iced latte and chocolate peanut butter plus a bag of black edition powder and a free shaker and use the link in the video description and the code matt30 today you'll save 30 on your first order they literally never do discounts this big and the offer won't last very long so if you've ever wanted to try huell now is definitely the time to do it why do i have the longest why do i have the longest fry ever that's got to be some high no record i'm extremely full but they're just so easy to eat i mean yeah you can eat them at any time any circumstance right i'm gonna head home i need to psychologically recover and prepare for dinner and on the topic of dinner everyone knows the uk loves the takeaway but you may not know that the uk's most popular takeaway is the uk's most popular pizza place is domino's but what i hear you ask is domino's most popular pizza well i can tell you right now pepperoni passion so i mean technically that's the most popular pizza in the uk it looks quite good to be fair it's just a shame that i'm not in a more receptive mood i feel like i've eaten quite a lot of greasy today basically i don't normally have more pepper i feel like normally it's i mean it's not a bad amount but normally it's laced with pepperoni do you know what i mean laced with delicious spicy pepperoni just like me and you know what else is spicy wearing clothing from gym shop clothing like this vital quarter zip in black which is currently making me look absolutely jacked i mean that is undeniably really good pizza and the best thing is if you shop gymshark using code matt 10 you'll save money on your order and automatically become my best friend i'm quite a versatile pizza eater i mean for me pizza is probably my number one go-to fast food but i i can kind of on the spectrum of pizzas i'm i'm versatile i love the kind of greasy tickle typical like takeaway pizza but i also like nice you know like pizza oven cooked pizza stone baked you know what i mean i feel like most of the things i've eaten today have been really good apart from the subway all around it was just a bit traumatic to be honest yeah i've forgotten about that i literally lent on the cabinet and it just collapsed and the guy already didn't like me it was just really really awkward i feel like my ratio of processed meats consumed today is not ideal is it you're all right why are you breathing like that i've just hit a wall mate i'm struggling i'm gonna need a lot of luck to finish this pizza good luck thanks mate how did you get in my house happy now started off okay the last few slices were distinctly unenjoyable i am very full right now but you can't have the uk's most popular cheat day without having a dessert and the uk's most popular dessert is apple crumble that's right it was voted the nation's favorite dessert british people love it let's go and eat one what the is that okay i'll be honest i lost enthusiasm for this video at this point i've eaten so much food i mean have you cooked that you haven't cooked that have you be all right you can eat it cold in the boxes and right there oven heat from chilled for 30 minutes no it doesn't does it actually have to be 30 minutes can't be that bad i mean it's apple yeah apple and like butter right i think still really good yeah i mean it's not the crumble element it's not as crumbly but still really good i'm a massive fan of cake and like old-school dessert like jam roly-poly and custard banoffee pie like sticky doppy pudding do you know what i mean so i'd say apple crumble for me is probably top five this is actually surprising i mean considering this is literally like sainsbury's own it's a bit dead it's actually this is actually really good to be honest i should have introduced dessert earlier in the day it's a good way to do you mean i like to flip between sweet and savory this is like this is honestly amazing just cold sainsbury's own apple crumble uncooked this might be the best thing i've had you know it's honestly really good i could eat this whole thing this is where you get food poisoning i'm in the process of eating an entire raw apple crumble and custard am i in danger eating apple pie raw can be fatal if left untreated get to the hospital guys i'll be all right just remember you can get 30 off the pure protein bundle with the code matt30 link in description
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.483763Z ===
