кококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококококо How are you feeling about the impending posing slash judging situation? Yeah, I'm really intrigued but I do think we're probably going to get slated pretty badly. It looks fine, that's good. I think we're like notorious for being bad at posing. You're actually quite good at posing. You actually have some poses now. My pose, I have one pose that's just standing there. That's the limit of my pose. I'm intrigued, I'm also looking forward to getting some tips but yeah, I'm kind of equally scared that it's going to be really more to find. You left it a little bit late to start finally learning how to pose. Yeah, I probably should have some prep into this video. Anyway, Tom's going to be in about 40 minutes. We need to get a pump but before then, I want to go in. I've not seen the gym yet so I want to go in and see if you've underestimated it. Are you worried? Are you concerned? I've seen some clips on social media and I'm scared about some of the weird s*** he's put in there. He doesn't even post clips in there. He doesn't want to show you. Yeah, it's suspicious. Let's go and find out if he's completely ruined it. Here we are, we've made it. It's weird being back in the gym, mate. I mean, there are definitely some strange things. Like, for a start, why... That's my training partner, mate. Why do you have Gollum with a Batman? Whenever I'm struggling on a squat and I'm at the bottom of a squat and I'm like, oh, I can't do one more. I can't do my contact. Gollum's got a good squat form. But aside from the weird things, you've maintained it remarkably well. There's all my prize. I'll be honest, better than I thought. I thought it would be worse. That's outrageous. There's some weird markers. Why have you put... Why have you put weird markers on? Yeah, so this is... Well, it's all like for specific stuff. So I'll use the mat and then it allows me to, when you're doing unilateral stuff, to make sure it's always even. Oh, okay. Saying this for this, for my razors, everything's strict. Why have you got your nan's mirror? Oh, okay, right. This is actually sick. So, no, overhead triceps on here. Cable is literally the best tricep exercise ever. Like this. And just use the mirror just to make sure everything's nice and even, you know? I mean, it's got a full dumbbell rack to 50 kilograms, but still couldn't bear to part with these 1920s original... Well, that's an easy one. Screw-on dumbbell. Also, like pronated stuff. Like when my elbows are healthier, I'll start doing my grip and arm wrestling stuff again. So I like... How do you find in the hex lights? It's quite right. Yeah, so they're sick, but they're really good once you lower the exposure. It's because... He's the pastiest man in the world. I'm quite pale. He removes his shirt and the camera just cannot... The iPhone can't handle that. If you've seen, like, The Christmas Carol, you know, like the Ghost of Christmas Park or whatever. We've got, like, 30 minutes till Tom gets this and you definitely should start getting a pump. Okay, we're going to go push-focus, right? Push-focus pump. Sick. All right, nice. Let's go. Flat dumbbells. Matt's been secretly prepped. Yeah, you've definitely got... I'm training twice a day, every day now. I'm doing, like, lots of activities. I'm doing lots of activities. I think I'm probably... Yeah. Slightly in the habit just because I'm doing... I'm doing lots of things. Let's do the big... Man, go. Hop on the front door. It's like midnight, midnight, midnight, midnight. Don't lose your grip because you might, you might, you might, you might fall out again. I'll fight with needful speed. I'm not, I'm not switching the lane. Pick up the pace. Bro like that. I'm back to the pace. Come on, come on, come on. Come on. Ben, are you still hoping to compete? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, last year was originally when I was thinking I'd compete and then obviously I ended up having the surgery and taking my mumps off. So, I'm now getting back to my best and potentially, like, beyond that, but yeah, I would really like, I think 2026. We can ask Tom, that'll actually be very interesting. Imagine he's like, definitely not. Don't bother. It's an absolute pipe dream. How's the pump? You getting a good pump? I need to go back to chest now. I feel like chest for me is the number. If I was going to have one body part to get a pump in before being assessed, it would be in my chest. I know what you're thinking. How did these guys get so unbelievably jacked? Well, my friends, the answer is simple. The Morsia app is the leading fitness app on the planet right now and it's what me and Ben have both used for years to get in our best ever shape. The app's also helped thousands of other people completely transform the way they look and we're so confident that you'll love it. If you use the link in the video description today, I'll give you a free seven-day trial of the app, no strings attached. If you don't like it, you can cancel and it'll literally cost you nothing. So, what have you got to lose? Grab a free trial today and let us help you make a crazy transformation of your own. Nice. It's like a machine that's you. What is it doing? Yeah, I don't know. It didn't happen for me. What do you reckon, Fab? You like to look at this exercise? Yeah, it looks good to me. I don't think it's a sexercise. I did sex. I take about everything I said about Ben looking after this, Jeff. Good morning. You here? Yeah, yeah, there's a grey car outside. Yeah? Yeah. Two seconds, two seconds. Tom's here. Ah! Ben, why Ben's getting extra? This doesn't count. Ben's getting extra. Stop, mate. Stop. You're going to go meet him topless? A bit weird, isn't it? I feel like intimidating. I feel like he's going to be judging me straight away. Good morning. Doing all good. So my name is Tom Hames. I'm a competitive bodybuilding coach. Been in bodybuilding for around about eight years. During that time, I've got eight IFBB Pro cards, you know, 50-something overall wins, tons of British titles and tons of first places and top threes and stuff. So I've been around the block. I was a competitor myself before and I'm here today to see Matt and Ben go through some poses with them and see who's the better bodybuilder. I feel like you're judging me, I feel like you're doing me. Straight away. Straight away. Straight away. Straight away. How's he still getting a pump? He's got an extra hour of pump accumulation. How's it going? Nice to meet you. Straight away. I'm going to be saying. I mean, the closer you step, people do that. They get closer. They're lying. You can tell they're natural, can't you? That's the thing. I'm going to fuck you. He's frantically. You frantically trying to get a pump. I'll be intrigued to know your thoughts on Ben because your classic pose is your front double-ass-up, isn't it? Ben's go-to pose. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's bread and butter with his front double-ass-up. Yeah, that's my primary. I love it. I would love it if he just says it shit. So where's the best thing? So where's the best thing? The first thing, the most notable thing there is you're massively over-posing it. So you're only posing at around about 80% sort of flex. Just slow that down and relax that to 80% because it will look exactly the same in terms of the physique that you're presenting, right? Yeah. But you just won't be shaking like a shit in dark. Yeah, I hate that. So tuck your thumbs inside your fist firstly. So what you want to be doing is don't think about your midsection so much and we'll try just to see how it looks like is pull through, hit a vacuum in that sort of position. So there we go. Right, now just see how much size we just added to your lap. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What is that? This pose is not about you showing off your midsection. Let's not give him too much here, Tom. Come on. We don't want to... All right, we'll slow down. Yeah, that was crazy. You're right. I mean, that was like... Yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah. So are you guys going to go through some poses and get some tips from Tom first and then... Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Oh, Matt's stripping up. Let's get in the glute zone. So the way that you do set up any pose, especially as a bodybuilder on stage, is you start thinking about are my feet in the right place? Are my calves like tensed or flexed if they need to be? Are my quads tensed? Are they, you know, flexed how they should be? Am I showcasing them to the best of my ability? Yeah, you're working your way up. It's a checklist. You think about feet, right? Cool knees. Look, quads in a good place. Midsection's there. Cool chest here. Good. And my wide... Is that how I hit those? Tense through your quads. Try and think about pushing your knees slightly out to the side and then flake your quads from there. And now hit your front double bicep how you just kind of normally would. I don't... I don't... You'll be fine. Don't worry about it. Yeah, there we go. So what we're doing here is you're a little bit high through your shoulders. You're kind of lifting up a little bit too much. Try and think a little bit closer down and try and think about keeping that whip through your... Whip. I've got to relax my leg the first time. What you can do is as you open your arms back... Tom proceeded to coach us for a variety of bodybuilding poses, some of which we were about to be judged on. And as you can probably tell... Hold on to the... Yeah, yeah, you got it. Yeah, yeah. That was perfect the first time, yeah? I've never done this before. That's good. It looks fine. That's good. That's a decent shot. Should we try something a bit more up to speed? That's actually really nice. Rotate just a bit. Yeah. And I'm lifting up through my chest. I'm not worrying about my arms, my abs, my shoulders. I'm thinking about lifting my chest up and pushing up through my ribs. You've kind of trained all of her for this, isn't it? And now lock up your midsection. It's not that bad, mate. It's not that bad. That's good. You're getting a lot more praise than I'd like you. See this here? That's pretty good. That's pretty damn impressive, actually. Whoa. I don't know. Whoa. Yours was good. Matt was fine. Matt's was fine. Yes, there we go. Time for the pose down. Yeah, let's do it. Do you feel like you've got some good tips there? I've got very good tips. I feel like I've gone from like a one out of ten to like a two out of ten. I mean, I think I was starting at a very low point. The way judging works is you're basing it on the size, the muscularity, the condition, the shape and flow of the muscle tissue, the balance and, you know, the insertions, the way that the muscle sits and just every sort of minutiae detail about how their physiques look. Obviously, they're not in competition shape. They're in very lean, right? We will do the best today to judge them on what we're seeing there and then. Right, guys. You ready? Okay, what's the first pose? Front double? I'll call them out as you go. Okay, okay. Friend double bicep. All right, guys. Cool. Do you want to switch positions for me? It's in the state. Guys, give each other some space. So, front double bicep. This one goes to bed. The taper through his waist, through to his lat, the sweep of his lat, sort of the flow through his top line and everything. Yeah, he wins this one. Side tricep, please, guys. I don't know. Side tricep. This one goes to Matt. Quite clear cut here. Matt had great flow through midsection to chest. His delts and arms kind of sat nicely. His quads look good from the side. He takes this one. Ben just kind of needs a little bit more thickness and density to him in this pose. All right, guys. Relax. What places for us? Okay, guys. Abdominals and thighs. Abdominals and thighs. Very close between the two. However, this one does go too bent. The vacuum that he pulls is really, really nice. You know, he can control his midsection nicely and bring it down as well. Taper into his lats, whereas Matt just didn't quite have that level of kind of aesthetic sort of V taper. All right, guys. Relax. Okay. Side chest for me, please. Side chest, please. Not allowed to talk in your show, mate. I'd be kicked out. Side chest. So, this one goes to Matt. Now, density through the side shots, splits through the top of his chest, shoulder width, shoulder sort of, you know, roundness and fullness into their arms. Legs look good in the side as well. That thickness, that density, that maturity. Just kind of pit Ben here. Ben kind of needs to work on his pose in a little bit in this one. But yeah, this one goes to Matt. And if he's face the rear guys, back double bicep, please. Matt had great thickness and detailing through his back and is, again, this is back double bicep. It's not just biceps and back, it's everything in between. However, Ben had better width through his back. So, with the width and the taper considered against the thickness and the density that Matt has, it's very, very interesting. Thank you very much, gentlemen. You can exit the stage. Final one. It's a bicep pose. Final pose. Back double bicep. This one goes to... Oh my God. Close. However, yeah, just a little bit too much. Yes! Get in! Oh! It's literally the best day of my life. Oh, I'm good to listen. I'm good. It's pretty sure, mate. There we go. Ben is the superior Yeah, this is crazy. That's it. Hand over my channel. It's now Ben Does Fitness. It's been great. Listen, I've had a great 11 years. I hope you guys have enjoyed the videos. It's been good while it lasted. I'm going to now, I'm moving to Mexico just to live out my days. I'm going to now, I'm moving to Mexico just to live out my days.ко