 When I started my YouTube channel, nearly 13 years ago, I used to train in my local sports centre gym. This was literally the gym that my channel was built on, and although it was a bit rough around the edges, I loved it, and I've got so many awesome memories in this place. But fast forward to today, and due to serious financial issues, the sports centre has been closed down for over a year, and it's now in a pretty sorry state. The place I once trained in, pretty much every day of the week, is in a really bad way, and there's only one man that can save it. And that man is me! What about me? Oh yeah. This is Dan. He's the CEO of the Sports Trust, who have just bought the sports centre and literally saved it from extinction. They're now planning a complete redevelopment of the entire site, including the gym. And that's where I come in. I'm actually stuck. See, we've built three smaller, moresy gyms in the past. Well, four of you include my gym. But this is bigger. It's a lot bigger. And building a gym of this scale is something I've always wanted to do, particularly in my local area. And so today, we've been given full access to the site, so we can see exactly what we're dealing with. Okay, Dan, we're here. By the way, this is the exterior. Welcome to the Folkston Sports Centre. What a glorious, it's going to be a glorious place to be. Dan, can we go in, please? Of course we can. So why have you, was that you? Do you have your graffiti sign? I used to, when I was like 12 years old, I used to sit here and wait to get picked up by my mum after doing like football or sports camps and stuff. That was the entrance. It is now boarded up. This is the current entrance. Can we, do we have active ice cream? Is that a... We did find some ice cream. Oh, yeah. You're welcome to it. Yes. Okay, come in. Right, this isn't, I mean, this isn't technically part of it. It is, but it's not. Right? Like, what actually is this? This was the old golf clubhouse, but for the last several years, it's been a cafe and a bar. It's had different iterations. Where's your ice cream? Oh, let's go. Put some of these in, please. Is that an option? It's frozen in. It's frozen and it does smell of fish in there. You got a spoon? This was the cafe, yeah. This was, yeah, yeah. It was a cafe, it was a bar. Yeah. There we go. Sports bar here, cafe here. So when I used, so I came here for like 10 years, maybe more actually, in my childhood, and it changed, towards the end it changed a bit, so I'm still a little bit disorientated. So here we go, Fabs. This is where, this is the entrance. This is where you would be coming in. Through here. Oh, vending machines are empty. That's disappointing. Is there anything in there? That's my nan's fireplace. Toilet's here. Then we have reception. You wanted to come in? Yeah. Dave, Fabs? Use the pool, please, mate. That'd be $79.99, please. Oh, by the way. That's a swimming pool down there. Right. Well, as well. Gym. Yeah, it's full. Gym. This is the exciting bit. Are you ready for this, Fabs? The gym is like big, and it's across a few spaces, so bear with me. Basically, it's in here. Girl, don't call my phone. I'm away from it. You like to get messy when you out with your friend. You want to see KSI doing this? Yeah. Yeah. I'm not keeping that. Okay. So we have this big open space here. This can go down, right? We can get rid of it. Yeah. This is going straight away. It's an unnecessary wall. It looks like there's going to be a drop, but then... Yeah. There's not. There's not this safe. This bit's already finished. I'm ready to go here. Are these yours from earlier on? They are. Yeah. Dan was getting a workout. It's a new record. I mean, there was. You can see there was like CB stuff all down here. I'll show you this in a sec. If we come around here, you've got... So this, I mean, this is the biggest like single area, right? Yeah, at the moment. But then there's quite a lot more. We looked at this. Can this go? This can't go, can it? We've got to explore that more, but we can definitely open it up more. There's basically loads of bits. Like, you know, if that was gone, for example, this would be a huge open space. What's this? That's a small office that can go. It can go? Yeah. Yes. Straight away, if that goes, you've got a nice big open run here. These are all the machines. So I'll show you a bit. The gym you all know from my channel back in the day is downstairs. This then became the gym. So I trained here for a few years as well. I mean, loads of stuff's still here. Is this something that you used to use? Yeah, I literally use this stuff. You remember your PB, like... This is it. Three kilos on the thingy. Yes. There's the PB right there. It's like all the hoist stuff, you know, where the thing moves as you sit on it. Comes around here. There's actually loads. There's like a lot of room. That's the back of a staircase, isn't it? It is. That's not going anywhere. On a lift. That's not going anywhere. I'm stuck. Comes all the way down here. You've got a torch there. You've got a climbing wall as well. Perfect. That's ready to go. There actually are footholds as well. Yes. Completed. What are you going to do with this one? So let me show you around here. There's a... Basically, there are potential options where we can expand and open up the space, which would kind of change what we do. Provisionally, like what I want to do is split the gym out. So you have like push area, a pull area and a lower body area. Then you have like a lifting bit because we want it to be for like athletes, for actual lifters as well as like the general population and, you know, like parents and general beginners and gym goers. But one option we have is... If you look over here, Fab, there's like a kid's pool over here, which is empty. But there is scope potentially to bring this floor out, right? There is. Is that right? Potentially. Comes down to cost. Comes down to cost. The building. Effectively, we think that we could either expand the whole way out. And again, it all depends on what funds we can raise. But it's so important that we have a good enough space. So the gym is then sustainable and it's for the community. And as you say, working with you, hopefully we can then get exactly what's needed. So potentially even down to the end. Potentially, yeah. Look how much like that would literally double this floor. Do you mean? If we went there, then the size of this space would be absolutely outrageous because I want to split out the area. So like, for example, the free weights bit with the racks and stuff and like maybe a functional bit, I think you'd want to have over to one end. So for example, down there, because what you don't want is like a bunch of racks here and then people having to walk past it to get to their bit. I mean, you want that to be kind of almost separate so that no one in terms of health and safety is walking on anyone else's toes. But then if you had like the push area, the pull area, the legs area, that would be sick, wouldn't it? Come on, that would be absolutely ideal. But yeah, we need to kind of pin down the space that we're going to have before we can start figuring out where stuff can go. For example, you could have legs here or you could have CV. I don't know, but basically having the little areas means you can have really clear designated like sections. The end goal would be, it's a gym for anyone, but it's like also a serious gym. Do you know what I mean? So if you're an actual lifter or an athlete, sparring athlete, you can come and train here and we've got everything you need. Do you know what I mean? No one's like treading on anyone's toes. So if you're like a lifter, you've got your space where you can train. If you are a mum that's got a spare half and I want to come in and jump on the bike or whatever, you have your area where you can train. Do you know what I mean? Everyone kind of interacts, but no one is kind of getting in anyone's way or killing the vibe. I'm going to quickly do a one rep max. Machine abduction. I haven't done this. Oh my God. I haven't done this since I trained with Lana. It's probably a terrible idea. I thought I'd be glad it was live tour in like two days. Let's tear my adductor off. Why is it so heavy by the way? Why is it so heavy? Use that. That's so weak. I'm going to have this machine. As you come in through the main door, I think you'll come in and let's walk in. But yeah, I think this space could be absolutely wild. It is massive. Like if I compare this to the other Morty gyms, it's like three, four, five times the size. It's massive. I want to see your old training. Oh yeah. I should definitely do that. Come on, Dan. Let's get down there, mate. So by the way, so down in the sports tracks, they're the guys. You know where I climb? F1. That's their place. The track where I sprint, that is also their place. They've done some like really, really cool bits in the area. When I think back to when I used to train here, I was like an international athlete. Then I was a powerlifter. And if I had the facility that we're looking to build now, it would have made my life so much easier and my training so much better. So that is basically the plan, just to make it as good as it can be. Also, by the way, while we're here, this sports center currently has like loads of mad stuff. Like it's got a sports hall, a swimming pool, and a dry ski slope. But the bit everyone's been waiting for is downstairs, fam. Let's go. But before we see the old gym, I've got something equally exciting to tell you about. Gymshark Black Friday. That's right. Gymshark's maddest sale of the year goes live on the 16th of November at 4pm UK time. It's going to be up to 50% off the entire site. Plus, if you use the code MATT10, you'll save an extra 10%. Now, as always, stuff is going to sell out ridiculously quickly. So make sure you're ready to go with my code on the 16th. Good luck. I hope you get what you want. I'm actually very excited to see this. Oh, we're going through. Is that not connected anymore? That way, Ruth? It's literally drilled up and covered. No way. Just for context, when I used to come here, right, I'd come down those stairs and then I'd walk down. This is Christian, by the way. Just looking. I'd go down there and then round. I made that journey like five times a week for about five years. By the way, on a side note, this is a massive sports horn. Look, you've just got to... I was going last one. You could just scrape it out. Oh, you could definitely climb this. This is just asking to be climbed. What are the rules here? If I do it like this, please do not use the climbing rule. That's the rule. And legally, how high can I climb that? I want to climb this so bad. I don't think it's illegal. Let me just go step one. Come on, step one. It's fine. Oh, my God. I could just climb. I want to climb that so bad. I used to come and do like five a side. You know, like those classic like Easter holiday like sports camps. Yeah. Get ready for the greatest gym. What have they done to it, mate? This is absolute sacrilege. This used to be an incredible... Right, fab. I was literally like... Squat rack was like here. Under rack. Walk out. I hit so many PVs in here. Then I'd be deadlifting like here. Deadlift here. It used to be like a dual cable pulley over here. There was like a lap pull down here. A bench. I used to bench press here. This is like a fixed bench press down here. I literally trained here hundreds of times. Yeah. Loads of my... I don't know. First five years of powerlifting PVs were all done in this gym. So as well as all the gym stuff, we're going to have ideally what? A couple of studios? At least. It all depends on the size and space. Here you've got another studio. There's so much space. This is the bucket collection. So this has just been sat here for like two years and no one... A year and a bit, right? Shot last July. Yeah. Wow. Can you come see the pool? Let's go see the pool. Come on. Matt's dying to jump in the pool. The temptation is so high. Fab, through here, my friend. Can you... See you later. Class that used to get changed on there. Really bad memories. Fab shower gel. Head and shoulders. Great brand. It actually works. Come out here, Fab. Look at this, mate. This is a massive pool. It used to be a flume. Oh, yeah. Back in the day, right? It used to be a flume that came from up there. Came down here. This is like a massive inflatable. I remember using this again in like the holiday camps and stuff. Do you know what's mad? Come look at the deep end quickly. Look how deep this is, mate. Three metres. I want to jump in so bad. Come stand here quickly. Imagine. What would you see if I did that? Would you laugh? How would they get away with that? No, I wouldn't like to see your breaststroke. That doesn't. This is definitely from like the 70s, surely. So this is the, what do you call it? Baby pool? Learner pool. Kids pool. Learner pool. But that's the gym up there. So that's where we're saying potentially that floor could come the whole way across here. Still decent height. You'd still have like that ceiling up, which is pretty good. But look how much extra space you'd get there. Oh yeah. What's around here? So you need to see the sensory room. Sensory room? I didn't even know that existed. I don't know. Oh, this is sensory, mate. Oh, it's actually really comfortable. And for thickets. Whoa, that is dangerous. Can you actually pull me out? I'm stuck. I'm actually stuck. I feel like the amount of bacteria in this floor. And I know, don't grow up. Grow up. Are you ready to see the world's oldest pool plant room? No, you're not. Art room from 1870s. No, I need to go get a key. Where have you gone, Dan? Where have you gone? I need to get a key. Need to get a key. I'm going to run up and get some. No, you don't. Just kill you, though. Okay. So I've taken at least a few physique. I used to take physique pictures in this mirror. Yeah, yeah. This is back when I think when I was still doing athletics. We're talking like 15 years ago. 15 years ago, I've got pictures in this mirror here. I'm going to find the picture. Yeah, what's that? I mean, that's actually got a nice soft light. But at that point, I had no idea how to pose. Look at the size of these, mate. Are you kidding? We have like... I guess I have an equivalent for my ball, but it's about this big. Watch out. Crazy. This is wild. You could definitely film a horror film in here. A hundred percent, yeah. We have had a zombie film, Ask. Really? It would be amazing. It would be great to capture it. Prime. Like 28 days later, it would be prime, wouldn't it? This would be so good for that. I'm very disoriented. I don't know where we're going to go. Watch head and feet. Ah, okay. Because that's the gym. That's the old gym there, isn't it? Yeah. So that used to be windows. So at times, I'd even sneak round the back and come down here and come in. I'm just not paying. Sorry, I said it. Ski. Going this way, sir. That's where I used to train in there. I'd have the doors open to make it colder. And you'd get kids that were skiing just coming and standing. Like when I was deadlifting and like, ah, they're shouting. You get lines of kids just standing there awkwardly watching. Look at this, mate. I feel like there aren't many sports centers that have a dry ski slope. Although right now, it's very dry. It's like the driest ski slope in the world. It's way slower than snow, but it's still sick to be able to practice before you go away. Also, this video has just turned into Matt's childhood. Reliving. I'm going to call the video Reliving My Childhood. That's basically what it is. Okay. Tour done. Biggest tour. Longest tour ever. This has got to be top three for you, surely. Yeah. Okay. So people are going to want to know timeline. Ballpark timeline. Next week. I was thinking next week, maybe. For the gym. We talked about tomorrow, no? Yeah. Tomorrow. Finish. See you there. Now, I mean, for us, the crucial parts is going to be the pool, the gym and the sports tour. Everything else is really important to us. But the guys who ran this beforehand did an amazing job keeping it open for the community for 50 years. We need to make sure it's got another 50 years ahead. It's got to be done right. But ideally, we want to get the pool open by next July. That way, it would have been shut for two years. Yeah. Which is still too long. But at the same time, same with the gym. If you can get on it, then. Yeah. Well, it's just doing it properly, isn't it? That's the whole point, right? There's no... You don't want to rush it. You want to do it. I want the gym to be legit the best gym anywhere near this area. So, yeah. We're going to make it sick. On that, if you have any... I mean, I probably ignore them. But if you have any input and suggestions on what we should do, things we could add, ways we could make it even better, then let me know in the comments. But I'm excited. I'm very, very excited. Good. It's going to be sick. It's going to be sick. Let's go.