Why don't we get started? Nice to see you all. So, the thing I asked you to do um in your learning journals for today um was to do a little reflection on your personal edtech history. Um so what are tools, experiences, platforms, systems that either had some like very positive effect on your learning trajectory? You like discovered a love of something because you did that or were terrible and disastrous. They ruined your learning experience. They made you feel bad. They inhibited your learning in some way or they were just interesting or engaging or or useless or some other way distinctive. Um, go ahead and now if you didn't do that assignment, you can probably still make up an answer to that question. So, you'll be okay for today. Um, um, but turn to the the person or two next to you, get in small groups and just share a little bit with each other about this little like snippet of your personal edtech history and we'll do that for five minutes or so and then share out. Does that make sense? Ready? Go. Did um did did anybody happen to be in a group where multiple people in the group mention the same thing? Were they all different? What were the most similar ones? Anybody? Uh there was a computer literacy class like similarity. Okay, good. So there's like a class which is called like computer literacy, digital literacy, and it's kind of like a pretty like here's how to use PowerPoint. Here's how to type. Here's how to um do like pretty simple things with computers. Good. Yeah, that's a feature of of a lot of different kinds of uh school systems. And was it successful in your environments or was it a drag? truck. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, um there there can be there can be a bias of like, oh man, we got to like put technology in the schools because the kids are going to be really fired up about the technology in the school. No, actually like if you do boring things with technology, they're just as bored as sometimes even more so. Um anybody have things that were like really positive experiences for them that somebody that you or somebody in your group talked about things you're like, "Yeah, that was that was great. That really made school better?" Well, I mean, I I talked about like the Smartboard and just like the implementation of it and like every classroom I feel like especially as like our generation was growing up. Um, and like I don't know like I made like a little like side story about how like that's the first time I felt like the students became the teacher because the old ladies at our schools like didn't know how to like recalibrate it or like turn it all on. So, it was always the students like coming up and showing the teacher how to use it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. The sort of inversion of of expertise. How many how many of you were in schools where smartboards just kind of appeared in the middle of your educational trajectory? Yeah, you all are like in this sweet spot. How how many of you would would say that they were anybody at schools where you felt like they were very effective where they substantially improved learning? How you thought yours good? How many of you were at schools where like this is like no one is using these things? They could have just bought chalkboards or whiteboards or things like that. Yeah. So overwhelming majority of that. Yeah. Smartboards are like a totally fascinating case study. um a a vast amount of money was spent on these tools. Um uh that that seemed to have essentially no positive impact at all on learning. In lots of places, they really weren't used as like interactive whiteboards. They were just like, oh, like a a whiteboard. You know, we Khalil and I were joking that uh um that they actually didn't work very well in his school in particular because they require like slightly different lighting. Um like like you need to dim the lights a little bit to be able to see them. But the, you know, the classrooms they were built were not built for dimmable lights. They were built for lights that would be shined on whiteboards or chalkboards. Um, and so like the rest of the there's a whole bunch of the rest of the infrastructure that didn't make Smartboards work. Like maybe your classroom didn't work. Maybe there was no training for your teacher. Maybe there were no curricular materials that were available to integrate with the Smartboard. Um, and yet, you know, like like how is it the case that that we could be in a room full of people all across country, all across the world, you all raise your hand or like we all bought smartboards and they all didn't work. Um, like why like why didn't the first people who bought smartboards be like team this is not a good idea? Like spend your money on something else. You know, every dollar we spend on education technology has an opportunity cost. Um, every time you spend a dollar in a school, you're trying to make people's learning better. Um, and there there are very few dollars that we spend that make learning worse. Does anybody feel like the smartboard like actively like made you dumber or learn slower or something like that? Probably not. Like probably your smart like it's probably the case that no one none of you were harmed by smartboards. I think that's pretty unlikely. Um, but every dollar your school your school spent on smartboards could have been spent on some other technology, on some other curriculum material, on art supplies, on professional development for teachers, on a zillion other things which could have improved your learning experience, um, and not just been like a very expensive version of a whiteboard or something like that. Um so there's a lot in that discussion of smartboards that I think is helpful for us to think about um how you know not just not just of the efficacy of any particular techn you know it's the efficacy of any particular technology how particular technology um is situated in different kind of places at least one example from Dana who's like no these things are great you know like we bought them our teachers got trained with them students were able to help use them like it worked in that one context even if almost universally it didn't work in these other contexts so those are all things we're going to have to unpack and figure out and then we're also going to sort of answer this question like if there's this thing which like overwhelmingly doesn't work um why did schools spend so much money on it like what would what were the incentives what was the logic who was spending this money um all these kinds of things are questions we can keep asking um anybody have like really like disastrous stories though that's kind of like a benol like weird that thing didn't work but anybody have a like man this was terrible kind of experience with technology Okay. Uh to our smartboard. Uh in one case, students were able to install like so they can customize the brushes and the student just chose like kind of an awful picture of a teacher to put as a brush and they used as a kind of a prank on them which is you know technology allows you to do more creative pranks. Good. Yeah. Yeah. So, so expand expanding our way of humiliating faculty. That could be one good. In seventh grade, my school decided to give everyone a Chromebook. But in seventh grade, I feel like everyone is not really mature. So, in class, like everyone would find a different game. It was like the snake IO game or like the paint IO and the entire class would be on the game like while the teacher was teaching. So, then they would have to block different websites. But like a new website would appear every week. So, they just had to keep blocking more and more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, block like blocking websites is a good way to teach young people how to use VPNs. Like if you were like I want to teach young people how to use VPNs and like blocking websites is pretty good. But but in ter I I wrote an oped once years and years ago. Um I pro like just after I was teaching probably 2006 or seven or something like that. Um where I described them as kneeh high fences around the internet that that adults trip over and and young people just jump over. Um uh um good. Yeah. So here so here's this tool which actually now is like Chromebooks are pretty ubiquitous in schools. Um there are plenty of places where there's push back against the these kinds of technology for like people telling just the story that you described like like you know our devices are canonically designed to capture our attention as much as possible and to particularly like capture our attention in ways that have us look at advertisements like you know for people who are designing phones and computers and websites and things like that that is like a central focus like how do we get you looking at this thing as much as possible and in particular like how do we then get advertisements to slide in front of these things so that people will pay you to look at us. that is not a set of characteristics that are good for a learning environment. Um, but on the other hand, we could I'm sure and some of you may have mentioned them, but we we can go to schools where Chromebooks are implemented and the kids are not playing snake IO all day because they're doing like interesting learning activities that are well supervised that would not be possible without the Chromebook, without the apps, without the access to the internet and things like that. So we could also think about like what happened in your school um that had this kind of purchase and then there there was clearly not the rest of the infrastructure in place to have that purchase be meaningful whereas the exact same purpose in other places was supported by professional learning and curriculum and like all the other things that might have potentially made that a valuable learning experience. Um, so I was talking to her and I think we had a bit of a different experience from most of the people in the class because we didn't do like our basic learning in the US. So it's from Ethiopia, I'm from Brazil. I think we use technology to a much lesser expense extent than here. Um, so I remember there was like one significant experience for me in terms of using technology growing up which is going to media lab to do English classes. Mhm. Um, and I think it comes to your point of like having a purpose to having technology and that was very clear like you can't really do listening and speaking exercises unless you know you actually have something to listen to and something to repeat and like each person would have time with their booth where they could practice by themselves. Mhm. So I think the fact that it was very purposeful um and that it changed from the day to day because I think also there's an aspect of like we're going to computer lab we're doing something different floors and it was a different scene with like different lighting like the fact that it's different made it much more interesting and when technology gets to this very common place you don't even you take it for granted like you don't really value all that it can bring so yeah we discuss a little I mean those kind of language classes are a great example of this. I know you probably all have taken language classes where like the teacher goes around and you like each say hello to the teacher in the foreign language and it takes like 10 minutes to let everyone say hello. Once you all went to your individual booths and you could imagine designing technology where every person simultaneously says hello and some algorithm evaluates whether or not you say hello correctly and then you know it says something back to you and other kinds of things. You're like wow wow we each are getting our own teacher um that maybe isn't as good as the human teacher but all of us get one at the same time. That's pretty cool. I would say like adding I think to what you said with purpose it's also like you went there to do the like English practice it wasn't used for any extraneous reasons something like with like Chromebooks like I have a younger sister who's in high school right now and all her homework has to be submitted on like canvas or something and then she also just loves like watching YouTube and stuff and then my mom's problem is like I can't remove her technology or limit her technology because that limits her school work so what do you like you can't control her like what she's doing on the Not only that but the vast majority of our how we learn to be parents is by observing our own parents um and this gener you know you know parents of roughly my age younger um certainly the next generation coming along um we can't turn to our own childhood examples to figure out how to navigate something like this um it's very difficult to come up with like good parenting strategies from first principles you're like a professional parent or professional caregiver getting training or other things like that like what are you supposed to do? Um and uh no it's AI I think a lot of school you know schoolwide infrastructure has a bunch of unintended consequences. Um the idea that like at night we're going to lock kids into their devices you know like that you know it and and it can also different differ by kids. So for kids who have like really good executive function who can be like I'm going to do all my homework and then watch the YouTube videos like maybe there's cool different things that we could do with the computers but for kids who are like you know yeah it's weird like do do homework on the machine which always has YouTube on it like literally you're one click away from really fun things all the time but like you know do your quadratic equations really um it's nuts right like like there must be millions of kids who cannot like are not good at that. Yeah, I think kind of to add on that fact, so I also went to an international school in Ethiopia and uh it was a really interesting experience of how rules around technology would change almost like on a weekly basis at some point. It was like at some point like you can't use any social media and then like phones were banned and then they're like, "Oh, like if you need to call your parents though, you can't call them." And then it was like limited time and then like VPNs came and then it was like it's always so interesting of how like teachers and faculty would always try to make like new rules and each time like they would have to get broken or like something would have to change and I think it was always like almost like a comedy show of how much like it changed throughout the time. Um uh when when uh internet filters were first widely introduced in schools, one of the problems came up is the vice president at the time was a guy named Dick Cheney. Um, and uh, and there are a lot of searches that were filtering out Dick. Um, but you need to figure out about Dick Cheney. Um, so then, you know, like like someone sets a rule, the rule isn't right for the context. Um, GPT is another set of things right now that people are doing with tons of rules about these. These are good things. We're going to keep talking about them. I'll take a break here so that we can move on to some other things. You all have valuable case study experiences from your time in schools that we can bring into our conversations together to think about what um uh you know how new technologies operate. To do a good job of making sense of technologies um we need to understand a little bit about how people learn. So we're going to spend two classes looking at two um pretty well-established contemporary philosophies, pedagogies, sciences about learning. Um, today you read a bunch about cognitive load theory. Um, I'm going to ask you to do another exercise actually in the same groups that you were in would probably be fine for this one. Um, I want you to draw a visual representation of what the authors of the cognitive learning of of the cognitive learning theory articles you read and other things call human cognitive architecture. um like what are the key sort of components of the brain of thinking um of memory in order to have learning happen. Um another thing that you could draw in this visual representation is based on this human cognitive architecture um there follows a series of instructional principles. There follows a series of like better and worse ways to teach people. Um, and so you could also try to illustrate how this human cognitive architecture um, uh, leads to different kinds of instructional principles. So groups can either, um, go and take a chunk of whiteboard and use some of those whiteboard markers or part of why I'm doing this is just I really like this paper, but it kind of got folded. Um, so I just want to get rid of it. Um, but you can take one of these and sort of huddle around on one of the tables and and draw. So if you're if you're a paper person, you can draw on these and then stick them up there in a few minutes. If you're a whiteboard person, um you can do that. We still have all these markers here. Um I haven't given you um totally clear instructions in part because what I want you to do is to um figure out how to think through some of this uh on your own a bit. But get in your groups, talk with each other about what you think are sort of the key components of cognitive load theory and the human cognitive architecture that sort of leads to um cognitive load theory. And don't go more than like 2 minutes before starting to put pen to paper. um it, you know, you're not going to be graded on whether or not you're right, but let's see if we can get a couple of different representations of uh of what these folks are talking about, how people learn, and based on how people learn, how should we instruct them? Does that give me enough to start messing around for a little bit? Ready, go. All right. What you've seen a couple of these now. What are some like what are the main building blocks of this model of a brain? What is the key features of human cognitive architecture? I feel like almost everyone had like working memory and long-term memory. Okay, two big pieces here that are important. Working memory and long-term memory. What are some of the characteristics of long-term memory? It's cool. There are different schemas stored inside of long-term memory. Okay. So, we we store stuff in blocks. We want to talk some more about what these schemas are. That seems important. It's kind of limitless. It's limitless. That is bonkers. No one has discovered the boundaries of the amount of stuff you can store in the human brain. You like you have a finite amount of space. Like you have a finite number of ounces. You have a finite number of neurons. There's a lot of them, but a finite number. And as far as we can tell, there are no known limits to how much stuff you can store inside your brain. That's amazing. That is an amazing feature of your brain. Um, anything else that seems important about long-term memory? All the stuff can be there. How cool. It's also unconscious. You you yeah you you cannot think about all those things at the same time. It is it is unconscious. Um how long does stuff stay in there? It falls out, right? You forget stuff. Like if you're interested in learning, the fact that you forget things is really important. Um so stuff goes into longterm memory. It leaks out into long-term memory. Some of the very earliest experiments in psychology done by a guy named Ebing House um were about the forgetting curve. Um it was psychology experiments that were mostly as I understand he mostly did by himself. He basically like tried to remember stuff and then tested himself and then saw how often he forgot things and noticed that there were sort of mathematical properties to the forgetting curve and things like that. All right. Long-term memory um it's uh it's functionally limitless. Um it's unconscious so we can't directly access it. um we can put things of different levels of complexity in there. Um what schemas do is allow us to sort of uh um aggregate information elements into more and more complex kind of things. What are some of the key features of working memory? Very limited. Very limited. But how many things can you hold in your working memory in any given time, give or take? Maybe this article didn't emphasize it. Most people know this. It's kind of like a fact that that is out there in the world. Like seven. Yeah. Uh for a long time people thought it was seven. A better guess seems to be even less than that. Three to five. Um but somewhere in the very you know so here's another beautiful thing about like you all come from all different parts of the world. You can look around this room and you can see that you're different in all kinds of ways. You have different genders. You have different skin color, different hair color, different eye color. All kind. All of you have essentially the exact same working memory. All of you can hold three to five things in your head. Um it doesn't seem to decline as you age. Like there's other problems with aging, things like that, but people of all different ages, everyone, every human you will ever meet, the eight billion people on this planet, they can all hold three to five things in their working memory at any given time. It is like a beautiful thing that unites all people on Earth is this common feature of cognitive architecture. Um, how do you how do you how do you get or like like what are the what are the things in working memory? How do you get them or access them or do something with them? I was going to say like as much as we can only hold like three to five things like those things you can say like are like schemas and like they can be super complex and that's how you're able to like solve really hard problems. So as much as like like the example of drostanolone like you have like the chairs and the tables that's like the basic things and like the food that you eat and the workers like all these things make up a restaurant which are like super confusing but your working memory just knows it as this like really large like one object and so in your working memory's mind that's only one thing but it's really a compilation of like hundreds of things. Yeah. Good. So we could organize sub things into larger things in schema. The reason why we're using imprecise words I would say is in part like you know this is not the revealed you know word of the creator about your brain this is like the best models we can come up with and our models aren't perfect like what exactly is a thing in working memory I think it's a little bit sketchy how much our understanding of that is however even with sketchy models like we can still do useful things on let's do a quick working memory exercise do any of you speak Sanskrit oh wait I can't do I can't show you this just yet well here's Uh, actually, I'll do these first and then I'll show you this next thing. Um, grab a piece of paper and a pen. You can, if you don't have a piece of paper and a pen, you can um pass that around. Um, here are two that I really like. Um, this one I think illustrates really nicely the idea that the working memory is the bottleneck. If you are an educator, one of the main things you're working against is people's limited working memory. If people had huge working memories, you could like tell them all kinds of complex things. You could be like, "Let me just explain everything and they would be like,"Great, now it's all in my long-term memory." Um, but you actually can't do that. People can only attend to a small number of things at any given time. And for noviceses, those things that they attend to are necessarily going to be simpler than for more complex people. So, so for the for the people in cognitive load theory, um, as they think about instructional environments, the the bottleneck of those instructional environments is the limits of your working memory. Anybody anybody read the Sweller article? Anybody remember how um uh how cognitive load theory got started to begin with? What was the sort of canonical experiment that got that got John Sweller kicked off onto cognitive load theory? You like making a students do like some kind of weird math like adding and subtracting and multiplying multiple things. Yeah. Yeah. So, you solve a math problem. You're given number A and number B. And there's only two operations you can do. It's something like you can multiply by three or subtract 69. Those numbers aren't exactly right. But those are the only two operations you can do. And somehow you have to get from number the first number he gives you to the second number he gives you. People do multiple forms of this problem. It turns out that in every every solution is always alternating between these two things. Um add 69 multiply by 3 add 69 multiply by 3 add 69 multiply by three. Nobody notices this. None of the people in maybe not none very few people in the experiments notice this pattern. This is deeply troubling for John Sweller because John Sweller is in a moment in math education where people are like really big on problem solving, really big on discovery, really big on intuition. And he's like, "My guys, people are not induced inducing the key principle that's here. Like they're doing a kind of mathematical operation, but they're not figuring out the important thing here." Like think about how much consequences that has for math instruction. it's, you know, they're solving the problems correctly without understanding some key feature about how you solve them correctly. That's bad for mathematics instruction. Um, and then he comes up with this theory like why weren't they able to do that? Um, and he he describes it as um that people do this thing he calls means and analysis. They're constantly looking where they are and thinking about what would get them to the next step. Um, if you're constantly thinking about where you are, where you want to be, and what might the next step is, those are like three things to block up your working memory. And so now you don't have a whole lot of working memory left. And it turn you know his theory was that people like essentially filled up their working memory. Their working memory was like at capacity. It had overwhel there was too much cognitive load too much cognitive load on the working memory. And so they couldn't figure out this underlying principle. Um and so swellers, you know, and then he just gets fascinated for the rest of his life about thinking about what is the human cognitive architecture like where is the cognitive load, where are we overburdened, where are their bottlenecks, and what would be instructional designs that would help us relieve those bottlenecks, work around those bottlenecks. Um in particular, really skeptical of this idea, um that you just like give a bunch of novices stuff and they can kind of figure it out on their own. um you know with enough time, enough exploration, things like that. Um so that's a bottleneck here that I really like. And I really like this picture that has this sort of infinite long-term memory. I mean, in theory, it should just go up forever, but it's big enough that works. Um a nice thing about this one um on the side is it notes that the where does where does stuff get into working memory? Kind of from two places. You can pull it out of long-term memory. You can remember stuff and then you can put it temporarily in long-term memory. Or you can attend to it. You can see things in your environment. You can watch stuff. You can read things. You can listen to people and talk to people. As I'm explaining things to you now, you're taking these constructs and to the extent that you're listening and attending to them, you're putting them in your working memory. Um, if we mess around with them enough, if we get you to apply them, think about them, if you write them down, some other stuff like that, it will eventually get stored in your long-term memory. Um, and then there's this nice piece here that like stuff sort of not only goes from working memory to long-term memory, but things kind of fall out um and get forgotten. And yeah, you know, I I think pairing these words together, um, when stuff in working memory gets stored in your long-term memory, they call that learning. When stuff, um, in long-term memory gets put into your working memory, when you become conscious of it, we call that remembering. That's kind of nice way of sort of summarizing that. Um, there are one of uh, in this model, um, everything that you learn essentially is kind of a fact that you remember. Um there's a great quote by Daniel Willingham who's a psychologist that memory is the residue of thought. Um when you think about stuff that you remember and and in this model people tend to think of the things you remember as discrete facts. Um you can probably think about and the accumulation of those discrete facts is what leads to expertise that understanding um is in a sense uh the accumulation of lots of these facts. there probably some domains that you could think about um where that model feels really good and makes sense like oh man you're like man that person is a really good economist because they just like know a ton of stuff about economies and they know a ton of facts about economics and they remember lots of different calculations that you know like would you say that Maya Angelo was a great poet because she had way more facts than other poets do that seems like a sort of unsatisfying description of how people become great poets but something to sort of wrestle with and think about a little bit okay you have your piece paper with you. Um, I'm going to show you a phrase and I want you I want you to copy down I'm going to show it to you for about 10 seconds. So, hold your pens up in the air. You're going to look at this thing for 10 seconds and then I'm going to take it off the screen and I want you to copy it down. Okay, ready? I want you to copy this down. Look at it. Memorize it. Look at it. Five. Four. Three. Just this row. You don't have to do that one. Just this row in the middle. Two. one. All right, copy down as much of that as you can. All right. And three, two, one. Everybody, everybody hold up what you did. Show it to each other. How'd you do? Oh, man. These are these are a little bit disappointing. All right, let's do let's do a second one. Let's do a second one. Let's see if you can do any better than this. All right, I'll help you. You might feel better about this one. I'm going to give you a set of writing now that has roughly the same number of marks in it. It's not the exact same number of marks. But one, like one of the things we could do to calculate how difficult this is, is to just like count the number of marks on the screen. I'm going to give you another thing like this with roughly the same number of marks. Let's see if you can do any better. Uh, I want you to look at this and then get ready to copy it down. This English phrase in the middle. Ready? Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, copy it down. Oh, you're finished already. You're really good at that. Nice. Good. Um, uh, why why were you so much better at this one? Yeah. Yeah. Th you have those squiggles are organized into schema. When you were very very young, you observed these English letters. Actually, if you learned English in the middle of your life, whenever you started learning English, um like just now, you observed these Sanskrit letters. You know, for those of you who are native English speakers, you can't remember the time probably in which like there would be no distinguish distinction between English letters and Sanskrit letters. So, when you were copying down Sanskrit, none of this has any meaning to you. So you're like literally memorizing the order in which these lines appear. Um which is really hard because there are lots of those lines. There's about the same number of lines. I haven't actually measured this but it's take take for grant it's close. Um but um you know that that two combinations of line is an L. And you know that an L and E and a T is a word let. That has some kind of meaning and you can actually like let the entire world be happy. Even sort of bundle that into kind of a phrase that you can memorize in your head. And so copying down that number of things is trivial because this is organized in your head in a in like a tightly bundled schema in a way that you have no schema for understanding these kinds of things. Probably like the first thing you started putting in your schema was like well there's a line that goes across there and then a bunch of things that drop down after that. I don't know anything about sanscript so does that give you is that an illustration of like how schema operates in your mind? um this completely overwhelms your working memory efforts because you have to recall the orientation of each individual line to be able to copy it. Um this does not at all do that um because you've already bundled those lines into schema. Um another famous example which I think is written about um is that chess masters um when chess masters look at a chessboard they can they like all the pieces they can remember easily all of the pieces in their arrangements because if you know nothing about chess like me you have to be like okay the pawn is in the second row black square um and the king is in the first row white square and the bishop kind of moved over here but that's not what chess masters are doing chess masters are going like, oh, that's the, you know, the the Turkish Armada gambit or something like that. And they've sort of bundled all of those positions together into one thing. So, even though we can only attend to three to five things at any given time, um, those three to five things can be enormously complex. Um, and that's what lets us think about complex and difficult things. Okay, that piece of schema makes sense for you? Um, all right. So, these are these are some pretty good fundamental models of human cognitive architecture kinds of things. Anybody want to ask any questions or make any observations about some of these key elements, how our brains work? I some research to that. Uh there's like a weird alphabet that's just like alternative to like writing in Latin and English. So it just like went toward mapping between English or Latin characters to that alphabet. And as a fun thing, I just wanted to learn it. So I did all of that like remember the mapping and even though like hey if you show me just like a glimpse of it, yes I can tell you. So it's not like a process of how long will it take me to remember but it was very hard to actually transcribe things fast from one thing to what I know it is but also as I did that more I started to like I started kind of like to remember how I learned English as well with some of like the for example at the end like that says ing I started kind of internalizing that. So whenever I saw like that kind of structure of whatever shape these characters and kind of oh yeah I know that's I don't have to think individually about each character. I started to like chunk them more and more into specific components that made like transcribing things much easier. Yeah. Yeah. I ing is a great example of what it probably requires uh you know five different line strokes or something like that. Line dot one ng something like that. And then eventually you bundle it as an ing and just memorize those characters together. And then eventually you realize it's a gerand and it has a particular kind of modification to verbs and things like that. And you're not even thinking about it now when you look at the word jumping. Um but you went through a process of sort of learning all of those kinds of things. Okay, good. Um so based on these models of human cognitive architecture, what are some of the key kind of instructional consequences that come out of this model? If you overload the working memory, students can't store the necessary information in the long-term memory. Good. Um, so what what teachers should be thinking about in some in this model, what teachers been think about all the time is like how much cognitive load, how much stuff is in people is like being like could potentially be overwhelming people's working memory. Um what are some ways to conduct instruction that respects this bottleneck of working memory? What are some what are some effective strategies for dealing with that? Uh guided practice is one of them that I saw where it's like a completion exercise. uh because then it's not completely novel to you and you have more you you can basically abstract more ideas into schemas that are kind of bigger and then execute them much faster instead of just focusing on the smaller aspects of that problem. Good. So, so guided one version of guided practice you know probably one of the most well-known phenomenon in education psychology is called the worked example effect. Um, and the idea is if you show people how to solve a problem for noviceses, that is a more effective way to learn it than have them just try to solve the problem. Um, that a pretty typical instructional sequence that works pretty well is first you do a worked example. You say, "This is how you solve this kind of problem." Then you would take parts of a problem and have students just do those parts. That might be a kind of guided practice kind of thing like okay you know you just factored this polomial and it took you four steps um here and the first thing I did is I just showed you the those four steps. The next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to show you three of those steps and have you do one of them. Um I just showed you a canonical way to write an introduction paragraph. Um here is an introduction paragraph that's three quarters written. It doesn't really have a good hook. Um write a sentence that would fit in this paragraph. That would be a hook that engaged the reader. You don't have to do everything else that an introduction has to do. you don't have to introduce the topic because we've already done that, you don't have to lay out an argument, you don't have to establish your expertise, just do this one thing. Um, and then you can imagine like, all right, instead of, you know, if it's a four-step process, then you'll do two of the steps, then you'll do three of the steps, then eventually you'll do all of the steps. Um, and you might alternate which of those step, you know, do a bunch of one step, you know, missing problems where the one step that's missing is sort of different phases in there. Um, but we're going to sort of decrease the scaffing. The idea is um is that you can get people in their working memory just to attend to that particular thing they're trying to solve um to store that thing in the long-term memory and as they have that more in their long-term memory and access it as they start seeing the relationship between different steps um as they start you know their schema for an introduction is not like wait what it's the hook and then the thesis and then my expertise is that you bund you start like recognizing those things as an introduction and that you know sort of takes up less space within their working memory. Um uh so they call this the completion problem effects. Replace conventional problems with completion problems providing a partial solution that must be completed by the learners. Um this list came out of sweller 1998. Um all of these things get constantly tested and improved. Um so one thing that people realized um is an effect which I think is not on this list called the expert reversal effect but I think it shows up in some of the readings that you did um which is that for noviceses the worked example effect seems to generally speaking hold true for experts in a domain open-ended problem solving does seem to work better um than um just going through worked examples. So once people get good enough at a thing, um it's a good idea to let them solve open-ended problems presumably because their working memory is not overwhelmed. They're not overwhelmed by cognitive load, figuring out what they're supposed to do next. And so it's a chance for them to refine their abilities to apply things in different domains to get better at particular portions of things, stuff like that. Um now, what is a novice and what is an expert? Like that, you know, that is different in every domain and you'd have to, you know, it would have to be it'll be different in nuclear engineering than it is in poetry or whatever else it is. But like generally speaking, these are things that sort of seem to hold. Um, how do these cognitive load theorists conduct their research? How do you how do you, if you're a cognitive load theorist, how do you establish that an effect like this is true? What kind of research methods would you use? Well, you could do one where you just like directly ask the person so they like have their own just like understanding of like what they're able to handle or like you could like set up the problem so that you can just see directly from like the work that they're able to do like how well they're like cognitive load is being held. Good. So, one question that cognitive load theorists will be interested in is like when when do you feel overburdened by cognitive load? Um, it's kind of interesting that people are actually quite lousy at selfassessing their learning in all kinds of ways. Um, there's a classic study, I don't think we'll read about it, um, where, um, people assess their baseball knowledge and then take a test about baseball. Um, and the results are like the most perfectly spread scatter plot you've ever seen. There's basically like no relationship at all between your self- assessment of your knowledge and your actual knowledge of things. Um, so this is one of the this is one of the real challenges in cognitive load theory is that we're not really aware of our own cognitive load. We're not really aware when we're encountering desirable difficulty, which is like giving us a good amount of challenge um versus undesirable, you know, where our cognitive load is, you know, our working memory is overwhelmed and and we can't build things. So people have tried to do work along those lines. Um, what are some other ways of assessing whether or not an instructional effect is better than another instructional effect? I think Um in one of the papers it talked about like physiologically measuring the cognitive load just by like using heart rate and things like that. Skin conductance other kinds of things. Also said that this like very unreliable as like a measure of the cognitive load as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Knowing when knowing when knowing when people are working memory is over. It's kind of funny, right? This is like the heart of the theory. Like how do we tell when your working me working memory is overwhelmed? And it's like pretty hard actually to tell. um you know we don't we don't have a great grasp of like how many you know there's some kinds of exercise we do which especially like really simple problem solving kind or puzzle kinds of things where you can like really tightly control how many elements are in working memory but if you're like actually trying to teach something someone in the real world like the Kreb cycle or something like that like you know how many things are in working memory every time is a lot harder to sort of check. So a pretty common set of methods that they'll use are experimental designs in which you have one group be a control group and then you have another group be an experimental group. Um you measure people's skill at some in both groups you measure people's skill in some kind of baseline. Um, so you say, um, you know, we're gonna we're gonna design, you know, we're going to go into a a math a school where they typically use a lot of open-ended problem solving, and we're going to instead have the teacher just do stuff using worked examples. Um, and we're going to see whether the worked example condition is better than the business as usual condition. And in fact, to make sure that there's no difference between the kids who get the regular condition, the business as usual condition, the kids who get the work example condition, we're going to randomly assign the teachers. We'll go we'll get 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 teachers sign up for the study. Half of them will do the old thing, half of them will do the new thing. We'll measure all the kids skill at baseline and then we will measure the skill um from uh the groups afterwards. Oh, you know if if this kind of model works um you know like the two groups at baseline in any group there's going to be a distrib polinomials or you know add single digits or um conjugate Spanish verbs or whatever it is but in any given classroom like you know there should be a distribution of skill right some people are having a hard time with it most people are doing fine and some people are doing really good um at baseline these two groups should be identical right because we randomly assign your teachers to two different groups and random assignment is magical um and people you know like every once in a while it doesn't work but for the most part like the two groups should be the same. What should happen afterwards um is that now here's something that makes learning research really hard. Um what kind of learning will like learning will happen in both conditions, right? Almost everything we do makes people learn somewhat like it there are very few things that we do that we're like boy that was completely ineffective. Like even if we're not using the most optimal techniques students still learn stuff. So in the control condition, let's call orange control, there's still at time two going to be improvement. T1, T2, you're going to see the sort of distribution move. What we want to see though is something like this, like, oh, we learned more in the experimental condition when we went from T1 to T2. Um, and in particular, we're interested in like the way cognitive load theorists do this, they're particularly interested in averages. like in general are kids more or less better off having do this like this has 10 teachers each of whom has 20 kids has 200 kids this has 200 kids is one group o you know sort of better than the other um sometimes you can do some of this stuff some of this stuff happens in the field some of this stuff happens in laboratory kinds of experiments um one uh let's see if um uh so this is a modality effect which is kind of cool um replace a written expl explanatory text and another source of visual information such as a diagram with a spoken explanatory text and a visual source of information. It turns out again we don't to I would say we don't totally understand this um that your working memory seems to handle visual and auditory inputs differently and so you have a little bit more working memory to work with if you're hearing stuff and looking at stuff than if you're reading stuff and looking at stuff. Why? Nobody knows. Evolution, who knows? But it's kind of cool, right? Um so how might you study something like that? um you take a textbook um and you bring a bunch of students into the lab um and you have them do some kind of textbook learning exercise. You you measure them beforehand, you measure them afterwards. For some random half of the students who are walking into your lab, they probably are taking like a freshman psych class and they have to do this for, you know, extra credit or something like that. Um and you give them the like auditory enhanced version of this. And if the people in the auditory-enhanced condition in the modality effect condition do better um then you've sort of like you didn't have to go all the way into the field. You didn't have to like recruit a bunch of teachers in real classrooms and things like that. You can sort study little bits of this in the lab. But again, the thing that these folks are particularly interested in is um changes in average effects. Um we sort of like these models tend to assume that we're teaching stuff that everyone should learn. um it would be good if all the kids in my math class learn to factor polomials and we want strategies that on average have more of those kids learn more about factoring polinomials and other things. I'm sort of emphasizing this point because a bunch of stuff that you're going to read for next class doesn't necessarily make those assumptions. It's still about learning um but um thinks about doing research differently and thinks about goals differently. Um okay, here are uh oh good. We just did question number three here of things that I wanted to talk with you about. Um, number one, we emphasize what what for cognitive load theorists, what is the bottleneck that they're most concerned with? Working memory. There's a limited number of stuff that you can operate with in working memory. So, you got to think about, especially for noviceses, how do you reduce the complexity of a learning environment? Um what is um what what are what what are the what are the goals of cognitive learn load theory? What are like the end states of proficiency? Um for cognitive load the thirst, what does it mean to be good at stuff? Would it be to have built up a bank of schemas and be able to retrieve them at any time? and uh use them to work more quickly through a problem. It could it could be more quickly. So definitely I I think the first part I would say you're spot on about that you have memorized a bunch of stuff. The stuff that you've memorized is organized into schemas of varying degrees of complexity. There's some things that don't organize well into schemas but you know but we just memorize them anyway. Um, famous things that don't fit super well into more complex schemas are, um, a bunch of Asian languages have characters that don't like have a lot of logic across them. Like you just have to memorize these things and there are a lot of them. Um, and that like like schemas will only get you so far. Um, but an important thing about there's no relation I think about it this way. There's no relationship between sort of proficiency and the learning process like like what do cognitive load theorists think a really good surgeon is like a really good surgeon is both proficient at certain kinds of well-established techniques but also flexible intuitive like you you know a patient has cancer and you cut them open and it's some kind of you know like set of physical problems they've never seen before you know they don't want doctors who are like oh I must memorize the procedure and just do what I'm told they want doctors who are flexible they want poets and playwrs who are creative. Um they want, you know, teachers who are engaging and effective. Like their vision of proficiency is the same as almost anybody else who studies teaching and learning. Um just because they have methods that are sort of like it doesn't mean that they want people the rest of their lives trying to reduce the amount of working load, you know, load on their working memory. They want people who who can do all of the things that we think experts should be able to do. But they say the way you get expertise is not to take a surgeon and be like just get in there and start cutting people up and like see what happens. Like you want to train them through a particular series of processes that has them um you know memorize a particular series of facts. Those facts can be assembled in knowledge or techniques or other kinds of things and then flexibly deploy those things they memorized um to do good work in the world. Um, so, so don't don't confuse the way that cognitive load theorists want people to learn. Um, you know, which which can be like like pretty structured, have this devolving scaffolding. That doesn't mean that that's what expertise looks like when you get to the end of that process. We might teach people to be really good computer programmers through a set of worked examples, but doesn't mean that we want computer programmers who just like copy things that they've seen in the world. We want those computer programmers to be flexible, creative, novel, inventive, all those kinds of good things. Um, you read two other pieces that I didn't uh talk as much about, but does um we talked a little bit about sweller, the story of a research program. um that this research comes out of a particular historical context um which is people in math pretty fired up about problem solving and this guy John Sweller being like I think there are some real problems with open-ended problem solving. I think it doesn't do what we want it to do and there might be better approaches to try. Um what what what did you take away from the Michael Pashan article? So, Michael Bashan's a teacher in New York City. Um, just teaches math to a bunch of different grades and he's trying to make sense of all this research. What did you take away from the things he was trying to make sense of? So the title of his piece is not a theory of everything. What what did what did that allude to? I could give like a read response and say applying cognitive fluency theory to cognitive learn theory and just like you know restricting it to where it is putting the boundaries making sure we understand what it is and what it's not to make sure that when we're discussing it we're not stepping beyond it and starting like confusing things together and not know what we're talking about. Good. So some of it is him saying like all right like what like what exactly are these terms and how are they used how they mean over time? Um when Michael Pashan says not a theory of everything, what are some of the things that prominently it is not a theory of is it motivation? Yeah. Why why do you think so Michael Michael teaches math in in a school in New York? Why do you think motivation would be something that would be of pretty keen interest to Michael? I think that could like affect how likely people are to remember their content, right? They're like if you're really interested, really motivated that could affect. Yeah. Yeah. I think I think you have a subtext of Michael's argument which like my guy, you know, like your clogged working memory is not the problem I have. My problem is my kids don't care. Like like if you're not actually interested and engaged and want to learn these things, who cares if you're stuck, you know, like it's not a problem to be putting seven or nine things in their working memory. The problem is they will put zero things in their working memory. um you know the the the the pro the the problem is not the bottleneck that appears here. The problem is you can't get them to do this. You can't get them to attend to anything. Um I think there's part you know and and and for him as a teacher motivation is just a central pro like a central problem of what he does every day. How am I going to convince these fourth graders in front of me that it's worth learning these this math? Um, and that I think part, you know, reading between the lines, I think that's part of what feels really important to Michael. Um, and John Sweller says this theory doesn't do that. Um, this theory doesn't attend to issues of motivation. Uh, you know, now the good thing about doing that, um, and I think Michael comes to this conclusion in some respects is like, yeah, it's probably not a good idea for every theory to try to do everything. you know, it it doesn't diminish the contributions of cognitive load theory to say it doesn't attend to motivation, but it probably should draw our attention to the fact um that working memory is not like the single bottleneck that exists in all learning environments everywhere. They're all kinds of other bottlenecks that might be around. Again, some of the stuff that we're going to read about next week thinks of motivation as a very central issue um as maybe like the central issue to teaching and learning, which doesn't mean that this other theory is better. Um but that the the theories that we have are just models. They help us sort of make sense. You know, nobody actually understands how the brain works. Nobody actually understands how people learn. Um that is sort of beyond our but there's a lot that we can know about it and we can build these models which help us make good predictions. Um but they don't help us predict kind of everything. Um uh the other thing that I think Michael's article is really good for highlighting is that these theories change. Um how many of you read in the original article about this thing called gerine load? Yeah, that researchers in cognitive lo theory have basically given up on germaine load. Like it was an idea they had for a while. They were working on it. They thought it would predict some stuff. They thought it would explain some stuff and after a while like I don't think this germaine load idea is all that useful and people have more or less given up on it. So these theories are sort of constantly changing and evolving too. You know the version of cognitive load theory um that I might teach in this class 20 years from now is not going to be the exact same as I would have you know in the 1980s when John Sweller was just sort of putting these things together. some you know some parts of it have sort of stood the test of time I would say you know particularly this idea you know the the idea of extraneous load seems to be enormously helpful um if you put too much stuff in front of noviceses they won't attend to the right things and they won't remember the things you really want them to remember or they won't you know they won't be able to attend to what you want them to do but if you reduce some of that extraneous load and there are a bunch of like very specific strategies that we can use to reduce that extraneous load you know some of which are you know very very fine grained um if there are multiple sources of information frequently pictures and accompanying text um like don't put the picture over here and the text over here put them in the same place and people will learn better um that's great that's you know um like think think about how many people today in the United about 57 million kids in K12 schools tens of million people in higher education like if all their textbooks got a little bit better by adhering to this principle like everyone would learn you know a tiny tiny bit more but you know amvertised over 57 million kids going to school for 13 years that could be a lot of learning Um, that's pretty cool. Uh, all right. 220. What are the last things that I want to leave you with? Um, you now have, um, 50% of the ideas that you will need to do assignment number one. Um, so again, assignment number one, which you should go to the syllabus and read, is you're going to pick an educational technology. You're going to explain it that if that educational technology is more inspired by instructionists, by people who are really fired up about um direct teaching of things, the cognitive load theorists or instructionists, you know, the worked example effect is an instructionist kind of idea. There are lots of education technologies which are instructionist in nature. You're like, how are we going to tell people how to do this thing so they do it better? Um there are other um pedagogies, educa um education technologies which are much more focused on experience, much more focused on apprenticeship um how do we get into the world and muck about and do things and that is what you will read about for Monday um which is you know sort of like like and both of these ideas are ancient. I mean I think I mentioned you before this quote from Plutarch um that uh education is not the filling of a pale but the lighting of a fire. Um, you know, the cognitive load theories are like, "No, pale filling is awesome. This is like super effective. We can measure how much stuff goes into the pale. We can measure how much stuff leaks out of the pale. We can measure like the optimal flow rate into the pale. Pale filling is cool." Um, we're now going to find the sort of contemporary versions of the flame kindlers. People are trying to really get their minds around like how do you get people to learn and kind of naturalistic apprenticeship reactions. So, you're going to have to find a technology. You have to explain whether it's more instructionist or constructionist, more inspired by cognitive load theory or situated learning. Describe how the features of that technology reflect these pedagogical values. That's like the first couple pages of the assignment. Um you have something like 1,200 words, but you can include pictures, you can annotate things, you be like, "Look, this is like a little screenshot of the thing and like here's, you know, where instructionism is written all over it." Then in the last part of the paper, you have to take this same technology and imagine that it was redesigned or designed originally by people from the opposite pedagogical perspective. So you might go and find a technology be like man this is like straight cognitive load theory. What if this same technology with the same kind of goals was designed by situated learning constructionist kind of people that is a t so you can be thinking um as you're doing all of these kinds of readings um what are some of the key principles that I could use? How would I apply these key principles to education technologies? which education technology am I most interested in? How am I going to learn about the other pedagogical philosophy so I can apply in the same way? Um that should give you some stuff to work with. Okay. Um 2:25 we'll meet on Monday. You'll read stuff about situated learning. We'll do similar kinds of exercises to make sense of it. Um if you uh have questions, come swing by, take your books with them, write your names in them so that you don't get them confused with other people's. And uh you can expect another email from me hopefully in the next couple days. I remember almost every week. I don't promise it comes out. It's like a courtesy service, but it's like a little summary of what you need to do for next week. Okay, I'll stick around if anybody needs anything. Otherwise, um, have a wonderful weekend and I'll see you on Monday.