go ahead and uh turn turn to your neighbor and start. Uh one thing you could do is pull out the main reading that we did about situated learning because we'll do kind of a close read of that today. So, um, pull that up on something and then, um, in the minutes that we have, we usually start 105, but in the minutes that we have, uh, turn to your, uh, turn to your neighbor and start thinking about why why babies would give, uh, cognitive load theorist conions. All right. as a just just as one level setting thing in case you haven't hung out with babies in a while. Like in their first few years of life, how would you characterize the amount and rate of learning that babies do? Insane. Insane. It is bonkers how much babies learn. I mean, a very strong feeling I had when I was first father was like like I I do not improve at all in a week or in a month or really most years. I'm really like not that much better than I was the beginning of the year. And you're just watching these infants who are totally transformed because they are learning things at an amazing rate that you can see daily, weekly, monthly, you know, incredibly accelerated learning. Um so let's use we'll just use that to level set. Um let's let's let's take it as a given that babies learn an amazing amount in their early years. Um why now keep talking why would that prove to be such why would that give cognitive load theorist such a conipion and and you can think about um how it connects to some of the stuff that you've been reading about situated load theory keep talking all right good what are some what are some observations that people made what are what are baby babies are babies are significant so what are what are what are some of the observations that that you made. What were you guys talking about in the back? What was your group talking about, Gloria? Um, I was saying that if like cognitive load theory was true, then that would say that babies probably can't learn like anything because everything is extraneous knowledge to them and they don't have any long-term memory. They haven't formed any skills yet. All right. Yep. So, they're so they're not drawing in they don't have a lot of long-term memory to draw on. They, you know, they are like the canonical us looking at Sanskrit letters where like everything is its own sort of discrete part like um so you would think they're working memory. I mean, you know, this video I think is sort of helpful for that. Like everything on this screen is brand new to them. There's nothing that they've ever seen before and it's filled like there's a slide and a dad and that other thing back there and all this stuff on the ground and people are talking and the sun is out and all these things are happening at once. Good. What else did people talk about? Um it's also like the the speed with which they learn doesn't really connect with like the bottleneck theory and like um the theory of like it takes a while for you to like compile all of this information but it almost seems like a baby sees it one time and is like able to retain it. Yeah. babies seem to do exactly the thing that Sweller said um people should not be able to do, which is to be um I mean, would you gen like this baby learning stuff, would you generally characterize their experience as sort of open-ended problem solving or like being carefully walked through a series of worked examples? How would you describe it? Open. Yeah, this I mean like I'm just like going on the slide and going down, you know? It's not like dad's like, you know, I mean, I think I think you'd find more structure and stuff like that, but there's a lot of just like, wow, I'm a baby. I'm out there. I'm doing my thing. Um, you know, and and the worked example effect and the expert reversal effect suggests that that should not be very effective. You know, the most effective way to teach babies should be, you know, through like careful, you know, devolving scaffolding of language and things like that. And that's not what we do. We just like throw babies in with people all the time. Um and they uh and they learn language, they learn movement, they learn a few other things at sort of an extraordinary rate. Um so for how do how does how does what connections do you see between this set of ideas and situated learning? There's a lot of like trial and error in it. Like we were talking about like hey when they they see a block they want to go get they start to figure out the different ways that they can go get that block. Like but through trial and error trying to stand up, trying to crawl, trying to drag themselves. Yeah. all that kind of stuff. Kadus, come on in. Sit with me. No, no, delighted to have you. Um, yeah. Um, yeah. I mean, this this certainly looks a lot more like situated learning than it does look like a sort of carefully sculpted classroom. Um, and uh, so for situated learning people, and you know, we'll we'll I think we'll see this more in some stuff that we read. Um, the experience of babies seems like something that's pretty important to draw from. Um, how would you how would you how would you characterize like the feelings that babies have as they learn language? Like are they happy? Are they sad? Are they angry? Are they frustrated? Are they joyful? Are they playful? Like what kind of feelings do babies seem to have as they're learning words? What were you going to say, Jared? I was going to say like they seem kind of fearless and like there there's no like social pressure to like try and pronounce this word correctly. They'll just say the word be like, "Oh, good job. make noises come out of our mouths whenever. Yeah. Do you want to grab another chair? There's no It doesn't seem like there's there's a lot of fear behind trying to practice what they're learning. Uhhuh. Um but I think like in addition to that, there can be like a lot of frustration as well. The consequences of like not knowing how to say a specific thing. Yeah. Or or you watch babies when they're you know I mean they cry when they can't articulate the thing that they want to be able to say or Yeah. And in addition to frustration, I think there's a bit of like happiness when they actually achieve what they're trying to create and then they feel understood. I think there's some some sort of some sort of pride in that. What were you going to say, Courtney? Um, same kind. I wonder my my daughter, we used to uh we used to just my I guess it was my younger one, we used to just list vegetables and list things you get at the supermarket and she thought that was the funniest thing ever. you you would just be like pears in the back of the car just like saying stuff and she's giggling the whole time. Um you know I I mean if you watch a video like this like this is clearly a delightful um you know there's there's not a lot that Sweller and colleagues have to say about like being delighted. Um you know I I I think if you were to if you were to situate like the kind of like moral ethic of work around learning in cognitive load theory, it's very like learning is hard. we persevere through a hard thing. Um, and we control the hardness of it so that we can scaffold it for people. Um, and for situated learning people, these these aren't really I wouldn't even these aren't like arguments. And sometimes they're explicit arguments. Sometimes they're just tones that you find in the way people talk about these things. They'd be like, "Oh, you know, learning is great. Learning is the thing that we do and get better at stuff. It's like nice and natural and things like that." Um, can anybody think of a thing that you've learned in which you like got better at the thing and it was just like playful, enjoyable, natural to get better at it? Anybody can shout out one or two things that was like that for you? When I first learned how to use like a power drill. Awesome. Great. Learning how to use power drill like very satisfying immediate feedback things like that. Yeah. Other things that people really enjoyed learning? Um, I think similarly like like tactical things like learning how to do pottery. Oh, great. Yep. Pottery seems like a good one. Learning how to swim. Learning how to swim was all right. We're saying a lot of physical things. Good. Video games. Video video games. Video games are a there is a whole science. Um there's a there we won't read it. There's a guy named James G um who wrote a great book about learning in video games. It's a little bit like Toqueville coming to America if that's a reference that you know. Um, but Toqueville was this European who came to America. Um, and he saw America incredibly intimately in a way that sort of only an outsider could by in part by becoming an insider. Um, James G is an old guy who was like, "Why do my kids like video games so much?" And he starts playing them a bunch. He's like, "These are amazing learning experiences." Um, think like think about someone learning a really hard game like Civilization 6 or Stellaris or put in whatever game you've been playing recently that just has like incredibly complicated systems in them. There aren't a lot of people who are like, you know, Minecraft like redstone building in Minecraft, stuff like that. There aren't people who are like, "God, it was such a drag that I had to take all those classes on redstone to be able to, you know, um these games have have systems built within them. They're sort of canot almost all them canonically situated kinds of things. Um where you're just immersed in the environment, you're encouraged to play. There are some peer structures around to help you learn and stuff like that. But it's extremely pleasant. um you know even even when um you know people might find it frustrating or things like that. I think a lot of in families cooking is something that learning how to cook which has both tactile and kind of scientific ma you know measurement mathematical language components um that people often find quite pleasurable. Uh and this connects a lot to like the material I'm learning in CMS 587 about assessments. We're learning like the different theories of intelligence and how um if you believe that your intelligence isn't fixed and like it can expand then you can learn a lot more. And that's kind of like young children or babies because they're not really afraid of failure and like they just like they're very resilient. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They don't they don't care what's going on. They're just trying to figure things out. Um how many of you have have had uh experiences that you're really happy with where learning was hard where you like persevered through sort of a challenging set of learning experiences and got better at it and you were like, "Yeah, that's great. I'm super glad I did that." What what things come to mind for that for you? I think for me learning to code was a bit like that. I think differently from some people in the room like I didn't learn to code in middle school. I learned it in university. So there were like degrees associated with it and things like that. Yeah. Yeah. You watched a bunch of lectures and did pet sets and turn them in and but I remember like the first very complex pet that I completed and like my program worked perfectly and I was like it's amazing feeling. It felt it felt very satisfying even though some of the learning experience of doing that. Yeah. Yeah. So that that kind of that you know I think there's sort of a moral story that emerges around a lot of instructionist learning which is like it was hard we put our nose to the grindstoneone we sacrificed but after that sacrifice we had this great feeling of relief and I think most of us have some kind of learning experience that goes like that and then situated learning people have more of this story of like we just naturally found ourselves in this space surrounded by opportunities to learn and it was playful and it felt easy and natural and that's what we're trying to sort of restore So actually the cognitive load theorists have to me what I think is sort of a funny way of dealing with this. Um there was just a guy who proposed that there's two categories of things that are learned called biologically primary and biologically secondary kinds of things. Um and uh we're evolutionarily wired to naturally learn biologically primary kinds of things and everything else is biologically secondary and is much harder. So that you're sort of naturally wired to learn how to walk, how to eat, some basic parts of socializing, recognizing faces. Language ends up being a real problem for this because it's like are you biologically primed to learn your first language to learn multiple languages? Why would you be biologic? Like why was it easy for me to learn English when I was young, but not Spanish was really hard when I was older? Like my brain changed? Did evolution? Like anyway, um I actually find this theory totally unsatisfying. Um do do you are familiar with the idea of epicycles? Um like before the capernican revolution uh we uh everybody thought orbits were circles not you know uh ovals or or whatever it is that they're what is it? What's the shape of them? Ellipses. Um and so there was a period of time when they realized like oh circle measurements don't work. And so they added circles to the circles. Um there they like believed that there had to be sort of perfect circles making the orbits. And so they believed that somehow there were like orbits within the orbits. um you know and then I think it was capergus who came around was like actually it's just like this and that works a lot better but to me sort of biologically primary and biologically secondary thing sort of operate that like that seems a little bit like an epicycle to me like we haven't quite figured out um what's going on there but that is how um canonically the the cognitive load theory people just wave all this away and say ah but babies whatever biologically primary we don't have to worry about them um everything after you're four years old or something like that is uh cognitive load theory works um But for the situated learning people, you know, not not exactly, but in a lot of ways, they're trying to sort of recapture the learning experiences that we have when we're very young. Um, where where learning is natural, playful, not always happy, but often sort of socially satisfying. Um, and extremely effective. I mean, what babies learn in a short period of time is just bonkers. Um, it's one of the most fun things about being a parent or an auntie or a uncle or all the other ways you get to spend a lot of time with kids. Okay. Um, let's just get oriented here. So, again, we're in foundations. Um, we're trying to get a hand of these two sort of contemporary learning theories. Cognitive load theory, situated learning. Um, that these two ideas about how people learn are ancient. Um, that you can find people like Plutarch for the mind does not require filling like a bottle, but rather like wood. It only requires kindling to create in it an impulse to think independently and an ardent desire for truth. That's the sort of like this is Plutarch making a case for situated learning and against cognitive load theory, though he wouldn't have known those terms because they didn't show up for another 2,000 years. Um, but you can hear the resonance of the debate in his mind. Here's a little chunk from a 2017 New Yorker article. For nearly a century, public education in America has been influenced by two opposing pedagogical approaches. Traditionalism and progressivism. The thing that you got to catch is that there are these two ideas that have like each of them has 8,000 different names. But anytime you sort of notice this dichconomy, broadly speaking, in the traditional approach to education, a teacher imparts knowledge to students through direct instruction and embodies a disciplinary culture in which obedience is both prized and rewarded. That's a that's a nice both like so like she frames it here's a pedagogical piece. Knowledge is imparted through direct instruction and embodies a disciplinary culture in which obedience is prized and rewarded. like obedience was not prized and rewarded amongst the baby on the playground. What was rewarded was screwing around. Um the purpose of the classroom is to equip all students to meet measurable academic standards. At progressive institutions, a teacher develops a curriculum but urges students to treat it as a staging ground for their own intellectual discoveries, often through hands-on activity and group work. Allowances are made for differences in the way individual students learn. Progressivism was inspired in large part by the work of John Dwey, the American philosopher and education theorist. Um maybe I'll say that last name. For Dwey, the classroom was not simply a place for acquiring academic credentials. It was also a venue in which students learned crucial values about being citizens in a democracy. So maybe maybe these things are laden not just with pedagogical ideas, beliefs about human architecture, um cultural sort of values, but even maybe the outcomes of education. Maybe we believe differently about that, though not necessarily. Um the person who's probably the best counterpoint to John Dwey is this guy Ed Thorndikeke. um who is a very early educational psychologist. I often think of him as the guy who is like no no no pale filling is great. Um like a particularly great thing about pale filling is that we can measure pale filling. You can measure like the rate at which you bore things into people and the rate at which it falls out and how leaky people are um and some of those kinds of things. So he was very involved in testing. Um he actually um played a really important role in developing ideas that educational progressives uh hold dearly. He's one of the things he studied which we'll talk about the course goes on is this idea of transfer. Um so uh uh you know in the 18th 19th century people in America Europe believed that a great thing about learning Latin and Greek was it sort of strengthened these kind of like generic thinking muscles. Like if you got really good at learning Latin and Greek you would just be a good thinker. And he was like that's dumb. Um if you learn Latin and Greek you're good at Latin and Greek but you're not actually good at anything else. um like the brain is not general purpose like that but that kind of thinking that kind of thinking if I learn this thing it'll help me like generically with these other things shows up all the time. Um the most contemporary uh version of this is have any of you ever encountered the idea of computational thinking. What people mean by computational thinking almost all the time is like we're going to teach you computer programming and if you learn about computer programming you're going to learn how to like break ideas down into smaller parts and you're going to learn how to think algorithmically and do all these other sort of and it's like no you're going to be good at programming computers. Um you know if you want to be able to break ideas down in poetry learning computer programming will not help you do that anymore. I mean it will help you about as much as learning Latin and Greek will help you do that which is to say like not that much. um that a frustrating thing about teaching is the things we learn um tend to only help us in like very near cognate areas. Um so these are sort of the two kind of you know again I'm trying to give you the sense that like these two big ideas are millennia old. They have a scientific basis that's at least a century old. Um and you're getting what I think are some of the best most recent contemporary uh formulations. Um like the work of John Sweller and some of these other folks like the little piece you read from Mitch Resnik for today. Um and then maybe just to give you like a broader overview like overwhelmingly Thorndikeke is one. Um if you were to walk through a typical American school in a typical American day, you would see very little education is life itself and you would see a lot of direct instruction. Um like the the canonical experience of students in schools is very organized around direct instruction. However, if you were to ask teachers who their favorite um educational philosopher is, you would get a lot of answers that are Dewey and you would not get a lot of answers that were Thorndikeke. Um so the um Dewey is beloved in a way that Thorndikeke is not. But Thorndikeke is like actually the person who uh inspires more of our ideas. All right, let's do just a little bit of close reading together, which is mostly me telling you about some things that you should read closely. This is what we looked at yesterday. Here's um one thing that's fun about the um cognitive load theory people is that they have they're really good at stating clearly what their models of human cognitive architecture are. I think the situated learning people have cognates. I think they have things that they believe are central about the brain, how learning works. Um but they would draw a different model like this is not what they were draw and and but and they're less explicit about it which makes our job a little bit harder but a thing that you can be thinking about now um is like what would be you know what is the what is the situated learning cognate of this like what would be the pieces that they would put in the model that would be most important um for their developmental learning. We'll play with that as we go along a little bit. Okay. Um how many of you ever use the logo programming language? Oh good. More than there. How many of you use Scratch? Okay, there we got everybody. Um, so Scratch is a descendant of Logo. Um, Logo is a programming language that was uh developed by Seymour Papert um in the media lab. Uh, one of the first efforts to bring computer programming to um kids in schools when I was in the fourth grade at a monastery school in South NIC not far from here. We had a little computer lab and logo was the language that I learned to do a little bit of programming anyway with um you'll see that a lot of it um is about shapes and geometry. Um but what I really loved about it was uh choose your own adventures. Um so you could essentially like like write a program or function whatever it is in which uh someone types a word and that triggers the the display of a set of text. Um, and so it wasn't that hard to make choose your own adventures, you know, you know, like you're you're you're at the front of the house. Do you want to walk up to the, you know, type porch if you want to walk into porch? Um, type, uh, knock if you want to knock on the door. And then knock is a program that releases another set of text and you can make choose your own adventure that way. How important is that for you to know? I don't know. Here um is a few minutes of Seymour Papert um who was a student of Jean PG who's another kind of major social constructivist sort of thinker. Here's um what uh logo was supposed to look like in the classroom in the 1980s about when I was a kid. The idea is quite simple. Let learn mathematics by speaking in mathematics about things that really matter to him. So at MIT, we've given computers the power to turn motors, to make sounds, to draw pictures, and we've found ways of giving children the power to control the computer. So the child can make the computer do anything that he can describe in a suitable mathematical language by typing on a keyboard like this. That's what um P1 sounds like. P2. That's P2 and P3. A computer controlled turtle is made to draw and dance by programs so simple that all children invent them in the first days of the course. Thus, the child acquires a taste of math power that grows and grows as his projects become more original, more complex, and more varied. So, you have like the um first one, then the second one, then the third one, then the first one again for the ending. Okay. Now they'll put their little tunes together to make now. I'm telling it to do it. I know. Sometimes I get into bugs like this and it'll um when it was doing it in his mind, the little turtle, it's the little triangle thing um was on an angle. So it drew the picture on on an angle. So now I'll go back and have it draw it in its mind again while it's in the right position. And so the child doesn't have to be told by a teacher whether he's right or wrong. He can see for himself whether it works. That's what science and knowledge is about. Super procedure is named fancy. And then you have an input which means you can vary the size. I'm going to make it 100. Right now it's doing a procedure called top. And each one of those little fins is called fin. And that's another sub procedure in top. Now it's doing inside. They are identifiable techniques for working on a problem. One of these is known by these children as writing procedures as subrocedures. Inside and top are the two main subprocedures and the other one the tail is made out of odds and ends. just put just put together the techniques really well known. Subdivide the problem. Split the difficulties. Make a procedure out of subprocedures. Make a whole I'll just tell you one second about this little robot which again is like iconic my childhood. I I had a commercialized version of this. Um but it it t it it takes the same commands and uses the same language as the turtle that's on the screen. So you can tell it like forward 10 and there's some equivalent to forward 10 that also shows up on the screen. It has a pen that's mounted in it that's controlled with pen up and pen down. Um, so you can like make varying kinds of shapes using that. And then if you see the cable that the person is walking around with, that was a serial cable which is the primary thing we used to use to connect computers to peripherals. So that like before wireless or before you know USB or other things like that that was the cable that they were using to move things around procedure out of sub procedures, make a hold out of parts. Understand each separately. Everybody knows that, but they don't do it. Now, it's moving across the screen the way I um told you it did it before, but this time, this is like the way I taught myself to get it across the screen. It's the first time I had done it. And so, the way I have the little one to go is every time it moves up a little, it subtracts a number, a little bit of a number, and then until it it's a small number. And when it's a certain number, I tell it that it should stop. Martha's getting mathematical knowledge in a meaningful context for use. Now, it just told me I can't move off the screen. When I was at school, they told me to learn long division because I would need it when I grew up. And I think I knew it was a lie. It was to make me despise the teachers a little more. Now it's drawing the gill a subrocedure. Now the bottom of the fish Steven is using the ideas of angle of subrocedure of arc and of circle in a confident purposeful way. The tail the triangle part is made out of a procedure called try one. First you got to do right 60, then forward 50, back 50, left 60, forward 50, back 50, left 60, forward 50, back 50, and so on. Now it's doing a firm. That's a radius of 300 and a um arc of 90. I made a big radius. And then I went sector left which will go right over it and bring it back. Then I made a smaller radius of the same arc and then it would do that again. Then it's even smaller one. It will do that again. And that's how I got the fern. There we are. There's the finished picture. I made a big song and I used that for part of it and then I made an accompanying with it with the drum and that's um The kids told me that's a spiral. I think there was a new mathematical word that was born there that's going to stick. I'd call that real discovery. Good. Don't spend time with this. Um, turn the people next to you. Talk to them a little bit. What are what are the things that you saw in there that coher with ideas that you read about from other communities of situated learning? What are some things that you saw in there that cohered with cognitive load theory? Do you see sort of evidence of direct instruction that was in there anywhere? Um and then what kind of learning environments have you been like um where you learned in this kind of way that was pleasurable? And have people been in learning environments where you've sort of learned in this way that you found very unpleasurable and unlikable? Then discuss that for a couple minutes. Ready? Go. Every good. What are what are what are some connections that people made? What are some things that uh where you saw examples of uh situated learning or cognitive load theory or things that seem pleasurable or or frustrating? What did you talk about in your groups? We were talking about learning like programming in general or it seems like you always need some base level of whether it's the instructions or knowing whatever commands there are in logo and that most likely comes from more of an instructional place but then you can get into these situations like we saw in the video where it becomes open world but it still seems like you need some base level where CLT needs to come in. All right. Yeah. Or or some kind of direct instruction. Where where did where what what evidence of direct instruction did people um did people see? Like where were you like h that kid didn't figure that out on their own? I mean just the terminology they figured out like procedure subrocedure all of these things are a kid a kid wouldn't just figure these out. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't seem like Steven came up with the term procedure and subrocedure. Like pretty sure somebody taught him you know sat down and said this is you know here are a couple of useful definitions that will allow us communicate with us more clearly. Um also we were talking about like when the two girls were talking to each other it was like one at the beginning was like instruct instructing the other. Yeah. So, I guess that's kind of like Oh, very direct instruction. Yeah. Instruction within like a situated learning environment. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's it's Yeah. Yeah. It's a it's a kind of worked example like, oh, I'm going to show you how I you know, I made a thing like I'm going to, you know, we're going to make this thing together right now by first of all, play each of the pieces. Now, we're going to play all the pieces together. I've already learned how to do that. you know what makes it a kind of peer learning uh uh situated learning kind of thing is it's one young person teaching it to another person but does seem to be you know direct instruction for sure. Um that kind of led us into a conversation about how like within situated learning like that there's like kind of two ways that it can be seen as like you have someone who's like an old-timer like the the other girl like explaining to the other the like the other girl about um the situation that they were working with. But then there's also the instances when it was just like the student and the computer and that like you kind of lost that like social aspect that you have of like learning from another person. Um and then we like went into like an interesting conversation about whether like maybe the student was like having a social interaction from themsel and like learning with the computer as a tool or maybe they were having a social interaction with the computer itself and like they were learning from the computer and the computer was like learning what like they really wanted the outcome to be. So yeah. Yeah, good. Yeah, that's definitely something we'll think about more as we go along. Like what kind of agent is the machine? What kind of relationship do we have uh to the machines? How does the machine motivate? How does the machine explain? The thing that seems pretty rad here that that seem more pepper is the machine gives some great feedback. Although lots of other things do. Um uh hand drills give great feedback. You know, when you like go through the wall, you know it. And when you like, you know, hit something metal or something like that, you know it and you get that kind of instant feedback. Um there are other things that we teach people where it's just hard to imagine where that instant feedback might come from. Um writing is often that way especially like writing other people. There's nothing that a sort of screen right we haven't built things very well where a machine can tell you like oh that's a compelling way of expressing that idea um in the same way that I can be like oh my swan is on its side. Um so sort of different you know different technologies or and different in you know different things that we study have have different capacity to give us immediate feedback about what we're doing. Um good other has anybody ever been in an environment like this where you're like oh my gosh this is the worst do students have experience in this kind of like open-ended learning where you're like this is terrible. Yeah, I remember this like one or I guess the some more recent MIT experience where basically one of the classes like final project was very like open-ended and they were like, "Oh, like just like design this game." And I was like, "Wow, like it would be nice to get some kind of Yeah, will you please show me how to design this game? Like I don't like someone has figured this out before. Like I don't I don't want to explore this space forever." I've definitely have people who who have taken this class and they watch this video and they're like, "Give me a break." Like just show me how to use the turtle. them. Um I would say in high school um a lot of the AP computer science classes are like very into like this kind of situated learning. But then if you have certain classrooms where like in my instance it was like just overloaded with people who just need an elective and they were like you have to take this class then it becomes that um like peer-to-peer interaction becomes an issue where it's like okay you have three people who are trying to teach like 30 other people how to do a specific thing because you're in the same like group and they have to pass and they don't really care anyway. Good. people have different motivations or I mean a huge problem that computer science education has is that people unlike other subjects people come to it with very different levels of background experience. Um so like none of you probably ever took a geology class where like a third of the kids were like man I just love geology like I do I do geology all the time in my spare time. I'm way ahead of you guys. But that is essentially what just about every computer science class we teach is like where a chunk of people are like way into it know a bunch more already. Um, and in fact, those open-ended environments can be can be really great for those folks who have that extra expertise, and they can be a real bummer for people who like can't jump in as naturally. Harmon, what was you going to say? Uh, I think what this made me think of is how CLT and situated learning cannot be really separated from each other. Sometimes you need CLT to give framework for students and then from that I guess you can fire the wood and the situated. Yeah. Good. Good. I like it. I like it. Yeah. Yeah. What are the I think that's a great question to ask. What are the different sort of combination and permutations like the reason why these ideas have existed that we can find evidence of them for 2,000 years is that like they both seem pretty good. Um they both seem useful in different ways. You know, here you know here is here you know um Seymour Papard is once talking about like his teachers lying to them and despising schools. But you can also find sort of school things like we're going to need some definitions that I teach you um that are kind of woven even in this sort of extreme example. Um let me give you a few pieces from the thing that you read u from a guy named Jean Le um who with another person named Eddiad Winganger um really advanced some of these ideas. Um and I want you to like be thinking about like so how is the like what are the methods that this person uses to study? What are the kind of arguments they make? What are the implications for pedagogy? what's their framework about um human beings and how they learn and where do these things lap and overlap you know some like it can often seem like when you're writing about you know if you read a bunch of stuff on cognitive load theory it seems like they're just talking about instruction and they mostly are but they're ways at talking about instruction that evoke their beliefs about culture that evoke their beliefs about values that evoke their beliefs around methods and outcomes even if they don't talk about those things as much in this chapter I propose to consider learning not as a process process of socially shared cognition that results in the end in the internalization of knowledge by individuals but as a process of becoming a member of a sustained community of practice. Um so anytime you read anything a thing that you're almost all probably trained to do is try to figure out like what is the person's core argument like what is the thing they're arguing for. An equally useful thing to do almost anytime you read anything is to try to figure out what is this person arguing against. Um, and people are often not that explicit. Um, you know, he's not sort of saying like these jerks who are really like big on schools and direct instruction have totally missed this stuff. But there's that's kind of what he's he's getting at in here. And it's and it's a radical statement. Learning is not the internalization of knowledge. You know, last week I told you that for some of these kind of educational psychology people, memory is the residue of thought. Like the entire end point of cognitive load theory is to store memories facts as memories in our long-term memory. Um not as the internalization of knowledge as individuals but as a process of becoming a member of a sustained community of practice developing an identity as a member of a community and becoming knowledgeably skillful are part of the same process. You cannot separate storing things in long-term memory from building relationships with other people. Um with the former motivating one of the key things that we remember our colleague Michael Pashan you know not a theory of everything where is the motivation with the former motivating shaping and giving meaning to the latter which it subsumes it is difficult to move from peripheral to full participation in today's world including workplaces and schools thereby developing knowledgeably skilled identities. This is because the processes by which we divide and sell labor, which are ubiquitous in our way of producing goods and services, including knowledge, truncate both the movement from peripheral to full participation in the scope of knowledgeable skill. Taken to an extreme, these processes separate identity from intended forms of knowledgeable practice. This view implies that learning and failure to learn are aspects of the same social historical processes and points to relationships between knowledgeability and identity as important focus for research. These jerks, these education psychologists keep trying to convince you that what learning is is just shoving stuff in your brain. It's not. There are always people around when we're learning. Even when we're learning by ourselves, reading books and stuff like that, there are people in our minds or communities that we see ourselves being part of. Um try, you know, trying to understand how learning happens in schools or any other learning environment without thinking about the social environment that people learn is bonkers, is nuts. Um, it just it it it denies a crucial part of our humanity. Um, here's a a blog post that you can look at later if you sort of follow this. It's by a wonderful math educator named Dan Meyer. Um, who has been trying to explain to people why he thinks AI chat bots are a stupid idea and will not work. Um, and and uh and the you know his core issue is like nobody wants to talk to a computer. Like maybe the computer can provide a sort of perfect direct instructional sequence, but like the kids who are in my eighth grade algebra classroom, they don't want to be there. They're not interested in algebra. Um I love this framing. He's, you know, he a students attend school to answer two questions. Who am I? And how do I do this? Those are the two things they're thinking about all the time. Who am I? And how do I do this? A chatbot cannot help you at all with the first question. Um but the other thing I want to bring up here and you can disagree with that and we'll talk about more when we talk about chatbots but um who am I and how do I do this? This is exactly what Jean La was discussing that identity cannot be separated from the acquisition of knowledge. Um and I think most of you probably if you think of your own classroom exper you know think of your own school experience like I spent a lot of time in middle school and high school thinking to myself in one form or another who am I? Um what do people think of me? What kinds of relationships do I have? Why am I here? What am I supposed to be doing? Um uh Jordan has carried out extensive field research in the Yakatan Maya wavel whose apprenticeship is quite different more effective and less exploitative than the butchers of marshall study. The apprentices are peripheral participants legitimate peripherence and legitimate peripheral to the practice of midy. What did you all take away from what you think like what is legitimate peripheral practice or periphery? Like what does that mean sort of in your own words? What do you think Dana? Like they're doing work that like matters, but they're not like doing the main work. Like they're doing side tasks that are like helping them understand the main process, but like they themselves are not like giving birth to the child. Good. Good. And and there's a space there. A space is held for those people. It is expected that there are going to be some folks who are hanging around midwives who are not quite midwives yet. And that's normal. They're supposed to be there. Um, it's not a classroom of 20 people all lined up who are supposed to be doing the same thing all the time. There's supposed to be some people in the middle and there's supposed to be some people on the outside. I want to pose a question too to think of the relationship between what uh Gene Le was talking about the midwives and the butchers in the thinking. What's the difference between peripheral participants and legitimately peripheral participants? Do folks remember what they described about the butchers? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Was that the butchers even though like they were doing peripheral work, they were separated in space from the like the experts. So they didn't they wouldn't really pick up on things as opposed to midwives who still observe what the legitimate the expert was doing. Yeah. So what does that mean in terms of being a part of that community and then shaping the learning that they're able to acquire? If I'm a butcher and I'm I'm part of the community, if I'm standing over here cutting my meat, using my tool, that's all I get to do. And then Justin's over there, you know, hanging out with the pig or whatever it is, right? What am I losing then? The social aspect. The social aspect, right? Am I able to observe him? Can I see what he's doing when he leaves? Can I pick it up from watching? Totally miss that. But then what about the midwife? How's that different? How do they describe the midwife relationship? Justin, I hope this is okay. I love this book. So, yeah. Go ahead. Um, so I think the one of the main differences is beyond the fact that it wasn't supposed to be more efficient. So there was no capitalist aspect to it. There was a lot of culture embedded in it. So like the daughter of a midwife would become midwife, meaning that at 5 years old, they would already kind of be present in that situation and start like picking up on what was going on and then progressively have a more like protagonist role to that experience. So yeah. So like although both could be argued as peripheral, right? We're we're in the same space. We're hanging out. Like who's welcome in the community and then what type of knowledge are you able to gain from that type of peripheral participation? It's kind of cool. It's subtle, right? Yeah. All right. That's all I got. I have Can I make Okay. um the the previous paragraph I had a lot of reflection about it and I don't nec like kind of that in some aspects I'm not sure how you feel about it but like I really like the point that he makes about like learning kind of makes forms your identity as part of this social group right and I think that really applies to kids for example kind of like they come from this per peripheral existence and develop their own identities and become like a committed like functioning part of society. But then it really made me think like oh how do we think about it like from an abbleist um perspective right where people cannot acquire certain knowledges or certain abilities and does that mean they have less of an identity like I really thought about that for a while and at the same time there's like a criticism in the book about like commoditization of knowledge because before like with midwives etc like okay it was this really specific group of people teaching this very kind of like expertise u whereas today we have universities and we have schools or you can kind of get to whatever class and learn things, but it's not necessarily all bad, right? Because that would imply that if you're the daughter of the midwife, you don't really have a lot of say into becoming or not a midwife, right? Like the way that society was structured back then likely you would kind of become one because that's what expected of you. Whereas like when you kind of can choose that you have some sort of agency and power even if you won't have that exposure as a peripheral participant since a since you were a kid. So like it really made me think of many things. Great. Good. Good. And and none of them have to be resolved either. Um you know that that uh um probably probably some important things to take away are like how Jean assigns values to these different kinds of institutions. like he thinks it's a big problem, you know, a big problem with schools and university is sort of ripping knowledge away from these broader social contexts. Um that you go and take a physics class and in the vast majority of physics 101 classes, no one is trying to get you to be a physicist. They're not trying to get you to develop the identity of a physicist. They're just trying to teach you the physics. And what is lost sort of in that? Of course, what's pretty rad about like walking into a campus full of people who will be like, "Yeah, I'll teach you any of these atomized little things for you to learn." like that seems kind of cool too. Um it is worth noting that it would be difficult to find evidence that teaching is the mode of knowledge transmission amongst the midwives. Um he makes this claim that like you wouldn't find direct instruction amongst the midwives. Um I mean Jordan did the fil work and not me. That seems totally laughable to me. I've spent time with lots of people of lots of ages, learns lots of kinds of things and people are always transmitting and explaining stuff. It's always sort of nested in there. Um but there's a kind of politics of John Lave like we don't even need to explain these things. We don't even need to teach these people. We can learn it just like babies learn it sort of in their natural environment. You just you know just like you have to surround babies with language and they'll learn language. You surround young girls with birth and pregnancy and they learn midwiffery. Um uh apprenticeship happens as a way in the course of daily life. It may not be recognized as teaching effort at all. Again sort of doubling down like there's no instruction here. If there instruction, the people are lying to you and you should despise them. Um, a Maya girl who eventually became a midwife most likely as a mother, a grandmother as a midwife. Girls in such families without being identified as apprentice midwives absorb the effence of midwife practice as well as specific knowledge about many procedures simply in the process of growing up. They know what the life of a midwife is like, what kinds of stories the women and men who come to consult her tell, what kind of herbs and other remedies might be needed to collected. As young children, they might be sitting quietly in their corner. As their minister mother administers a prenatal massage, they would hear stories of difficult cases of miraculous outcomes and the like. As they grow older, they may be passing messages, running errands, getting needed supplies. A young girl might be present as her mother stops for a postpartum visit after the daily shopping trip to the market. Eventually, after she has a child herself, she might come along to her birth, perhaps because her alien grandmother needs someone to walk with, and thus finds herself doing for the woman in labor what other women had done for her when she gave birth. That is, she may take a turn at supporting the laboring woman. Eventually, she may even administer prenatal massages to the selected clients. At some point, she may decide she actually wants to do this kind of work. She then pays more attention, but only rarely does she ask questions. Her mentor sees their association, primarily one that is of some use to her. Rosa already knows how to do a massage, so I can send her if I'm too busy. Um, that is just a beautiful description of kind of legitimate peripheral participation, moving from the periphery to the center. You just watch this thing for a while and then your mom's hands are a little sore and so you do the massage this time and you know how to move the massage cuz it happened to you. You've seen it a zillion times. Are any of you part of sort of clubs or groups at MIT that have learning that feels like this? I guess like technically a lot of theater clubs are similar where people are just doing this like how do you become a stage manager? I don't know. Look at what the stage hand. Oh, and and the other thing is like you start as a stage hand like Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come, you know, you watch some theater. Yeah. You know, just stand there and like you're like between the second and third act like hand this prop to that person. Um and you're probably never going to take stage manager class. You're just going to hand that prop once and then you're the prop master and then the stage manager gets sick and you do it for the night and then you're the stage manager. Yeah, I think theater has a ton of stuff like this. That's a great example. What are you going to say, Omar? In the tech and technique, we have what's called like shadowing. So, when we go out for photo assignments where there's a studio photography assignment or something out in the field, um we can always have like a someone shadowing us and they can also be taking photos with their own camera and sometimes we will use their work as well. So, they can also do legitimate periphery work. I love it. and you have intentionally sort of held space for that. You've kind of designed like, oh yeah, come, you know, come along, hang out with us. Um, and you probably have parties and other kinds of things like that where it's like, oh, you know, where like some of you are just goofing around, but some of it you're like, ah, the story that we gota d, you know, I'm sure like them telling the stories of of difficult cases and miraculous outcomes. I'm sure the tech has other similar kinds of difficult cases and miraculous outcomes. I was going to say like on sports teams like when people become captains like not often is the coach sitting them down and being like this is how you be a captain, this is how you lead people. It's more like they just like naturally have this like personality of doing that of like maybe they grew up and like their their mom was like a girl boss or like they like just grew up seeing stuff like that. So then like you kind of have like that natural progression into like just learning by doing. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Pretty. What were you going to say, Sabrina? Okay, this is kind of a dumb example, but I like I'm really bad at Smash, so I always get placed with the best Smash player, and then we're on a team against two other people who are also really good, but this person is so good that like they carry they carry, but I'm kind of learning along with them. Um, and like I kind of like hold off onto the side where I just kind of like try to like hold lives while they like destroy the other people. Um, and I think that's kind of periphery. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean in and in that particular community it's a space of legitimate peripheral participation which somewhat exists because of this like fairness balancing kinds of things and so you know like every learning environment like the substance of uh Super Smash Brothers determines like where the legitimate you know and it determines spaces for peripheral partition that's different than journalism that different than sports that different but this theory is giving us commonality where we can talk about really different things that might arise in different circumstances be like I I think that's actually kind of the same thing and it's kind of spaces that I'm finding for learning. Um, in short, when official channels offer only a possibility to participate in institutionally mandated forms of commoditized activity, genuine participation, membership, and legitimate access to ongoing practice of a practice considered worthy to the name are rare. Practice is not to be found in schools and workplaces. At the same time, schools and school-like workplace educational enterprises accord knowledge skill a reified existed turning it from into something to be acquired and its transmission into an institutional motive. This process generates pressures towards the trivializing decomposing of forms or activity. The result is a widespread generation of negative identities of misrecognized or institutionally disapproved insistential communities of practice. um that some of the things that might feel most academic might feel less or least identity oriented to you. Um because there's not, you know, think about like what like what degrees here would be like I'm not sure there's a way to be a legitimate peripheral participant there. Like there's a way to learn the stuff. There's a way to be taught the discreet parts of this course or subject or major, but I I like I'm not learning how to be a part of this community. Um uh okay. Um, here are three things that I'll have you do together um for five or 10 minutes, which might involve some drawing. Um, uh, so grab grab some paper or some board space. Um, what see if you could draw sort of the equivalent of human cognitive architecture. Um, see if you could draw like just just like just like you drew these diagrams for um, uh, cognitive load theory. What is the diagram you would draw for um situated learning? Um what is um based on that cognitive architecture? Um what is the pedagogy that follows? So based on like the sort of key fundamental principles of of situated learning, cognitive load theory said like here's a model of human cognitive architecture. Here are series of like clearly defined effects. The situated learning people are not as good as like enumerating in bullet points all of their pieces, but it's all in there. um what are some of the what are some of the like instructional practices that follow from this model? Um think about those two things and then also see if you can sort of recreate some of your ven diagrams um of what are the categories of things that seem separate from um cognitive learning and situated learning and what are the things that they seem to be quite similar on um or quite together on. Um take 10 minutes to again grab one person or two other people do some drawing, do some composing. Feel free to pull up your notes from your learning journal where you should have done some of this uh things. And if any of these questions, you don't have to you don't have to spend equal time on all three questions. If you dive in on one, that's fine. But those three should keep you busy for eight minutes or something like that. Make sense? Ready? You go. So, one one thing I love about almost all of these drawings is it's kind of impossible to draw these models without drawing other people. Um, that when you all developed a kind of human cognitive architecture in cognitive load theory, you were sort of drawing like one brain. And actually like actually most of your drawings you didn't even really represent the rest of the world. But in this model it's impossible not to represent the rest of the world and in particular other people um because learning fundamentally is social and your identity is fundamentally reflective of your connections with uh with other people. So these are good. Um you read a little piece of um give P's a chance. So four P's from Mitch Resnik about projects passion uh play and peers. Hopefully, you can now start mapping some of these ideas to what we talked about the reason, you know, projects, kind of open-ended explorations, making music, making uh funny shape, having a robot draw funny shape somewhere. Um, those are spaces for open-ended exploration, for doing multiple kinds of things. Um, projects have more space for peripheral participation, like multiple people can be making music, even if someone's a little bit better at making music than the other person. um that they are um that that learning environments here are are driven by interests. Um you know there's very little reference in cognitive load theory to things like well yeah and sometimes the kids don't like learning math so they just don't. Um although that's very real. Um some some of the young w some of the daughters and midwives wanted to become midwives and some didn't. Um and for the ones who did want to become midwives they followed that interest and those who didn't went and did other things. Um, and in these kinds of models of learning, that's actually okay and really important. We're not supposed to make everyone better at everything. We're supposed to let people follow their interests and get good at the things that they want to get good at. um that in environments in which there is a kind of lightness to the environment where uh you know lightness play creates space for multiple forms of participation like like things don't have to be optimized um to to get to the the you know fastest best trajectory for all people. There can be like room to to play and mess around and try other things. And then you know doing it with other people is essential as you can see in kind of all of these kinds of things you know and part of what uh um you know in some ways the real genius Jean Leave was a woman I misrepresented her as a man before and Aaron hopefully corrected me. Um Eddie Wanger her partner is a co-writer as a guy. Um is is it's not it's not just like people hanging out with each other. we can describe repeated patterns we see of legitimate peripheral participation um of old-timers and newcomers um of uh there's lots in Le's work that you probably read that was about trying to trying to find new language to get away from the experts and noviceses because it's not ju that's part of it but it's not just that um it's our time in its community it's our space in community those kinds of things so there's some so just like in cognitive load theory you could say here's a human cognitive architecture here's a set of pedagogical principles that follow from that. Um, Jean Leave can describe these social interactions. We can as you can abstract from them some models of uh of human cognitive architecture and say well okay from those models there are some instructional principles that follow. Um if I were to draw one of these I think a thing that I would pay a bunch of attention to is that um you know the thing in in both learning models like you learn what you attend to. Um seeing is really important. Um, a key insight of of uh situated learning is that we attend to things that interest us and motivate us and where where we find our identity and care about like how you know if looking at something is essential to get people to learn about it then we ought to think very carefully about what motivates us to look at a thing. Um, uh, T-ball for me is a, um, a a a canonical example of a kind of activity which it would be almost impossible to teach primarily through cognitive load theory. Um, like it's really hard to imagine teaching kids baseball where you're like, "All right, sit down everyone. Like we're all going to watch a worked example of how you, you know, hit a ball or like like we have to learn the rule book of baseball." Like the way we teach kids baseball is we're like, "What is the fastest way we can get young people with limited coordination and no knowledge of the rules to play something like baseball? How do we get them baseballing as soon as we possibly can?" And some genius was like, "Don't do the pitching. Like, get rid of the pitching. Just put the ball on the stick and they can just hit the ball." Um, it h it it it has some kind of cognitive relationship to sort of part whole practice um to devolving scaffolding and things like that. There's a there's a researcher at Harvard uh who wrote a book called Making Learning Whole. Um where he said that that one of the things we can often do in curriculum that we underestimate is get people playing the whole game as early as possible. Um you could we'll talk about this more, but think about like what subjects have you taken in MIT that let you start playing the whole game as soon as possible and what require you to sort of build up lots of elementary pieces before you can do the thing that that whole discipline does. Um but ba baseball instruction in the United States like very difficult to imagine in a cognitive load theory framework. Um like very pleasant for millions of young people in a more experiential situated kind of way. All right. You did this a little bit. Um which is good. Here is one thing that I would like to have in the center of your ven diagrams of things that are similar. Um this I this is a misconception that my students have had over the years that I want to correct. um they're the cognitive loads theorists and the situated learning people agree on what expertise looks like. They agree on what high quality practice looks like. I don't think you'd find these people. They would not disagree about what a great body player or a great carpenter or a great surgeon or a great lawyer looks like. Um they would believe that sometimes people think that the cognitive load theorists want people who are experts to be really like rigid and disciplined and pattern repeating and that is not the case. That is not what they want as the end point. You know they they want your cancer surgeon to be dynamic and flexible when they cut open your belly um and find cancerous tumors and are pulling them out of there. Um they want poets to be creative and imaginative. They just think that the way that you develop the knowledge base that lets you be creative and flexible and dynamic and strategic is through really disciplined instruction. Um because if you don't go through a process of really disciplined instruction, um it's hard to get good at things because no one no one has showed you how to do fundamental pieces um in clear ways. Um I have a couple colleagues, Jal Meta and Sarah Fine. Um J still at Harvard. uh s was there for a while in his uh was it high-tech high graduate school of education for a while who said who studied schools a lot studied very different schools with very different pedagogical philosophies and found that across all of them they tended to believe that expertise consisted of mastery identity and creativity that you knew a bunch of stuff in a domain um that you developed an identity in that domain and that you were able to do flexible creative work um you know a bunch of physics equations and when to apply them you feel like you're kind of a physicist and a scientist and when you need to do something novel like build a bridge um or launch a rocket or something like that, you're not just following steps, but you're doing things that are that are creative um and expressive. One one way that I would um I think the cognitive load theorists and situated learning people tend to imagine different pathways at getting at these goals. Um, so the cognitive load theorists tend to think that mastery is like the starting point. If you know the stuff, if you can do the pieces, then a we often most enjoy things that we're good at. So like get you good at doing things. There's, you know, there's there there's there's lots of debates in the country right now, we'll talk about them some, about teaching kids to read. Um, and there's some folks who say like we just have to let kids explore books and find what they're interested in. And there other folks are like, you know what's fun about reading is actually being able to read. So like teach them a bunch of phonics and explain to them the basics of how to construct words. And that's what makes reading enjoyable. That would make people feel like readers, you know, not when they have like a beautiful library of things to choose from, whatever they want, but when they can actually make sense of what's in there. There's some sense in that. Um, you develop some kind of identity and then you get then you have the opportunity to do creative practice that builds that mastery. There are other people who say start with things like creativity. Start by getting people to play around in the space as much as possible so that they're motivated. Um so that they say, "Man, like I am AI am a this. I want, you know, I'm AI'm a baseball player. Like I, you know, I swung on a ball on a stick a few times." Um but now I am a baseball player. Um, and because I'm a baseball player, like in my heart, um, I'll memorize all the statistics and learn the rules and go to practice, you know, and eventually do like really boring learning kinds of things. Um, the sort of masteryoriented discipline kinds of things, but because I know how fun it is to play around in this space. Um, what what do you think at MIT are the are the subjects or courses that you would take that would be more canonically sort of mastery first oriented? What are what are the subjects you would take that you would like start with the smallest pieces or or by contrast if it's easier? What are the ones that seem to be more creativity first? I think more like bioheavy classes would definitely be like mastery first because if you don't understand like the basic of cells like you're not getting anywhere like you can't go like chapter 2 without understanding like good. So it seems to be, you know, so eventually you can do some like pretty rad computational biology, biological engineering here, but there's not a lot in bio 101 where they're like, "Yeah, let's like have cells start generating novel proteins or things like that." I would say most of the general requirements like especially like the chemistry requirements and the biology requirements are like with the hopes that hey if you learn a little bit about this maybe then you become interested and want to go further and want that to be your major. But yeah, so so which which ones do that through like giving you a bunch of facts and which ones do that by letting you sort of play the whole game? I mean my understanding is that a number of the engineering departments like in mechanical engineering you'd be more likely earlier in your career to be like we're going to build a robot. Um and like do you know how to build a robot? No. Are you going to be good at building a robot? No. You're going to build a lousy robot. We're going to let you build a crummy robot. and some TA is going to put their arm around your shoulder and be like, "That robot's okay. That robot's only okay because you don't know anything about control systems." But guess what? Guess what? One of our junior classes is control systems. You're like, "Ah, I can't wait to take control system. It's going to be boring. It's going to be like a bunch of equations and other pets and things like that." But there's a robot that you want to drive. Um, the neat program I think at MIT is really about trying to create a bunch of these like experiential experiences. I mean, historically, if you were to look at our curriculum across MIT, many more things would be much more like this. I mean, like our math curriculum, I think, is very much this way. Like, you're just going to do math that other people have figured out for years and years, and maybe by the time you get to the end of MIT, but you might have to wait till graduate school that you can do some new math that someone else has never done before. Um, my uh my wife teaches the material science department. Um, and uh some of the stuff with like the Breaker Lab that they just developed and things like that. um where like they did an early exercise in one of our classes which is build products from the worst possible materials. Um so like phone cases that were made of sponges and absorbed water or um locks that were made of clear plastic where you could see all the tumblers and things like basically like play around with materials, do stuff with materials and then you're going to take like some super boring really hard classes but you're motivated to take those things. So I think you can look across environments um and see how they choose different pathways um through these uh these different if you look at reading instruction in the United States there's a huge debate right now about do you start with mastery and facts and pieces and build up to readers um or do you start by exposing people to books and letters and words and the things they love and and lots of time um you know and almost no course of study is the answer only one of those things like nobody believes you should just do creativity I think almost all of our subjects like have classes which are like okay time to buckle down and learn this thing. But we can often think about like how we order these things differently to produce more motivation or develop identity or other kinds of things like that. Um but again the like across different pedagogical philosophies is almost always the case that people have a very shared idea about what expertise is. Um so I think even people who you know um are situated learning folks um you know they like they they they don't want you to like invent midwiffery a new like they want the babies consistently delivered in safe healthy ways. Um uh so that so it's that it's different beliefs about how you get there. Um there are efforts to reconcile these things which I didn't make you read but if you wanted to explore a little bit more I'll give you an introduction to one of them um in the rabbit hole for this week. Ken Kadinger has a a couple of things you can look at. The the lecture he gives is actually the easiest way of getting it. There's a video in there. It's quite good. Um the knowledge learning instruction framework and he says one useful way to think about this um is that there are um uh more complex and less complex knowledge components in the things we learn. So there are things like um you know Chinese characters and there are things like you know um anthropological principles about how society are organized um and there different levels of complexity. There's also um sort of learning processes and there's things like flashc cards um and then you know which is just for memorizing stuff um and then there's things like um talk and explaining and sense making and stuff like that um and he has a theory that basically um you know you should be matching instructional components to how complex um the knowledge component learning processes to how complex the knowledge components are. Um he has a nice uh sort of this is kind of like a giant science which is in process where here are a bunch of things that people were trying to learn. Chinese vocab, French articles, chem models, pressure concept. Here are a bunch of uh instructional strategies, optimal scheduling, feedback, worked examples, accountable talk, collaboration and you find that like the you know these are less complex to more complex teaching. this is less complex to more complex um uh uh knowledge components and that like basically where you get uh studies with statistically significant effects on learning is when you kind of move through the middle of this space when you map the right knowledge component to the right learning process. I don't know that Ken Kinger and his colleagues have totally figured this out either. Um but it's one way to start sort of reconciling some of these ideas. Okay. Um the the most important thing for Wednesday is that we're meeting at the MIT Museum. Please try to be at the MIT Museum. Like if you could if you can get there by 1 and get checked in and put your bag in the locker, then we can start class at 105. So make every effort to get there as soon as you can. There's a few pieces of reading. Um the Steven Wolf thing is totally worth your time and it will require a little attention. Like you'll have to sort of move your way through it, but he does just a beautiful job explaining the fundamentals of generative pre-trained models. um a little bit about neural networks and things like that. And then there's a bunch of other readings that are in there. Some of which are about the mu the exhibits you'll see at the museum and some are some other educational things that me and some other folks at MIT have written about uh GPT. Um and then be sure you refresh yourself and you start thinking about working on the assignment because you now have two of the crucial building blocks that you'll need for the assignment. Um which is some sense of direct instruction, cognitive load theory, and some sense of constructionism, situated learning, um progressive learning kinds of things. And you'll need both of those ideas to do assignment number one. And we'll talk a little bit about uh how we want to do assignment number one on Wednesday. Stay safe in the snow. Have a wonderful uh next couple days. And I'll see you at the museum on Wednesday.