To participate in this next exercise, you'll have to grab um one of these uh uh index cards that are on the table that correspond to a particular technology. It looks like film, radio, and television are amongst the remaining ones. Um and you'll get in small groups um and uh work on those. Here's what I'd like you to do. Find the other people who have the same card as you. Um, uh, discuss what you learned from the readings, anything that sort of stands out to you, comes to your mind. But then I want you to make a chart, which you can do on the whiteboard or on our um, blue pieces of paper there. Um, that uh, that capture sort of three key ideas. First of all, who are all of the stakeholders who are involved in the implementation of this technology? One of the things that I think Larry Cubin is particularly wonderful at um is giving you a sense of all of the different hands that touch a technology making its way into a school and all the when it's in the school. This is incredibly important for understanding how technologies actually get used um in in sort of a lot of times in like canonical design. And I think this comes up in sort of software engineering classes and things like this idea that like there's a programmer and a user and the user is like one person who's sitting at a keyboard with their fingers on the keyboard and like that's the person you need to pay attention to. And that like two-part model of like designer and user totally breaks down in schools. Um there are lots of people who are very different who could be considered users of technology in schools. Um, another thing that's that Larry Cubin does really well is he he he helps us pay attention to how these people have what I'll call different interests. By interests, I don't mean curiosities. I mean like incentives, stakes, sort of how a political scientist might use the word interest. Um, all of these different stakeholders are rewarded for different kinds of things. Um, they also have what we'll call disinterests or disincentives. they are also trying to avoid or will be punished for different kinds of things. Um so for the technology that you that you picked a card of and are talking with your colleagues about think of all of the different people who you think could be considered stakeholders in the implementation of this thing. What and then for each of those stakeholders come up with like a couple of their interests and a couple of their disinterests or disincentives or things that punish them or those kinds of things. Does that as a general exercise make sense? Um, and the thing that we're trying to do together is around we want to we want to try to recreate the world around these technologies. That's what I think Larry Cuban is so fabulous at, um, is saying like, yep, a television set is going to roll into a but it's going to roll into a classroom and into a school and into a community and there's all these people who are part of that. Um, that's what we really need to get out here. I'll tell the last thing I'll tell you before I cut you loose um, is Larry Cuban has a totally fascinating history himself. He was a social studies teacher in the 50s and 60s. Then he was a school principal. Then he was a superintendent. He was actually the superintendent in Arlington, Virginia. Um which is where my wife went to school. So when my wife was an elementary school student, um uh her her superintendent at the time was Larry Cuban. Um and are Arlington, Virginia. Fairfax. Close enough. Yeah. Yeah. Um and it was only after he had like a pretty distinguished career as a teacher, a principal, a superintendent that he went to Stanford. Um got his dissertation. um became a historian of education and then eventually a a history of education professor out there. Um so he's someone who's like extremely well read as I'm sure you got a sense of and things like that, but he also just deeply understands the kinds of things that make schools tick and make the people inside schools tick. Does this exercise make sense? Find the people with your cards. Move yourselves around. Make this little chart either on the board or on these blue pieces of paper. Ready? Go. That's a little bit th those things are those things are hugely important you know like like what like where does teaching actually happen like there's some human being you know who like needs to go to the bathroom and needs to eat and I mean he has that great quote in there it's not about film but television that they found that they're more likely to use television in the afternoon than in the mornings. Um and it and it all it's all like biology and culture like our brains work better in the morning. We're all a little flagging by the afternoon. Those kinds of things. Um, and so yeah, I think that like anybody who's building a technology has to think to themselves like, you know, what are you? Yeah. Yeah. What like what are the variations in a teacher's day? Like when do they have more energy or less energy? How does it fit into those kinds of cycles and things like that? Like those are every bit as real as you know the test score goals that we have or anything else. This is really good. This is really good. Take a few more minutes. Take a few more minutes. We're trying to think about interest for schools for producers. Sure. So, if you're a school, so if you're a school, what would make you go, h I'm not sure I want to do anything with films. It's so it's 1913. Um, silent films, you know, started coming out in earnest around the turn of the century. There's a handful of people um one, you know, the most prominent of them is Thomas Edison. You know, a guy invents a light bulb. Um and he gets in front of Congress and he says, you know, he's first in 1913, he says, I mean, I'll read the other quote, but he says, um, in a decade, textbooks will be replaced by film strips. That's how powerful this new technology is going to be. Um, if you're a school principal, what would be some things that make you go, you're pretty smart, Thomas, but I'm not so sure about this one? Maybe if they just put a bunch of money into textbooks. Sure. So yeah, they have an entire infrastructure built around the existing technologies. They h they have shelves on the wall. They have libraries full of books. Every one of their teachers has been trained to teach with textbooks. And not a single one of their teachers in you know when these things are first introduced has ever been in a class as a student learning from a film. So you have this huge inherent conservatism in the system. So that could be one. What would be what would be some others? I mean, yeah. I mean, I I guess it's kind of adding on to that, but like integrating it into like a classroom setting, like how how would they even like uh integrate into like even even if they're like completely on board like like what how would they even integrate it into a classroom? What for films? What would be what would be some of the challenges of integration? Um like the technology that you would need to like uh put into a classroom or like to a school. Say tell me specifically for films what some of that technology might be. Um I mean like isn't I I don't think like the the projectors in like back then could like fit into like a classroom. Oh, they so they could I mean you know like they're they're portable enough but they're big. They're these like big lumbering machines for which the rooms are like if you have if you have a classroom like let's say you have a big population growth and so you're you're you built you you know someone in the 1850s built a school and it was 12 kids per classroom and now you're putting 18 kids per classroom in there. Like a totally legitimate reason would be there is not space in this room to physically move this machine. Like what are some other sort of what else do you need for films as a technology to be able to be implemented? Do you need a giant projector? You're going to put thing on wheels. What else do you need? A place to actually project it onto. Okay, good. You're going to have to go to all your classrooms and you're going to have to install screens at the front of the room. Like not the hugest challenge, but also not free, you know, not like like so who's going to do these things? Um, you know, the uh the films also came on these like huge reels. Um, you know, it wasn't just like, you know, pick your YouTube channel and play like where in your building are you going to keep a library of film reels? Who's going to organize those libraries of film reels? Like um you know if you have four elementary schools in an or four elementary classroom like let's say have four first grades, are you going to buy four copies of this film so that everyone can watch it at the same time? If not, how are you going to like physically organize and move like this giant reel from one space to another? Those are all those are all you know you could imagine the principal being like but how are we but how are we but how are we but how are we and all this stuff costs money. Um, so those are all kinds of, you know, like like, you know, Thomas Edison is here telling you that you're going to get 100% efficient learning through this thing, which is the potential gains, which you no one has any evidence for because it hasn't happened yet. But you've got to think to yourself like like what are all these costs? What are all these material changes? Yeah. So think about how you can articulate some of those things. But good like when you really get like, you know, for to to do this exercise, well, you have to like what exactly is this technology? Like like even physically, what does it require? How many of these things do you need to buy? How much do they cost? All that kind of stuff. How reusable are they? Um, okay. This is really good. Why don't we take a break here? Um, go ahead and you can sit back down to the seats that you were at. Um, I think everyone's written kind of broadly enough um that we'll be able to see from a distance. But yeah, really good. Really good. Now I need to find a little spot for me to um everyone's last minute notes. Every Yeah. Yeah. Now is your chance to put the final the final few things up there. Um good. So every What was the minimum number of stakeholders people came up with? Um these guys are the winners with the longest list. Let's just read it out loud. Co. Oh no. The state admin, parents, teachers, students, corporations, manufacturers, edtech investors, developers, policy makers. Great. So, just as a starting point, I mean, there are some other ones that showed up around here, studios, broadcasters, the FCC, um, that sort of different psychologists. Yeah, there are a lot of people who have something at stake in these decisions. They're complex, multihuman kinds of decisions. So, that's a good start. Um, let me just read. Um, so given how complex these things are, why are folks so enthusiastic about it? Let's ask Thomas Edison. Um, what does Thomas Edison think about this? I believe that the motion picture is destined to revolutionize our educational system and that in a few years it will supplant largely if not entirely the use of textbooks. I should say that on the average we get about 2% efficiency out of school books as they are written today. You're laughing. Why are you laughing? Thomas Edison is just here making up. He doesn't 2% that doesn't mean a thing. He was good at light bulbs. He wasn't maybe as good at this. Um, the education of the future as I see it will be conducted through the medium of the motion picture where it should be possible to obtain 100% efficiency. Thomas Edison 1922. Um, you'll read a couple of other quotes that I have from Thomas Edison. One of them is in here in in failure to disrupt when you read that. But in 1913, he went in front of Congress and said in 10 years the textbook will entire will be entirely replaced by um film strips. And then he went back 10 years later in 1923 and he said in 20 years textbooks will be entirely replaced by film strips. Um I think you can find many similar kinds of arguments that are made today. Um I think you will not have a hard time um finding people who tell you that the oldfashioned techniques are only 2% efficient but the new ones will be 100% efficient. Um so that's the promise. the promise is that we could do substantially better than we're doing right now if we if we think about implementing all of these uh different kinds of technologies. Um so an intuition that you can develop um is that this is this is a century old enterprise. Um for the last 100 110 years people have thought how can we take analog technologies and eventually digital technologies bring them into schools to improve learning. Um there are millions of people who work on education. Many of them are very very smart. Um from the earliest, you know, you read a little bit about um uh personal computers kind of from the 70s and 80s, the Apple 2 plus kind of the generation of computers that I grew up with, but that's actually like 20 years into the game. Um from the moment people built computers the size of this room, um computer scientists, educators, learning scientists partnered together to try to figure out if there's some way to use computers to teach people. So, so just compute, you know, not even all these other radio, film, other things. Computing alone is like a 70-year enterprise of trying to improve schools. There are lots of things that we've tried and learned in 70 years. So, one intuition that I hope you will take away from this class is that when you're thinking about an education technology problem of any form or type, about a design problem, an implementation problem, a policy problem, you should think to yourself, we probably have done something like this before. Um there is nothing that is so new, so utterly different that there aren't like cognate examples that could help us think through whatever these challenges are. Um let's think about a couple of these stakeholders. Which stakeholders seem to appear pretty much in all of them? What's who's who seem to be sort of universal stakeholders? Teachers. Teachers. Let's start with them because they're the best. Um I I love teachers. I would I mean definitely one of the reasons why I do what I do is I just think teachers are great. Um what what kinds of things get teachers excited? What what what if if you're if you're if you want to get a teacher using education technology, what are the what are the felt needs that they have that are going to be really important to them? This is one that I think will be pretty consistent across a bunch of these, but we can see if there are differences, too. Reducing their workload. Okay, good. I love it. reducing workload. Why is that so important to teachers? It's because they have so much they have so much to do. These are not people who spend a bunch of time like sitting around waiting for the phone to ring or something like that. Um teacher workload in the United States is actually in certain ways like much higher than other comparable OECD countries. So O is the organization of economic cooperative development something like that. It's like rich countries 30 or 40 rich countries. Um, American teachers compared to our colleagues in other countries spend more time in front of students actually directly teaching than in many other places. Um, so many other countries in the world like a full-time licensed teacher would have more collaborative planning time, more grading time, other kinds of things like that. So, US teachers compared to their colleagues around the world are like behind the ball on having time anyway. Um, reducing workload is something they care about. What else do they care about? Like it has to spark the students interest. Good. So, they don't want kids to be bored. um that one of their one of their core interests is how am I going to keep these folks motivated? How am I going to keep them learning? What else do they care about? They care about it being of actually good quality. Okay, good. So, like it's really important that learning goes up, that quality is high, um that that you know that that uh teachers take their professionalism very very seriously and that you know and and they're held accountable in various kinds of ways. Um, and this could be different across different kinds of teachers. Um, so in the United States, we primaril we we we test in in certain kinds of ways. We test like way more than every other country does. There's no country that tests all of their students every year, third to eighth grade, in both reading and math. Most other countries are like if you test them in the third grade, you probably wait a couple years to like, you know, I mean, you give them like but you give them assessments or exams or whatever, but you don't give them like big national tests. Um and so if you are a teacher of reading or of math, um your test scores are scrutinized in a way that a science teacher, art teacher, a health teacher, other kinds of teachers are not similarly scrutinized. Um so within the you know there could be different kinds of incentives. One of the things I always enjoyed about being a history teacher is that there there were never really tests that I were preparing my students for. um in the same way I taught in private school, but even my math teacher colleagues like felt like they were preparing students for the SAT, for the APs, things like that. That was never really my concern. Um as a result, like I had to spend less time thinking to myself, this new thing I'm bringing in this classroom, is this going to prepare people for some kind of nearly universal testing experiences? Like my math teacher colleagues always had to be thinking about that. I could be like, well, you know, Tibetan Buddhism isn't on the test, but it's awesome. Let's study it. Um you know, so so that's different. Good. other kinds of things. Yeah. Tai and then Sabrina. Um accessibility and like inclusion. So making sure that like no one's left out from your diverse group of learners from any technology. Yeah. Um and that would not be a universal concern across these decades. um that you know um uh it would it would have been considered much more common to say like certain people have totally unsolvable learning disabilities and society should tend to their welfare in some other kind of way in the 30s and 40s and 50s and then somewhere in the middle of the 20th century we passed um the Americans with Disabilities Act um which which totally transformed our thoughts and in fact you know created a federal right for people to have um you know a a way of being a fair and appropriate public education Um, and I would also just say educa, like as society has gotten more interested in values of inclusion generally, um, what people would have worried about with inclusion with personal computers in the 1980s is very different for what they would be worried about with the computers that are getting in front of their students right now. That's a great one. I'm going to say being able to track student progress. Track progress assessment. Good. Yeah. I mean, actually interesting over this uh century, you know, um some of the earliest technologies had nothing to do with that, radio and film, but one of the very earliest ones you read about um physical teaching machines. Um uh and hopefully you got I mean you saw some pictures um I was just actually looking today there was a Sydney Pressie is one of the people who Audrey Waters writes about. Um and there's somebody on YouTube who had posted this like fabulous two-minute clip of him demonstrating one of his teacher machines and unfortunately that account was deleted before this year's class. Um may maybe I'll send you a version of it later. The only version of the video still exists is one in which a nand augur wall's voice is superimposed of it. Um, so somebody took an audio clip of Anand Agarwal talking about the capacities of Edex. Um, and played the audio over Sydney Pressy demonstrating the teaching machine. Um, and uh, it's a little too close for comfort even though it's a century apart. Um, but teaching machines, they were kind of like typewriters. Um, they had these four keys that were on them and so they would display one question at a time. Um, it was like pre-cantron technology, you know, and then there would be one of four possible answers. Um, in one of the earliest versions, it had a little like bank of mints in the back of them and so when you press the right button, like a little candy or something would roll out and give you like a little behaviorist positive, um, reinforcement kinds of things. Um, but one, you know, one of the main virtues of it was like, oh man, if we could get enough people these things, um, then we could like assess their progress almost constantly. We'd know exactly where they are. So, so this idea of track, you know, tracking student progress is something that's like particularly urgently concerned in our datadriven world, but was still something that people were interested in a century ago. Um, what are what are some of the I'll just put them under here. What are some of the the the would be disincentives for teachers? What are some things that if you were trying to get teachers to adopt new technologies would be the sorts of things that would be barriers for them? Complexity. Why complexity? A lot of there's there's uh some teachers who are more able to adapt to new technologies and some teachers who just cannot understand how certain technologies might work. Yeah. So I so I think I think that aptitude is right. I also many like if you go into teaching there probably probably two things that really drive you. One is you love the content that you teach. That's more true for secondary educators than for early elementary educators but probably true for them. And you probably love people. um very difficult to be a teacher if you don't find people especially young people pretty engaging. the kinds of folks who find people engaging, they might just find tech, it's not 100% overlap, but there just technology is less engaging. Like they didn't want to spend their life sitting in front of a computer typing itself. They wanted to be interacting with people. Um, but the other thing I would say is that there are many educators who spend a lot of time polishing their craft and are good at teaching the way they're teaching right now and have been teaching for the last decade. And so when they see a new piece of technology come in, they're thinking to themselves, is this thing really going to be better than the thing that I've been doing and got good at for a while, um, you know, what am I g what am I I'm going to have to lose something when I integrate this new thing? Like like any technology adoption involves loss. Any change involves loss. You got to give something up. Um, I think giving up it may be pretty good. Um, a lot I think a lot of people think that older teachers because are are less likely to adopt technologies because they're not technology fluent. But having worked with many many teachers, I'm really convinced that there's no relationship between age and technology adoption. There are young teachers that are super interested and there are young teachers who hate it. There are old teachers who are like, I'm pretty good at what I do. And there are old teachers who are old teachers because they've spent the last 20 years going, it's really fun to try new things. It's really fun to try to get better. What was one of your disincentives, Sabrina? uh student distraction. Great. And obviously some of these technologies are more akin to that than others. Like if you're playing a film strip or something like that, like you probably have kids attention or things like that. Um but uh certainly as we get into computers, any anything in which you know the the attention is where where each student is responsible for their own attention um is something that that uh can can raise concerns for teachers because kids like to be attend to all kinds of things. What what other things would be disincentives like teacher displacement like they feel like they're being replaced? Yep. Um so teachers are a profession um you know that that protects their job security with a license and things like that like lots of other professions do like doctors and pharmacists and lawyers and all kinds of people. Um and uh yeah and yeah but most professionals are not super enthusiastic about technology that has the capacity to replace the functions that they're doing. Um, good. Let's think about some of these other um, so, so this is a good one. So, so again, we could think about anytime a new technology is being introduced, is it going to reduce workload? Is it going to spark interest? Will it spark interest in the first three weeks of this new technology being here, will it spark interest two years after the technology has been introduced? Is it going to be of high quality? Do I have control over the quality? Um, accessible inclusion, is it going to improve learning? Will it be able to track assessment? Is it too complex? Will it like distract my students? Is it going to displace essential functions that I perform? Um, those are like that is a good set of questions that you could ask, you know, that Cuban does ask in some ways of radio and film and television and teaching machines and computers. Um, and you could ask them of AI and Khan Academy and I civics and anything else that comes along. Like these are all still good questions to ask. Um, let's try to hit now a bunch of these other stakeholders. Um, who are who are some of the stakeholders that surprised you? Who are the ones that you were like, "Whoa, I wouldn't have thought of this in terms of education technology, weird ones or unique ones." I mean, I thought like my group was the teacher machines and it was like the psychologists that like come up with the ideas um that go into how these technologies are or what they're based on. Um like I guess I never just never really thought like oh like you know it is the people who like thought of constructivism and like situated learning that has then sparked this interest in everything else. Um and so it's like people have ideas but all of that initially stemmed from these like two thoughts of learning. Good. Yeah. So so so people have ideas about what good teaching and learning should be like. Those ideas are in some ways they seem pretty universal because we can find them going back through history but they're als they're always being reinterpreted updated things like that. Um Sydney Pressie is in this moment where behaviorism is an incredibly prominent set of you know set of ideas. This behaviorism you're probably all familiar with of you know you uh punish people when they do things wrong and you reward them when you do things right and you condition their behavior that way. Um and so he creates a physical machine that embodies those ideas. Um there you know and then you know Seymour Papert will come along um and be like oh man why can't we learn math the way that like kids who go to visit France learn French? um why can't we make a thing which is math land? I bet logo could be like math land. He has a set he have a set of ideas about what good teaching and learning looks like and he incorporates those ideas. Um and they and people become partisans of these ideas. Um you know probably the most prominent partisan of education technology in the United States today is Salon. Um who's someone who like had a very particular idea like a like clear vision of what personalized learning would look like. you know, he had he had I don't know if you know about his his personal experience, but he was like a hedge fund person or something like that and his uh um niece was having trouble with math and he started tutoring his niece in math and he put like did it over videos and so he put the videos online, people started watching them. He go, "Wow, what if every person could have this little like personalized tutor?" Um what if each person could sort of study math at their own individual pace? Um, and then he built this whole enterprise and continues to, you know, he he's incredibly enthusiastic about AI right now because like, oh man, instead of just having me record um a tutor for each person, like what if the GPT can like generate personalized text related to each individual person or something like that. Um, and those ideas, you know, they're it's it's not like they're just dropped in the world. They're advocated for. Um, did you all see the New York Time was it New York Times or Washington Post? Somebody wrote an op-ed about um about Salon and AI. It was either in the Washington Post or the New York Times, but it was basically something like this is the first AI that your kid will love or something like that. And it's basically just a sort of celebratory piece of of Kot MIGO. Um good. So, so that's an unusual group, you know, and and those groups um they I mean today they like, you know, like Saw Khan goes on the Today Show and tells people what he thinks. He goes to investor conferences and tells people what he thinks. He goes to schools, you know, Harvard and MIT bringing him in every couple years and things like that. So these folks advocate for their ideas. Um they're not, you know, the ideas the ideas don't fall from the sky. There's a stakeholder who is advancing those ideas. Who are some who are some other stakeholders that seem important? Um, I thought it was weird that you could think about like manufacturers and I mean like like the people who produce transistors which is like TSMC and ASML because if a bunch of schools across America all of a sudden need like thousands and thousands of iPads and you have like this big backlog request on like M2 chips or whatever is in them right now and then someone like TSMC the only people who really produce transistors has this huge float and they make a lot of money. Yeah. Yeah. that that that that people become, you know, that those folks then organize themselves into trade groups um and they go to, you know, they they how do they how do they advance their interests? They do things like um give some of their materials away for schools, demonstration, they create training programs for their materials and share them. Um they have sales and marketing people that go around and get people advanced about that. Um they like sponsor conferences. they, you know, what maybe that they're not even directly advertising for. They're they're just, you know, their presence to try to encourage teachers and other sorts of groups to to be behind it. Um, you know, uh, we spend an enormous amount of money on education every year in the United States and lot, you know, the the biggest chunk of that money goes to pay the salaries of the people who do stuff and another big chunk of that money goes to heating and air conditioning, you know, for which there are people who are selling those things. Um but you know basically the third biggest bucket after those two is the stuff we buy in schools to help people learn. Um and so um uh yeah there there are advocates who are you know the folks who are not neutral in these things. Um there are ways you know Apple computer has been particularly prominent over the last bunch of years and trying to craft a vision of itself as a company um that has a particular role inside colleges, universities, schools those kinds of things. I think something that surprised me, but maybe it's not that surprising, was like government government as a whole and like eludism between governments because uh in the class we took last semester like in education. We talked a lot about like Americanism and how like it's so linked with education and I know it's such a big thing to be like oh like this country has like the biggest amount like the highest SAT score on average or like this many people academy or something like that. So sometimes it really is just like governments competing against each other and trying to see like who's the best of the best. Great. And in the United States when we talk about government actors, what are all the different possible government actors we might be thinking about? Education. So there's a US Department of Education. Who else is there? So local boards of education. So there's local boards of education. So a very un unusual thing about the United States Department of Education is it is or the United States education system is it's extremely decentralized. There are 130,000 schools and there are 13,000 school districts. The modal elected official in the United States is a schoolboard member. There are more if if you are if you're an elected official in the United States, the thing you are most likely to be is a schoolboard member. Um and you know um schoolboard members are interesting stakeholders. They are um well and they range from community to communities. In lots of communities, they're just like a community member who's particularly interested in education. Um but there are also um people who are looking to um you know, it's an entry point for people who are interested in political careers. Lots of people who you are schoolboard members go to be on state reps and other kinds of things like that. This is a particularly um sort of fakened moment for people who are politically who are who are politically ambitious to pursue those ambitious uh through the school system. Um especially uh in the American right um where where reform of schools has become like a way to get kind of attention within the political party and things like that. Um, and uh, and yeah, there's all there's all kinds of towns across the country where, you know, and I think you get some of this is like some school board is like, you know, what would be really great is film strips. Like, let's go big on film strips. Um, you know, what would be really great is like closed circuit television. Um, wouldn't that be a useful thing to have? You know, and so it's it's not even like it's not the teachers, it's not the superintendent, it's not the people who are sort of in the schools, it's like some community members who are like, "Let's do it." um uh you know I in uh in the United States today there probably two versions of that is there are definitely school boards whose identity is sort of shaped around like being a cutting edge school like in a bunch of the affluent suburban towns around Boston you know like Wells Lee Newton like they want to be thought of as having like really great cutting edge forward thinking schools you know Newton spent $200 million or something like that on the last high school that they built um and so it can be you know a way they become a schoolboard member is like I'm going to help the school system modernize and embrace technology and things like that. There can also be the opposite. There can also be people who come in um the most common is like people who work for the technology industry who are like you have no idea how much surveillance is built into this technology. Um all the time when I talk to you know principles or superintendents who are being like we're kind of having a hard time you know helping parents understand why these things would be useful. It's like someone who works for Google or Microsoft or something like that, you know, who like who knows the surveillance capacity of these tools and is concerned about it. Um, yeah, I just kind of like an anecdote that I used to work in edtech and educational publishing and I worked on mostly products for the state of Florida and like really showed how much power some of these districts have like the because the school board would make a decision like every several times or one or two districts in Florida would some say they need something and that would change the entire road map for a product that's used nationally. So it's like you have a couple people in Florida who are like we really need this thing and suddenly it's like kids in Arkansas are also are learning differently. So I would this is in this is definitely still true. It's breaking down a little bit because of the capacity for sort of a web publishing and custom publication but for a big chunk of what you might I don't know the latter third of the 20th century the first 10 years of the 21st century um basic you know like somebody publishers would publish a US history book um how do they decide what to make of a US history book um you say well like what are the most important states to sell this history book in Florida is one of them what are the other ones You can name them. California, Texas, New York, California, Texas, New York, Florida. Um those are like four of the most important states just by population. Um so now you got to think about like the the standards of th like the his every state has standards. The history standards of those four states are more important than the history standards of Maine and North Dakota. Um and as like political things come up around you know history is where this happens pretty frequently but it happens in math and reading and other things too. Um yeah actually I I used to do consulting for uh um uh history for publishers of history textbooks and once I saw the sort of matrix where it was like it was like all the possible topics along the the columns and all of the states along the rows and like x's of like where all the topics get t you know the I mean the other thing is for like there'll be a huge you know group of Polish immigrants that come to some state and like they won't see Polish people represented in their textbooks and so they'll be like we're, you know, we're only going to adopt books that like talk about the importance of Polish Americans in the history. You the publishing companies are like, "All right, add the Polish and then, you know, but then the Italians do it and the Cambodian do everybody else do it and the textbooks get, you know, that's why when you picked up your 800 pound um history textbook, it was full of like all these like weird little um bits and pieces and things like that. So yeah, these these state level I mean here's another like tiny feature of this but ends up being important. Um there are some states mostly in the south where material adoptions happen centrally or have some kind of centralized function. Um so Texas, Florida, they have state level boards that say you can only adopt books that pass these boards. Massachusetts is a huge local control state. Um the school districts in Massachusetts will go bonkers if the state tried to tell them which textbooks they could or could not use. You know, there'd be like another revolution. you know, one if buy land, two if buy um you know, C-class Mercedes or whatever it is. Um and uh they they just wouldn't allow it. But it means that those states that have this sort of centralized function actually end up having more influence over the publishers because they say, "Look, you want to sell a book here?" You know, and now it's not just a book, now it's a web program or things like that. Now, the thing that sort of like is breaking away some of that monopoly, although also causing kind of problems is, you know, states can say like, okay, we want to, you know, we're going to pass all these laws that b that have the effect of like way ramping down the teaching of black history. Um, and you know, publishers can be like, all right, well, your web version of that will delete this and this and this and this, but you know, over in New York or California and liberal states, you can have all that kind of stuff in there. Yeah. Khil. Yeah. And kind of like uh uh going off of that like the political platforms play a like a large role in most of these places in the US that's very like very much there but as an example from my own country like there at every public school they have like a speaker system like at the start of the school specifically because they want to play the national anthem. That's something they did really early. The kids have to uh to do it and to like oh there's so much like technology that just one thing why is this the only piece of there is like some kind of incentive they want to build with like you know kind of political motive. And then does does the does that broadcast system be used at other parts of the day as well or this only gets used at the start of the school where the national anthem have like some like some kids uh every like classroom does like a session where they just like do like some religious stuff uh some like Arabic poems some like fun facts and then just that but that's mostly just I I love that. I think that's a fabulous example. So, so the the whatever the state government is like the state is in the nation the nation state government um says every school must broadcast the national anthem every day. Um every single school in the country then has to build a technology infrastructure that allows that to happen and then once that technology infrastructure is there it can be used in other kinds of ways as well or not used or other kinds of things like that. Um you can find national examples of this in other kinds of ways. You know, one of the most interesting countries right now um for education policy makers to watch is Estonia. Um about every decade, like some country that people aren't really paying attention to um gets really good international test scores. Um so Singapore was it for a while, Finland was it for a while, people are obsessed with Finland for a while, and Estonia is kind of last like who are you people and why like why are you so good at reading? Um and uh Estonia is very famous for it sometimes it's called Estonia. um their government has really embraced the internet um in a very centralized kind of way. And so people are trying looking at and thinking about how education technologies are adopted in Estonia and other kinds of ways. But it but it wasn't a policy that was just for the schools. They were like we're going to put Estonia on the map by having really good digital government services. And that national policy decision ends up affecting the learning experiences of kids in schools in all kinds of places. Yeah, that's a great example. um students what are what are what are the interests and and and disincentives of students. It's cool. It's a new piece of technology. Okay. So, almost all of us like novelty. Um that is one of the advantages that technology has. One of the um uh although an amazing thing about novelty is how shockingly quickly it wears off. Um actually I was reading this on Reddit the other day. someone a teacher was being like like I don't like I brought a Nintendo Switch into class so we could play these mathematical logic games and my students were like oh please miss can we just do worksheets and I was like fine do worksheets then um but you know they're like oh man you want you play some online game I don't want to play you know now there would have been some moment that this class would be like what we could play a computer game in class this is amazing um but that is you know um it's a sort of it's a it's an interesting feature of education technology adoption that like novelty can be extremely compelling for a short period of time and then wear off pretty quickly. Do you have any comment on like why students default is now back to that pen and paper like the way like because I mean people are always like education has been the same for decades and why does it always look this way even after we've reformed it like why is the default that pen and paper? Good. So what well let's just highlight an important thing that you observed um which we we were talking about over here too which is just schools are incredibly conservative institutions. Um why why why would that cons small C conser not rightwing some of them are but um small C conservative they do things the same way over and over again. Um what are some possible reasons for that? One is if you went and interviewed parents and said who are another stakeholder that a bunch of people brought up um how much do you want us experimenting with your children? Um the answer to that is going to be pretty low. Like the enthusiasm that people have for experimenting on children is low. Um second um everyone in the educational system who's an adult has what's been sometimes called the apprenticeship of observation. Um you all have been in school somewhere between like 13 and 18 years. Um and that shapes your experience. And so people who have roughly the same education level as you go into schools and become teachers and they bring that 13, 18, 20 years of educational experience with them. Um, and that shapes the way you think schools should unfold. Um, parents can bring those expectations in. I was I will never forget this. I was once working I was conversing with a school in Utah that was trying to switch to openly licensed materials. It was pretty I don't know 15 years ago, 18 years ago or something like that. They were trying to get away from textbooks and to have people use digital materials, particularly digital materials that their teachers could edit um so that they could make them, you know, tailor to their students and things like that. And they said and they said, "But they still kept textbooks in classroom." And you know, I can't tell you whether or not that's true, but he says, "The reason why we keep textbooks in classrooms is if there aren't textbooks in classrooms, parents will be upset." Um that like parent like parents when they go into a classroom expect to see textbooks there. Basically, it was cheaper to keep buying enough textbooks to be in all of the classrooms than it was to like hire administrators to explain to parents why there weren't textbooks in the classroom anymore. Um so all of these different stakeholders um this sort of conservative vision of education is kind of part of that. Um one possibility is that that's really bad. Um that there actually like way better ways of doing things that are out there and it's a bummer that we're so conservative and that's really holding us back. Um, another possibility is that the practices that exist in schools have been refined over decades and centuries and they are the way they are because they're pretty darn good. Um, that they that that we keep doing certain kinds of things because they work. Um, so you'll have to figure out for yourself as you know if you hear examples of students kind of adopting old practices, are they adopting old practices because they work really well and because they like them, because they're comfortable and familiar? Um there's an argument that particularly in our age where students are sort of fixated on grades and performance in a way that they might have not been in decades past because you know not not because kids are like more materialistic or something. It's because of economic uncertainty. Um because as the gap between wealthy and poor people widens and the stakes of education become higher people become more fixated on it. Um and so those kids who are sort of adopting familiar matters like do they really like the familiarity or do they know how to do well in the familiarity and things like that. But again, like all the, you know, keep tying all the things we were talking about back to the decision of educators trying to implement new technologies. Um, everyone in your system is going to have some kind of conservative impulse all the way down to students. That conservative impulse might be balanced by the uh novelty effect that we're talking about, but it's in there. So if you want a new technology to really be adapted in some kind of meaningful way, one strategy you can have is to have it align with existing practices. You could say let's take technologies that do the kinds of things that are already happening in schools. Like that will be less upsetting. That'll require less training. That'll require less upset. It probably also won't help that much. Um I mean the people selling the technologies won't say that. But if you're just like digitizing existing practices, how how likely are you to have substantial gains from digitizing existing practices? Or maybe you're like a big ambitious reformer. You say, "No, no, no. We could be doing so much better. We could go from 2% to 100% efficiency in schools. We just have to make big changes in our practice." Well, making big changes in practice requires convincing people to change all of these things. Um there was AI you know, I've read this book a zillion times now, but I was just revisiting um a line in here that I loved. Um it was uh he says something towards the end that were like um settings have plans for their inhabitants. Anybody remember that? He was he was talking about the physical layout of a classroom but but he was using a broader sociological principle. Settings have plans for their inhabitants. Um people interact in a space in a certain way because the physical space is laid out and built in that way. So I was talking with these guys about one of the problems that film strips have. To have a film strip in your classroom, you have to take a giant projector on wheels and you have to roll it into the space. There would have been some classrooms, you know, filled with, you know, early 20th century, you know, urban schools with tons of immigrants who are pouring in on America's shores that don't have room in their classroom for a big thing. Um, the other thing that film strips had that was a huge pain is these giant film reels. You know, the early film reels were really, really big. Where are you going to put these things? You know, your town did not build a building um that that had like, you know, an archival film studio storage unit attached to it. Um let's say you have a big school and there are four first grade classes and you want to buy a film strip for all four of those first like are you going to build are you going to buy four copies of the same film strip? Like is each classroom going to have its own film library? If it has some centralized library, you have to have some way of like tagging, archiving, maintaining those things, bringing into classrooms. I mean, there are contemporary versions of all of these things. Um, oh, you want to give every kid a device? Um, how is that kid's device going to get on the network? How is they going to be able to log in? Who's going to deal when they lose their password? What's going to happen when their devices break? Are you going to make a Are you going to make families pay for the devices they break? Your kids are super poor. They can't afford that. So, you're going to contract with insurance company. who on your staff has experience contracting with insurance companies to ensure um uh you know uh uh computing devices like you didn't learn that at your I mean we'll talk with the education school deans on Wednesday but I'm pretty sure they're not teaching their um their their their students how to manage insurance contracts and things like that. Um all of those things become you know um if if well they you know they have a combination of incentives and disincentives that are associated with them. Um, good. Any any of these other people that it seems like is important for us to touch on before we um come to conclusion. We talked about parents. Um, you know, I I mean I don't know that how much we talked maybe here's one last thing that we could sort of talk about. We talked a little bit about school administrators. Um, but like a a thing to be particularly attentive to um in uh um in schools is just how many different kinds of adults with different roles there are. So, we talked about teachers. Um, there are people who are school principles. Like, if you're a school principal, what are what are the most urgent concerns that you have on any given day? Um, what what like what are what are the main incentives you have as a school principal? Your budget. Yep. You got to make sure you can pay for everything. A teacher's not worried about that. Teacher will buy as much, you know, if a school pay for it, they'll take as much technology as they want. you know, some of them, but principles have to balance a budget or or, you know, I mean, the weird thing is in the United States, it may not at all be a principal's role to balance a budget. It may be entirely a district role. So, there are some school districts where the district will make all the purchasing decisions. There are other districts where the districts will take big chunks of money, send it down to schools, and say, "Schools, make all the purchasing decisions." Um, what what else is super important for principles? I was going to say like just like maintaining the school building itself for like student safety. Yeah. Yep. student safety, maintaining the physical school building, making, you know, making sure things are running and operating and stuff like that. Are they also managing the relationships with like the district and also parents like all these outside? Yep. Yep. So, so, so, um, they and they are, you know, principles are sort of quintessential organizational behavior, middle managers. Um, they're like empowered to do some things but not others. They're accountable to lots of different kinds of stakeholders. There's all kind of complexity in what they're doing. Um uh a lot of them are pretty keyed evaluated based on test scores like especially in places where people are at where students are at risk of not passing tests. Um and depending upon the policy infrastructure test scores really matter to them. Um safety and the orderly operation of schools man like you know in in like every person in a building wants schools to be orderly but when schools are disorderly the person who has to deal with it the most is like an assistant principal or the principal. It's just more work for them. um you know you know um you like let all the kids have phones and you know fights break out and all kinds of things happen like it's the you know teachers have to deal with it but the principles really have to deal with it. I just like really short comment just when you asked us like what does a principal do? I've been around them my entire life and I was like I can only think of like two or three things that I know a principal actually does and I just think it's really strange that like most people aren't sitting you down being like this is the person you go to for x y and z things around these organizations good good so there there are I think there are a few things that you can grasp from that insight is first of all schools are just unbelievably complicated um I've spent the last 20 years basically doing nothing but thinking about schools and I still don't understand all the things that are going on in there. They are like if you want like just as an ecosystem, they're unbelievably complex and fascinating. Um the second is as you transition if you decide to work be involved in education, you sort you kind of have to like relearn all this stuff going from a student to being someone who's working in education. Like there's all kinds of things that were hidden from you, masked from you, or just sort of weren't important to you. You know, like the odds that any of you were like real troublemakers is pretty low given that you're at MIT. Um but you know there you know there's a classroom full of people sitting somewhere um that like knew principles pretty intimately because they spent a bunch of time in their office um because you know because of things that they did and so forth. So good. Yeah. If if if part of what happens to you in this class is uh a lot of times in social science we talk about making the familiar unfamiliar. Um a thing that you've looked at your whole life and being like whoa look at all these things there that I wasn't sort of paying attention to or you know wasn't made aware to me and those kinds of things. Um maybe here's here's one very concrete thing. Um uh let's think of something like uh um a student information system. Um or Canvas. Let's think of something like a learning management system. Who spends the most time using Canvas? Tell me about the people who use Canvas. Students. Students spend a lot of hours logged in looking at stuff on Canvas. Who else looks at Canvas? Teachers. Teachers. Who buys Canvas? this true not students and teachers in in in uh um in business school I think they would call this a third party payer problem. Um so if you are a company that's making a learning management system who's like of your stakeholders who has the most power to determine whether or not your thing gets purchased like some director of education technology or something like that some IT person. So, if you ever if you've ever wondered like why is this so terrible? Um, it wasn't built for you. Like in some in some important ways, it was literally not built for you. It was built to solve the problems of some middle level information technology manager. Who's going to buy one of those things? Um, so third-party payer problems are rife across. I mean, the problem with third-party payer problems from like a classical economics point of view is you just have misaligned incentives. um you know um in in some respects you could say that improving the teaching and learning experience on canvas is a cost um it's something that like reduces your pro profit obviously you have to make it good enough so that you know if like enough teachers and stuff are rolled I once anyone ever have to use blackboard okay good um I once met the I once met the guy who made blackboard and I was just standing there in line behind him or something like that being like what would it be like to have made a piece of software that millions of people hate like what like what would it have been like to like introduce so much unhappiness in the world with what you've built like and I it was it would have been rude I think in the buffet line to to to ask him to ask him that question. Um here's another thing that I want to say about who buys these things and this is really um important too especially to any of you who are interested in either an education like starting an education startup or other kinds of things. Um uh who in a school can buy technology? What are some possible titles of people who buy technology? We've mentioned a few. Librarians, a librarian could buy technology. Department chair. A department chair could buy technology. Teacher. A teacher. They're amongst the least likely. Actually, one of the sometimes people have made the argument that a that a problem in the education system is it's very it's very difficult to have a real sort of bottomup marketplace kind of effect. Um like teachers have in most places teachers have very few discretionary dollars um to the I mean that's why they're like holding big sales and asking like you know when you become parents like your teachers will ask you to bring in boxes of tissues and things like that and you'll be like what what broken failed country do we live in where you cannot simply buy all the tissues that you need for the children um or paper two reams two yeah two yeah two reams of paper a semester for all your students you know all right so the teachers don't have in some cases they do, but in a lot of cases you don't know what I mean. Principles can buy things, directors of instructional technology can buy things, assistant superintendents can buy things, superintendents can buy things, school boards in some places can directly authorize kinds of things, although that's probably more rare, but they can push for it. Um, but the point is across the 13,000 school districts and 130,000 schools in this country, the answer to the question, who can buy something is different in all of those contexts. Um, that makes starting an education technology company very very difficult. Um, when you go somewhere, you don't even know who can buy the thing. Um, like you don't even know who you're selling it to. Now, there are people who do know who buys all these things. The only people in the United States who know for every school in every district who has the power to buy stuff are giant publishers. Um, Pearson, Hotton, Mifflin, what was the company you work for? McGraill. McGraill. Perfect. They have an army of salespeople. this army of salespeople have fanned out across the 13,000 school districts and once a month, once a quarter, all the people who I just listed who can actually buy things, they take them out to lunch. They bring them free supplies. They do all that stuff. They, you know, like they probably don't have a master list somewhere. Instead, they have all these sales people who know the answers to these questions. Um, so if you're a Silicon Valley startup and you're like, "Oh, I know I've got this new like AI thing I'm building. It's super cool." Da da da. You don't have this massive network of sales connections to help you figure this out. Um, one my one of my favorite illustrations of this is at a bunch of education technology conferences. Um, how many of you ever have been to a conference where they have like you have you have a badge, right? And you can put stickers on your badges or other things like this. Basically, like one of the stickers you can put on your badge. You can put like your pronouns. You can put some other things like that. You can put um buyer. You can basically like signal to people like I actually have the power to purchase things. Um and then when you w you know um uh if you know when you walk through the exhibit hall they will pay more attention to the people who have the little buyer things on them than they will to like you know critical social science researcher badge um is put on your thing or something like that. So that is an incred so um here are some things that you should take away. These these systems are incredibly complicated. There are all kinds of stakeholders in them but they're they're not so infinite. they're not so complex that we can't like make a chart that sort of manages and starts to understand all these things. Um but as we move forward and as we um look at more sort of you know a thing that a thing that you can do in any kind of education technology problem any educational setting be like all right who are going to be the stakeholders for this problem this thing and what are going to be their interests. Um the more you know and not you know again not just like their official interest their official like state policy interest is to raise test scores or something like that. Um but one of my favorite examples um that we're talking about is uh televisions were more likely to be used at the end of the day because people were tired. Um like your body's circadian rhythm um indicates how technologies be used in classroom. And that is just as real is just as real as the policy mandate to raise test scores um or the school board's enthusiasm for technology or whatever it is. Um and so we we can in any kind of system we can figure out who are the stakeholders in the system. What are the interests of those things? What are the disinterests? A thing is more likely to work if it attends to those real meaningful felt interests and if it avoids those real meaningful felt disinterests. And of course we're doing this like in a very detailed way in education. But if you were to let leave education and you were to go into healthcare, if you were to go into legal technology, if you were going to retail, you can do the exact same exercise. um the technology that you're building for a hospital, like it has to work for a doctor, but it has to work for a nurse and an orderly and a patient and the patient's representative and the hospital's lawyers and all these different kinds of people. Um and so, you know, on the one hand, especially when people are designers of software, we can have this sense of like, oh, I'm building things for a user. I'm building things for like this individual user who's got their fingers on their keyboard or their thumb on the screen or something like that. Um, but I would encourage you as we're thinking through all these things to to think about these networks of interests and stakeholders much more broadly. Okay. Um, we'll talk to some education school deans on Wednesday. We'll learn a little bit about uh implementation, how you overcome some of these kinds of challenges from me. We'll hear a little bit about the National Education Technology Plan. Um, and I will pair you up with each other um to be able to do some peer editing of your essays and that will get us through the week. Sound good? Bueno, let me know if I can help you with anything. Otherwise, have a wonderful rest of your afternoon.