Um I'm very interested to know uh your experiences from last class. Um what your thoughts were on the NETP discussion and the small groupoup conversations that you have. Did anybody did anybody find themselves in conversations that were of interest? I think my group like it was a lot of discussion on how like they themselves are like trying to bring about these new innovations. Um but a lot of this like teacher lashback and like some people are having a really hard time like moving forwards and then like some people are doing a good job because it's all them agreeing that like they need to get those who are proactive about it like all together. Um, I also thought it was interesting like I kind of proposed a question to the group about like how they see like all of these ideologies like playing a part um in higher education. Um, a lot of the times like specifically the research that you guys do is kind of focus on K through 12. Yeah. But like how can this really be implemented in colleges and especially like at a university like MIT where you have professors being hired not because they're good teachers but because they're experts in the field. Um, and I think that it just kind of like prompted an interesting discussion about um, like where schools need to prioritize like whether they're research institutions or like educational facilities. Cool. Other folks, what else did you end up talking about um, with your ed new education school colleagues or what else was interesting to you about the national education tech plan discussion or anything else? Ty and then Omar. Yeah, it was interesting. Omar and I were in the same group. So, let's see if this overlaps, but uh there wasn't a ton of conversation in our group, but they did they did ask me about my time as like a software engineer and how we thought about like iteration and in the software development space and how then they tried to start making parallels to how they try to implement it in their own schools. and we talked a little bit about some of the differences and where things might be more complex or harder. Um, so that was like an interesting conversation to try to take my experience and reapply it. That's cool. That's great. Yeah. So again, there wasn't that much discussion. You kind of went over what I was going to say. So I guess I'll touch on I'll touch on the the first part of the session like the big uh conversation. I was reading the chat and it was pretty cool to see like everybody like commenting on everything and and seeing like a bunch of examples and seeing either frustrations or revelations that they never realized. Mhm. About like you know the message of focusing on not the technology itself but like what what we can do and then how technology can help and what we're trying to do first. Um and that revelation for a lot of um these professionals is pretty cool to see like develop in the chat. Uhhuh. Yeah. Yeah. You get to you get to watch human development in real time people encounter whether with I I didn't follow it that closely because I was talking. Um did uh were there frustrations that any anything on the frustration side that sort of stuck out to you or seemed memorable? Not necessarily frustration, but sort of like, oh, that's why like this is happening or like why. Okay, now this is starting to make sense. So, it's sort of like where frustrations were like cleared up, so to say. Great. Good. Hi, Armon. You got to come up here and hang out with me. That's what happens when you get towards the end. Yeah. Also, Also and I were in the same group. We had a spicy one. Yeah. So like a lot of the discussion was about um like a lot of the people in our group or like the people like designing the structures that they were trying to implement and something that was interesting was this like repeated like oh like we designed something we send it to like the administration they're like no that's not exactly what we're looking for trying it and it's just kind of like constantly trying to get something that they're like okay like I like this as opposed to like them being able to like effectively communicate the points that they want included. This was very interesting. Or part part of the way I read our group is that we had some people who were kind of middle level leaders um and they were trying to convince more senior leaders to make change and the senior leaders were much slower and less interesting in that which happens in basically every kind of institution. like when you go and visit an institution, one way to think about it is it is designed exactly to do what it's doing right now. Um that like the like it functions the way it functions because there's some set of actors who want it to function that way. Um often those folks are sort of people with power and control and you know it exists the way it does because that's what they want. And then new people come along, new people live in that environment and they're like, well, this could be better and this could be better and this could be better and this could be better. And then more senior folks are like, ah, but we like the way we've done it all the time. And so it's not uncommon for people coming out. You know, I think really healthy organizations sort of recognize like, oh, we need to be constantly improving. And constantly improving means like throwing away and destroying things that I have built over my career because that's the only way you sort of get better. Um, but pretty understandable that people wouldn't feel that way. like I've spent my career building this thing. Why don't we just keep doing this thing? Um and so they were sort of struggling with uh you know and in an interesting place where lots of people in lots of organizations find themselves is like okay we need to do something different but the people in charge aren't really supportive like how do we kind of do it anyway like how do you know like where change comes from I don't know maybe I mentioned this I I can't remember I can't remember if I mentioned this particular story but one of the people that I worked with on some of the content that's in Iterate is this guy Peter Sen who's at the management school at uh Sloan um And a neat thing about working with him is he's done a ton of stuff in education but lots of stuff in many other sectors. Um and it you know it comes up periodically like man you know teachers like lots of people in education just don't feel empowered to make change. Um they feel like look I got hired in this particular role like I'm AI'm a math teacher. I'm a history teacher. I'm a chemistry professor. Like it's not my job to fix the university. Um and Peter once said something to me along the lines of everyone in every industry feels that way. Like they're like CEOs don't feel like they're empowered to make change in the institute. Nobody feels like they're empowered to make change in institutions, but change still happens all the time because people who don't necessarily feel empowered still take it upon themselves to try new things, put new things in the world. Um, and uh um I don't know, it's it's it's a story I really like to retell educators because it's like this is not an education specific problem. This is like a human problem. Yeah. Um I thought what Lou said from the University of Kentucky was really fascinating because I'm actually from Kentucky um and I worked at an organiz organization with her before called the Kentucky Student Voice team. All right, cool. And the way that they like impact change is by putting students in like stakeholder positions. So, um instead of like influencing change through like ineffective ways like administration, they put students like at the forefront. So, she's like a really big leader in like driving I guess like educational change in Kentucky. So, I thought it was cool. That's great. Oh, I'm glad you had that connection. That's fun. How did you how you had So, she at the university ran the sort of student voice thing that like high school students across Kentucky could participate in and stuff or Yeah. So, it was born out of something called the Pritchard Committee, but now it's like an independent organization. And the I guess organization has like adults and younger students as like co- peers. Like they put them on like the same level, the hierarchy to like work together to um I guess craft a bunch of initiatives to improve Kentucky schools. Yeah. Yeah. I there's there all kinds of education technology has tons of cool stuff like that. um in part because lots of young people can get interested and excited by technology and so bringing them in into leadership role, partnership roles. Um cities had that too. Uh there's a group in Boston called the high square task force um which does all kinds of they usually do more sort of like you know I don't know community organizing kind of like adversarial like why are you doing this to us? Why are you doing this way? They have a they have a whole campaign they're doing right now against either Shaws or Stop and Shop which is separate from their education work. Um but they've gone to a bunch of grocery stores in neighborhoods around Boston and bought the same thing in each store. Um and basically found that in some you know sort of minoritized poverty impacted neighborhoods the grocery the groceries are more expensive than they are in Newton and Welsley or stuff like that and they're sort of holding uh Stop and Shop is not happy with these kids being a thorn in their side. It's great. Um yeah yeah yeah. They're they're pretty good at like getting pressed for what they do and things like that. Um they'll probably have to respond at some point. Um, good. Um, well that's I I enjoyed um letting you all connect with them. It sounds like the meeting, you know, every time you go into breakout rooms, it's sort of uneven, but hopefully it's a good sense for you to meet some of the people who are in higher education who are trying to make the changes that we're going to talk about, you know, in the past few weeks and for the the rest of the semester. So hopefully that was a neat opportunity. Um, why don't you take a couple minutes um before I launch into things just to chat with each other and then we can surface some of these ideas. Um but the the learning journal prompt that I had for you was to talk about like what role does technology play um in your MIT education thus far. Um and uh so talk to the person next to you. Some of you might not be from MIT or some of you might be in graduate school and so you have some undergraduate connections to this as well. Those things are all fine. Sort of technology and higher education. Um, typically the the the things that are most useful to talk about are um either either systems or tools or things that you think are like particularly helpful or useful. Um, systems or tools or things that are particularly damaging or harmful or pointless or a waste of your time. Um, and then also anything that like has has started to seem really familiar to you, but actually you think has like interesting unfamiliar qualities or or thing things that sort of like feel standard and boring, but actually they're important maybe in ways that we don't want to think about. So, so turn to the two or three people next to you. Talk for a few minutes about like if you were to explain to someone not from your undergraduate institution like the role that technology plays there, what would be the couple of stories that you would tell? Ready? Go. Okay, come on back. Be great to keep trying to hear from everybody. So, would love to some folks who haven't shared yet would love to hear what are what are some uh what are some MIT highlights or low lightss or sort of distinctive parts of uh or or in your undergraduate program distinctive parts of technologies. What do you got Jiren? Uh my group was my group was discussing like MIT's use of canvas and like precoid MIT had this weird sort of proprietary thing where they had their own what was that called? Stellar. Stellar. Yeah. Yeah. So they had like each each class had their own different stellar website and it wasn't standardized at all and it was it was kind of a mess. It like had this weird outdated sort of 1990s internet era aesthetic to it. It was pretty horrible. And then they had this sort of proprietary thing called the learning module which was basically Canvas like MIT was just trying to make Canvas but then during the pandemic they I guess you know they decided to make canvas a much more standardized thing. And so I found that to be very helpful for keeping everything organized and having assignments you know done through Canvas as opposed to being like oh crap what's that website I have to go to search up stellar MIT. It was weird. Um, but I feel like because of that, a lot of professors don't fully utilize all the different things that Canvas has to offer, especially when it comes to like grades and inputting grades. Like professors and TAs don't care about like inputting grades and like a lot of students would I I feel would really like to see real-time feedback like on their grades and how that actively affects their final grade in the class, but that just isn't uh that just isn't professors don't do that. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and then I mean another thing that's sort of unusual, we'll talk about this more as the semester goes on, but it does seem a little weird that you would have the exact same Canvas template for a graduate seminar on chemistry synthesis and an undergraduate seminar on Renaissance poetry and uh like if you know if if you're studying really different kinds of things, does it really make sense to have the same structure for all of those different kinds of things? Like it seems like there should be some differences there. What were you gonna say, Emily? Um, we talked about MITx, which is you like physics use it and then a lot of math classes use it. And I like how it's like even like it's sometimes like recordings of like a concept introducing you to a concept or it could be in writing, but it's not as like dense as a textbook where you're kind of like, oh, I don't want to start reading this. And then it's like right after when they introduce it, you have like kind of check questions where it's kind of like checking for your understanding and it immediately tells you if you're right or wrong, which is really nice because like for math, I feel like some like when you're told like, oh, this is the right answer. You're more focused on the process of getting to it rather than the answer itself, which is a lot more beneficial when you're doing math. Like you care about the process of how to get to that answer, not the answer itself. So I think it's really like really nice to have that platform for especially math classes. Um and you you know you could imagine for all for all of those autograded problems you've ever done you know five years ago you very likely would have done those pet sets on paper you would have turned the pet sets into a TA a TA you know TA would have gotten hundreds of them um it would have taken them a week 10 days two weeks to turn around or something like that and so that by by the time it gets handed back to you might get the answer key sooner um but the time you get that like it can be days or weeks after doing a problem that you figure out whether you got it right or not and you just forgot how you did it or like what you were thinking about at the time. So there you could definitely imagine some real advantages to that kind of instant like you know it can change the way study groups operate too both for good and bad. Um but you could imagine that like study groups previously would have been like okay let's all like write this pet set they all write the pet turn it in you're like hope that worked. Um, but when you have the kind of autograding, you you know, you can be like, "Wait, half of us did not get this right." Like, "Why didn't we? Who did, you know, what can we learn from each other?" You know, there's all kinds of ways that that instant feedback can change the the relationships that you have with with that learning. Good. Other thoughts? Yeah. Okay. Um, I was going to say something like Notability has really transformed the way I um, for example, organize all of my classwork and the fact that everyone uses their iPads now instead of going to paper and pencil. Um, I think um, yeah, just the fact that we can have all of our lecture notes and then upload it to Notability. We can annotate it and then do all of our homework on here too and be able to like compare screens and things like that. And I think that's really like before I only ever really used paper and pencil and then switching the fact that MIT gave out iPads to everyone. And then um because we have uh the resources to have Notability for free or um and the fact that we like submit everything electronically now has kind of been a little bit of a game changer. Does Notability have any social features? Like do you just have your own Notability or are there ways? Okay. They recently added some like share your notes kind of gallery search thing. There's also the good old screenshot the iPads if you want iCloud. You can just text it to the to Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Good. Share like you can dual screen on the iPad which isn't necessarily an aspect. Well, not build you can also dual screen so you pull up someone else's work. There there's some like very specific applications for some of those kinds of things. Good. Other thoughts if you have one more? We had like the same thought of um cats has been kind of revolutionary in that like I guess in a way that's I've I've heard of this but you got to tell us what it is again. It is Catsup is an automatic tutor for 601 problems. It it used to be like an old introductory computer science course that was required for most or six majors, but they phased that out like three years ago. Um I don't remember what 601 specifically was, but that's what capsu stands for. It's like a recursive um acronym, but like I I guess in a way like I've never I never got to use Stellar, but in a way that sort of has become the the new Stellar in in the sense that like each class has their own different website and you just like upload problems on there. And I have found it to be kind of nice because it also has like a topic grader. um it lets you like submit um stuff for recitation like in class and I found like it's pretty great. I like the interface um but I I just hate the fact that I have to like bookmark every single different website or else I forget them. So good. So logistical things. I mean to add to that like different course I mean I've seen it most of it in core six yeah like different core six um classes use it to different degrees and diverse situ there there is a little fault for it there um there are some classes where the entire class is on there and then you go to your class in the basement with 40 people and they're all trying to log in at the same time so that they're marked as present and they're starting their lab and everything just crashed. That is that's that is so comforting to me because I run this system called teacher moments and we have similar problems but like I'm not an MIT computer science professor and the fact like and the fact that their doesn't work either is very like it's very comforting to me I think that there's one thing that like we kind of discussed um which is like an application of the MITx um is like typically most freshmen at MIT take like the 801 802 teal Um, and I feel like that gives like this false advertisement of how education technology is used here at MIT where they like give you this like flipped classroom idea. Um, and like some kids like love it and then you switch into another class and you never see that type of learning again. And you're like, well, I liked that, so where is it? Um, and like for me who like struggled through it because I was like a student that was kind of behind going in. um like then I switched to like my core 16 classes where it's like a professor lecturing in front of you and all of a sudden I now understand the concept. It's like why did I lose a whole year? Um so it's like kind of like that back and forth between like like are you going to continue to implement this in other ways or is it just are we just stagnant in this one idea behind it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's really I mean teal is an experience that a lot of you have had if you if you're not familiar. teal is a way that they do introductory physics teaching. Um it came about um because of high failure rates particularly from people who you know came from backgrounds where they were less well prepared in physics. Um and uh so you know 801 802 these introductory physics classes would be taught as lectures with problem sets and things like that. Um it also actually there's a long um a really we won't get into a really interesting tradition of research in physics education um which I don't know three or three decades ago maybe discovered um that when students even at really good universities take introductory physics historically they were actually less Newtonian in their thinking at the end of the class than at the beginning. um like they were like they got good grades. Um they could solve all the kinds of physics problems, but then they gave them this uh this test, this sort of assessment called the force concept inventory, which was a bunch of conceptual questions about how force works. And students would actually do worse at the end of the class that they would do at the beginning. Um so there was this sense that like you could spend a whole bunch of time teaching people the procedures of physics and they would actually come to like slightly more misunderstand the concepts as a result of that. Um which is bad. Um and uh um so uh active learning learn you know learning environments where students are asked to not just listen and take notes and then do problem sets but to like engage during the conversations about the material were shown to improve that and then teal stuck around because while people have individual experiences with it um there are fewer students who failed um 801 and 802 after teal was implemented and given a few years to like ramp up and work right than there were beforehand. Um however just because on average teal the teal system is more likely to have more students persist doesn't mean that for any individual student like individual students can still not like it. Um and it can sort of not serve them well and it can not serve them well because of their background preparation or because they you know I mean lots of people who come to MIT end up here because they're pretty good at teaching themselves stuff through lectures. Um, and so you know, alternate methods, you know, when when the physics department is trying to think about what to do with that, these are all the kinds of trade-offs that they're considering. What were you going to say, Har? Uh, slides, especially when you're taking classes that are like core six or math. When professors use slides, I feel like it affects my learning because I like when when they use chalk in the board, they just like walking through it because one, it slows them down. you also kind of catch up with them. But they usually apply they go very fast and second you just have to I don't know it makes the learning process a different things. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think I think I think it's really interesting. You know they're they're probably like they're less likely to have errors on the slides than they are when they're working things out by hand. It's not however it's not totally clear whether or not errors are a bad thing in that like sometimes people note the errors in real time or they note them in real time and they fix them and they discuss them. Definitely like if you can only sort of talk and move at the pace at which someone can write um that's uh that can have different kind of advantages. I mean the slides are kind of cool in that they get sort of like automatically sent to you. They can be sent to you in advance. You can take notes directly on them. Is taking notes directly on them actually better or is it better to have to hand copy sort of pay attention what's going on there? Um these are all great questions and they're all questions that actually have research behind them. There are folks who you know come up with experiments where they test all of these different conditions. What do we do when we tell students to try to copy everything down? What do we do when we tell students to summarize? What if we give them stuff in advance? What if we let them have computers? What if we take away their computers? Um, actually, you know, some of the best places to do this research end up being uh military schools um like the like West Point and the Naval Academy and stuff like that. Um because they have a lot of required classes and because you can be pretty sure that the students will do what you tell them to do. Um like you like you assign them to either condition and they kind of like you know they they do what they want to. Um good. Maybe one. So an interesting thing about our own experiences is that our own experiences are really important sources of data for understanding education technology like like it's important for us to look through the lens of our own learning experiences and and they can be very informative. Um the other thing to remember is that if you're studying at MIT you're probably weird. Um there there are probably characteristics of you which are not typical. Like if you like if you generally find classroom learning pleasant um you are unusual. Um, if you think to yourself, man, I really like just kind of like learning stuff and figuring out on my own in academic material, that is unusual. Um, most people are not good at those things and don't find them enjoyable. So, so it's it could be helpful to bring your own experience, but it's also important to recognize the way like, you know, and I I went to private schools my whole life. I've had an extraordinarily privileged educational upbringing. if it doesn't in lots of ways I have to recognize how that upbringing does not prepare me well to understand the learning experiences of most students who go to K12 schools and public schools in the United States and things like that. So be conscientious of that as we do some thinking. But this stuff is good. All the things you're talking about are are things we'll keep trying to make sense of. Failure to disrupt. Um this is a book about large-scale learning um learning environments with many many learners and few experts to guide them. Um, and I would say the heart of what I'm trying to do in this book is to is to demystify education technology for people and to and to say, you know, with every generation of new technologies, there will be folks who come along that try to go to schools and say, "This thing is totally brand new. This is this is disruptive. Um, this is innovative. This is going to this is a gamecher. this is going to transform education. Um, and my job is to be like, eh, probably not. Um, it might be helpful, but it's very very unlikely that it will be any of those kinds of things. Um, a one of the ways to demystify technologies is to show where they come from. Um, is to say these things have patterns. The patterns are recognizable. Um, they are patterns not just in how these things are designed, but how they get implemented and what kind of effects they have. When new technologies come along, we don't have to we don't have to guess out of the blue how well they might work. We know roughly how well education technology works in different kinds of circum. Now new things there there will be new things that are invented that are in fact different but but most new things are just a little bit new. They make just small modifications, small advances off off of past things. Um and then the second half of the book uh says sort of confronts the challenge like why is it so hard to make progress with education technology? Why are why are things not disruptive? Why are they not transformative? Why are they not game changers? Um and I think there are answers to those questions. I think there are there are challenges that we have as a field yet to figure out how to tackle. Um and if we study those challenges and make sense of them, then we could probably do a better job um moving past them. So the first half of the book looks at these three genres of learning at scale. It says that most education technologies, especially the ones where you try to teach a lot of people with very few experts, fall into one of three buckets. And you can figure out what bucket each thing is in by asking the question who guides the sequence of learning activities. Um when learners do stuff, they happen in an order one after the other after the other. Um and there are really kind of three sorts of ways that those orders unfold. Um the first is instructor-g guided learning at scale. So there can be some expert or team of experts who says you should learn things in this order. Here's part one, part two, part three, part four, part five. And maybe learners don't go in that order, but overwhelmingly they will. Um and there's sort of some logical sequence to that. So I call those things instructorguided learning at scale. Um a bunch of what you read about for today, massive open online courses. Um any kind of self-paced online learning sort of falls in that bucket. Um the second big genre is algorithm guided learning at scale. Uh so that's when you um a computer poses you a problem, you answer that problem and the computer evaluates your performance and then based on that performance it gives you either more difficult problems or simpler problems or the same kind of problem or shunts you in some kind of different direction. But basically the computer evaluates your performance, decides on the basis of that performance what the next uh item in a sequence of activities should be and then you go do that forever. um lots of you are probably I I don't know when I taught this 10 years ago maybe students would have dabbled with these things but it's far far more common now like if you in school ever used Dreambox or Khan Academy um almost all of those things are some version of uh algorithm guided learning at scale all all a bunch of the testing that you've done if you've taken the computer-based GRE other things like that they use similar technologies um the third bucket of things we call peerguided learning at scale. Um, so if any of you have ever played around with the Scratch programming community, there's no instruction in Scratch. There's no there's no like Scratch University or like Scratch lesson one, lesson two, lesson three, and that's very intentional and by design. Instead, you're immersed in this community of peers. Um, and if you go to the homepage of the Scratch website, there are featured tutorials and featured projects and things like that. And the way you figure out Scratch is that you think about some things that you want to do and then you find some other people who have done that kind of thing and you copy them, you converse with them, you take their project and you modify it. Um, but you basically sort of design your own pathway. Um, there are lots of other learning environments, uh, Stack Overflow, other kinds of communities of practice. The the one that I talk about at the beginning of the book is Rainbow Loom. Um, any of you ever played with Rainbow Loom when you were kids? Yeah. Um, so you know when you bought a Did I tell you the story yet? When you bought a Rainbow Loom, there are like 10 cards in the packet. So, you pull open the packet, there's a bunch of these little rubber bands, little like uh uh what do they call that thing? Frame to stitch the rubber bands on. And then there are 10 cards that show 10 different kinds of bracelets that you can make. If you get really into Rainbow Loom, 10 different kinds of bracelets is not enough kinds of bracelets. Like, you have to learn more different ways of doing it. Um and the main way you'll learn that is through YouTube. Um you'll go to this I mean, and here's the thing that sort of boggled my mind about Rainbow Loom. So, there's some dude who is in Michigan. Um, he was like an automotive engineer or something like that who was like, "In my country, this is the way we make bracelets." Um, and he's like, and he, you know, he like comes up with some CAD designs and he sends them to China and China manufactures of these things and they put them on shipping containers and they send them to his distribution center and eventually these packet, you know, these these little like boxes of Rainbow things get sent all over the world. It's a total supply chain miracle. Um the fact that you know some dude in Michigan just has an idea and is like let's have people all over the world buy these things and they do is amazing. But simultaneously to that physical supply chain infrastructure this giant global community of Rainbow Loom learners emerges um where there are people who are running little classes at uh um art shops and they're posting videos online and they're sharing ideas with each other and they're creating little Facebook marketplaces. Um and the only way Rainbow Loan could grow is if that learning network grows alongside it. You know that is miraculous. Um that is like an amazing feature of online learning that uh that you know people could invent a tool to do this kind of practice um and and a community could develop to teach each other and themselves this practice. Um, I think there were uh Oh, the other thing I really liked about that which I think I mentioned is that um I don't there were these two girls. I think their names were Ashley and Steph um who made Rainbow Loom YouTube videos and they got millions of views and you could compare their videos to like the actual Rainbow Loom manufacturer videos and these girls were getting like 10x the number of views that the actual Rainbow like like basically kids would rather learn um from these kind of two random girls. They ended up being Philadelphia. They're very good at protecting their anonymity, at least for a while. One of them eventually became a makeup influencer. Um, and and then they revealed herself. But uh um but I find these global networks incredibly fascinating. Um and very very difficult to integrate in schools for reasons that we'll explore as we go along. Um so if you buy that there are these three big categories. Um a thing that we'll do over the next um few weeks is we'll look at how there are similarities within these categories. Um so for instance in instructorg guided learning at scale there typically are sort of two key technologies. There are two technologies that show up over and over and over again. Um one is a learning management system. So a learning management system canvas blackboard edex mood stellar a zillion other things. They're sort of platforms that organize learning materials. Um a an unusual feature of learning management systems is that they have a feature that like product people who study products called feature convergence. Essentially it's very difficult to like patent um or or have intellectual property around like components of a learning management system. So anytime anyone invents something good, everybody else copies it. Um so they're all basically the exact same system. Um like you buy them from different vendors, but they're basically one learning management system. Um and then the second kind of crucial feature of online learning management of of MO or instructor guided learning at scale are autograders. Um so you have to be able to give if you have lots and lots of learners if you want to be able to give them feedback if you want to be able to certify their learning in any way. Um you either have to spend zillions of dollars hiring people to grade their work um or you find ways of having computers grade their work. Now computers can grade as we'll talk about this at length computers can grade some things but not others. Um computers are really good at answer at at evaluating questions where the answer is is well known and certain. Um they are much less good at evaluating anything which has a kind of subjective component to it. Um uh one way to think about this is autograders are great in early language acquisition and very rapidly become useless in later language acquisition. Um so they can tell whether you've spelled ola correctly. We even have some pretty cool ones that can tell whether if you've pronounced Ola correctly. Um, we can give you a multiple choice question to see if you can recognize the audio recording of Ola. Um, eventually, however, what we want to know are like what are the key themes in Don Kiote? Um, and that we don't have very good autograders to be able to evaluate and and so forth. Um I would say in addition to this sort of technological infrastructure, these genres of learning at scale, they tend to align more closely either with direct instruction kind of folks or sort of apprenticeship uh uh constructivism kinds of folks. The the instructor guided learning at scale people, they tend to be thornyike direct instruction cognitive load theory kind of people. They tend to be pale filling kinds of folks. Um uh algorithm guide to learning at scale. um has similarities but differences. Um so the the sort of crucial technology behind algorithm guided learning at scale is a set of algorithms called item response theory. Um this was developed in the 1980s by educational testing services. The people who make what do they do the SAT or the GRE? What is it? What is what test does ETSs make? I don't know. They make tests. Um and uh um the like the basic toolkit of item response theory has proven really quite robust. Um all item response theory does basically is it lets you figure out how difficult an item is. It's a way of quantifying how difficult an item is. If you can quantify how difficult an item is, if someone gets the item right, you can give them a more difficult item or less difficult item. It was actually originally developed so that you could give people tests of equivalent difficulty without giving them the same test. Um this proved important like when we had national testing and we built communication networks um because in theory somebody could take a you know a test in Portland, Maine um and later that same day someone would take it in Honolulu, Hawaii um and there's like just enough time in there for someone to call and you know and send all the questions and answers and and things like that. Um, and so it was it was a it was part came about from sort of test security. You want to make you want to be able to make claims about about people's ability. Um, and one way to do that is to give everyone the same test. Another way to do that is to give everyone tests with different items but of the same difficulty. Um, and so we had to come up with some statistical toolkit for doing that. Um, what we came up with in the 1980s and 1990s, we like we've modified it a bit, but we still pretty much use today. um we sort of know a bunch about its strengths and weaknesses and how it works. Um most of our autograders have like just now maybe they're starting to improve a little bit. Most of them haven't improved that much in the last two or three decades. Um I in some specific areas, some parts of language acquisition, some parts of computer science, maybe they've improved better. Um but these technologies for the most part are pretty stable. um when someone has a new entrant I I mean I'll you'll read more of this story in chapter two but there was a company called Newton um which said that they could take uh they could take any body of educational content and turn it into an intelligent tutor um and they thought that their tutor was absolutely amazing that the founder described it as a uh something like a magical robot tutor in the sky sort of knew exactly what you were thinking and so forth. Um so he was making all these like totally outlandish claims and then his engineers um were like had a blog about what they were building and they one of their blog posts was something like using two parameter item response theory to evaluate items. They're basically like this you know so the leader is out there being like these things is totally amazing and the engineers are like like here's the very wellestablished technology that we're using to do the thing that we like are selling you to do. Um the peer-guided learning at scale looks pretty different from the other two. Um, peer-guided learning environments tend to be more apprenticeship oriented. They tend to be more wrapped into situated learning things like that. Um, they tend to have a different um, uh, technical infrastructure. Um, instead of being based in some kind of content holding thing like a learning management system, they usually exist on the web. Um, and usually their killer app is not an autograder, but a thing that pulls content together. Like how do you figure out what the right sequence of Rainbow Loom um, learning materials is to look at? And things like hashtags are really important for that. Um uh how do you in Scratch like how do you pull together and come up with a set of featured projects or a way of tagging projects so that people can find their way through them. Um so these are sort of the three big buckets um that will explore um one bucket each over the over the next bunch of weeks. Um, the second half of the book, which pro I guess if this if that if that if this project takes us a good chunk of March, this project will take us a good chunk of April, are four problems that educators and education technology designers run into over and over again. Um, which I'll enumerate quickly just to orient you. Um, one's missing. Anyway, the first one is the curse of the familiar. Um, the idea of the curse of the familiar is that it's pretty easy to make technologies that do things that educators already are doing and get them adopted. Um, how many of you have ever used Quizlet? Okay, that that's about as universal a group. Uh, Quizlet was founded by MIT dropout um Andy Sutherland who took a bunch of uh um education classes with us and uh um he built it to I think study French for himself. Um uh a Quizlet is flashcards. Um, if you went and you gathered a bunch of educational experts around the world and said like what like what or you know what what is our what do our kids really need to advance their learning? There was there is no one who would raise their hands and be like there's a huge der of flash cards. Like we just don't have enough flash cards at school. We've run out of index cards. Something like that. Um uh and yet um here's this something you know maybe I mean they say things like half of all high schoolers every month use Quizlet. Um how much does Quizlet improve teaching and learning? Well, if you're replacing regular flash cards with digital flash cards, like how much would you expect that to improve learning? Like maybe some maybe there's a little efficiency there. Something like that. You also might say something like actually one of the best things about flashcards is the creation of the flash cards. Like there's actually something important of learning about like writing down the prompts on one ends, the answers on the other end. So maybe the paper ones are actually better um than the Quizlet ones in different kinds of ways. But the point is um there's probably no one who would make a bet that you know human development would be profoundly transformed by digitizing flashcards. But if you look across many of the most successful education technology companies, they do something like Quizlet. They take a thing which is already happening in schools and they digitize it, maybe make it a little bit more efficient. There are handful of projects that try to do something totally different. Um and many of them fail. And the reason why they fail is it's really hard to convince people in schools to adopt totally new routines. So there are all kinds of ed, you know, there are all kinds of like visionary educators out there who think of like, man, wouldn't it be cool if we could teach math in this really different kind of way? If we can teach computer science in this really different kind of way. Um, and then they build things that do that and people go, that's weird. Um, I don't understand this really new different kind of way. So a bunch of the things which might potentially lead us to the biggest gains or changes in our teaching and learning are really hard to get people to adopt. That's the curse of the familiar. Um the edtech Matthew effect is that we very often hope that new technologies especially free technologies will be the term people often use is democratizing. Um that they will they will essentially what'll happen is like every you know people generally speaking agreed that folks who have more resources have had more learning experiences and therefore have learned more than people with less experience. Um but we hope that there are technologies that will like disproportionately benefit um the the less affluent that they will help poor folks sort of catch up to other people. they'll create new kinds of on-ramps. You know, maybe they help everybody, but they particularly help this group. What we almost always find is the figure on the right, which is that new technologies disproportionately benefit the affin um is that they're very likely to accelerate the learning of people who are already advantaged. Um if many people go into education because they're trying to build a more equitable, just society, um and it can be quite frustrating if you keep building stuff and it keeps helping the most affluent people in society secure their position um better. um we can document this really well. It's actually in in a lot of cases hard to understand why it's happening and and we have very little science or research that helps us explain what alternatives would be. Um we know you know we'll give you some examples of some technologies that I think don't do that that I think do disproportionately um benefit people from further further from opportunity but it's really hard to figure out why they work. Um, a third challenge that education technology folks come across all the time, um, is that computers are good at evaluating certain kinds of things. The kinds of things that they're really good at evaluating are those that are routine, uh, that have common features to them, that are highly structured. Um, uh, computers are much less good at evaluating, um, illststructured kinds of things, things where, you know, that that don't have much form to them or we don't know what inputs need to go in them or what the final output should look like. Um, for instance, one of the things that that we don't have good autograders for is people's ability to reason from evidence in natural language, you know, either written or auditory. The main thing that we teach you for 16 or 20 years in the education system is how to reason from evidence. Like the most important things we're teaching you how to do, we don't have good autograders for. Moreover, the kinds of things that computers can grade tend to overlap pretty closely with the kinds of things computers are good at. Um, if computers are good at things, it's going to be very difficult to make a living doing those things. So, we have like really good tests for the kinds of things that are probably not so important to teach people. Um, and we have not very good tests on the kinds of things that are really important to teach people. That is like a bad feature for educational system. Um, because autograding of all kinds is way cheaper than human grading. Um, so we essentially build all of these systems where conceivably we're like spending money to cheaply evaluate the least important parts of the system and we're not evaluating the most important parts that thing people ought to be developing in those systems. Um, so that is the trap of routine assessment. Um, a really cool thing about computers is that they can collect enormous amounts of data about what folks do and that we can run experiments on people um, and improve those systems. So every time, not every time, but you know, 1% of the time you go to Google or Amazon or Facebook or whatever that like they're doing some little randomized control trial on you. You know, the buy button is green instead of red and we figure out whether you buy more from green buttons and red buttons. Um, and eventually, you know, Amazon, Facebook, they do millions, I don't know, they do many, many of those experiments every year and their system continuously gets better. Um, there are a couple of problems with doing that in education. Um the first problem is if you go to folks and you say that what you want to do is experiment with their children as we've joked before like people are not that enthusiastic about that as an idea. Um it's also not clear that um like surveilling people constantly in public schools is a good idea for civil society. Um an exercise maybe we'll do later on is start thinking about all of the data that MIT has about you. Um and we might start thinking like is it a good idea that MIT has all of this data about people? is a good idea for an elementary school to have all of this data um about where people are moving, where they're logging in, how they're learning, their healthcare, all these other kinds of things. Um so it could it could be that collecting huge amounts of data lets us build really cool edtech products. It also could be that it sort of in inducts people into a surveillance society which ultimately is not good for democracies or civil society. Um so in the second half of the class, those are the or the second half of our reading of this book. Um those are the four dilemmas um that we'll spend some time messing around with and exploring. Um that is an overview of the task of the reading together. Um and then what we'll do for the last 20 minutes of class um is to talk about massive open online courses in particular. But maybe I'll pause um back here you know essentially on these these kind of two slides um and see if uh people have any questions or things they want to interject here for the next slide when you mention like the four as yet intractable dilemmas when you are studying technology education have you found issues that used to be dilemmas and that at some point we were actually able to solve and these are the four that are like left. Yeah. So, so I think so I think there there would be some there would be like um access and distribution problems that you might have thought about as being like really central to lots of different places 20 years ago that would be that would still you know if we're talking about subsaharan Africa or other kinds of places in the world are still serious but you know refugee camps places of protracted conflicts lots of you know lots of places where access isn't hard um but there's also lots of places be like you know in the United States like pretty much every school has highspeed internet now um and So whereas and we still have to think about how we do that and how we upgrade it and things like that but but but that is a dilemma which has you know diminished quite a bit over time and some of you know for sure some of these dilemmas we've made progress on I mean I would particularly say the trap of routine assessment is one where um you know in the last 10 or 15 years there are definitely there are definitely places where you could say hey um we're doing better automated assessment now than we were before at different levels. So um I mean computer science is probably the place where we have the most robust suite of autograding tools. Um it doesn't cover everything that's important in computer science but boy like you can automatically evaluate people on a lot of stuff that matters. Um uh yeah I mean there's an example in the book of uh of autograding spoken language um for language learners. You know that you can talk out loud and Dualingo can tell whether or not you've pronounced something correctly. That's pretty rad. Um uh and then I think there you know it it pro it'll be interesting to see in the next few years but I'm my hunch is large language models will play an increasingly large role in at least giving people meaningful feedback on their written products. Um whether or not we actually grade with them like that may be sort of a bridge too far. Um, I'm sure we'll use it in some circumstances, but I bet there'll be many, many circumstances. You know, if if you told me 10 years from now, every time a student turned in a paper, they ran it through like an advanced version of something like Grammarly, which gave them not only feedback about their syntax, but was like, "Hey, I don't think you have any evidence in this paragraph. You might want to go back and look at that." Like, that wouldn't surprise me at all. Um, and that could help students a lot. you know, if there's if there's someone who who can, you know, if there's an automated bot that can like, you know, give you reasonable feedback generically about your writing, that would be cool. You know, that I'd ra I'd rather focus on other things than giving you feedback. So, I remember you mentioning in one of the slides that computers right now are like not very good at things that don't have as much structure, but with things like LLM, um, do you think that that's going to change? Like I they will get better. Um I I think there is still I think even some of our earliest evidence suggests that these are really thorny problems. Um so like I feel like we're starting to get some feedback about for instance people using LLMs to help them in coding. Um and there's a joke which is something like um you know um using co-pilots in coding will reduce your initial coding time in half and then it will double your quality assurance time. um that you know basically because like not only will it maybe introduce errors but also the people engineering things just won't understand what the bot is doing and the bot is much better at like very specific parts of building code than it is in engineering a whole system and so like it makes a bunch of decisions that make sense for a particular thing but don't make sense for building a whole system and then somebody has to go back and repair those kinds of things. um are you know so are so in terms of like um I don't I'll get we'll get into this more when we talk about autograders later but um Hal Abson who's been on the CS faculty forever has this wonderful quotation in one of his earliest books on uh computer science which says something like um computer programming is a language for computer for communicating between two people about methods that's only incidentally meant to be run by a machine. Um and the idea is that really good code is actually talking amongst people um and not talking to the machine. Um our autograders are really good at figuring out whether or not code like does things that machines understand and our autograders for computer science are not very good at evaluating things like how well is this code designed for collaboration amongst people? How you know how sensibly are the functions named and other kinds of things like that. I I my hunch is we'll make progress on it. Um my other hunch is that it will remain like a pretty hard problem for a pretty long time. Um and also it's a problem we'll solve in degrees like will we will we give better automatic like five years from now will we give better automatic feedback to the typical middle school essay written in almost any topic and will some of that feedback actually be useful? Seems almost certain to me. Um will we be able to actually grade? we will actually say something like like this p like this paper is better than this other paper with all the consequences that are attendant to that. Um we already do that to some extent in the education system but I think we're still going to find that we're not confident in the assessment that these machines make. Um but fortunately like these are all testable hypotheses. So you know your if your predictions were more optimistic than mine you could very well be right. Um let's talk about massive open online courses for a bit. Um, MOOs burst on the scene in particular 2011 2012. So almost 15 years ago now. How many of you have taken a massive open online course? How many of you have signed up for a class? How many how many of you how many of you signed up for one and finished it all the way through? Okay. So people laugh because that is a much smaller number of folks. Um, this is one of the sort of distinctive features of online learning. Um, uh, is that online learning is really hard. Um it is if you were not alive or sort of paying attention to education in 2011, 2012, 2013, it is hard to understand h like how much people assumed that these tools would completely change higher education like not be like a little bit useful maybe, but like utterly rearrange educational systems. Like people thought they were going to be before MOOs and after mukes. part of the hype of this the first sort of really large scale class like this um Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig um who are computer science Sebastian Thrun works on self-driving cars he founded a company called Udacity Peter Norvig worked at Google forever they were both professors at Stanford um they created a class called intro to AI um and they sent an email around to the E mailing list um saying anybody want to take this intro to AI class um they were particularly inspired by Salcon um I think it was who was talking about the like the the the MITx practice sets that you were going through um they were very taken by that model. You watch a little bit of a video, you solve a couple problems. You watch a little bit more video, you solve a couple problems. Sort of interle them along. Um they send this email around, they're thinking, you know, maybe a few hundred, maybe a few thousand people show up. 100,000 people sign up for this course. 100,000 people, you know, multiples more than Peter and Sebastian combined would have ever taught on Stanford campus in their entire career there. Um and and there was a vision like wow this could happen for everything everywhere. This could be all of higher education in the future. Um the amount of resources that ultimately people like Peter and Sebastian could put behind a course for 100,000 people like you could easily spend hundred thousand dollars of build building that course material and then the cost of every marginal student every additional student would be quite low you know. So most people who are teaching a class, you just like, you know, you hire someone, you pay them $60,000 a year in a community college, maybe less, you pay them $100,000 a year, leave college, maybe a little more. Um, and they spend some of that money making a course and 20 people take it and that's that. Um, but imagine if you could concentrate resources to make like the best possible instructional sequence, the best course ever. Um, I was I did my undergraduate at the University of Virginia. Um, and the University of Virginia very briefly fired their president um, in I think 2013 because she was not sort of transitioning fast enough to this new online world. Um, and and then um, uh, the the board of governors sort of underestimated her popularity on campus and all the faculty and students came out on the lawn and protested and she got rehired. Um but you know um like like you know imagine if MI you know MIT's president UMass president got fired this week because they weren't moving fast enough on AI. Like that was sort of like the equivalent of of what was happening in 2013. It was just madness. Um and I had just finished my PhD. Um so I had just finished at Harvard in uh 2012. I spent a year working at an organization nearby called Facing History and Ourselves. Um and I got hired at Harvard as the first researcher whose responsibility was to sort of um create a research infrastructure for Harvard X. Um there were three big bets that when that when Harvard and MIT came together to create MOOs um to create edex mukes have been created in other places too. Um Corsera at Stanford most notably there are three things they're going to try to do. They're going to provide new pathways into higher education for people who have limited access. um that basically there are lots of places in the world where people can't get into higher education because they can't afford it because it's not nearby the programs they want aren't there if all that is online that as soon as you can connect people to the internet everybody can participate in everything um people thought that it would sort of reorganize disrupt unbundle sort of profoundly change systems of higher education so universities might still be around but they could be organized in totally new ways um you know we were talking just in the beginning about um how um research universities often hire hire people who are not particularly good at teaching. Um well, what if like all the teaching just got provided by these companies that like specialized in generating learning materials and then the you know your research professors could just go do their research and all of you could take 611 from an online course. Wasn't there a quote from the book that was like in like 30 years there would only be like 10 universities left in the country and Udacity could be one of them. Yeah. Yeah. That was Sebastian Thur and the idea probably from that is probably not quite as crazy it seemed. It was probably not that there would not be institutions of higher education, but like you would go to UMass or Bunker Hill Community College and all of the classes being taught there would have been made at, you know, um, Shingua University, Stanford, Harvard, MIT, um, CMU and a handful of other at Udacity and a handful of other places. and like going to something like UMass or Bunker Hill Community College would mean taking online courses that were created by elite institutions elsewhere and you'd get a dorm room, you know, and be in a fraternity and be able to like have some, you know, a human dots and extra help and things like that. Um, but people really like that like it sounds ridiculous, but people like absolutely believe that people people thought for sure that higher education would be, you know, if we went if we went back into 2012 and said that higher education is like basically the same except having more financial difficulties in 2024 than it would in 2012. Um, there would be lots of people who would be very surprised um by by that. Um, so this I guess this presentation I I don't know when I developed this, probably 2019 or something like that, but it was sort of at the moment where it was pretty clear that like none of these bets were going to pan out. Um, that uh that what that we were not going to accomplish these things and I was sort of trying to help a community. I know like sometimes you talking to like the people we talked to last time, education deans and stuff like that or provosts or um funders or or people educated in education like why didn't muks do the things that we wanted them to do? Um oh first of all actually I don't have to spend too much time because it sounds like everybody has taken a muk. Um but like the most important thing that you need like like the two most important buttons in a muk are the previous button and the next button. That's kind of like what makes an instructor guided learning at scale. Like there's a bunch of stuff that we shove in the middle and then like you click next, you do some stuff. If you get it wrong or get confused, you click previous, but you sort of linearly make your way through some instructor guided um set of materials. A bunch of it is video or animations or text explanation or stuff like that. And then periodically there are some assessment questions that that come along. Um we realized as education researchers almost right away um that folks who were who are furthest from opportunity were not the ones who were signing up for mukes first um by this is a paper that was published in 2019 in nature by Ezekiel Emanuel who's actually a mostly a medical researcher um but he was like you know in the United States here's the population with a college degree here's the MOO student population with a college degree you know in Brazil Russia India China South Africa Here's the population with a with a college degree. Here's the percent of people from those countries taking mukes have a college degree. So basically we could tell almost right away um that the people that we were recruiting into MOOs were folks who were already educated. Um I I today I don't know that we we know everything about why that's the case. Um people who have earned an education probably enjoy education as leisure time activities more than people who don't pursue an education. That would be sort of normal. Um, but I would say that one thing that we've discovered in various formats is that online self-paced learning is incredibly difficult for people. Um, the VA like you all sort of laughingly joked about that when I said, "How many of you have started a MOO that you didn't finish?" Um, and you all are some of the best people in the world at self-paced learning and you found it hard. Um, the entire population, the vast majority of people find online self-paced learning really, really difficult. Um, they have other priorities in their life. It's boring. Um and actually an interesting thing about people is that when they're studying something they really care about they can be quite persistent in learning. Um so like you study young people who are like you know right now um uh if you ask young young tween teens um to explore skincare routines online um they will pursue that with great passion, great determination, persist through lots of difficulties and be successful. Um they will not do the same with algebra. um you kind of wish as a society that they were better doing in algebra than skincare routines, but that's just not the way human beings seem to be wired. Um so online self the VA now who gets good at online self-paced learning like how do you become good at being a good autodidact? Um I think the best guess we have is that you get an apprenticeship in the formal education system. The best way to be good at learning on your own is to learn with a bunch of other people. Um so that means the way to become really good at taking these online self-paced mukes is to go get a college degree. But if your goal was to was to create new pathways into higher education for limited access, building a thing which you really have to have spent a lot of time in education to be good at is maybe not the best strategy. Um but people didn't know that at the time. Um this is an article that I wrote with Marano's adviser Jose. Um that was where we were um we're trying to figure out like why muks were not working. Um and uh one of the things that we observed is the these are charts of enrollment but they're charts of enrollment by sort of human development index category. So basically way more people were coming from the world's most affluent countries than were coming from the world's least affluent countries. And we basically made no dent in it you know over the first eight years or so. Um you know you could you could imagine like oh well we started with a pretty big gap. you know, if these three lines on the bottom had sort of continued to traverse up, then maybe you could say, "Okay, we're making progress towards our goals." Um, the other thing that was kind of a problem is is heading into the pandemic, um, enrollments and sort of like if you're trying to run a company or something like that, it's really not good to have this line go down. You'd really like if this was Facebook's graph, it would just keep going up exponentially forever. Um, that was another problem with with MOOs compared to sort of other social media businesses. Like when you sign up for Facebook or Twitter or something like that, you're kind of stuck in there forever. um when you sign up for a class, the class ends. Um and then you leave and go do something else with your life. Um so why didn't this work? Um or or or or um actually we'll talk about the um the second one next, but what were you going to say, Maria? I was just reflecting one thing that that I realized as well recently is that like everyone now creates their own course. Like every influencer has a course on something different, right? And I think that probably also affected this like ability of books to kind of spread because originally like five or six organizations were creating content and nowadays this is very decentralized. So even it's still hard for people to complete these courses online etc etc like there's also a lot more um competition right there's a lot of competition out there and traditional institutions proved to be very effective in that competition. So here's the thing which shocked even me. Um at the beginning of the pandemic, you all remember this from like March 2020, April 2020, like we sent you all home. Um and here's something that could have happened. There could have like there were there were thousands of professors in the United States who were teaching introduction to microeconomics and a bunch of them could have said, "There is no way I can do a good job continuing to teach you introduction to economics. Like my kids aren't in school. They're running underneath my feet right now. I've never taught online before. Just go to edex. go to go to John Hopkins, go to MIT, take their courses and I'll give you a test at the end and help you out. Um, the alternative is that like I take my lectures, I put them online and we meet in Zoom once a week and I still keep giving you your lectures. Basically, every learner and institution in the world preferred the latter option. um all throughout the pandemic at all levels of the education around the world, we basically said like would you rather have this really high production value class kind of offered anonymously from some institution that maybe you've heard of but you have no connection with or with your own like harried professor who's taking care of his kids while teaching you who doesn't know anything about online learning and people overwhelmingly pick the latter. Um I don't know why we don't know you know I don't know why we don't know why they picked the ladder other than the fact that human that like education is a profoundly social enterprise. Um even the comment you made about about influencers having their own closest and things like that like you have a parasocial relationship with those influencers in a way that you wouldn't you know from Josh Angress who teaches the economics class here or something like that. Um all right let me try to say two more things before we head out. Um oh well some of these things are on there. um that uh um the like the main advantage that mukes have is they reduce faculty labor. They pull faculty out of the equation. You know, they they just make them sort of television stars instead of teachers. Um and if you you know there's b like there's basically no way to do the economics of mukes except to dramatically reduce human contact. Um but like what helps people learn is human contact. like the like the way that you persist in most of your learning environments, especially when you're learning something you don't care about and are not that interested in is like you care what your faculty thinks about it. You care what your peers are. You have all these sort of other human things that keep you connected. Um and uh and because of that, most people are not good at self-regulated learning. If the vast majority of people are not good at self-regulated learning, if the only way to get better at self-regulated learning is to, you know, go through the K12 system and go to college, then this is not going to be a good system for helping folks further from opportunity get into college. Um, the primary way that mukes were going to disrupt higher education um is there was a very in for me influential article that said the act like the actual innovation nothing was innovative in muks a learning management system is not new. Edex was not new. Corsera was not new. Canvas was doing the same thing. Moodle was doing the same thing. Blackboard was doing the same thing. Autograders are not new. We had all kinds of autograders and all kinds of systems. That the actual innovation in MOOs was putting a storefront on top of a learning management system. That the thing that was actually different was that like in the in the past if you wanted to buy a Harvard course, you had to buy eight a year and you had to rent an apartment and you had to buy all your meals from the institution. Like you had to buy this like giant bundle of stuff. Um, and so the bet that Harvard, MIT, Stanford, other folks made is like what if we sold just one course at a time? Um, like what if you could ca could come in and just take one intro to CS class, one introduction to economics class. And that's and and millions of people were interested in that. Um, I mean, the number of signups that appeared in many of these courses were these astronomically large numbers. You know, CS50 at Harvard had millions of people enrolled with just a couple of years. A tiny tiny fraction of them finish. you know, something like 1% of them finish. On average, MOO's about 5% of people um who register. About 10% of people who click into a course once um will persist in a class, but but pretty small numbers. Um however, it turned out um that just like storefronts didn't solve all of the problems at university stored. So, people were excited to try out storefronts. Um but storefronts by themselves didn't confer legitimacy. like really traditional things like registar offices confirm legitimacy. Um things that publish transcripts um and degrees and diplomas confer legitimacy. Um and so and so this idea that mukes could move forward just by selling one course at a time um proved untrue. So then MOUS did something um which was surprising to people which they said well all right why don't we start offering whole degree programs um how about instead of taking just one MOO at a time you'll take eight MOOs and get an MBA you'll take eight mukes and get a a data science degree a computer science degree or something like that um there were companies that have been doing that for a long time those companies were called online program managers um they are some of the most sort of unreputable companies in the higher education space for a few reasons Um, one is they tended to be pretty secretive. Um, so you would sign up for an online degree from an organization and you like think you're getting this degree from the University of Chicago, but you like you slowly realize um that there's a company called TU or Embinet um or or or Pearson Ebinet Services or something like that which is actually providing a bunch of your educational experiences. Um, the Wall Street Journal in the last couple of years has had a bunch of exposees of boot camps that are branded by state universities, but they're actually just run by a company. You know, it's called like the Oregon computer science boot camp or whatever, computer programming boot camp, but nobody who teaches in it works for the University of Oregon and things like that. Um, uh, I mean, the other problem that universities faced was that, um, like a a key precept of businesses is that you do not outsource your core competencies. Um, so if you're a university and you outsource your janitorial services, that is a great idea. If you outsource your accounting services, that is a great idea. If you outsource your teaching and learning, that is a bad idea. The teaching and learning is the thing that you do as a university. Um, so uh um I don't know, I wrote this paper in in 2019 um which said something like, man, these massive open online courses, they sure seem to be behaving like online programs or they're sort of partnering with these organizations. You know, part of the ways that they were compelling to organizations is that they would go to a university and say, "We will pay upfront for the development of these degree programs, but then for the next 15 years, we'll take 40% 50% 60% of all the tuition revenue that comes in." um at the you know in year one that might seem like a good idea because you didn't spend any money and you got this new tuition revenue but like 10 years from now you're like why am I paying you know to you Corsera Edex you know 60 50 40% of all the tuition revenue that's coming in when like what they're doing is in some respects not that hard like they're running a learning management system and doing some online learning we can figure out how to do those things um this was a bit of a controversial paper when I published it and there was a whole bunch of people um who said come on Justin, that's really not fair. You can't you can't say that mukes are turning into um online program managers. But then two years later, Tuyu, who was the largest online program manager, bought EdX. Um and uh and even that was a was a convergence that I wouldn't have projected. Um so I know um some of you may know that um all of the proceeds from um from the sale of Edex went to this nonprofit controlled by Harvard and MIT called Axom. Um, so, uh, so, uh, Tu paid $800 million for edex. Um, and that $800 million went to start a new nonprofit. Um, like headlines like this were kind of funny to me. You know, Harvard and MIT led nonprofit to tackle long-standing inequities in education. Um, but like that's exactly what Edex was. Um, Edex was a nonprofit designed to tackle inequities in education. I was like, well, that didn't work, so we're starting a new one. Um, and it's like, you know, like I just like how the big headline is like, "This is this brand new thing that we're doing. And by the way, it's because we sold the last version of this that we just did. Tiny font at the bottom." Um, uh, this was last year's sales price for Edex. Um, or for TU 2. Um, and, uh, yeah, their stock has declined 90% over the last five years. You can sort of see the pandemic bubble here. People did a bunch of online learning. Um and then they were partly they were less enthusiastic about it but also as universities get better at offering online learning um they don't have to partner with groups like TU anymore. Um this is actually today's stock quote where it is down 99.36% over the last five years. Um uh so you know um TU paid for edex like substantially more than the entire company of 2U is currently worth today. Um, I guess I was just looking for like clarification on like EdX and like MITx and like Harvard X. Like is that all the same thing? Like the MITx that we use now? No. So, well, all right. So, Harvard and MIT each put $30 million. Um, they create units called Harvard X and MITx. Um, those are like sort of independent brands. The shared infrastructure that those things used was this thing called Edex. Um, Edex was a company. It also created an open source learning management system called open edex. So the com the like nonprofit edex was sold to to you to become part of a company but there still is an open source project called edex um which is a a learning management system software MITx and if there's still a thing called Harvard X to some extent in their products use this thing called open edex as what they're doing like the infrastructure but MIT like the content that we look at when we go on MITx as students is not owned by this company uh Uh yes, but although it's sort of slightly more complicated than that because I think like I um they definitely bought the right to display all or most of maybe they could display anything that they had instructors permission to be able to display. Like I took all of my courses off of Edex um when it was bought by TU um because because I don't want to support online program managers. I don't think they're good for higher education. Um some departments did that, things like that. They still might have some rights to display some of it, but they still sort of basically did what they wanted because if you look at it, a lot of it and like even open courseware is also from like 2008 updated years. Yeah. Which I guess makes sense. Yeah. You know, and in some ways in theor you know like like a lot of the argument is that it shouldn't have to be, right? Like how you know how much did uh um did did multivariable calculus change since 2008? Like you know not that much. Um and part of the way that you gain the economy of scale is by sort of leaving these things alone. All right, we'll come back and I'll sort of finish this in here except to say that we uh we tried a whole lot of stuff to develop a new science of learning and like probably the main thing that we learned is that like people who click a lot into things do better than people who click less into things. Um which you probably didn't need a $60 million investment to be able to figure out. Um but I'll finish with this next time. Um you'll turn in your papers by email and we'll talk a little bit more about uh intelligent tutors as well um both on Wednesday and the following Monday. Um if I can help you at all with paper one or anything else, let me know. Otherwise, have a wonderful rest of your week.