The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. We focus on the third and fourth case study. These case studies which will conclude on Thursday with Chicago are all examples of what 19th century urbanism or preodern urbanism contended with. They all contended more or less with similar circumstances. The rise of industrial poverty, the weakening of the aristocracy and the royal presence. In some cases the existence of walls for fortification which had been redundant became becoming redundant. Chicago is very different. Chicago has no royalty, no aristocracy, no walls. So Thursday we will look at Chicago comparatively. Today I want to look at two case studies. one of Vienna which has a great deal to do with walls and the second is Barcelona which we're going to focus on the the most common emancipation in the 19th century from some of these problems that is to leave the central city alone and build on new land outside Sarta's plan for Barcelona A is the largest housing project planned housing project in the world. Certainly the largest housing project in Europe. Let's start with Vienna. Vienna was the major bastion. Well, let me try to explain what I gave you. The first diagram is the replacement of the walls and the various sectors of the continuous road 2 and a half mile road which became the urban symbol of the post rel post feudal city. The second is a elevation of K Marshoff which is this an element in the third stage of the city from the feudal city to the liberal city to the socialist city for relatively short time from 1919 onwards. The next page is the answ of that part of Barcelona which is is based on the 1859 plan of defa is called the an you can see the extend extended pattern of the similar block the next page of the two competi winning two finalists in the competition. SA's plan on the north the print is a little obscured and the the alternative plan Antonio rea the same square block 113 m by 113 13 m with options for development to create a flexible environment in which only a portion of the block is built. And lastly is a town in Pulya in southern Italy, southern Italy showing our the conventional plan which exists in smaller towns, maintaining the central area, developing a grid system outside the central area connected to the central area by the gates of the walls. Okay. Vienna. Who threatened Vienna from the 16th century to the 18th to the 17th century? Yeah. Islam focused its threat on the west. I'm forgetting about Islam in North Africa and Spain. But in central Europe from Islam made two major attacks on Vienna. 1529 they were repelled causing the building of walls, enormous wall system 20 years later in Vienna. A wall system which had 11 bastions, a moat and an area called the glassy glacis. It refers to the open space around the walls for to create an an arena for military firepower, gun firepower. Do you understand the concept? So you have not only the walls, but you have a span of free space like a green belt around the walls, which enables improved fortification. These walls was subjected to another major larger attack by Islam in 1683 in which case for two months Vienna was on its last legs. They managed to subvert the by tunneling under the walls uh breaking through from the south. Um and uh Vienna was within a morning of collapsing when all of the forces galvanized by the pope in Rome to the to the extent that he still had support uh couldn't uh deflect the energy of the Islam attack. An extraordinary event in history. The king of the Polish Catholic king of Poland, John Silvies, had refused to take part in the defense of Vienna for reasons I don't know. The last morning, Vienna had already been penetrated. The old city had been virtually either people all the people had been killed or left. Soi decided to send his cavalry south to Vienna. They arrived on the Islam had concentrated his attack on the south of the city. He didn't expect any attack from the north. So it was completely vulnerable in the north. So Vieties saved Vienna in one morning. There's a wonderful book on the story of this whole EP episode. If you're interested in the book, tell me and I'll give you the title. Um, it's an extraordinary idea of the scale of an Islamic attack. the organization in Istanbul of the army and all the food and all of the prostitutes that accompanied the army as they moved through Hungary to Vienna. That is one of the signal events in the history urban history of Europe. Had Islam succeeded there there might have be no I don't know certainly probably no Freud there perhaps no Beethoven and Mozart and Hayen um etc etc I don't know how to claim Islam's contribution had it captured Vienna. I don't know what the what would have happened to Europe. But Vienna was the fourth largest city in Europe behind London, Paris, Berlin. uh and uh in many respects certainly in its last the last years of the 19th century uh one of the major artistic centers of European culture. What year do you think Brahms died? Take a guess. Brahms was born in about 1830. He died in 1897. As late as that he was the tutor of the philosopher Vitkinstein's sister taught him the piano. Gustaf Marlor played music in the Vkinstein's houses. The Vitkinstein family owned 12 houses in Vienna itself. Vitkinstein do you know anything about the history of modern philosophy? Vitkinstein is one of the vet Russell the British philosopher called him the greatest philosophical genius who ever lived. He's part of he was interested in architecture and he had his uh forget about that. It's often a tangent but vinstein is an arch product of the culture of Vienna. So we have a setting in which Vienna survives in 1683. The royal presence maintains itself until about in which the liberals win in the government, take over the government and start a process of modernizing the city. Uh what I didn't mention in the case of Houseman and Paris was the number of things that Houseman did in the provision of parks, open space, unifying the bus system, improving the infrastructure of the city as a whole. Other than the building of these roads, he's known only for the avenues that he built and the housing that he built on either side of the avenues and for the major monuments. U but at the same time he built a repertoire of in infrastructure improvements. The same year the Danube constantly flooded the city. The city's always been on the southern part of the Danube. The walls were on the as you can see today. The Danube is fringes the nor the northern boundary of of the southern city by a canal. the water flooding problem was bypassed. And uh in the same sense at the same time there was there were improvements in the health system. in the first house public hospitals. An old set of improvements, but nothing as major as the decision to isolate the center of the city and to build a new environment. Instead of the new environment being similar to the plan of Sardas for Barcelona, he took the extraordinary s opportunity for using the glass and the walls, the remnants of the walls to build a single con container around the outskirts of the old city. This was a container which in which almost all the sectors of a new middle class economy could be satisfied. Number one, on your diagram, textile warehouses and offices on the Danube Canal. Number two, financial center around the stock exchange. Number three, university. Number four, the famous connection of the parliament, the town hall or the president's palace. Number five, museums. Number six, music. Number seven, private apartments. Nowhere in the connected structure of urbanism has there ever been an attempt to build one continuous movement system accompanied by surroundings as diverse as making up virtually the components of a whole city. It's a dramatic idea, an incredible idea. It had many of its manifestations. First of all, the buildings are not oriented to each other, but oriented to the street. The street is everything that animates the performance of the buildings on its side. Secondly, instead of as in England. So every effort was made to connect the space beyond the old city with this center city. In this case, the old city was where workers lived. It's sorry, not the old city. This is a old city where people were poor, where there were factories, where hygiene was unclean and untaken care of. Um, this is zone from year to year is equivalent in size to the whole city. To the old city. Sorry, I'm talking badly this morning. To the old city. So you've constructed a new city along one line 2 and a half miles long. It should come therefore as no surprise that in 1919 when socialists one took over the city that they would concentrate their efforts in the area beyond the ring stress. Carl Marshoff which we will look at in little detail exists outside of the ring. The ring didn't contain the elements of the feudal city since Steven's church was not replaced in the ring. The vote of church in the ring is simply a thanksgiving for Vienna's victories. The royal palace ensemble which is a large part of the old city attempted to penetrate onto the ring. Godfried simple did a plan for the extension of the royal palace pro site to the ring which has sort of softly connected but not the presence on the ring is everything to do with the middle class economy. It's the classic example of a road space dominating everything that surrounds it. You know in a few minutes time when towards the end of our story V and I will concentrate on the difference between proponents of archaism like Camila Camila site and Ottovagna the great modernist. Um it's interesting though Vagnner the modernist believe was fascinated by the possibility that one could move along a street and a street could be there primarily because it supports the significant phenomenon of movement. The buildings on the side of the street had no unifying architecture in the complex. I'll quote you from somebody who liked the complex which is the city hall, the theater, the university and parliament. I quote, "I ran from one object of in of interest to another. For hours I would gaze at the parliament. The whole thing, the whole ring boulevard seemed to me like an enchantment from the thousand and one night. Who was this? He became a significant figure in history. Even you might know who he is. Adolf Hitler who wanted to study architecture in Vienna and they wouldn't let him. pity. There was something about the this complex which exemplifies the interest in not the interest in but the fact that there was no consuming architectural style which could unify a street. For instance, in this complex expression is used. The town hall is compared to a free medieval com commune and is built in Gothic style. The theater is exemplifies the aesthetic enthusiasm and is therefore given a barack style. The university is the symbol of enlightened culture is given the renaissance style. Parliament is democracy is given a Greek style. We did a some work in Bratislava in Slovakia. Bratislava and Slo and Vienna are the two closest capitals in the world of neighboring countries. We tried to we had meetings with the deputy mayor of Vienna who was the chief of Vienna's planning who they to find his office in this Gothic construction this large Gothic construction takes almost a supporting dog. It is still u an amazing construction. Um Camille arism was to counter the flow of continuous movement in cities. for him. He would break up the continuity by creating plazas at significant intervals along the street. You will I'll show you a slide his proposal for one of the plazas. There was no such for curtailing the emphasis of this middle class continuity. I just Imagine choosing to build buildings according to an image of the essential performance and therefore to choose a historical style which uh supports that. I can't think of it being done anywhere else. By concentrating on the power of a street, perhaps it frees you from any it allows you to accept any device to create the architecture along it. There's something about a system of streets, a simple system of public ways which may enable the environment which supports it to be freer of having to perform those functions, the continuous facade functions. It's an it's an exa it's a thought which just strikes me from Vienna. If you allowed Zaha to build in Vienna in the old city of Vienna at least you'd have the ring stresser to hold you into some public format. The trouble with the new Vienna on the north side of the river is that it has no armature either of the old city or of the ring structure to hold it together. You have buildings which are un which the entrances to the buildings are unidentifiable. It is the biggest lot of garbage I've ever seen done by some of Europe's great architects. Uh there's organization in the ring structure of buildings knowing and showing where you enter them. This is true of all of the buildings of the old city. There's a logic to where a street is that the street is public that once you leave the street you are directed by a building as to its performance. Um it's a powerful con conjunction. The ring stress is about 200 feet wide which is about the width of Commonworth Avenue. If I remember the housing on built on the ring straasa was private housing. Again the tradition of the middle class emulating formally the idea facade idea of the royalty occurs. I will show you slides of the facades of something called a groupson's house. This is a condominium building. The lots were large and the accumulated building of a a kind which we now accept as common was uh was accepted as the mode. Uh the financing of the uh ring straasa and was largely state but also the land was free. So when it because of the glass sea and the walls belong to nobody but the state. So the money made in privatizing the parts of the ring stress for housing or offices meant a return of income to the city which they could use for parks and other public facilities. it's interesting that throughout the formal agenda of buildings in the various cities from the feudal city to the ringstrasa city to the socialist city certain archetypal ideas for instance carl marxoff has sculpture on the facade it has flags on the facade this is a Marxist socialist environment uh which still pays tribute to the royal pertinances. There's a strong sense of the need to maintain continuity throughout the history of this modern city or certainly from its 1860 onwards. A few words about archaism versus modernism. Camilo Site was a architect and critic who wrote a book which had a lot of influence. He was against the evident preoccupation of modernism with economic progress with speed, with fluid fluidity, with movement against the rationalization of traffic and hygiene and the technology which is appropriate for that kind of performance. He was much more interested in the world of the artisan, the world of the guild. Much like Rascin perhaps in London, he was attracted by the labor quality of the guild, the disappearance of the guild and the artisan. He was of great admirer of Richard Vagnner. He was fascinated by gazam the idea of bringing a genuine folk art to gear on the city. Um so for him the ringstrasa which was a continuous open space was a form of enclosure which was was antithetical to his view of uh of what a city needed. A city needed places, public enclosure, continuity, understanding, a ko psychometric condition in which everything which was close to you would fit your emotional setting. that if you saw a big building, you would appreciate its bigness because it had a purpose and you had a continuous space, a public space from which you could appreciate its emotional circumstance rather than being disrupted by the continuous flow of an open-ended system. Richard Ottovagna on the other hand um I might point out that Camila sitt was not the only person. He was an advocate of the picturesque, of the effective, of the emotional. But he was one of the people who were started worrying about the fact that city planning in Europe was vision shaft was moving in the rep in in the in in in its representation only of the two-dimensional surface of the city. for CIT the third dimension was being excluded referring to BM the German books on traffic engineering bers's book of 1876 and Hinrich Stuben's book of 197 quote the traffic systems and direction of their flow form the basis of the plan of construction cities so city Growth, city enlargement, city planning was seen as a two-dimensional exercise of the organization of movement. Vagner was too sensitive an architect. In fact, he was a kind of hybrid personality. The demands of efficiency, economy, and physics were attractive to him. He was a modern man. He believed the city could expand in in his projects for the expansion of Vienna. Reproductions of the old city of Vienna about 100,000 to 150,000 units all linked by movement systems. He spent his time building buildings for the new Danube Canal Slooh Gates. He did the wonderful uh subway stop the car plats and a number of the subway stops in the new Vienna subway system. the same time he was if he designed neocclassical monuments. Uh he's great. Those of you Vienna should go to the to see his small church in the uh medical facility, housing facility uh in the city. Uh it's been restored with a golden dome and doesn't look like anything that a modernist would have anything to do with. Perhaps his most significant building is the postal savings bank on the ringstraser. The only building that he built on the ring stresser which has a rectangular grid set of windows but between the grid set of windows there are phone styles decorated with floral decorations. Sineous floral decorations. Yeah, I've said most of the things that I want to say. He's a amongst Otto's Vagner's fascination was what he called the painless uncertainty of modernism which is an extraordinary kind of comment that if you pay Vagnner in my mind was a brilliantly confused man at a time of the intersection of traditionalism with modernism, his architecture. If to those of you who want to study his architecture, look at the work of a great architect. Uh he had an enormous influence where a number of his students were involved in the building of the Hoffs uh after 1919. But the idea of painless uncertainty that one is not going to be sure about what is going to happen over time. In fact, it is impossible to know what's going to happen over time. And therefore, you have to try to understand how to deal with uncertainty. This is the first time that I think a 19th century architect or city person makes an important statement about what preoccup preoccupies a lot of the thinking in the 20th century and still does today. that is open-endedness, diversity, change and a number of the associated phenomena. We will see in Sarda's plan for Barcelona an attempt to allow for that to take place. But just two other stories. The post 1919 story. The real estate speculation after the rebuilding of the ring stars they had resulted in enormous increases in rent pooring housing conditions for working class in the 1917 censure showed that 73% of Vienna housing was quote in unspeakable conditions of overcrowding and IG. workers were paying 25% of the income to housing. In 1919, the Vienna became Red Vienna with a socialist majority. And red Vienna is remained there's a book by Eve Blav at Harvard on red Vienna which is worth looking at. But there was a this was a time when the London County Council in London was established. A similar uh planning operation in Berlin from 1919 to 1925. They invested in a radical policy of land acquisition uh law controlling rent and the building of new apartments. By 1934 they had built 63,700 dwellings equivalent to 70% of the entire production between the wars. housing something like a tenth of the city's population. There was a controversy about what form these new socialist housing should take place. Adolf Lewis and a number of other architects proposed following the German example of the seedlungan. Sedling and the famous Sedling and in Stoutgart and so on were examples of housing the poor in green circumstances with sing with houses which was single family with gardens and self-sufficiency but deprived from the center of the city. Dearult Another group of people felt that it was about time that the workers made their presence felt. And the way to they could make this their presence felt was to develop pug pugnacious housing response to the market housing. This took the form of the hof hoof. Hoff is the same word in Dutch in German as court. So in the by calling their housing a court they have another reflection back to the feudal city. It seems to me that revolutionists never abandon everything. they abandon the key variable or they destroy the key variable the market and maintain everything else of a secondary order. We look at this in the when we discuss the post-revolutionary work in Russia from 1917 particularly till 1932 in the work of the disurbanists and urbanists and others. Carl Mro is the largest of the uh enterprises. There were a number of them. Narskihoff, Riceman Hoff, Robinhoff, Matiotti Hoff, Samoji Hoff, built between 1924 and 1927. Carl N, the architect for Carl Mark's office and rather undistinguished figure. He worked in the city government. Uh he had done some housing. Um uh unfortunately he stayed on and worked for the Nazis as well. So maybe his vocabulary was very widespread. Caroxhoff was a pugnacious island which built apartments 1380 apartments plus a large interior space containing nurseries, collective, library, offices, shops, clinic and so on. This period didn't last very long and uh cars off and read Vienna remained as a kind of intellectual fascination for our urbanists afterwards. Uh Carox is still worth visiting today. It's located connected to the center of the city by light rail, by heavy rail, by bus. Uh it's easy to get to. It's extraordinarily large. Uh has anybody been to Vienna? What did you see in Vienna? Museum. I don't blame you. wonderful museums. You couldn't go to a concert, I suppose. No, I just there's no democracy of tickets in Vienna. Vienna, I had to listen to the Vienna Fommonic play in Cleveland because I've always wanted to hear the Vienna Fommonic play. Uh Vienna Fommonic didn't include women in the Augusta until relatively recently. So there are a lot of throwbacks. The attitude towards Jews is signingly despicable. Gustaf Mer who was born a Jew and a Bohemian in order to become the conductor of the Vienna Filament. He had to become Catholic temporary so that he could play music. Extraordinary stories. You should go to the Uden Plats in in in the old city where the Jews were massacred. There's a wonderful sculpture by the British sculptor woman, I forget her name, built a concrete sculpture made of books um as a remnant. There's one last thing about Vienna. Uh the last 10 10 20 years of the end of that century, Vienna underwent one of the great cultural performance spans which we associate with great cities. we associated with for 15th century Florence the great painters the great sculptors the Medici family um this is a similar period in the west in the west uh we have the transference from 19th century romantic music to modern music. Uh, Brahms died in 1897. Shernburgg lived from 1874 to 1951. Alenberg from 1885 to 1935. Anton Vben 1882 to 1945. Gustav Mar from 1860 to 1911. These were the people who invented the post-romantic music of for us. You may not like the music. Amongst them only Shern Marows in our convention. He played by the Boston Phil and August. Nobody very few people play Shernburgg except in their living rooms. uh um Watk the opera is performed now and then uh Alvin Berg's music but this is the significance of a city that it can transform culture in significant ways why it happens in cities Austria Vienna was not its economic after the separation of the no that took place was later. There are a number of theories as to why this happens. Peter Hall the British urbanist has written about this in one of his books. Um there's a sort of culmination or the coming together of all of the elements of good culture in a place. this despite anti-semitism, violent anti-semitism which was taken over by the Nazis when they took over Austria. Um, it happened in New York with the from 1940 to 19 well 1945 to 1970 with the invention of a number of new forms of modern art. the great painters Jackson Pollock uh and others. I just mention it because it's something that is not indulged in not many cities in the world grab the world by its and it's very difficult to explain the what in the history of Vienna predicted this. It's certainly true that the great romantic composers Mozart Hayen and Beethoven spent time in Vienna. The music was constantly performed. People learned to play the music. Vitkinstein sister for as an example. Um there were small groups of philosophy. The Vienna circle the philosophers in the 1920s was significant. There was music played in houses. Uh people were familiar. This Vkinstein had a large Vitkinstein's father had a large set of children. Three of them committed suicide. Uh one of they were all musically attuned. One of them as a child could apparently according to a biography distinguish between a when a band played outside their house. He could tell what was wrong with the band's playing, could tell which instruments were playing the wrong music. Um, so there was a culture of music built into the society. I don't know if Freud had anything to do with music. He probably was too busy. uh with his trying to understand the psychic mind. So the Vienna story is an art story of a number of things. The move from a feudal to a liberal to a socialist city and then back back to a modern city. A number of things that I've touched on. It's one of the great cities uh in history. It's the only city which built a single road to dedicate itself to a new environment economically and socially. And what else can one say about Vienna? It's still a city which is remarkably well cared for planning wise. The deputy mayor had a staff of something like 1,500 people in his planning transportation section. It has uh a journey to work which is 60% I think in public transportation, 40% in private transportation. It's it's done very well. Barcelona is a smaller city out on the fringes. All of these cities, of course, were Roman cities. London, Paris, Vienna, and Barcelona. The story of Barcelona and Sarda is a complicated story and requires a lot of time. So I'll jump very quickly. The old city of Barcelona with its Roman walls and then it enlarged walls was the densest in Europe. in 1830. It had 300 habitants per hectare which was twice the density of the very dense Paris. It suffered from epidemics in 1834, 1854, 1864 and 1870. The between 1837 and 18447 average average life expectancy amongst men was 38.9 for the rich and 19.7 for the poor. It's difficult to believe that the average life expectancy could be under 20 years of age. But if you include infant mortality in that, infant mortality takes a large number of deaths. And uh so we have a condition of an old city. Uh no apparent market for it's for for for the wealthy occupying the old city. No program is in Paris or London for the transformation of the old city. There was no royalty in Barcelona. Royalty was in Madrid. There was a constant tension between Barcelona and Madrid. In fact, Barcelona claimed a certain independence for Catalonia and Catalonia has always been stuck between Spain and France. Perhaps that's why Picasso comes from Catalonia. Um, I want to jump into the story of the extension. The extension is the mark of one man's thinking. It was a man named France Sarda born in 1845 sorry 1815 decided to study engineering in at the age of 19 went to Madrid to he comes from Barcelona went to Madrid to study graduated in 1847 enlisted in the national militia from 1841 to 1848 did projects in cities in Spain, highways, infrastructure for the Ministry of Engineering. He developed a powerful political base in Madrid. He returned to Barcelona in 1849. In 1854, the walls began to be taken down. Savva did something extraordinary. He first of all decided to do research in the old city. Volume in volume three of his book general themes of urbanization written in 1858. He details patterns of food consumption, compares the old city with other cities, detailed maps, mortality rates. He found that the bourgeoa had an average of 3.6 cubic meters of space whereas the working class had he only only had 0.9. That's four times less. Imagine this man going into the old city and doing all of this work. I don't know what his ambitions were, but this example of research before plan stands as the first time somebody has taken the obligation to study existing facts, especially of poverty. Remember that Booth's map in London was 1789 and 1879. This was before Booth's map of London. Uh this is not Engles studying Manchester. Engle studied Manchester partly together the facts on which to base a large universal theory of society. It's unclear what SA was doing. He just wanted to know facts. He wanted to know reality. He had no large theory. Apparently, he didn't have. In 1859 there was an competition for building of a plan for designing a plan outside the old city. Sera and a man called Trius Tiraas competed for the final. Architects in general and the most of the people of Barcelona preferred Rieras's plan. Verrias took the old city as the center, created the pilata republica north of it and from that point radiated out five avenues out to the perimeter. This is a neocclassical plan which uh was relatively common in city expansion. Savas plan was a series of 113 m by 113 m blocks all identical except for the disposition of the buildings on them. So there was a grid system laid out over an extensive area. It could continue without disruption. Roads were 20 m, 35 m or 50 m wide. It was 6 cubic meters of space per person. It was double the middle income level at the time. There was part of Sarda that was extremely rational. That formula on the that is on the left is his formula for the width of the road. uh uh x being the side of the block, 2 b being with the width of the street, f being the depth of the building site, v being the number of inhabitants per house, p equals the me square meters size per person, d equals the height of the facade. all rationally calculated in to produce a the formula. The detail of the formula is not important. It's nonsense. But it shows something about the mind of a person who what's going on in his mind. He's trained as an engineer. He's worked in cities all over Spain. He returns to Barcelona, spends his efforts documenting poverty, then emerges with a plan. There's an interesting side story to this. The critics and writers about the ans in Barcelona are extraordinary loyal to the Barcelona and toons Sarda who is considered a national hero. By the way, the reason the city chose Sarda's plan over Trias's plan was because of pressure from Madrid. Sarda in his years in Madrid working for the national militia. I had made friends and uh this radical plan was forced on Barcelona. Now Barcelona cannot be happier about the plan. Sarda is a great hero. There's an aspect of Sarda which comes through not from Barcelonians. I don't know the Barcelona literature extensively but a man has recently written a book pointing out that Sarda belonged to a small group of people in intellectuals in uh Barcelona who were attracted to socialism. Uh amongst the members was a man called Monturiel who was one of the designers of the modern submarine. Strange people, poets. Apparently they were very influenced by a French intellectual utopianist called Etian cab who wrote a book called a voyage toria. Cab proposed in his ideal city a center with a capital and then an equal distribution of space every 360 degrees around the center. Cab worked in the British Museum reading room just like Markx did. I don't think they knew each other. They were years apart. Cababe insisted that the United States was the place to build his utopia as many Europeans did. Uh Fier for instance. Uh there's a paradox about fura and the furist community in the United States, but that's for another class when we talk about utopianism next week. Cabab bought land in New Orleans and took 79 kabishians with him to New Orleans. They hated New Orleans. The climate was awful. They didn't know anything about the land they bought. They were sold a piece of land which was very bad. They moved north to Nouv n auvo Illinois which was one of the sequence of places that the Mormons capitalized on on their trek from the east coast to Salt Lake City. They took over Norvu Illinois which didn't succeed. Monturiel for instance wanted to join them. He wrote to Kitty and but Cabay had died in the meantime and the whole enterprise suffered terribly. How much of this Sarah knew or how much of this Sarda was interested in is difficult to know. He remains an enigmatic figure but a man who achieved enormous amounts. His plan was built built to a certain degree. The grid system was maintained but uh the amount and disposition of the site was changed. in in the diagram on one of the pages I gave you, you'll see Sarda's wish to have a fluctuating system where the site was either occupied by two buildings, three buildings or four completely enclosed by four buildings. For Sarda, the height of the facade was to be limited to three floors. There were no elevators in existence yet anyway. Height of the blocks was 16 m maximum. That's a ground floor and three floors. And the maximum coverage was 50%. So it does had very little to do with the application of the plan. Yeah. There was no accompanying policy to make sure who lived in this space. There are number of devices which we've invented since that last time to make sure that we have a mixed population in space. Sometimes as simply as putting a percentage such as 15% on new development in Cambridge, Massachusetts to be allocated to affordable housing as a part of any building of new housing. There was nothing like that. Sad envisioned an equal spatial plan, an isotropic plan spatially, but he didn't understand how to get an isotropic distribution of population. He envisioned bakers living next to bankers, uh, communities within this grid, each with their own school and so on and so on and so on. But he played little role that I know of in the execution of the plan. There's a great got to rush. There's a great paradox here. Over time, our science has become developed at a much greater density. Coverage was increased from 50% to 70% even more than 70%. Height was increased to 24 m. The volume of Sarda's plan was supposed to be 67,000 m squared. The 1958 volume of what has been built on his plan is over three times as much. 290 million 290,000 square meters. The paradox is that if you go down the PG de Gracia, which is a great road built through the Assange, this great avenue, which I'll show you an image of, you can feel the pedestrian volume. He allowed 5 mters of pedestrian width throughout the scheme. There's an intensity of urban intensity in this area which is part of its charm was Sarda. Sed's plan was so pro-former in a sense that it allowed so many things to happen after his time such as the increase of density and still except for automobile traffic able to cope with a build. The fact that he made sideways sidewalks that were that wide was an indication of a of of of some thinking about the advent of density. He didn't pref include techniques which could frustrate subsequent development. What happened is that as you'll see let's look at the pictures and I d the Danube in Vienna below on the southern border of the Danube. Next, the walls as walkways and pedestrian parambulation zones prior to them being removed. The glass sea on the right. Next, the clear space after the walls have been taken down and the filling in of this space with a single spine. Next, the parliament town hall university theater uh combination. That's Hitler's drawing of the parliament, by the way. Not bad. Should have got into architecture school. Next, the medieval town hall which still exists. Next, a group in house, an apartment building, large blocks, large volume. uh uh and the phenomenon again on the facade of decorating the facade with sculpture. Uh this is not a flat facade. Next, the entrance to the apartment building has this zone of almost regal or royal uh pertinance. Uh there's again there's a decorative system which is open and free giving uh special uh spatial quality to the entrance experience. Next and Camo Ce the critique of the turba what he calls a turbine plaza. A plaza in which you enter and move a plaza which is correctly organized where you enter and leave only in special places in the center of the plaza is a space for emotional contemplation. his proposal in the shaded zones for recreating a proper appearance in front of the vote of church. Um breaking down the openness which was called which his detractors called platangst he was afraid of open space demarcating space in relation to particular buildings. Next, Ottovagna's impression for the expansion of a city is a series of zones but articulated by a kind of expansionist line. Here is his uh design for one of the sorry for one of the proposed extension expansion areas. Next, his preoccupation with designing industrial buildings. This is a slle building on the Danube Canal. You can see is a Can you see the wavelike decoration up on the right? This is a man who's carrying a kind of amber, a hybrid system in his head. on the one hand wanting to make something as decidedly modern as possible on the other hand decorating it with a freeze facade decoration. his subway stop the car plat next his buildings for in the railway sub new railway system at the same time this is a competition entry of his I can't remember what the building was I think academy of kirk fine arts and this is the postal savings bank building where the decorative system is on the facade in between the regular machine-like windows. Next, I didn't have time to go into this in greater detail, but this is Joseph Hoffman's work in the industrial design sector with great advances in modern design. uh using new materials. Um this is a a list of the theater performances for a week in uh in Vienna. Mara's great symphony number six and to my mind greatest book of Freud's the interpretation of dreams 1911. Carl Marxhoff and some of the other half blocks. Gox off on the left. I think it's one and a half kilometers long. Next again the abiding preoccupation with sculpture and a flag. Uh the entrances are not these arches are not entrances. They zones of penetration. These are the entrance zones. Again, they decorated. Uh apartments are very small. Uh once when I was visiting this building, the taxi driver had lived in this car marks off and he said he left because he couldn't swing a cat in his apartment. Those were his words. uh an enormously powerful manifestation. Michael Graves must have looked at this architecture to gain some inspiration for his buildings. Next, Barcelona. Look at the size of the compared to the old city. And you can imagine what Sa would have done to Paris, the Balier of Paris. It's worth spending 10 minutes to f to talk about that as a alternative model for what the Paris post modern Paris competitions entries did. Next. So it does vision a three floor set of blocks differentiating between two blocks which only had one arm on them, others which had two buildings, some which had three buildings, some which had with a square was enclosed. The what was actually built is represented on the right. enclosed space in the center. Not public space but ambiguous space. Sometimes place space which was taken over by residents. Sometimes space which was made into parking lots. Sometimes space which is just dilapidated but no resolution of the internal space of consolidated foursided block. Next, you can see some of the interior of the there's a difference between making car marks off interior space as a space for the community with clinics, shops, medical facilities, schools and so on as a concept versus a concept which enclosed the block in in order to galvanize the quality of the streets to increase density um but left the whole completely un un unavailable. so plan calls for the blocks to be truncated on the corners. Here you can see an intersection of the four corners of uh leaving a messy uh transportation intersection problem there. One of the arguments made by the Barcelonians today is that this creates another facade and each of these small square intersections have facade unique facades facing onto them. the Ramblas, the medieval public walk, and the P de Gracia, this great avenue which links links to the town of Gracia in the hills. Next, the Kaza Batlau of Gaudi and the sorry, Kazama on the left and the Kaza Blo on the right. fixed the great unfinished cathedral and attempts to modernize the Assange. Next, the Barcelona games is the only games that positioned the center of the city as central to the four sites. The Monuik site on the top left. uh the carrier site for the for the athletes housing of all the Olympic sites from Munich to Tokyo to Sydney to Melbourne and London and so on. None of incorporated the proposition within the central city system. Next two post sa propositions. Could you just focus this one please? Thank you. This is Kuzi is and a group called Gutpak modern version of the extension of the Sarda system. The streets are gone or they ignored the toothlike system of Kuzia is engaged in housing. There's a huge amount of open space which is not allocated to anybody in particular. One prefers the scheme on the left infinitely. A crazy man Leon Kreer saying that the problem with her plan is that the 113 meter size is too large. clear as a dislike of anything continuous. So he suggests that the block be broken up into four modules of about 25 m each. Uh what he where he believes the market is for all of the shopping on these little corners. uh and the confusion caused by creating as many confers as you like. He should go Leon Cree should visit Tel Aviv and see what happens when you subdivide blocks into two smaller distance. Uh it's a silly diagram but it's two examples of post SA thinking. I think that's the lot. Oh, sorry. They just the idea of expanding from the by leaving the center alone and expanding outwards. I'm just giving this is Antonelli's plan for Torino. That is Castra's plan for Madrid. Next, this is Troty's plan for Bari. And this is Cleanths's plan. Counter Schubert's plan for Athens. All suggest in the dark gray that you maintain the core of the city, take away the walls if necessary, and produce a free zone outside. Next, here in the small town of Altamura in Pulia, you see the system operating in a small town. Radiating outwards are gates to the old city. U uh I haven't got time to go into the detail. Here you see a grid system employed almost throughout ex the surroundings of the existing wall city. the wall city if the walls are taken away or replaced by a boulevard surrounding the city. Nothing like the boulevard of the ringstrasa. Okay, sorry it's so rushed, but the world is full of information.