Let's get right into it. I have there's a bunch that I want I want to try to catch up from yesterday. Um, you've just turned in paper number one, but I'm a big fan of trying to have people do work um like do the daily work in the class thinking towards what the major assignments are. So, now I have to tell you about paper number two. Um, for paper number two, you're going to identify a specific learning environment. You're going to identify uh like the physics department at MIT, your middle school, your elementary school, your high school for world languages department, um an afterchool program you work with a library, but something like very specific where you know not not not not you know like schools in general, a place um and you're going to um reflect upon a particular education technology and you either going to recommend or not recommend that they adopt this particular technology. Um so part of the argument that you'll read about in the in hopefully through the first half of failure to disrupt um is that while we can get a general sense of the efficacy of different technologies, we could we could say, you know, this class of technologies seems to have better research evidence behind it than this class of technologies. There's really nothing that anyone has ever invented which is like really every school or every department ought to be using X. um all those decisions have to do with um particular times, particular places, particular people. Um so what you'll have to do is um identify some technology, kind of classify it like what genre is it from or what is it like? Um what are its potential benefits? What are its affordances? What are its limitations? And then what is the characteristic of the place that you're recommending it to? And do the sort of benefits and needs and characteristics of a place all line up such that you recommend adoption? Um or do they not line up such that you don't recommend adoption? Um it's a it should be a memo sort of directed to a particular stakeholder, a department head, an assistant superintendent for curriculum instruction, the library director, the president of the Boys and Girls Club, whatever it is. I think uh I had one student who was building a program for Ukrainian refugees last year and he basically wrote a memo to himself um which was fine. on pages 74 through 76 in failure to disrupt which at least in the hard cover I think it's the same in the in the paperback um there's a section called what a department head should do which is not exactly this assignment but like a pretty close worked example um it's sort of me like working through um so whatever I I think that ex that specific example is about using intelligent tutors so you in math class so you should pick something other than that specific example um for you to use um but uh um you know you you should think about doing things like, you know, um assessing the claims that the developers of this technology make, seeing what kind of research evidence there is around that. Um seeing under what sort of context this seems to work or not, what kind of enabling conditions are required, whether or not those enabling conditions exist. Um we'll talk about all these kinds of things over the next few weeks. Um so that uh um so you don't have to understand what you're going to do right now, but I want you to have a sense of this assignment. Um it for some of you, you will pick a a context that you can work with that you actually know a ton about. Um that or like even if you didn't know something about it, you would be able to like like oh the you know the head of Aereroastro is a good colleague of mine. I'm going to just go ask him what he thinks about this or like whether what capacity are and things like that. There may be other things that you sort of need to fabricate um which you would be allowed to fabricate. You just have to like somewhere stipulate along the way that you're fabricating them. So I know you I have to be like um you know the characteristics of the world language teachers in my high school are this and you might not actually know who the new staff are and things like that but um uh but but that would be okay. Um uh there's pages written about what you're supposed to do in the syllabus, but that does that give you like a general sense of the target that you should be thinking about over the um I don't remember I don't even remember the exact day it's due, but it's like roughly a month from now. Each assignment takes about a third of the class. So um that all seem good. Great. Um, uh, anybody have any questions that they want to ask about that assignment? Okay. Um, let's wrap up MOOs. So, last time we were talking about MOOs sort of made these three big bets. Um, that they could provide new pathways into higher education for people with limited access. Um, that they could reorganize, disrupt, unbundle higher education. They could create like new structures across higher education. And then the one that I was most involved in is that they create a new datadriven science of learning. Um I maybe part of the second one but maybe sort of um you know maybe was clearly a bet for some actors less so for nonprofits more so for for profofits was that you could make a whole bunch of money doing this. Um that has not panned out as well as some people had hoped. Um so here's an announcement today um that Accenture is purchasing Udacity. Um, so Udacity was the company that was founded by Sebastian Thrun. Sebastian Thrun is one of the people who taught this intro to AI class that like made the whole MOO phenomenon start. Um, people are not exact. Um, uh, Accenture is like a consulting firm and they're going to use it to do sort of AI training. So, so this is so this is not like transforming all of education. This is doing like pretty wellestablished executive education. Um, and there may be ways that you could do executive education better with the MOO platform than you could with other pre-existing technologies or strategies or things like this, but like this is not going to profoundly change the way executive education unfolds. This is just like, you know, somebody who sells executive education buying a potential provider of it. Um, in the notes here, it says that uh their best guess is well, they is that they they uh um a deal fell through with an asking price of about $80 million. And so they nobody knows for sure, but they think that this deal was probably about that size. Um but uh um Udacity took in $300 million um of investment. So I I don't go to the Sloan School of Management like some of you do, but I'm pretty sure that if you take $300 million and sell a thing for $80 million, you didn't do it right. Um or or at least your investors don't think so. Um, but I think that's some, you know, to me it's a great indication of where these partic where this like class of technologies have settled out. Um, which is like $80 million is a lot of money. If any of you if any of you were offered $80 million for a business, you'd probably be like, "Yeah, that's pretty I'll take $8 million. That seems great." Um, uh, but what what it's accomplishing is like a very um a very wellestablished existing thing in the education system. You might say that um or a way that I've phrased it in the book is which I which a colleague of mine Mim Emo really came up with um is that uh these technologies did not disrupt education systems. They were domesticated by education systems. Education systems said like you fit there like you little company you would be pretty good at doing executive education. Why don't you do that? Um that is not at all what Sebastian Thrun was envisioning when he said that there might be only 50 educational institutions in higher education in the world. Um um but to me this is like this is like very representative of how I think education technology often works. Um we very rarely build things that are totally transformative and we can often build things that are like useful in pretty specific contexts. Um uh I had I and lots of other people had really hoped that there would be very new kinds of science that would be possible. Um, so we had never really in higher education had a system where you just had all of a sudden millions and millions of people doing online learning. Um, and all of that was being recorded. Um, so when I got hired to help sort of build the research infrastructure for Harvard X and MITx and edex, uh, you know, one of the most exciting things was like all of these people are signing up and they're all clicking and we're recording everything. Um, what you know, you might think of like when you went to think think of all of the things that you did in school. Probably even better as an example, like think about all the things that I did in school. Um, so I filled out zillions of worksheets. I typed all kinds of papers. Like all that stuff just ended up in my mom's attic and was eventually thrown away. Like the whole records of my learning were lost. Um, but young people today have their records of learning stored in all of these online platforms. If you saw what millions of learners were doing um in really granular, detailed ways over days or months or years, shouldn't you be able to figure out all kinds of exciting things about the science of learning about like what are the most effective teaching techniques? How do people learn best? All all kinds of things that might be helpless. Um and it proved to be much much harder um than people expected. I would say the core reason why it proved to be really hard um is that you can have terabytes of data about what people click and still not really know what's going on in their heads. Um what what what people click on on a screen or what they add as an answer to a problem doesn't necessarily tell you all that much about the cognition that they went through to get there. Um it doesn't tell you a whole lot about which parts of the instruction that they received to that point helped them do that. There was a whole for years there was a whole class of papers that just sort of correlated everything to everything else like how many times did you click, how many times did you log in, um how many units did you do, how far apart they were, how all these kinds of things and basically like there was a whole a whole series of papers that were all published that were all along the lines of people who do more stuff do better than people who do less stuff. Um like if like people who clicked more often in the systems, people who like watched all the videos did better on the problems, people who did all the problems were more likely to pass the course, people who logged in more time, people who spent more hours were more likely to pass the course. Like none of that is interesting. Like you didn't need a $60 million research enterprise to figure out that doing more stuff helps people learn. Um there are a few things that we did um that uh and I'll talk about them more as the semester goes on that tried to go beyond that. Um there were a bunch of us who are really interested in this idea that like um uh a bunch of people have done research that suggests that the attitudes that you bring to a learning experience really matter for your success in that learning experience. Um how many of you ever heard of stereotype threat? Um so stereotype threat is this idea that if we tr if we trigger stereotypes that people have um as they enter a learning environment or as they're in a learning environment um those stereotypes can negatively impact them. Um so if you ask people to describe their gender before a math test then people who identify as girls are more likely to do less well. Um you could do the same thing in different racial configurations and other kinds of things like that. Um, and the way that you can inoculate people in theory against some of these kinds of things is by emphasizing how they belong. Um, is by saying like you belong in here, like you have a space, you deserve to be here. And so, um, you could you could imagine that if people go into a learning environment and they're like, I'm not sure if this is for me. Then like you're sort of like you're paying attention to not feeling like this is for me and you're not paying attention to the learning and then a test comes along and you don't do as well on that test and then that makes you feel like you belong even less and then you're feeling kind of more unbelonging and then you don't do as well and you get a negative cycle. You can imagine the opposite where you feel like oh I definitely belong in this learning environment like this is going to be a good growth experience for me and then you like are focused on learning and then you do better and that makes you feel like you belong and on and on. Um, so the we were really interested in these entry points. Um, and um, almost every MOO that basically every class at Harvard MIT offered had a little precourse survey at the Have any of you ever taken a class that has like a little survey at the beginning of it for your mukes? If you did it for Harvard MIT, I probably wrote it. Um, and uh, especially if you did it a few years ago. Um, and uh, so we started randomly assigning people these little interventions. Um, we would like you'd answer a bunch of questions about what you know about the topic and then we'd say things like, um, write a letter to a future student. Oh, I hear one was a values affirmation. Um, pick from this list which of these values are really important to you. Um, and they I don't know, they could be like loyalty, personal growth, family, all kinds of things. Um, write a short letter to yourself about why taking this class aligns with those values. Um, so asking people to just like write for a few minutes about why we do other things about belonging, write a short, write a short letter to a future student in this class about why they should feel like they belong, things like that. Um, and our hope was is it would have this kind of like, you know, trigger this positive cascade at the beginning of the class. You feel like you belong more, you feel like you value it more, you do better, you pay attention more, you do better, you learn more, all those kinds of things. Um we started by trying these in just a couple of classes. Um and the even if we were picking a couple of classes, we were still doing like some of the largest experiments that had ever been conducted in higher education. Um you know, we could pick like a couple of classes that might have 10,000 people that were actively participating in it and doing our our things and things like that. Kind of a lot of folks. Um so here are four things that we tried. Um one was plan making. um having people write down exactly how they planned to complete the class, like when they were going to do it, um who was going to help them, how what they were going to do when they get stuck, those kinds of things. Um this value relevance things that you just described. Um and then mental contrasting with implementation intentions is basically like what are the kinds of things that might make you stuck um and how would you get unstuck when you encounter these things? um when we did them in one or two classes at a time, they worked pretty well. Um so I don't know how familiar you are with statistics, but the beta parameters are the one you look at. So this plan making things, people were were four percentage points more likely to finish the class if they got the intervention that they didn't. Um that's huge. That's that's you know, if you ask you ask people to do something for five minutes at the beginning of the class and they're 4% more likely to finish it. Um just like the cost benefit of that is off the charts. That's fabulous. Um, uh, this one was getting people to do more activities, getting people to persist longer, getting people to complete better. Um, all these kinds of things. And some, you know, some of these studies were huge, you know, 5,000 people, 3,000 people, 2,000 people. Um, that's pretty good. Um, we then were like, we were we were pretty excited about ourselves. We're like like we've come up with some stuff that like doesn't cost anything and really helps learners. Um, let's go ahead and take these things and use them in all of the classes. Let's let's let Harvard and MIT let us test things in every class. Um and it is not uncommon in um educational research that if something works in a little space that when you try it at much bigger scales it doesn't work. Um that is a very frustrating finding but also very common finding and that is exactly what happened to us. Um so we took these things that would which you know again would have been considered like huge studies in education you know randomly assigning 4,000 people to to a treatment or not is is enormous. Um and we did it with a quarter of a million people. Um which like a lot of learners. Um and basic and basically everything that we had tried and wrote a bunch of papers that said hey these are pretty good ideas we had to be like actually they don't really work that well. Um, and uh, I part of the problem was they would uh, they would they appeared to work in some classes but not others and we couldn't make any sense of why. Um, part of that is that it's hard for us to know a whole lot if you're we did it in about 250 classes and it's hard to know the difference between those those different kinds of things. Um but we like you know we we listed characteristics of a lot of classes and we put them into big AI models to try to figure out why and all these other I mean you can read the paper. Um but uh it was sort of an enormous effort and at the end of it you know a thing that we we we had lots of people in there but we weren't able to identify things that worked particularly well. Um and this was pretty consistent across this enterprise. Um in fact to my knowledge there's virtually no one who's doing research on Harvard or MITx Arvidex or MITx classes anymore. Um and uh um and so this was the sort of third of these big bets. um you know the the hypothesis was that vast new you know there are people like Peter Norvig and uh um who's a woman um Daffhne Coller who formed Corsera who thought that um datadriven education would be very similar to datadriven uh medicine like just like the human genome project sort of revolutionized a datadriven form of medicine that you know Corsera edex could revolutionize a data driven form of the science of learning um and we we knew a lot about what people clicked but we never really got much more data about what was going on inside people's heads. Um the other sort of huge issue is that if you really want to do educational research that studies like how to help people learn better, you re you need variation in the course that's deeper than what we were attempting. Like you need to be able to do more than just change a little thing at the beginning of the course. You have to be like, well, here's one good way of teaching a class. Here's another good way of teaching the class. Let's, you know, let's try both of them. Well, it turns out that like it was very difficult to go to faculty and be like, will you make two versions of this course um so that we can test some of these different ideas in them? Um because people had barely enough time and resources to make one version of the course and so forth. Um so like the other two big bets mukes um they for the most part uh didn't pan out. Um, and I think if you if you if you go back 10 years from now and read the um, you know, the op-eds that David Brooks and Thomas Freriedman were writing in the New York Times about the totally transformative impact of online education, um, people would be pretty surprised 10 years later to find out that like, you know, it's good for things like executive education um, or helping people earn a second master's degree, which are not bad things to do, but again, there's sort of smaller components of it. Um, I've thought a lot over the last couple years about like, okay, so if we're not going to totally reform the educational system with independent self-paced online learning, um, what else might we do? Um, well, you know, so for instance, I've told you that, um, already affluent, already educated people are reasonably likely to persist in online courses. Um, well, there are all kinds of already affluent, already educated people who work in the public interest. There are people who are teachers. There are people who work in public health. There are people who work in nurses. Um lots of them work in contexts where they don't have a lot of learning um after their college degree um or their advanced degree. So what if we created online courses um that you know a good fraction of people would be able to persist in and finish um that would be able to help them. Um there was one course that we built um called uh launching innovation in schools which relates to uh um uh uh um the stuff in iterate that you read a couple classes ago. Um, and in our course we make them, we make all of our, not everybody did this, we make all of our courses openly licensed. Um, so we we we make it so that it's creative common. Anybody can take our things and do anything they want with them. Um, there were some folks in Ukraine before the war who had translated our courses into Ukrainian and put them on a Ukrainian platform. Um, and for a while at the beginning of the war, I don't know if this is still true, teachers still had to like get reertified, do training and things like that. Um, so some some enormous fraction of the Ukrainian teaching force had at least, you know, signed up and plausibly taken one of these courses and things like that. Um, so there sort of, you know, for us it was kind of a proof of concept that people, uh, um, can benefit from some of these kinds of things. Um, with Mariana's adviser, uh, Jose, we got really interested in, um, what if the thing you want is not really big MOO providers, but very small local MOO providers. Um, so there's an organization called Edrock in Georgia in Jord um, Jordan run by the Queen Rana Foundation that makes mukes in Arabic for people in the Arabic world. Um, there are like lots of providers that offer courses in the local language of their environment that are tailored to the particular environments that they're in. Um, and um, these tables are unreadable but except if you go in them and look at them. Um, but you know, there's evidence that you could actually do a better job getting people from more diverse educational backgrounds if you offer them in local languages, with local providers, um, with the with the topic area and content areas that would be interesting to people in those local places. Um, so what we needed was not sort of like, you know, giant global elite driven online learning. Um, but maybe maybe another pathway be with like lots of distributed local online learning that was particularly par, you know, tailored to people's cultural interests and labor markets and civic spheres and needs and things like that. Um, and there might be, you know, um, I mean, I always try to sort of remain open to the idea that that any of these technologies could have new people that come along and refresh the ideas around them. Um, but we should we should probably think of those claims with like a pretty high bar. You know, if someone comes along and says they have like a new AI powered MOO platform or something like that, you you know, now you could be like, well, let me tell you what the research suggests about the original MOO platform. Um, what some of the limitations were, what it accomplished, why it tackled some big problems that turned out to be really hard. Um and uh uh why you know and then and then you know what what is it that what is it that a new effort would be able to build on top of that? Um those are some of the things I want to tell you about MOOs. What other things struck you about them or what questions did you have or um what what have we discussed in the last few classes that fit or don't fit with your experiences? I mean, I guess just a general question is like what is the real motivation for like higher educational institutions to want mukes to exist considering that their entire business is based off of them? Not it was it was it's weird, right? Yeah, like like people got super enthusiastic for a long time about digitizing faculty labor. Um I I would you know so what were some of the things people would have said at the time? Um in 2013 people would have said something along the lines of for particularly for the last 40 or 50 years but maybe for 100 plus years um there's a class of universities that brags every year about how many students they don't serve. um you know around around around this time every year you know um Stanford and MIT and Harvard will publish statistics about how many applicants they rejected. Um but one of the things that they could do with MOOs is start bragging about how many people they served. Um for the for the faculty who especially early on who got who got millions of people to sign up for their courses, it was exhilarating. Um it was incredibly exciting to be able to say like you know I mean a nan argawal used to say you know if I said if I taught uh 61 at at MIT for the next 40 years um you know I I still couldn't have as many students who showed up in the first round of this class that I offered and things like that. So that was exciting. Um I do I have a hunch that um that when people were afraid that this might profoundly change the education landscape that elite universities wanted to be in front of it rather than behind it. Um like as soon as there were some commercial offerings that were available. There were folks who said like man um we really ought to have um we ra have a nonprofit alternative. We ought to have universities are involved in this. Um I mean another really important structural factor is that um university revenue sources are constantly under threat and they're constantly going up. Um so health care costs are constantly going up, technology costs are constantly going up. Um and if you're a state university like across the United States, we've been dramatically reducing the amount that like the taxpaying public support schools and asking students to pay more tuition and so forth or a higher percentage of their tuition. Um, and so a bunch of folks thought they could make money doing that. You know, not like make money in the sense of putting in their pocket, but um, make make money uh, doing that. So those were those are some of the kinds of reasons um, that people got really excited about it. Um, but uh, but yeah, in in retrospect, in some ways, you're like like what, you know, why why do I mean at the time there were definitely plenty of people who are like, you want to take this thing that we sell to people for $80,000 a year and give them to them for free? like what kind of plan is that? Um or you know for 35 bucks or other kinds of things like that. Um, one thing that I was thinking about uh with like respect to like presenting books as like helping underserved communities and stuff is like the issue of like space cuz to me I feel like um like having been in like a pretty underserved like high school and stuff I was like okay well but even like in a position of higher education space is a very big issue for a lot of these spaces where it's like you simply can't just sit at home and even if you have access to a laptop or something to do that and it was like I I just wanted to know if I mean this bike kind of also like just connect to the larger social aspect of it but I was wondering if they had if this even came up when they were talking about like the accessibility of these systems there I mean there I used to joke to something like anyone even the poorest peasant in the most remote African village who has highspeed internet and a basic understanding of matrix algebra can take the introduction aeronautics class. Um I was like yeah there actually are not that many peasants who have who meet both of those criteria. Um but um u it it was always the case there was a very famous case of there was the article in the New York Times about him was called the boy genius of Ulan Bar. Um so there was a student who was in Mongolia um who got a perfect score on the first MITx class and was admitted to MIT. Um and and this was sort of taken as proof that like anybody anywhere in the world can get access to our courses and we're going to be able to find the you know the best high school students and bring them to MIT. Well, there are some more details to the story. One is the principal of that school in Mongolia is as I understood at the time the only person from Mongolia to have graduated from MIT. Um so there was kind of a connection there. Second, um there was like a an advanced physics class that was offered that used the material, but there was a posttock who I think was at Stanford or Cal some elite school in California who went and like studied with these kids um for a bunch of months. Um so one thing you could say is like oh we just need to get muks into every school and then we'll help people find their way to MIT. The other thing you say is like we just need MIT grads being the principal of every school um and then we can get people coming to MIT. But this kid, his name was Batouch. Any he did a bunch of education classes in MIT. He was a remarkable kid. Um, he used to watch two videos at the same time when he was doing these classes. Um, it doesn't make any sense, but there's a great news article that shows his little setup of him watching two videos at the same time. I He's clearly a smart guy. Um, but it was really important to the narrative of MOOs. Um, that uh look look at look at how far into the periphery that we've reached to sort of bring people into the core. um you know and so folks like me who are writing papers are like I'm not like that is that is neat that is a true story is an awesome kid that is not representative of the of the broader system that we've built here um and uh yeah you know people really want it was interesting people really wanted these things to be democratizing education but then when it was pretty obvious they weren't they were still like yeah well okay we'll just use them anyway um I I I know I helped support uh um I did an evaluation of the supply chain management program which was one of the first programs that said um do half the program online. So you have to take and pass sort of proctored tests in four or five online classes and then we'll give you half a degree credit and you come to campus and finish the other half of the degree. Um and uh it was kind of you know um there are a lot of good things about it actually. So, one is supply chain management is a relatively new field and so there aren't a lot of universities around the world that offer it and MIT is pretty good at it. So, this was a good way of like having more people be able to do it. Um, it's a relatively small program. They don't have a ton of faculty. So, you get twice as in theory you could have twice as many people come through campus if they do half the stuff online and half the stuff here. And there were actually some really cool findings where the folks who the f the way they did it is they kept an an in-person cohort and added a a uh an online cohort that showed up with the inperson cohort in January. Um, and we did some surveys about how both groups felt in terms of their connection to MIT. And they both felt really strongly connected to MIT. Actually, in sort of funny ways, like the on-ampus people were like, we've been here all year, like this is our place. And the online people were like, we've been taking these classes together for three years. Like, this is our place. So, they both felt really connected in interesting kind of ways. Um, the grades of the online folks were actually slightly better um at the end of the first cohort, although who knows if that would have persisted um into time. Um but the uh the only people who persisted through the online courses were people who already had jobs in logistics industries were getting their second degree were already affluent. They're disproportionately guys. Um there's a whole line of research that really focuses on um people's ability to conduct self-regulated learning, people's ability to sort of like persist through difficulty and and things like that. And so you talk to learners and they would talk about how they, you know, took their lunch breaks and they studied, how they took weekends and studied, how they stayed up late at night and they studied and p, you know, and in especially if you think about it through like an individual sort of psychological perspective, you're like, "Yeah, those are all great qualities." Um, another thing we realize though is like like if you're studying like in the evenings, you're probably sherking family responsibilities. Um, and in lots of cultures across the world, it is way easier for guys to sherk family responsibilities than it is for women to sherk family responsibilities. So, in some in some ways, like self-regulated learning was the same thing as sherking family responsibility. Like the thing that you'd study from a psychological perspective as self-regulated learning would be sherking family responsibilities from a sociological point of view. Um, and so again, just giving us more ways to think about as we create learning environments, who will benefit from them, what are the enabling conditions to help lots of people from lots of different kinds of backgrounds and places in society be able to benefit from them, things like that. Um, uh, I think something that stood out to me was their business model of the mix. I think I don't like really understand it because I think for me as someone who went to international school in Africa and I would say it's what maybe like top five like in my country or something and pretty big like in Africa like I've never heard of any like MIT or Harvard course like in my life. I'd probably say none of my teachers have heard about it. And I think it made me wonder like who exactly like they're targeting because I don't think it's necessarily like young high schoolers like trying to like get into college because what I did realize when I MIT and when I Googled like how to do linear algebra or like all these things is then I would see like MIT courses and MIT open courseware and all these things pop up on YouTube. But then back in high school when I didn't know what like linear algebra if you don't know what linear algebra was, how are you going to search for a linear algebra course? Yeah. Yeah. No, that's a that's a terrific example. I mean, the business model, I mean, Daffhne Coller and I think in one of her first talks refers to it as a blue ocean business model, which is basically, you know, the the potential addressable market is like six billion people in the world or something. You know, anybody who has got an internet connection, if you, you know, if you can sell $35 certificates a couple of times, you know, to six billion people over and over again, you can make a lot of money doing that. um the um and there were efforts to try to you like create institutional connections. So like CS50, who's Harvard's computer science class, has a whole program to help high schools adopt CS50, like to adopt the online CS50 materials in their in-person instruction. Um so there's some fraction that you, you know, hanging out in Africa would have encountered this course and just decided to take it. Um there's some sense that your school might have like made you know connected with one of these sort of formalist. There was another great story of uh the guy who founded Stripe was from St. Louis um and uh was like I want to live in St. Louis and he's like I can't hire any developers in St. Louis. There aren't enough developer. I'm pretty sure it was St. Louis. I might have the town wrong. Um so so when Mukes came out he was like oh let's just offer let's offer CS50 in St. Louis and we'll start like building infrastructure for this. and like they started some pilot program and it like completely filled the library. Um you know there just hundreds of people who like with a little additional support. So they ended they ended up like creating a community space for it. So you use the online materials that that was I think there were models like that to try to bridge the gap that you're describing um that it's not realistic to just you know like have kids encountered these classes and decided to get excited about them and things like that. still um almost all of those intermediate bridging layers require human capital and humans are super expensive and then you sort of erase the kind of financial advantages of uh um that the muks were sort of promoting in the beginning. Lots of online programs have found this like it's pretty cheap to offer online classes um but a lot of times people just drop out of them. if you want them to not drop out of them, you have to hire coaches and adviserss and, you know, assistant instructors and things like that. And then you've just ra, you know, you sort of brought back all the costs that you got rid of from teaching. Um, is there like a statistic on how often state universities create mukes versus like these IVS schools? Because the thought occurs to me that maybe the reason why it doesn't matter if like Harvard or MIT or Stanford puts out a MOO is because you're not coming to Harvard or MIT or Stanford just for the information. Yeah. Because obviously what's associated with that is kind of like this title and this class ratification thing that isn't accessible through a MOO. So it doesn't matter if like the entire world has access to a course that's meant for learning because part of what you pay for and part of the real target audience of these universities is people who want the the title associated well there there's a economist at Stanford who wrote kind of a cool paper that says the way you have to understand elite education funding models is that they like roughly offer their education for free in the hopes of having a very small percentage of people pay very large amounts of money for their education later. Um, like basically we we subsidize people's tuition in all kinds of ways. So we at least we subs even if your tuition feels really high, your tuition is subsidized far beyond what it actually costs to educate you. And then hopefully 1% of you will give tens of millions of dollars back to MIT later. And so this person was trying to sort of think about like what you know how like given that's actually how elite universities are funded um why do you know like what effect will muks have on those kinds of relationships? But there were plenty of public institutions. Um, uh, one re, you know, one reason that public institutions got really excited about it is their job is to serve as many people in the state as possible. Um, and if you're in a big, you know, you're in a geographically large state like Virginia and you're the University of Virginia in the middle of it, like it's pretty hard to help people in the Tidewater, um, and in the southwest area and in the DC area and other things like that. Um, so, you know, Michigan made big investments, Texas made big investments. Um there there were lots of flagship public schools um that uh um probably the most distinctive one maybe not in MOUS but just in online learning generally is Arizona State University um which has really transformed itself through online learning into a global institution which they really see as like as missiondriven like how how do we just have as many people as possible in Arizona beyond Arizona get access to the learning opportunities we create. Um and there there's something very noble that I that I find about that. Um, I wanted to follow up on your first question um about the business model. How have for-profit universities sort of reacted to MOUS um since their entire model is trying to serve as many underserved people as possible and just like charging them a lot and the fact is that a lot of them are also online. Yeah. Like the University of Phoenix, I think. Yeah. University of Phoenix, Kaplan, um, uh, uh, Southern New Hampshire University, Western Governor's University. I mean, I think there were some like Southern New Hampshire University would have really welcomed in in some of their reactions were like, "Hey team, this is not new." Like this is exactly what we've been doing for decades. So, so a weird thing was that there was a status flip in online learning. In 2010, online learning was a very low status activity. um it would have been primarily conducted community colleges, for-profit colleges, state colleges and overnight instantly Stanford, MIT and Harvard made it an elite activity. Um they instantly radic there's actually all kinds of sociological theory about this where um the the middle class people have to sort of like avoid the activities of lowerass people and pursue the activities of upper class people and lower class people pursue the activity of people but upper class people can actually pursue the activities of lowerass people because their status is safe. Like every once in a while though trends come along of people who like dress like trash or you know sort of like um you know other kinds of kinds of you know adopting adopting sort of lower class activity. So there's some sociological theory that sort of is behind some of that. Um but it was a hu it was it was one of the things that was sort of striking about that moment. So a bunch of these universities were like give me a break. We've been doing this forever. I I gave a talk at Oakland University, which is kind of a community college in Michigan, and they and they were like, you know, they'd be like, why are you using video like like text is so much better? Like we've been doing this for years. Like we would like lots of people can't download the video. Like bandwidth is not that good. And there's not really a benefit to watching someone say something versus reading what they would say. Like what are you all doing? And be like, you might have a point there. Um because cuz uh because they were doing something. But on the other hand, um if you're really fired up about online learning, um and Harvard and MIT and Stanford and John Hopkins in Michigan are like, "No, online learning is cool now." Um there's ways that you can use that to raise your status to legitimize your activities and other things like that. So, so existing players um there, you know, but and they weren't they weren't really pursuing similar kinds of markets for the most part. I mean, there's there were a handful of MOO efforts that tried to um help people earn bachelor's degrees, and they were mostly totally unsuccessful. Um, and there weren't even really that many of them were that were tried, which is that is kind of like the sweet spot of most, uh, for-profit colleges. Um, uh, which are, you know, which in which in many respects there's a lot of evidence that they're just a disaster for lots lots of people don't finish. People finish with a lot of debt. Um, Trese McMillan Cotm wrote a book called Lower Ed where she described them as a negative social insurance program. Um, where on average people are worse after finding their ways into them than they were beforehand. Her book Lower Ed is pretty fabulous. Um, all right, let's make sure that we get a chance to talk a little bit about part two. Um, which is algorithm guided learning at scale. So it sounds like a bunch of you this this we're heading into new territory for me which is like well how raise your hand if in your K12 experience you did something that you think was algorithm guided learning at scale like you sat in front of thing okay this like this is by far the highest percentage that I've had in this class thus far so it's not so we're so so I think um it you know I don't know five years ago people like a handful of people would have done it or would done a little bit as a curiosity but like clearly if you all know what is and things like that like this is becoming a sort of much more mainstream activity um in uh in people's classes. What what did you what was your sense of them? Um so so Dana's sense was that they were like kind of pointless and she could just have her mom do them for her. Um what were what were other people's sentiments about them? Emily? Oh, I thought well for me like in high school we used this thing called me bean where it was like you take an assessment and it would kind of like rank you like where your reading and your vocap skills are at and then like you kind of log in every week to do it and like learn and progress I guess. And I thought it was like it was useful for us because like even though we had like regular classes or honors classes for English like within that class like everybody's vocab like was different varied a lot and it was like it was very hard for like the teachers to to figure out like what kind of vocabs to teach like what materials to provide for us cuz like everybody had different things and like a lot of times we were just in class like I know this word and like you just stop paying attention but then other kids are like well I have never heard this word. I hate to like learn it. For us, it was like it was cool, but then like one of my friend, she like assessed it and then she she was she started off in like highest like level ranking and then like after she finished they just bumped her back down to level one. So then like she just like went back to like learning like blue green in like high school and sophomore year. That sounds like a flawed system. Yeah. I will tell you that when I was in the fourth grade, we had a similar version of that. Um, they were called SRRI reading cards. It was a like a file box. Um, and it was a bunch of like short stories or non-fiction passages that were arranged in order of difficulty and you would just like go and read one and answer a bunch of questions about it and if you got them all right, you'd go on to the next one or a couple later and if you got them less well, then you like went back to earlier ones or your teacher helped you or something like that. Um, so there were so this this I mean it's something that will come up, but this notion that like oh what would it look like to like figure out what kinds of learning experiences people need in that moment and try to meet that need instead of teaching everybody the same thing at the same time um has been compelling for a long time. It sounds like it was compelling for you at least until the system sort of freaked out and made you learn kindergarten words again. Yeah, we had something with like reading as well, but I think one of the issues was we it was not nearly as consistent because like I mean it was meant to be done like once a week or twice a week like a lot of the examples we saw in class but like it'd be like oh like whenever the teacher like didn't want to deal with kind of like bring in the car and like okay do this. So, it was so inconsistent that I was like, "Okay, well, like I don't exactly know if I'm improving or I'm staying stagnant because like I haven't seen this program for two weeks now." Good. You said two things there that I really want you to hang up hang on to. Um, one is you said something which Larry Cuban would have said about television things or things like that, which is that the designers of this program have a vision, but the teachers have a different set of needs. So, the teachers are like, "I need to do some grading today or I don't feel well. We're going to do this thing." which which would have been the exact same thing as like rolling into television and putting on a a movie for people to watch. Um and also um that these systems have some kind of pedagogical model behind them and their effectiveness may have to do with how well that pedagogical model is implemented. Um, so if people so if a if a system is designed to be used with some consistency, you know, twice a week in six week chunks or something like that and you don't use it with it with with that that program design in mind, it might not accomplish what you wanted to do. So it's not just a matter of like downloading the software onto kids computers. Um, it's a matter of getting whole systems to implement them. We're going to look at some research I'll show you on uh on Monday. I don't know if I'll make you read it, but I think I'll just summarize it for you. Um about some of these intelligent tutors that are really focused on um letting people work on problems that are challenging for them, even if it's from material that is from earlier in the year, previous years. Um and that system only works if teachers actually let their students do that. Um if teachers force their students along sort of against the will of the system, then the system doesn't do what it's supposed to do. I think like I guess like elaborate a little bit why on like my experience was the way it was was like not only were teachers like your experience just like doing it randomly like they weren't incorporating it into like their curriculum like they were just like slapping it on top of it and like when students already overwhelmed with like after school activities and things like that it then like and it was like more of a math based thing than an English where like you kind of see some of like the benefits early on. Um, so it was like just kind of thrown in there but not incorporated in the curriculum and then it's just like essentially became low priority and like for a lot of people. So if a so if a system so if a system it like depends on some hybridity if it depends on some things that are happening in class and some things are happening online like if those two pieces are not fitting together it's not going to accomplish what the system wants to accomplish. Um, all right. I'll give you a funny little piece a little personal piece that is behind some of the technology. I explained some of this a little bit. Um, but my father has more or less done one cool thing in his life. Um, which was to which was to get a fake person into Princeton. Um, he he uh he and his frat buddies um invented a person named uh uh J. David Osnot. Um or Joe Dnot or Joe does not um and uh they like found a friend of theirs to take the SAT for him. They found some friends at a frat house in Michigan to make up a fake transcript. They got one of them to go and do an interview and things like that. And they got this fake guy into Princeton. Um, and they eventually had to admit it. Um, and it's and uh at some point somebody was taking one of them to uh um to the admissions office to go explain to the admissions officer that they had gotten a fake person into Princeton. And this guy started asking them a whole bunch of questions about how they took the SAT. Um, and it turned out this guy worked for Educational Testing Services, which was also um in Princeton, New Jersey, and was trying to figure out some of the sort of test security things that were going on there. Um, so as I mentioned last time, one of the things about one of the ways that you can make tests more secure, um, is that you can make it so that tests are of equal difficulty, but they use different questions. Um, so, uh, you know, the the students in Boston are not taking the exact same test that students in Hawaii will take six hours later or students in other parts of the world or things like that. In order to be able to do that, you have to be able to um create a mathematical representation for any given item of how difficult that item is. Um, what people basically decided to do to um to solve that is to model the difficulty of items as logistic functions. Um so on the x- axis you have this thing which is sort of a proficiency score like roughly kind of how hard in any domain this would be. Um and then the probability of a correct answer. So these are sort of three different possible distributions of items. Um so for instance um which of these items would be more difficult would be the most difficult for individuals with proficiency score of one. So people on the blue have almost 100% probability of getting this one correct. So it'll be the green one. Um so this is the probability answer get. So for um for this particular item um people with a proficiency of one are about 50% likely to get it right. These are the people who are about um you know 90% to get it right almost exactly likely to get it right. Um so that seems like a useful thing to know about an item, right? Um now you can figure out like oh let's give them the the blue item first and then the red item and then the green item or something like that. Um um not only that, but if you model it this way, you can also figure out how discriminating an item is. um which is how likely is it that people around a given proficiency are are likely to get it wrong or not get it wrong like sort of how um how how tightly clustered are the answers versus be or how spread out are the answers going to be. Um uh so you know wherever you see you know a a around one um you would imagine for this one um that like a whole bunch of people with scores sort of slightly less than one um would do would be would be less likely to get right and then more likely to get it right. Where sort of around here because the lines are are um more horizontal there um just about everybody who gets those items are going to be right. So it's not going to give you that much information um about uh about how well people do. Another way that you could do this is like draw a distribution of where you think a group of learners would be. Um, you know, so this is like the various skill levels in a class and the sort of distribution of probabilities of people getting it right. Um, and you can see that like the item that sort of like traverses through the heart of that group is going to be the one that's best at like efficiently measuring the proficiency of that group. Um, you don't have to totally understand all the math or all the ideas about this. probably like the intuition that you need to develop is in the 1980s a bunch of people came up with like a pretty good statistical toolkit for figuring out how difficult an item was. Um the first thing that they did with it was make different kinds of tests um for sort of test security purposes. But almost the next thing they did with it was start developing systems that use computers to evaluate people's performance on an item and then figure out like what is the next good item to give them in a sequence and all the things that you're describing Khan Academy all other things like that. Um they may not use this exact statistical toolkit but they all use something that's sort of similar um to that. The reason um you know and one one piece I mean part of the reason why in the book that I take a couple of pages to describe item response theory to people is again to try to give the sense like it's not magic um it's not like some impossibly difficult thing um that that computers and scientists like on the very cutting edge of mathematics have figured out like this is like a pretty wellestablished set of tools that we've studied for a long time um if people come up with new AI powered intelligent tutors we should absolely absolutely be able to ask the question like, well, how are they really different from the intelligent tutors that we've had um for decades in various formats? How how different are they from the box of SRR(I) reading cards um that I had when I was in the fourth grade?" And there may be some ways that that they're different, in which case we would expect much better outcomes. There may be some ways that they're quite similar um in which case we might not expect that many differences. Um but the the heart of the reason why people wanted these kinds of tools to exist was personalization. Um that that there was that that that a goal that you can get a lot of people around is the idea that wouldn't it be great if every learner could have an experience that's tailored um to their to their own personal needs and interests and experiences and things like that. Um I noticed I don't know around 2008 2009 2010 that lots of people in education got interested in personalization. A thing that was weird to me is that there were people who are interested in personalization who disagreed about everything else. Um so there would be people who are like really into um school choice and traditional instruction and sort of like conservative curriculum values who are you know um who like typically were more associated with people on the political right though not always in America um who got really interested in personalization. There were also people who were who were educational progressives who were really interested in alternate projectbased school kinds of models. They also were talking about personalization. Um, and I thought to myself, okay, um, if these groups who don't agree about anything, um, are all using the word personalization, they can't possibly mean the same thing. Um, because they have really different values and so they probably don't agree about this either. Um, oh, this was a slide that my colleague, uh, Dan Meyer put together of this is some technology from the 1970s. Um, you know, right at the dawn of personal computers where we were trying to like give kids math problems, evaluate them, give them harder problems. This is a slide from 2012. But the thing that you can see is like there's 40 years between these pictures um and they are strikingly similar um in their setup and their outfit. Like this is a this is one of the longest you know trying to personalize education with computers is one of the oldest enterprises in educational computing. It is one of the main things that we've been trying to do for 40 or 50 years. Um if there is any single paper that got people extremely excited about this um it was called the two sigma problem the search for methods of group instruction as effective as onetoone tutoring um where this guy Benjamin any of you ever heard of Bloom's taxonomy um it's this uh little pyramid that has sort of different kinds of uh um learning activities instructional activities you could do. Turns out that Benjamin Bloom did more than one thing in his life. He didn't just make this taxonomy, but he did other kind of studies. He didn't actually do these studies. He was reporting on some doctoral students of his um that um were studying tutoring. And in these tutoring studies that they did, you just get like astronomically good results. Um they, you know, they said that they could get results two standard deviations better um than what uh what you typically find. That's the two sigma problem. um a two standard deviation improvement in education is is impossibly good. Um most of the things that we do um get a tenth of a standard deviation or a hundredth of a standard deviation improvement or something like that. We usually get really small gains, but tutoring works really well. I mean to some extent you could be like I'm pretty sure like medieval lords knew that tutoring works pretty well. Um the reason why we don't do it is it's enormously expensive. But what if instead of medieval lords hiring governnesses to tutor their students um like what if computers could do that? um what if what if what if you know computers which are relatively inexpensive um could do this kind of tutoring. So this has been a dream. This was you know Daffhne College dream, Scon's dream, lots of other people's dream as they're imagining um sort of what's possible here. Um there were around 2010 there were probably two different groups of people who describe person who who made personalized learning sort of central to their ideas and their philosophies. Um, one group of people were really interested in what they call blended learning. A formal educational program in which a student learns at least in part through online delivery with some element of student control over time, play, place, path or pace. Um, some of it may be supervised uh and then and then some of it at home. Um, the alternative view was called connected learning. Socially embedded, interest driven, oriented towards educational, economic, political opportunity. Connected learning is realized when a person is able to pursue a personal interest or passion with the support of friends and caring adults. Um, so what what do these what else do these two ideas sound like? Yeah. Yeah. Good. So, so you could have said cognitive load theory and situated learning. You could have said Dian Thordike. You could have said instructionism and constructionism. Um, this is like the reoccurrence of these two themes over there. like there's always two ideas um and they're and they're always being reformatted and they're always getting connect with each other. So this is like the the Dewey and Thike version of how we're going to make personalization come to life in the world. Um we'll talk more about connected learning in a week. Um but mostly what we'll talk about today is what this blended learning um might look like. So one Khan Academy doesn't have this anymore. Um but they used to represent um their mathematics content in K through2 as a knowledge map as kind of a galaxy. Um one of the things that this blended learning version of personalization requires is you have to know all of the stuff that you want people to learn in advance. So if you want to create an algorithmically optimized pathway for people through a set of learning materials, you have to know what that what those learning materials are so that you can write the algorithms that drive them through it. Um that's very different from this connected learning view which says we should figure out what kids are really interested in and help them create personal pathways through whatever it is they want. Um you know so you could imagine that the goal of Khan Academy is to take some individual kid and figure out the fastest most efficient way for them to traverse pathways um through this kind of thing. People were were very compelled by that model. Um partially you know it's interesting they were sort of contrasting it. Um, a lot of time people will will sort of critique what they call the factory model of schooling. Um, which is that like students come in in cohorts, they're sort of stamped at the same time, they're move through the same materials despite all their individual differences. It's not really true. Um, but there are a lot of folks who will say that schools were sort of organized around factories in order to generate factory laborers and things like that. And there are certainly ideas um about how we use time and other kinds of things like that um that go across institutions and society. This is this is a representation from a keynote um oh sir Ken I'm forgetting he has he's the most popular keynote on uh uh on TED um the most po I still think it's true the most popular TED talk um that was ever written somebody will have to look up Ken and figure out who I mean by this um but uh I don't know if this is actually from that or sort of a follow-up representation of slide um so then the question is like um does the does per does this sort of blended learning model have a kind of like truly individualized thing or are you just kind of like stamping each child with the same stuff in their own rate? Um like they all you know they all still are going to get kind of stamped with these materials but maybe they'll get stamped through the factory um at their own individual path. Um Ken Robinson Ken Robbins um Robinson Sir Ken Robinson the uh people make all kinds of crazy claims about these systems and sometimes I like to share these crazy claims 10 years later um because they sound sort of silly afterwards. So in 2009 um Klay Christensen who was one of the people who who defined blended learning wrote this book called disrupting class. Do you in the business school do you does do you study still the theory of disruptive innovation? like is that a thing that was like crazy popular a while ago and I think it has sort of faded but um they applied this idea called the theory of disruptive innovation and they said in 2009 they made the prediction um that by 2019 50% of all grade 6 through 12 courses would be online that they would cost a third as much to deliver um that your school system would cost like about as third as much to operate as it does right now and they would have better learning outcomes. Um, how many of you were in a school where 50% of all of your classes in secondary school were online or predominantly online? Yeah, zero. Pretty much didn't work out that way. Um, Sebastian Thrun, the the quote that Dana saw was up there. Um, Salan had an extremely popular TED talk called Let's Use Video to Reinvent Education where he sort of described this vision um where kids would sit down in front of individual terminals. They would learn at an algorithmically optimized rate through mathematics content. They still might do things together like a teacher might come and collect students who are stuck in the same thing and remediate them together or take advanced students and do projects with them or things like that but the heart of their mathematical learning would be individual. Um there's one guy who's actually I think probably the most wrong of them um who won the 2013 TED prize. He got a million dollars um for this idea that uh you don't even need schools or educational systems. If you just give kids laptops they can teach anything by themselves. Um and uh he had this whole program called the hole-in-the-wall program where they put computers in public spaces in in Southeast Asia. Um anyway, there like there are millions of parents who live through the pandemic that can confirm that kids with laptops cannot teach anything to themselves. Um South is interesting to me because there are millions of people who have watched his um 2011 TED talk about this model. there are many many fewer people who read an interview that he did in 2019 with District Administration magazine. Um so District Administration is like a little trade magazine for superintendent. Um in between um starting Khan Academy in 2019, he built his own school called the the Khan Lab School. Um it's a private school. It's in the Bay Area, California. It costs 20 or $30,000 or something like that to go there for a year. But it's basically his laboratory. Like he can sort of implement any model he wanted. He can pick his own faculty. He can pick his own curriculum. He can recruit whatever students he wants. Um, and he does this for a few years. And he says, "Now that I run a school, I see that some of this stuff is not as easy to accomplish compared to how it sounds theoretically. It's taken me and the Khan Academy longer to realize this, but not everyone can easily move to a mastery based self-paced learning model overnight. That's hard to do. There a bunch of efficacy studies for that type of model, and they're robust, but change is hard. More recently, we're seeing that if students put 30 to minutes to an hour per week or one class period per week towards softwarebased self-paced learning, schools will see a 20 to 30% greater than expected gain on state assessments. That's exciting because that's a dosage that's very doable in mainstream classrooms. We tell schools to give students 30 to 60 minutes of Khan Academy per week with teachers doing traditional curriculum four days a week and you're going to get dramatic improvement. You'll get the best of both worlds. Um, so this is like a pretty big step away from let's reinvent video with education. It's it's saying like instead of reinventing education with video, let's do practice problems one day a week. Um and uh you know again you can think about like is this disrupting education or is education domesticating the system. But there's something which struck me about this argument which is like I think I've heard this before. Um and one of the earliest places you can find it is in 1994. Um so there are a group of folks at uh Carnegie Melon um who took a bunch of computers um that had online pract digital they wouldn't have been online network they would have been digital practice problems brought them into in the Pittsburgh public schools um and said to the teachers hey teach regularly three days a week and do this two days a week and apparently for most part the teachers were like eh we'll do it one day a week um and uh they got you know um the experimental classes outperformed students in comparison classes by 15% on standardized tests and 100% on test targeting these objectives. So like roughly the same order of magnitude kind of gains at Khan Academy slot. So anyway, one of the ways that you could frame that um is that with like 10 years and $150 million of philanthropic investment, Salon learned what you could have learned with a trip to the library. Um uh which is that like they're already existing models for how you can incorporate intelligent tutors and practice problems into what you're doing and they work pretty well. I'm curious to know so we discussed that like this individualized has many benefits. Um, but I'm curious to know if there's any studies that show particular subjects they might be more effective or not. That's great. Yeah. Yeah. Um, many um it you it really mostly works in math. Um uh the the evidence for the current EV the current evidence for for base for reading is very weak. Um and we'll talk we'll show more examples of that and read some more papers about that for next class. Um but when when we try to so here's the trick. When we try to evaluate these tools um you don't want to look at any individual study. A because any individual study can be wrong. Um and be well maybe that's the main reason. Any individual study can be wrong. Um so what you do is you do what's called a meta analysis. You look at groups of studies. You say like what are all the studies that have been done with intelligent tutors in math? What are all the studies that have reading? And generally speaking, the only places that we find consistently more positive things which are not hugely positive is in math. Um what complicates that a little bit um is that some of the some of the strongest studies and evidence for mathematics have been more recently. Um now one possibility is that that's a fluke. Another possibility is that we're figuring stuff out. So you sort of have to decide to yourself like do you want to average over the whole length of studies or do you want to sort of reinforce your ideas based on more recent things? I'll make an argument next class that actually like some of the recent studies in math seem to be pretty robust. Um people try this stuff in early language acquisition. Um Dualingo I think has some evidence that they can teach you about as much in Dualingo as you learn in a first year college class. Um although you should probably note that like you really don't learn that much in a first year college class in the language. Um computer science uses tons of things like this. Probably many of you who've done computer programming with cat soup and things like that. They probably have sort of hinting and other sorts of things that are that are baked into that. um doesn't doesn't seem to be very involved in later language acquisition. People don't use it that much in science or in social studies. Little, you know, a little bit in like chemistry, physics. Some places have some practice problems, things like that, but not about like the conceptual um understanding, more about the sort of procedural fluency kinds of things. Um, and so they they definitely seem to, you know, they they what they require in addition to these like item response theory models which figure out how difficult an item is, is it has to be able to be autograded and there's only certain kinds because it has to be able to instantly it has to be able to instantly assign you what the next item is. Um, and so the only way we can do that is we choose items um where we can be pretty confident that a machine can can ascertain whether or not you've done it correctly. You can do that in any field with multiple choice, but multiple choice is kind of it's good for some things. It's kind of boring. Oh, I was just going to ask like when you said that it's good with working with math, like I guess you sort of answered it later in your speech just now, but um what do you mean by it's good with math? Because there's a difference, a really strong one between procedural fluency and like conceptual understanding. And when I was thinking about writing this thing, I actually loved Yeah. And the reason was because like my math teachers were trying really hard, but it was like boring. And Il was like something I could use where you like don't have to do the same grade. You can like go past your grade and then you learn a bunch of procedural stuff and you feel like you're so smart or whatever. But that's not true because procedural fluency is not it's not mathematics. It's definit Yeah, it's not really math. I mean a riff that I'll give you a little bit later in the semester. So in the the common core state standards for mathematics um describe mathematical modeling as five steps. There are five things mathematicians do. Um they find a problem in the real world. They arrange that problem in some kind of structure like an equation or a table or schematic. They resolve the computation in that structure. They make a claim about how the answer relates to the real world. So it's like 47 board feet or 47 kittens or 47 acres. Um and then they explain their reasoning. Um, our autograders can only assess one of those five things. Um, our autograders basically can only assess whether or not you like address the computational part of things. They basically don't work for the other four. Um, if you use mathematics professionally, the like the only value you have as a human being are in the four things the autograders can't evaluate. Like if you use mathematics professionally, you probably have machines compute all the answers of the things that you're doing. um the value that you as a human bring is in like figuring out what problems are interesting and setting them up and explaining them to other people and putting the answer into some kind of context. So I think you're absolutely right. Now what do we mean? What do we when we say it improves math? Um almost always what we mean is that in a randomized control trial um people in the control condition get one um set get get some average score usually on an annual state test and people in the experimental condition get a higher average score um again on the same state test. That's what we usually be mean by math that works by by having a thing work in math or any other subject or things like that. We might not use a state test. We might use some other particular evaluation or things like that. But that's almost always the way these things are evaluated. And if those tests those tests are called math tests, but they don't test you on everything that's important in math. Um, and we'll get into that more as we go along, too. So, you've identified a sort of crucial issue. Let me try to give you a few other things to send you on your on your way with. Um, there is a wonderful book by Morgan Ames called The Charisma Machine. um which studies uh the one laptop per child program. It show it studies a particular implementation in Paraguay which was kind of a cool country to study um because like you could you you basically can like know everything that's happening in Paraguay. It's kind of a small place. Um and and Morgan was embedded there. Um she argues that there are sort of two kinds of stances that people can take towards technology. One is the charismatic stance. The idea that like these technologies are going to be new and different and transformative and that the future will be brand new and different because of these things. And that's what Salo Khan sounds like in his TED talk. Um an an alternative stance is the tinkering stance, which is what Salan sounds like, you know, sounds like um in his district administrative uh interview. Um that existing systems domesticate new technologies, that a pretty good guide for the future of schooling and education technology is the past. Um and it's not that we can't make things better, but that making things better is hard and it takes a lot of time and involves sort of building capacity as community. You could think of um failure to disrupt is basically a celebration of the tinkering stance um which you don't have to agree with but the but the one of the hearts of the argument is that charismatics don't really help education systems. Um making huge promises that we can't deliver on is not helpful. It diverts resources away for whether they could be most useful. A much more useful thing to do is to be real realistic with school systems about what's possible. to accept the fact that usually the things we improve are are only in some subjects but not others and not even in the entirety of those subjects but only in part of those subjects and only for certain kinds of students in certain kinds of contexts. And it's still worth pursuing those things because the way you make education systems better is you just like relentlessly try to improve little bits of them by a little amount over and over and over again. If you do that long enough they get better. Um but uh if you want you know the the underlying argument behind the whole book um is like stop trying to disrupt things and instead take you know accept the limits of what can be accomplished with education technology but also recognize that even if the improvements we can make are small small improvements compounded over lots of students over a long period of time really matters. Um I want to say briefly and maybe I won't finish this but um personalization was a pedagogical idea but it's also connected to sort of broader political economies. I think I sort of first brought this up when we talked about instructionism and constructionism too. Um that these these pedagogies can be aligned with values. The instructionists say learning is hard. The constructionists say learning is natural and easy. um that therefore schools should be disciplined, rigorous, controlled, schools should be free, democracyinducing. Like there are values that get associated with these things and there were values that got associated with personalization. In particular, the emphasis on the individual as like the main unit of analysis when thinking about how to improve schools. Um to me, it's not at all clear that that's right. So, one thing that people thought about a lot and this related to muks and intelligent tutors and things like that is folks have said like it's crazy how many different things we ask teachers to do. They need to design assessments, design lessons, grade assessments, give instruction, coach people, provide what the British call pastoral care, which is like taking care of people and making them feel good and helping them when they cry and put on band-aids and things like that. Why on earth would we expect an adult to be good at all those things? Um, like what if some people are just really good instructors? Like what if we just have these rockstar teachers like Sal Khan and Sebastian Thun who are just better at doing direct instruction. Why are we asking every teacher in the country to be able to explain math when Sao Khan is really good at explaining math? Um and then you know we could unbundle that part of their work out um and instead just have them focus on the things that can't do which is putting band-aids on kids and grading their feedback and talking to their parents and those kinds of things. So not not crazy at the start of it. Um people have taken this idea even further which is something like what if we just unbundled schools entirely like why do we pack all these different functions in schools? Um why don't we have schools do things that they're um partic you know why why don't why don't we let people gain learning experiences where they want to. Um there is a great leftist thinker named Ivan Illich. We're going to read some of his book, Deschooling Society later, which was written at the dawn of personal computing as an incredible prediction about the future of learning online. Totally extraordinary. Um, but he was very taken by the ideas of this guy named Milton Friedman um who's a very famous economist um who believed really strongly in the power of markets. Um that governments weren't really good at solving problems, that markets were really good at solving problems. Like what if we got rid of schools and just had people engage in a kind of marketplace of learning activities? Like what if we sort of unbundled the different functions of schools? Like why do you have to take math and English um and physical education and sex education from the same institution? Like why don't you just let people buy those learning experiences from wherever they want to? Um this is the horseshoe is here because this is like part of the arguments where sort of people on the left people on the right suddenly found themselves in this sort of strange convergence um around personalization. Um maybe maybe I'll pass this just to um so the idea like the pedagogical ideas of personalization got connected to a broader political uh project which is enormously successful in the United States particularly in conservative states right now of trying to um refashion school systems with less of a focus on schools and much more of a focus on individual students. Um uh a very popular idea um among people who advocate for this sort of thing is to say like why do we give monies to schools to educate people? What if we took those that money and gave it directly to students? Um uh sometimes these systems were called vouchers. Um like don't don't send people to public school, give them a voucher to buy any school they want. Um it turned out the word voucher was extremely unpopular. um and like evoked a a voucher that you would get uh like in an airport when your flight is canceled that doesn't pay for your hotel and things like that. Um for a while they experimented with this idea of like student backpacks um like the money would go into a student backpack but that evoked this idea of like backpacks full of cash which was kind of unsemly. Um so the so the term that that students right that folks use right now um is uh to fund students instead of systems. Um give money to individual students. These are all the states in 2023 um that passed or were considering legislation that would say we're going to take your property taxes. We're not going to give them to schools. We're going to give them to individual kids. Um and the individual kids can then use those dollars to buy whatever public school they want or to buy a parochial school or to buy pay more money and buy a private school or any kind of things like that. Um were those funds given to all students? Uh or was there a criteria? The idea the ideal model is that everyone would get them. um like if like if you believe in this sort of free market system um the only way public schools should exist is if they compete against the market compete in the market for other kinds of schools. You can also imagine you don't even need schools like what if you bought your math from Khan Academy and your health class from CVS and your language class from Rosetta Stone and your sexed class from the Big Valley Creation Science Museum and your English class from the National Writing Project and things like that. Um and you know this is like a broader political vision of what schooling could be in the future that online learning um enabled and to some extent um parts of it are enormously successful. I would say the pandemic because people basically hated online learning as a whole sort of threw cold water on a whole bunch of these things. Um but um a thing I want us to keep coming back to as we talk about things like personalized learning um is that they are they can they can be construed as pedagogies but these pedagogies are almost always connected to like broader political movements um about how we organize schools. Um the most political question you could possibly ask is how should we raise our children? Um in some ways it seems like an extremely technical question um but it is a deeply moral value laden question as well. Okay. Um, we will continue this uh little bit and say some more things about it and uh look at some more well we'll probably get pretty deep into the evidence in the paper that you read um trying to get at some of the questions that Mari asked before of like like what is the evidence base for how well these things work some of Alvo's questions like what does it mean to work we'll do a bunch of that with intelligent tutors um on uh Monday um have a wonderful weekend I look forward to getting and reading all your papers and if I can help you with anything let me know thanks everybody