The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, welcome back. Uh today we start a series of lectures on approximation algorithms. So uh something rather different although we're still going to be doing reductions. They're just going to be stronger sense of reductions. Um so let me start with reminding you. I assume you've seen approximation algorithms at some level before but I want to define a few things uh which we'll need for the lower bound side. So pretty much throughout we've been in the context of NP we've been thinking about decision problems because that's where NP makes sense. Now we need to change the setup to where the output um is not just yes or no but it's some kind of solution with a cost. So in general, the goal in an optimization problem is going to be to go from some instance to a solution uh with min or max cost. So there's minimization problems, maximization problems. And so you are given in order to specify this you're given uh a set of possible instances. That's your usual notion of input. And then for each instance we are given uh a set of solutions. Usually these are called uh feasible solutions or valid solutions. I'll just call them solutions. Those are the uh allowable outputs to that problem. And then for each of those solutions, we're going to define some cost. I will assume that they are non- negative. So I don't have to worry about signs. And then you're also given what's usually called the objective, which is either min or max. Okay, so you're going to be given an item from this set. You want to produce an item from this set that minimizes or maximizes this cost. Uh that's not going to be possible because all these problems are going to be empty. But uh the point of approximation is to relax getting the best solution and aim to get an approximately best solution. Uh which we will define in a moment. Um but let me start with uh some useful notation which is opt of x. X is an instance. This is going to be uh two things. No uh definition should be unambiguous. So, uh it's going to be um the cost of a min or a max solution cost solution and it's also going to be such a solution itself sometimes. Um and yeah, cool. So, this is sort of the usual setup. Now, uh let's make it a little bit more interesting. uh by defining an NP optimization problem. This is going to be the analog of NP for optimization. Uh so one thing is that uh all solutions have polinomial length polomial in the length of the input the instance. Um another thing is that uh instances and solutions can be recognized. So there's a polinomial time algorithm that tells you yes that's a solution, yes that's an instance or no. And let's see the cost function should be polinomially computable. And that's it. Okay. So just making these actual actually reasonable from an algorithmic standpoint. Uh and so now it's you know thinking like NP the solution is going to be something like the uh certificate that you had a yes answer. uh here it's going to be a certificate that the cost is a particular thing. So given an empty optimization problem you can define a decision problem or decision version of NPO. So uh NPO is going to be the class of all such problems NP optimization problems just like NP was all the problem solvable non-deterministic polinomial time uh these things I claim uh if we convert to the decision version which is for a min problem the question is is opt of X the cost less than or equal to some query value and for a max version it is is opt of X greater than or equal to query value uh this thing is in NP okay so uh let's see why if you have these properties then the resulting decision problem will be an NP because if I give you a solution and solutions have polinomial length you can compute its cost verify that it was a valid solution and then you know that opt is some min so it's going to be less than or equal to any particular solution so if I give you a solution then I verify that opt of x is less than or equal to q in polinomial time uh for max it's the reverse uh and for example if you wanted to check if you wanted to know whether the min was greater than or equal to something well that's a co-enp problem so That's uh this these are the correct decision versions of those NP optimization problems in the sense that you get a problem in NP. So this is a strict generalization in some sense of NP problems or specialization I suppose. Uh this is a particular well we have optimization versions which still give us NP problems. We can still talk about NP completeness of these problems. uh but we're interested we're setting all this up so that we can actually talk about costs of not just the best solution but costs of of suboptimal solutions. So let's let's get to approximation. So uh we're going to call an algorithm alg uh C approximation. I write C but it's not necessarily a constant could be a function of N. Uh if um in the min case what we want is the cost of the algorithm applied to an input x divided by the cost of the optimal of x here for whatever reason I write cost of opt instead of just opt that should be less than or equal to c. Okay, just uh we look at the ratio. We want that to be bounded by some value. In the max case, uh there are two definitions that are standard in the literature uh that correspond to def well just different ways of looking at the same thing. Uh one would be cost of opt divided by cost of AL. That should be at most C. This would correspond to C being greater than or equal to one. Uh, and the alternative is to flip the inequality instead of the ratio. Okay. So, uh, first let's think about min. And with a minimization problem, whatever the algorithm produces will be greater than or equal to opt. So this is a ratio that will give something uh greater than or equal to one. And so usually we think about two approximation, 1.5 approximation, 100 approximation, whatever just saying the algorithm is within a factor of 100 of the optimal. Uh for maximization, the thing that the algorithm produces will be less than or equal to opt. And so if you want something that is greater than one, you have to flip the ratio. Uh in this situation, C would be less than equal to one. So uh some people call uh if you have an algorithm that produces a solution that is at least 1/ half times optimal you might call it a two approximation or you might call it a 1/ half approximation depending on the paper. I think this is by now more common but it really depends on the era and the person and so on. So good to be aware of both. It's measuring the same thing of course just C is either bigger than one or less than one. Yeah. Is that over all instances? Oh yeah. This should be for all X for all valid instances X. Good. So um usually when we say a C approximation algorithm usually we're interested in polomial time C approximation algorithm. Almost all the time that is the case. I will probably forget to say polinomial time but I always mean it unless I say otherwise uh which will probably be never. But there are a few papers that look at exponential time approximation algorithms that have better exponent than the exact counterparts and so on. Uh so this is interesting because while uh your the straight up decision problem uh which is basically deciding opt exactly that might be nplete uh the approximation version like finding a two approximate solution might be polomial and that would be uh observed by finding a polinomial to approximation algorithm. Okay. uh sometimes you can do even better than uh const well so here we've been thinking about constant factors for C uh sometimes you can do even better than any constant factor or you can achieve any constant factor would be another way of saying it this is called a polomial time approximation scheme usually pas Uh you can think of this as a 1 plus epsilon approximation for any epsilon. uh but the general uh or you can think of it as an algorithm that given epsilon produces a 1 plus epsilon approximation algorithm or you can think of it as an algorithm uh with an additional input not just the instance but also a value epsilon say a rational epsilon greater than zero and then the uh let's say produces is a solution uh that's uh 1 + epsilon approximation. Okay, so this would be a sort of ideal situation. You get to specify what the error bound is and the algorithm will find a suitable solution. Um and the polinomial time part is that this algorithm must be polinomial time for any fixed epsilon. Okay, which means that the dependence on epsilon could be horrible. You could have an algorithm if n is your input size uh that runs in something like n^ the 2 to the 2 to the 1 over epsilon or whatever that's polinomial time for any fixed value of epsilon. It's rather large for any reasonable value of epsilon like a half but anyway uh or even one still getting up there. Uh but that's considered a pest. Now there are stronger notions of pests that have prevent this kind of thing. We will get to that when we get to fixed parameter attractability. Uh but for now this will be considered the gold standard. This is the best you could hope for at this level of detail. Uh and for let me give you some more classes. So we defined NPO. Uh there's the class pas again reuse of term but this is all problems uh npo problems with uh a pas algorithm. Okay. And more generally if we have some uh class of functions uh then I'm going to write f apx to be all the npo problems uh with uh poly time uh f approximation algorithms. I'll write f of n to be clear what we're depending on uh for some little f in the class big f. So uh for example f of n could be three. That would be a constant factor approximation. In that case, we just call it APX. APX is uh what you might otherwise call order one APX. Things you can approximate in some constant factor, any constant factor. Uh another class that's commonly studied is log APX. This is log n approximable, some constant factor. And there are more. There's a poly APX where you just want n to some constant, usually less than one, but not always. uh but I think this will be enough for us. Um and so we're interested in distinguishing these classes. We're going to do that by defining reductions using reductions defining hardness and then getting the hardest problems in certain of these classes to show that's the best kind of approximability you can get. Um today we'll be thinking in particular about the boundary between pas and apx. So pas we can get one plus epilon for any epsilon. Apx you can get a constant factor but there's some limit to how small that constant factor could be at least in the hardest case. Apx includes pests but there's problems in APX minus pest. Those have a limit how far down you can get. Okay we have uh pest is a subset of apx and furthermore if p does not equal np it's a strict subset. Okay. And let's say log ax or whatever. You pick your favorite approxim approximation factor and there are problems where you can achieve that and nothing better. Uh it's actually an easy exercise to come up with such a thing. Uh this is if p does not equal np. So you can take I don't know Hamiltonian cycle or something or pick your favorite NP hard problem and if the answer is yes to that problem then uh you construct a solution with some cost and if the answer is no it's way way smaller and so uh any approximation within your desired factor will be will be hard to to find. Let me get a little bit more specific and let's talk about some real problems. Uh so in the world of graph algorithm approximability these are the typical kinds of approximation factors you see of course it depends exactly what subdomain this is not a complete list but it starts to give you a flavor and today we'll be thinking mostly at the top level but uh let me define some of these problems for you um a lot of them we have seen or a few of them we have seen such as Steiner tree we talked about rectalinear Steiner tree that was the uklidian problem you're given points in the plane and you wanted to connect them up by the the shortest connected network um in a graph so that problem is uh has a pas rectal linear stiner tree because it's a uklidian problem a lot of uklitium problems have pases and I'm denoting pas here by 1 plus epsilon in general epsilon here means for all epsilon greater than zero uh stinetry in a graph is I give you a graph and you have a bunch of special vert vertices k special vertices. You want to find a connected subgraph of that graph that hits all of the special vertices. Okay, that problem has a constant factor approximation and there's no pests for a general graph. Uh Steiner forest is almost the same. Instead of giving vertices that all have to connect to each other, you say which pairs of vertices need to connect to each other. This guy and this guy and this guy and this guy. You can still, this is a generalization in the case where you want to connect them in a clique pattern. That's Steiner tree. But Steiner forest is has the same uh approximability up to constant factors. Traveling salesman in a graph. You've probably seen a 1.5 approximation to that. Definitely two approximation is really easy like MST. Uh and that's for in a graph. That's the best you can do in 2D or in a planer graph or in an H minor free graph. Uh there's a p test I think h minor free traveling salesman problem waited was uh solved just a couple years ago but that's that has a p test. Uh let's see there's usually most people like to think about minimization problems but there are maximization problems too. Uh let's see what else haven't I defined. Did we talk about set cover? uh you have I think we did briefly uh you have sets and you have elements you want to choose the fewest sets that hits all elements each set is contains some of the elements you can think of that as a bipartite graph sets on one side elements on the other you want to choose fewest vertices on the left that hit all the vertices on the right uh dominating set is the non-ipartite version of that problem you're just given a graph and if you choose a vertex it covers that vertex X and its neighboring vertices and your goal is to cover all vertices using the smallest dominating set by choosing the fewest vertices. Uh so these problems turn out to be equivalent from an approximability standpoint and in a stronger sense they're both log approximable and that's the best you can do. This is assuming P does not equal NP. Not some of these results assume slightly stronger things than P P versus NP, but we won't worry about that too much. Uh let's see another fun problem uh just highlighting the ones you should know about uh chromatic number we've seen well we thought about three coloring but the chromatic number problem is to minimize the number of colors k such that your graph is k colorable and that's really hard to approximate um the best approximation algorithm I think is n divided by log n or something roughly n uh is not so good and there's a lower bound that you can't do better than n^ the 1us epsilon for all epsilon on. So you really that's pretty tight. Not completely tight, but but pretty close. Um, and let's see other good problems. So, uh, maybe out here. Another really hard problem to approximate. These are problems you should try to avoid if you're trying to solve things approximately, uh, or if you're proving hardness. You want to use these if you can. If your problem looks like this, uh, independent set, just find me a set of vertices that induce no edges. So no edges connecting them. That's really hard. Uh if you complement the graph, everywhere there's an edge, delete it, and everywhere there wasn't an edge, add it. That's the same problem as click. So these are the same from also from an approximation standpoint. Uh okay, this is annoying because clicks are useful in practice, but uh there's another problem called densest subgraph, which is approximate clicks. That's actually easier to approximate. Yeah. What's the hardness assumption for the chromatic number lower bound? Uh I think that's like P does not equal ZPP or NP does not equal ZPP I think. Okay. Yeah. For that that strong lower bound there are weaker lower bounds assuming P does not equal NP. Yeah. Uh okay. One other good one fun one to think about is set cover. Um you want to choose the fewest sets to hit all elements. Maximum coverage. You don't have to hit all the elements but you want to hit as many elements as possible using k sets. So in the decision problem these are the same in some sense. Here I give you k sets. I want to know can I hit all the elements. Uh for for example here I'm given k sets. I want to know can I hit at least j of the elements. Uh so this you think is a generalization from a decision standpoint but it's actually easier to approximate because the objective is different. Here we have to hit every element. No question is asked here. It's okay if we miss some of the elements because we only need a constant factor approximation and we can get a constant factor here. Whereas the best we can do is login here. Uh cool. But but unique coverage this is a result of ours. If you're trying to maximize coverage but if you double cover an element you no longer get points for it. That's that requires login approximation. So uh I think I will leave it at that. Directed graphs are much harder. Uh though it's not known exactly how hard. Here's an example of a big gap in what we know between log squ and n the epsilon. Um something we will get to in a later class is called label cover. I won't define the problem here because it takes a while to define. Uh but there there's very strong lower bounds on uh in approximability. It's similar to n^ the 1us epsilon but it's not. It's a little smaller. So, uh, you see 2 to the log n would be n. That would be great. And so, you'd really like 2 log n to the 1 - epsilon. But what we have here is something a little smaller than login. Log to the 1 - epsilon power. And then you expon exponentiate that. So, it's this is somewhat smaller than what we'd actually like, which is something like n^ the 1 minus or n to some epsilon, I guess, would be ideal. This is smaller than any n to the epsilon. Uh the best upper bounds it depends on the problem n to some constant like for label covers n to the 1/3 for directed steiner forest which is you have pairs of vertices you want to connect uh but with a directed path. So similar to a problem we've seen best approximation known for that is n to the 4 fths plus epsilon and this is uh just a couple years ago. So that seems very hard to do better than any constant. Probably there's an n to the epsilon lower bound but this is the best we know so far. bit smaller. Uh cool. Any questions about that table? Uh we will probably come back to it a few times uh but in more depth. Uh so how do you prove the lower bound side? We're going to use reductions. Now uh this field is a little bit messier in terms of reductions for NP completeness, NP hardness. We just worried about Karp style one call reductions. That's all we had to think about in this universe. There are uh one 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 nine at least nine definitions of reduction. Uh you don't need to know them all. I will define four of them. I think uh they're all very similar and they all lead to slightly different notions of hardness. So you have to be a little careful when you say oh this problem is something hard. Um but I'll give you some definitions that are pretty easy to work with. I think uh in general this family is called approximation uh preserving reductions. So let's say we want to go from some problem A uh to some problem B. Okay. So um you're given an instance of A, let's call it X, and you want to produce an instance of B, let's call it X prime. And we're going to do that by a function f. So x prime is f ofx. So so far just like np reductions. Uh but now uh you usually what we said is that the answer to x equals the answer to x prime. So you could say opt of x equals opt of x prime. But that's not going to be strong enough. Uh what we want is that if we can find a solution to this b problem. let's call it uh y prime to the problem x prime. So x prime is an instance of b. We can find some solution any solution y prime to x prime then we want to be able to convert it back by a function g into a solution to a uh which we'll call y. And so it's g you might think it's g of y prime uh but we'll make it g of x comma y prime. So it can also depend on what you started with. Okay. So this is the general flavor. A reduction consists of two steps. First like before we convert instances of A to instances of B. Now in addition we want to be able to recover solutions of B into similarly good solutions to A. And there's many ways to define similarly good. Uh let me give you uh let me give you one. So if we're just interested in pases then I uh like you want to know does my problem have a pas or I want to prove impossibility of pases then I think there's one clear notion of reduction which is obviously enough called pas reduction. Uh so what we want to say is uh I I hope you've seen calculus at some point. Uh in calculus there's this notion of epsilon delta proofs or definitions. Uh so I'm going to say you don't have to think of it this way but I I find it useful to think of it this way. Uh let me get to what the statement is. Uh if y prime is a 1 + delta approximation to b then uh y is an 1 + epsilon approximation to a Okay, so ultimately we're interested in pases and we want to say that if you have a pas for B then you get a pas for A. It used to be when we did a reduction from A to B that showed that if uh B had a polinomial time algorithm then so did A because you just plug in these chains together you convert A into the B instance you run your poly algorithm get a solution and convert it back. uh well with NP we didn't have to convert the answer was the same now now we could do that we want to do the same thing with pases so if we have a pas for B we can convert A into B run the pest get a solution and come back and get what we want is it for to be a 1 plus epsilon approximation to A so that's the goal 1 plus epsilon approximation and what this is saying is there's some function delta of epsilon uh for any epsilon there's some value uh delta where you can give you just give that value to the pest for B and it will give you what you want for A. Okay? Because uh you know P is supposed to run for any fixed constant. We called it epsilon but it could also be delta. And so you plug in this to the pest you will get a 1 plus delta approximation to your B problem. And then what we want is that this conversion. So Y here is G of X Y prime. Okay. So we want G, this is a constraint on G. We want G to have the property that if Y prime is that good, then Y will still be as good as we need. Okay, so maybe you just you want to get a uh a 1.1 approximation. You want to get within 10% of the right answer. Maybe you have to call B with a much smaller thing. Maybe uh maybe delta is uh 01. You need to be within 1% of the right answer. Uh but there's the for a pas reduction you want there to be some approximability you ask for so that you get what you actually want. Okay, this is sort of the obvious. This is the natural thing if you want to preserve pestness in this direction from B to A. So uh okay one one slight note is that we also allow f and g uh to depend on epsilon. So this reduction it would be hard to get this property for all epsilon with the same uh instance conversion. So now we allow the conversion of the instances to depend on epsilon. So you can do fun things that way uh for the purposes of pas reductions. Uh but the key thing we get is that if B is a P test then or has a P test then A has a P test. So it's in the complexity class P. Of course what we care about is the contraositive of that. So if A is not in PAS then B is not in Ps. So we can use this. We reduce from our hard problem that we know is not in P test assuming P does not equal NP and we get that our new problem B is not in P test. That's the the point. Um this is also true for something like Apx. Uh so if you just want constant factor approximation, this will convert one constant factor into another constant factor. Uh so yeah if you have I mean it's maybe stronger than what you need but we'll give you constant factor approximations as well. Okay. Uh so here's some easy more definitions. Oh uh okay some so a few more fun facts. Um if this statement also holds true for epsilon equals z when you plug in epsilon equals 0 delta equals 0 then you're just getting the regular notion of reduction from np land. This is saying the ops are equal. Uh so usually your solution also works in that setting. That's usually the easy thing to do. So this is a strictly stronger notion of np reduction if you allow the 00 case. uh also reduction chain. So if a reduces to b and b reduces to c then a reduces to c. Okay. All the usual things you expect. Some special cases of interest are a reduction. This is when the delta function is linear in epsilon. And so this is nice because it tells you for example if b is in uh has some order f approximation then a does as well. It just changes this constant factor. Okay. So this is useful if you care about if you care about like log n approximation. If you use this definition, things could change, right? Because you're allowed to change what the con what the factor is out here in crazy ways. Um, so over here before just a linear blow up the approximation factor, then we only lose constant factors in in approximability. And one more is strict reduction. This is when there's no blow up. If you have uh a C approximation here, you get a C approximation there. Okay, that that's nice when you can get it. We're not going to aim for this in particular, but there are a bunch of reductions we'll talk about today that are strict. So, it's nice to just have a word to say, oh, this is even strict. You don't even need any blow up like this stuff. Okay, so that was strict AP and PAS. reductions. Uh there's one more but maybe first let me define hardness. Uh so today we will focus on APX hardness. Um and These are supposed to be the hardest problems in APX. And so I mean because we're trying to distinguish between pasable problems and just constant factor approximal problems uh we are interested in pas Uh so it's going to turn out that APX hard uh well I guess we sort of already know this implies you're not in P test uh if P equals NPP does not equal NP uh because of this strict containment P does not equal NP then PTA is different from APX and so if you show that your hardest problem in APX using a reduction that preserves pasability Then you know uh I mean the idea is that um right when we're doing these reductions we know that B had a P test and A had a P test and what we're saying is you can if you your Apx hard means you can reduce from any problem in APX to your problem. So if your problem had a pas uh that would mean all problems have pases. All APX problems have pases but we know that's not the case. Therefore, your problem does not have a p test. Okay. So, just like MP completeness just with different letters. Uh, cool. And different reductions. Um, these reductions are all a little bit awkward to work with directly for uh or these definitions are a little awkward to to check directly. Although ultimately it's the same thing. Um, in practice, people seem to use a different notion of reduction for the most part called L reductions that's stronger than it's stronger than AP reduction. Not as strong as strict. I guess it's not directly related either way to strict, but it's okay. So while I define this in terms of pas reduction because that's what you need to get this result. Uh most people think about L reduction which is going to imply. Okay. It's going to be stronger than the other two notions of reduction AP and P tests. So what's the definition? We want to satisfy two properties. First property uh is a kind of blowup going left to right. Uh so funnyly enough the other reductions do not have this property because they don't quite need it in the way that they're going. But uh we want that the transform problem its optimal solution is not much bigger. It's bigger by only a constant factor. This is like less than equal to alpha times the optimal the original optimal solution the given given instance to a. Okay. Second property and we'll see why we need this in a moment is if you look at the absolute error instead of the ratio between your the computed solution y was the thing that we got in the lower left corner. We produced solution y. We look at uh the cost that we get out of uh you know y is a solution. So we look at the cost of that solution. We compare it to the optimal solution to our original instance because it is a solution to that instance. Uh that should not be much bigger than the error on the right side. Again absolute error. So we want this to be big O of cost in B's problem of Y prime minus opt sub B of X prime. So these are both in B land. Again we look at the optimal solution to the produced instance versus some solution that we were given. We didn't produce that solution. So this has to hold uh no matter what solution y prime you're given to the instance x prime when you convert it using g to a solution to x in problem a uh you want that the gap absolute gap is not stretched by more than a constant factor. Okay again this is at most some constant times that thing. Okay, now it should not be obvious that this implies this but it does with delta equal to I think um some color let's say the constant in here is alpha the constant in here is beta then this should be alpha time beta time epsilon that is delta of epsilon that's the claim Let's prove the claim ideally without cheating. So uh I claim that if I have such an L reduction that this holds where when delta is that linear function of epsilon. So I want to conclude that y is a pretty good approximation. So to do that I will look at the cost of y divided by opt opt of x would be the original input. So we want to show that this is at most 1 plus epsilon. Now what do we know? I should write AI guess this is all about problem a. What do we know? uh we know this uh thing property I wrote absolute value here so this works for maximization minimization you can even convert minimization to maximization problems using this definition we will do that at some point uh okay so let's just try to plug this into here uh so I think I need to split into cases and I'll just worry about the minimization case so let's say that cost of a is bigger then opt. So then cost of a is going to be opt plus this thing at most. Okay. So this is going to be uh at most uh opt of x plus beta. I'm going to not use the bigo notation. Just write the the beta thing. uh beta times I guess there's no absolute value needed because this is a minimization problem let's say uh so this will be cost subb of y prime minus op subb of x prime so that's what I get from expanding out the numerator and denominator is the same Okay, just rearranging terms here essentially. Okay, now uh these two terms cancel. So we get 1 + that uh that's good because I want that to be epsilon. Uh let's see what else do we know. So one plus this thing. Uh let me scroll down. Okay, we have one other property we ought to use it. The other property is that opt sub is related to op sub a. Uh now we have op sub a here but it's in the denominator which flips the relation. So we can write that relation up there as op sub a of x is omega of op subb of x prime. That's the same as statement one. And because the denominator is omega that means the whole thing is big o. So this is going to be at most uh 1 plus. So now we have this thing uh so the numerator is the same we had before beta time cost. sub b of y prime minus op subb of x prime. So that's unchanged. But now uh instead of dividing by op sub a we're going to divide by op subb of x prime and we lost a constant factor. The constant factor turns out to be alpha in the numerator because we inverted the equation. We divided by the constant factor there. Okay. So what uh well now this cancels with that right? So this is going to be 1 + alpha beta times uh cos subb y prime over op subb of x prime minus one. still looks kind of weird. But what we there's one more thing we didn't use which is we assumed the the we were given some solution y prime that was a 1 plus delta of epsilon approximation where delta is this thing that we defined there. It's obviously set to cancel out everything that happened here. So this thing should be at most uh 1 plus delta because this is exactly the approximation ratio for y prime versus the optimal solution to x prime and 1 + delta is 1 + alpha beta epsilon. So this one cancels with that one. These alpha betas Oops. I think it's backwards. Which is backwards? the definition of delta. Okay. Whoops. Let's try epsilon over alpha beta. That makes sense. Uh because delta should be smaller than epsilon probably and alpha and beta are probably bigger than one. So now we get epsilon over alpha beta here and then that alpha beta cancels with that alpha beta and we are left with 1 plus epsilon. Okay. Uh so this is why it's not obvious but it's just you know plugging in all the things and it works. And the funny thing is somehow L reductions though they a little bit less natural I I feel like I mean if you're thinking about constant factor approximation why should you care about absolute error? Uh the short answer that I've seen written in various papers is because it's easier to think that way for a lot of the typical reductions that you do. So uh let us do some of those reductions and we'll get some intuition. Okay. uh L reductions also they do work in the zero case right if you have an optimal solution to x prime you will get an optimal solution to x so they are also np reductions again it's a generalization of or strengthening of the type of reduction we saw in all previous lectures all right so I want to simultaneously tell you a bunch of problems that are apx complete so that you know things to reduce from but also show you examples of such things so some of these I will emit the proofs uh because they're messy and it's just useful to know that they're there so you can reduce from them. Others I most of them I will cover the proofs All right. And we're going to return to an old issue uh from the first SAT lecture. Uh and I'm going to introduce some some new notation. So a lot of the starting points here are just max set. So uh or let's say max CNF set. You're given a CNF formula. It's got a bunch of clauses. You want to maximize the number of clauses that you satisfy with some variable assignment. So that's going to be Apx complete. There are constant factor approximations if the clauses are constant size should say. So like max 3AT uh has a constant factor approximation. I forget what the current best is uh and no better. There's no P test for max 3 set. Okay, this is a stronger form of max three set uh which we have not seen before although we've uh hinted around it. The E means every clause has exactly three distinct literals. Okay, this is an issue that we stumbled into. Uh, oh, do we allow clauses to have only two literals? I said no in the original definition, but I did allow repeated literal, which is the same thing. So, when I say threeset, I mean you can repeat literal or you can have fewer than three literal. Uh, when I say e3at, then you're not allowed to do that. Okay. Then, uh, you may remember we talked about threes 5. That meant every clause has only three literals and every variable appears at most five times. E5 means exactly five times. Each variable appears exactly five times. Do you have a question? It gives you a condition on the number of clauses. Oh, you're right. That gives you a linear relation between the number of clauses, number of variables. Can work it out. Um, this is hard. I will not prove it. It's It's not hard, but it's just a little bit messy. Sorry. It's not difficult. Uh, I will prove a slightly different uh result which this one is based on which is a little bit more familiar but also introduces something new we hadn't seen before. Uh, this is regular threes. Each clause has at most three literals and every variable appears at most three times. This is something I didn't realize was hard. Uh it's not written in most places. Uh but it is here in the world of uh in approximability. Uh this is the reduction. It's uh kind of funny. So suppose you have a variable x which appears a million times. You're going to make a uh cycle so to speak. this it's a formula so it's not really a cycle but uh of size a million and you're going to write down this twosat constraint uh not x i or x i + one for all i and do it around in the cycle so not x6 or x1 or x million or x1 that's of course equivalent to saying if x i is set to true then x i plus one must also be set to true so if any of these are set to true they all are so the only satisfying assignments here are everybody true uh everybody buddy not true. Uh so if you're just worried about NP reductions, this is a reduction from threesat to that-3 because every variable now will appear in exactly three uh exactly three in fact. So uh constraints this one, this one and whatever it originally whatever you want to plug it into, right? So each of these was an occurrence of that variable. Maybe use the positive form, maybe use the negative form, but each variable appears three times in this p picture. Now, that's a great reduction for three. Notice I didn't write max because this reduction will not work as a L reduction. Say you cannot prove that max three set is hard using this reduction because uh you could for example just violate these two constraints and make all of these guys true and all of these guys false. If this is size a million that means you're setting you you I mean you're setting the variable half true half false or you could choose any ratio you want uh at a very small cost. You're only paying a penalty if two constraints violated and yet you're able to satisfy one half of the clauses using x i equal to true and some other set of clauses using x i set to false and there's no way to bound how many clauses you can sort of misrepresent and the objective in max 3AT is to maximize the number of clauses satisfied. So if you allow this kind of thing where you can flip in crazy ways and change a huge number of clauses uh one way or the other in this sort of false way, how if you're trying to actually construct a solution to max threesat from a solution to this three setat 3 instance, uh you wouldn't know which way to set uh the variable x2. If you set it to true, it's a whole bunch of clauses that wanted it to be false. If you set it to false, whole bunch you wanted to be true. Yeah. If we're just talking about empty hardness here, can't you make those edges very heavy by repeating the clause many times? If we're just worried about MP hardness, this is fine. Okay, because then all of these have to be true. Uh I mean for the max decision problem, well you then the decision problem is can you satisfy all of them? That is a special case of the max satisfy K. Yeah, but if you set K equal to N, that's a special case of the general form. Oh, okay. So I see. Yeah, if you if you didn't want if you wanted to make K and N different, you could just add a bunch of things that are unsatisfiable or lots of ways to change how many there are. Yeah. Um, okay. Nonetheless, we can prove max 3AT 3 is hard with an L reduction from 3AT. So, I'm not going to prove that 3AT is uh APX hard. We might do that in a future lecture, but just take that as given. What I want to show you is how to convert max threesat into max 3AT 3. Not like this, but using a different trick. So uh so reducing from uh max three set. So we're given a formula. We're given some variables. Let's say uh let's look at variable x and let's say it appears k times. What we're going to do just like before we're going to make k new variables. We're going to make k variables x1 through x k that replace x and we're going to use those instead of x. And I want to force all the values of x to be the same. But I want to force it even when you're allowed to cheat and set some of the things incorrectly. And we're going to do this using a powerful tool which is good to know about called expander graphs. Uh so there's two things to tell you. One is what is an expander graph and the other thing is once I have an expander graph, what do I do? Let me start with the ladder because it's a little simpler. Uh If I guess a lot of you have heard about expander graphs and the short answer is they're complicated and confusing but really cool and powerful. Uh we're not going to try to prove that the expanders exist here. I'm just going to tell you they exist and that's actually pretty simple what they what properties they have. Um so what I want to do uh whenever I have an edge in this graph, this is a graph whose vertices are the x x1 through x k. I'm going to convert an edge into a constraint which is effectively x i equals xj which in reality is not x i or xj and not xj or x i. Okay, so I really probably shouldn't think of it as x i equals xj. That's what I want to do. I want to force lots of things to be equal. But really we have to in the end think about it in terms of constraints because some of them might be violated. Okay. But uh so what is an expander graph? There are different types but what we will use is uh two properties. So this is uh for k nodes uh we have bounded degree and we have for every cut ab I think we've talked about cuts in this context in the context of max cut. So the idea is that a and b are disjoint and their union is the set of all vertices. Okay so a is one side of the cut b is the other side of the cut. uh we want the number of cross edges the number of edges between A and B is big. It's at least the min of A and B. Okay. Uh some intuition imagine a clique. Now clique is not bounded degree but it has this property. If you have if you look at any cut there's a lot of edges between them. Okay. it's actually more like the product but in particular it's at least the min. So you can think of expander as a sparse click. It's clicky enough uh in in this sense which we'll see why this is the property we want but it has bounded degree therefore a linear number of edges. It's very sparse. Uh in the construction we are applying which is due to labots, Phillips and Sarn the degree is 14 but doesn't matter constant. Okay. Uh it's actually 14 regular so nice. Uh so we we take this graph which was known to be out there. Basically, random graphs have this property, but won't worry about how to construct it too much, although you do have to, but there's tons of papers on how to construct them. And then for every edge, we convert it into these two constraints. So, let's prove that this is an L reduction. Okay. Claim reduction. So, uh, maybe, um, I don't have anything to point at because I can't point at an expander graph, but let me draw the graph. So, I can point at something. Let's draw the clique just so a little easier to think about. This is an expander here for uh, and let's say uh, in your solution, you know, some of these end up getting assigned uh, true value. Let's represent that by red. Some of them not. Maybe three of them are true, one of them is false, whatever. In general, I'm going to choose um so I mean we're we're given some solution, right? This is uh the solution y prime to the constructed instance x prime. x prime has this expander. So we look at a solution yp prime to x prime. We have no control over what it is. It it if you look at a variable, some fraction are set to true, some of them are set to false. We're going to choose the majority. Okay, so here it's majority red. So, we're going to change this guy to be red. Now, uh does that hurt us? Well, we can think of there as being a cut of the red nodes versus the not red nodes, the black nodes. Okay. Uh and I claim uh the number of edges here is big. It's at least the minimum of a and b. Now, what we were doing is taking the minimum of a and b and recoloring that side to be the other side. When we do that, we have these constraints which are supposed to be equality constraints. These things are supposed to be equal, but they weren't before. Before I recolored this, these were the at least one constraint here was violated because this one of them was red, one of them was black. When I fill this in, I improve my solution by at least the size of the cut. Uh each of these guys uh now become satisfied. It wasn't before. So I improve my solution by this much. I also worsen my solution potentially because that uh node appears in one clause and so it gets worse by one. So suppose there are b nodes on the smaller side and we recolor B nodes. So we got an improvement by P and also we worsen things by up to P because uh these P guys appear in P different clauses. Each one potentially we mess up is no longer satisfied. Uh but for every one that we mess up, so these guys appear in some actual clause. Um each one we mess up, we also make at least one thing happy because we fixed the cut. Okay. So if we have any solution we can convert it into one where a variable is all true or all false and not lose anything. Therefore there exists an optimal solution. There exists an optimal solution. Uh and you do this variable by variable where variables are all true or all false. Okay. Uh now we do change the value of opt here because we added a ton of constraints and we just said well the in the optimal solution or a an optimal solution in fact all of these constraints will be satisfied which means opt has increased. So the opt for uh x prime this thing is going to be larger than the opt for x. Opt of x prime is going to equal opt of x plus order the total number of occurrences of all variables. Okay, which is at most uh three times the number of clauses. Uh so we want to know does it satisfy this definition of L reduction? We need to know that the opt does not explode by more than a constant factor and yet we added this big term. But the good news is in threes you can always satisfy a constant fraction of the clauses. So opt is always at least uh I think I have written here like half of them. Uh I think you just randomly assign the variables and some constant fraction will be satisfied uh in expectation. So there's definitely a solution where opt so opt of x is definitely at least some constant times a number of clauses and so this adding some constant times a number of clauses doesn't change the overall cost by more than a constant factor. So property one holds property two holds. Uh in fact with with beta equal one you're not you're not making your solution in you see we have this additive thing because we add these gadgets and stuff. Uh multiplicatively it's confusing and that's what we were worrying about here. But additively it's very clean. We always add the exact same amount to your solution. So if you have a solution y prime, you convert it back to a solution y, the gap, the additive gap between cost of y versus opt of x uh will be equal to the additive gap between the cost of y prime versus opt of x prime. Question. So here uh how many times are you using each variable? Uh we are using each variable 29 times. Yeah, we're using it uh y 29 because uh right we have degree 14 but then for every edge we actually have two constraints the implication in both ways. So that's 28 plus the ver each of those nodes actually appears in one uh actual clause. Okay, so this proves that max 3at 29 is hard. Yep, good question. Why did I claim max 3AT 3? Uh because we can use this reduction. Now, so there was another reason I showed you this. Um I haven't seen this explicitly said in the literature, but it's it's all the pieces are out there. So once you've show shown max three uh some constant is hard, then you can do an L reduction from that problem to maxi threes 3 just like this. So first we do the expander and then uh still these nodes have too high a degree. They're degree 29. Uh now we're going to expand those into little cycles of constraints. Okay. Now this is actually okay when the cycle has constant length because uh you know maybe suppose some of these are set to true, some of them are set to false. Then just set them all to false. Don't even take majority. Set them all to false. How much does that hurt you? Well, you know that each of these variables appeared in a constant number of clauses. So, uh so it only hurts you by a constant amount. Every time you flip a variable from true to false, uh you only lose an additive constant in your in your solution. So when we're converting from a solution y prime which does weird things on a cycle potentially when we convert it to y and set them all to false we I mean we know uh so there's two cases one is all of these constraints are satisfied then you should choose exactly what's written and then they will all be true or all be false but if at least one of them is violated you can charge to that violation and set them all to false and when you do that I don't know how you know at most a thousand violations happen some constant uh it's 3 * 20 whatever uh some constant and then you know that uh you can charge that cost to the violation that you were given in y prime and so you can get that l reduction property too and say oh good my the additive gap in my produced solution where I just set all those to false is at most a thousand times the original additive gap and so that's an l reduction from max three set constant to max 3 setat 3 questions. Yeah. So, how do you know there's a constant number of violations? Uh because uh now we were given an instance of three set constant meaning each variable appears in a constant number of clauses. So, we were given a situation uh oh right sorry also when we do this uh each we set it up so each of these variables appears in one original class. Yeah. And we know the total size of the cycle is constant. So each of these, every time we turn one of these to false, we lose one point. And there's only a constant number of these. So it's actually the constant is only 27 or 29. Sorry, 29. Okay, it's a little weird to get used to L reductions. I'm still getting used to them, but uh as you can see, it's pretty powerful. You you can do a lot and it's just okay. I mean, you you definitely have to be careful. In general, you want things to have bounded degree. Uh that makes things really helpful. That's why I'm telling you about these two problems. Okay. Uh what next? Let's just continue. Uh let me at least mention in case I run out of time. Max not all equal. Three setat also hard. Uh positive one in threes. Even one in E3AT also Apx hard Apex complete. So th those are good friends from threes land carry over here. Uh but let's prove some and I will eventually prove those. Uh let's prove some other fun problems. Uh next one is independent set. Now I have to be a little bit careful here. Uh independent set is really really really hard. Okay. But uh an interesting special case is bounded degree independent set. So that's what I'll talk about next. Uh I think I'm going to prove max degree 4 independent set although it's known that max degree 3 uh is hard. also so um constant degree independent set is actually apx complete so there is a constant factor approximation uh which is take any maximal independent set just keep adding vertices until you can't anymore that will be within a factor of this of optimal you can show uh that's pretty clear um So uh that puts it in apx and furthermore we claim that's tight you. So there's a constant factor uh and there's also a constant factor in approximability some constant you cannot go below uh and the proof is this although it's a little bit uh so it's a reduction from let's say the one we just did max three sat 3 and it's going to be a strict reduction. We're not going to lose anything if I if I did things right now. Now, in fact, so I drew here six occurrences of XI, but there's really only three of them. But the idea is complete vipartite graph between the positive instances of XI and the negative instances. And then these are going to be plugged in directly to the clause gadgets. These are the same variable. Okay. Uh and so the idea is each of these is plugged into only one clause. So I need to make copies. I do this complete bipartite graph between them. And uh now we're trying to do max independent set which means whatever we whatever solution we find it will be an independent set. That's cool. There's no slack in independence here. It's just about how many we choose. Question. What is independent set? Independent set is you want to choose a set of variables that have no edges between them. Sorry, a set of vertices that have no edges between them. So that means that if I choose any one of the blue nodes here, I can't choose any of the red nodes and vice versa. So uh I may not be able to choose all of the blue or all of the red but uh that's how it goes. Now if we look at a clause there's uh in this case we have to actually handle the case of clauses of size two uh and clauses of size three. If you have a clause of size three you just build a triangle on them and the idea is only one of those can be chosen. Uh but it could be zero get chosen because you might be screwed. Maybe you choose you chose a red xi then you won't be able to choose this blue xi. Maybe you chose a red xj. Maybe you chose a blue xk. In that case, you won't be able to choose any of these vertices. But if at least one of these is sat is true, if you chose if you're either choosing the blue x i's or the blue xjs or the red xks, then in fact, you get one point for each clause. And in general, the number of points you get, the number of things you'll be able to put into your independent set is exactly the number of clauses you'll be able to satisfy. Okay? And uh but just by looking at whether any of the blue XI's are true, then you set XI to true. Looking at whether any of the red XI's are set are chosen in the independent set, then you set XI to false. That will recover the assignment. It'll have exactly the same cost as the independent set size. Number of clauses you satisfy will be exactly the number of independent uh set size. Okay. So, and similarly for clause of size two. So that's cool. independent set is really easy to reduce from max three set three. In fact, it would work for max three set constant. But if you do max three set three, there's only three of these guys. Then I think the biggest degree you get is four. This guy maybe is attached to two things and then also to two things over here. So great. Uh next problem is uh vertex cover. So this is a funny one. Uh so let's do constant degree vertex cover. In general there's a two approximation for vertex cover. So we don't need the constant degree to be an APX but this is also Apx complete and it's kind of identical to independent set in a funny way which is for any graph uh if you look at a vertex cover its complement is an independent set. If you look at any independent set its complement is a vertex cover. Sorry. Any maximal independence at its complement is a vertex cover. Um, so they're kind of dual in that if you look at the size of a vertex cover plus size of a maximal independent set, it will always equal the number of vertices. So maximizing this is the same as minimizing this. But approximating this is not necessarily the same as approximating this, right? One's a maximization problem, one's a minimization problem. But it's still an L reduction for bounded degree graphs because you know if you have degree at most delta there's always an independent size of at least n over delta and there's always a vertex cover of size n. So they're within constant factors of each other. In fact these are both always theta number of vertices. Okay. So, so the reduction is you give me an instance of independent set, I give you that exact same instance to vertex cover and uh then so f is trivial. G takes the complement. Wherever you had a vertex in the vertex cover, you don't put it in the independent set and vice versa. Okay? And then you just have to check that this is an L reduction. So the first thing is the ops are within a constant factor of each other. That's true because they're both within a constant factor of the number of vertices. And then uh you prove that the additive gap is fixed. And it's the same thing. If you if you decrement this accidentally, then you increment this accidentally. They're one for one. So this is kind of cool. It feels a little scary, but we can convert a maximization problem into a minimization problem with L reductions. This would be very hard to even think about in the the other reduction types. Uh which is one of the reasons L reductions are so successful, I think. Uh that was vertex cover. We can do one more. Uh okay, really easy dominating set. Remember dominating set with vertex cover when you put a vertex in your cover you cover all the edges instant into it and you want to cover all the edges. Dominating set when you put a vertex in you cover all the neighboring vertices. You want to cover all vertices. Uh so I'm going to reduce from vertex cover. If you have an edge, what you do is convert it into a path of length two plus that edge. Uh so then you know that if this was in the dominating set, uh you can just move it over to say being v or w, it will cover all the things it could cover before and maybe even more. Uh so that so then in the optimal solution over here you never need to choose one of these vertices which means we can assume they're on the original vertices which means you are just uh solving vertex cover because covering that is the same as covering that edge. Good. I think that's good for now. We'll do a bunch more reductions next time.