Okay. So, um, so let's continue the journey we started last time. Um so what we're going to do uh you know if you remember in the last class we showed how we can actually build an auto reggressive large language model uh aka a causal large language model um using this not this idea of a causal encoder a transformer causal encoder and then we showed how you can actually take a bunch of sentences and use next word prediction and just run it through and boom you get GPD3 okay so that's what we saw last time I want to point out a sort of an important clarification slash correction which is that when we work with large language models uh unlike when we work with BERT uh for instance when we work with these kinds of causal models actually uh when the contextual embeddings come out you don't actually have to use ReLU activations here you can literally just run it through just a single dense layer with linear activations and then pass it into a softmax and boom you're done okay so that's how GPD3 and all these models are trained u and the other thing I want to point out which may not have clear is that what what is coming out of these this dense layer right this vector is as long as your vocabulary because only then when it goes into the soft max you're going to get probabilities which are as long as your vocabulary which means that you get to pick one word or token out of that entire 50,000 long vocabulary okay so so just I just want to point that out because I think it's easy for us to sort of get a little confused because of this little difference between the way uh masked language models like BERT work and causal language models like GPD3. Okay, so now let's continue with we have we know how to build GPD3. So like what about GPD and GPD2 like what's up to them? Why is GPD3 so famous and not GPD2? Right? So turns out well first of all you folks know that GPD stands for generative pre-trained transformer. Now like GPD3 two GPD2 and GPD1 were trained in basically the same fashion. Predict the next word uh same fashion the same sort of transformer stack except that GPT3 was trained on much more data because the underlying transformer stack had many more layers. Okay, so it is a much bigger stack meaning lots more parameters and therefore you need lots more data to train it well. Okay, so that was really the only difference. The difference was literally one of scale, scale of network and scale of data. And unlike GPT and GPD2, GPD3 even though it was trained basically the same way with the same kind of network, it was one of the situations where more became different. Okay, there was almost like some sort of phase change that happened between two and three. Unlike GPD and GPD2, GPD3 could do amazingly coherent continuations of any starting prompt, right? Um so for example, if you have this little prompt which says the importance of being on Twitter by Jerome K Jerome who was a famous humorist and then you give it this prompt, right? Ending with the word it, it produces this continuation which is really like strikingly good. And if any of you have read Jerome K Jerome and if you read this thing, you'll be like, "Wow, that actually sounds like Jerome K Jerome." Right? So amazing continuations the the but the interesting thing here is not so much the continuation it's the fact that the same prompt you give it a two or GPT it won't do any it won't be very good in fact after the first one two or three sentences it'll sort of become sort of incoherent and meander and start rambling this thing can keep faking it for a long longer time right that's the amazing thing that was unexpected re researchers did not expect this okay and but it wasn't good at following your instructions So for instance, if you ask it, help me write a short note, introduce myself to my neighbor. This is the kind of thing it'll come up with. And you can actually run it yourself. You can actually go to GPD3 on the playground. I think GPD3 is still available in the playground. U if it is, you can actually start try running these prompts. You will start getting garbage very quickly, right? And the reason so for example here, help me write a short note. It says, what's a good introduction to a resume? Rumé for some reason has glombmed down to resume. I have no idea why. Right? But the reason it's doing stuff like this is because a lot of the training data it was trained on are basically lots of lists of things. So when you say for example um you know the the the capital of Paris continue it'll come back with the capital sorry the capital of France continue it say the capital of France is Paris the capital of you know uh Hungary is Budapest and so on. It just start coming up with a list. So it's sort of very list driven right? it thinks that you you need to complete some sort of list, right? That's what's going on here. And so it's not very good. So it doesn't realize that you're actually asking it to do something specific. So this is the problem when you have an autocomplete thing which doesn't realize what you're asking it. It just thinks that you're it's just an autocomplete. So um now in addition to these unhelpful answers, it can also produce offensive answers, factually incorrect answers and so on and so forth. The list of bad things it can do is long. So why does it do that? Why does it produce unhelpful answers? Well, you know, as you recall, it was only trained to predict the next word. It wasn't explicitly trained to follow instructions, right? So, it seems, you know, reasonable that if it's simply trying to guess the next word repeatedly, it can't really do anything more. Like, how can it figure out that there's an instruction that it needs to follow, right? Unless the training data on the net was all instructional, which it clearly is not. So light bulb idea, right? Let's explicitly train it with instruction data, right? Let's just train it with instruction data. And so OpenAI developed an approach called instruction tuning to do exactly this. Um, and this paper is the paper that sort of was the breakthrough. Okay, this is what actually put Chad on the map. So, and it's very readable. So, I would encourage you to check it out if you're curious. And so so we had GPT, GPD2, GPD3, you know, just bigger and bigger models trained the same way. And then we run into the problem that it can't handle instructions. So we do instruction tuning to get to 3.5, also called instruct GPT. And then a small tweak after that gets you chat GPT. Okay. And by the way, this step here, there are really two things going on in this as you will soon see. I'm just calling it instruction tuning just to so that I don't have to say some long thing every single time. it this is not a consistent piece of terminology. So just just beware aware of that's all. So all right first step they got a bunch of people to write highquality answers to questions and they created about 12,500 such question answer pairs. So for example let's say this was the question explain the moon landing to a six-year-old in a few sentences. Believe it or not, GPD3's answer to that question was another question because it thinks there's a list of questions it needs autocomplete, right? So, it comes up with explain the theory of gravity to a six-y old. It's like one of those people when you ask them a question, they ask you a question back, right? So, what what they did is they said, "Okay, let's create a nice answer to this question." And here's a human created answer. People went to the moon in a big rocket, walked around, blah blah blah, right? Much better answer to that question. And so once you create these 12,500 question answer pairs as training data, we just trained GPD3 some more using Xword prediction as before. No difference. So, so here is the input explain the moon landing blah blah blah blah. This is the question and then we have the answer right there. And then we we take that answer, move it to the right and just shift it up so that when it finishes sentences, it needs to predict people. And then you give it people, it needs to predict went and so on and so forth. Just like we saw before, the cat sat on the mat became the cat sat on the cat sat on the mat on the right shifted, right? That's what makes prediction possible and necessary. So that's what they did. This co this is step one. Okay, same as same as before. And once you do that, it turns out this step is called supervised fine-tuning. It really helped. GPD3 once you supervised fine-tuned it was much much better at following instructions. But there's a small problem with this approach. It takes a lot of money and effort to have humans write highquality answers to thousands of questions, right? It takes a lot of money. So the question is, what can we do, right? What is easier than writing a good answer to a question? Well, what? Okay. Uh, all right. Uh, how about somebody from this side? >> Yeah, Joseph. >> Perhaps writing a question for an answer. >> Oh, that's actually a good one. Yeah. Yeah, I like that. Um, so given an answer, find find a question. And while that is not what I'm going to talk about here, that technique is actually used very heavily in LLMs. Uh, and so but that that's great. Very creative. Uh Mark, >> thumbs up. Thumbs down. >> Sorry. >> Thumbs up or thumbs down? >> Thumbs up or thumbs down. Exactly. Because all of us, everyone loves to be a critic. It's much better easier to be a critic than to be a creator. Right. So what do we do? We basically say, let's rank answers written by somebody else. Which begs the question, who's going to write those answers? And that's where there's a brilliant answer to that question which is Wikipedia, Reddit. We will just ask GPT3 to write the answers. It might be crap, but we don't care because we can rank them. So we ask GPT3 to get generate several answers to the question. And how can we generate several answers? Because we can do sampling. We can do sampling. The fact that we had these stoastic outputs because of sampling is now a feature, not a bug. Okay, we create lots of different answers to the question. We feed it a question, get like three answers out. Just run it three times, get three answers out with a nice temperature of like one or 1.1 or something so that it's nice and random, right? Um, and then we literally have humans just rank them, do the thumbs up, thumbs down, just rank them from most useful to least useful. Okay, so this step is a step two of instruction tuning. So OpenAI collected 33,000 instructions, fed them to GB3, generated answers and had humans rank them. And once you do that, once you do this, you can assemble a beautiful training data set, right? And so basically what we have is that we have an instruction and let's say we have just two answers A and B. And in in practice they you can have many many answers which we rank but just for simplicity I'll go with Mark's thumbs up thumbs down sort of answer which is let's assume only you have two answers to every question right and so and the human has said I prefer this to that that's it right so we have a data set now where the data point is instruction preferred answer is A the other answer is B yeah >> um the thumbs up thumbs down uh technique that we're talking is that why We're attaching to now we also use thumbs up thumbs down. It's using only answers to train. >> Exactly. Right. >> Yeah. So yeah, all the models have the thumbs up thumbs down stuff going on somewhere. They are all collecting data for this step. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. It's sort of the old adage, right? Uh if you're not sure who the product is, you are the product. So it's one of those things. Yeah. So if we understand correctly when we see thumbs up thumbs down it does mean that chat is going to trade on our data right >> unless you opt out. Yeah. So if you actually go to the chaty controls there is something called data controls or something you can toggle it to off but I think when I last checked if you toggle it to off you lose your chat history. So they have hobbled that feature to prevent people from setting it to off as much as possible. Yeah, clever. But you can opt out and if you use the API as opposed to the web interface, you're automatically opted out. So you have to deliberately opt in. And if you use the versions that are available through Microsoft Azure and so on and so forth, there are all kinds of very safe controls and stuff like that. In fact, I think the Microsoft co-pilot license that MIT has uh I think the default is opted out. Okay. So to go here, once you have this data point, you can build something called a reward model. Okay. And this is a very clever piece of work. So what you do is you have an instruction, right? You have a preferred answer and you have the other answer. You feed it to a network. Okay? You feed it to a network. This is just a a nice language model, right? It's just a language model. And the language model produces a number which measures how good this thing is, right? How good an answer is this to that particular instruction. So you get two you get a rating here, you get a rating here and then what you do is you run it through a little loss function which essentially encourages the model to give higher numbers to the better answer. It's the same model. You just run the the question and the first answer, question and the second answer. You get these two numbers. And then initially those numbers are just random. But then you tell the model, hey, this is the preferred thing. Make sure the preferred answers uh rating the R value is higher than the other number because more is better. Higher is better. Okay? And you can actually since you and this thing is just a sigmoid here, right? It's basically take the difference of these two things. do a sigma and take the logarithm and you can actually convince yourself afterwards and I encourage you to do that to to check for yourself that if we actually give a higher number to the better answer the loss will be lower and since we are minimizing loss we're essentially training the network to always to try to give higher ratings to better answers that's it so that's the approach uh did you have a yeah Ben So you could imagine training um training the model and only the good answers is the idea of having both that the model is actually learning what makes good >> correct. Exactly. Much like if you want to build a dog cat classifier, you have to show pictures of both. >> Yeah. >> So u I understand the feedback mechanism of thumbs up thumbs down but there are a lot of times when the popular response is not the accurate one. So uh is there a way that they actually have a layer to correct? >> Yeah, good question Swati. So uh as it turns out um the all these companies like OpenAI, they have like a huge document 100 200 pages longs you know very very bulky document which instructs and teaches the labelers the rankers to how to rank these things. So they have to follow these very strict guidelines to precisely handle like strange corner cases and things like that. And that document is on the web. You can dig it up, right? And it's actually very instructive to read through it, right? I think they put it out on the web because they wanted to convince people that they're going to inordinate trouble to make sure the rankings are actually good. U do you have a question? Comment. Okay. All right. So um so back to this and how how do you train this thing? SGD because you have a network it's coming up with an answer you have some way to know if that answer is good or bad right better answers of lower loss back propagation through the network keep updating the weights and boom you're done okay and once you do that this reward model can provide a numerical rating for any any instruction answer pair you just give it an instruction you give it an answer right could be a crappy answer good answer it just tells you how good it is which means right So in this case for example maybe it's going to give you like a nice number 1.5 uh uh which is you know 1.5 for this this answer but then a better answer comes along or 3.2 right what we have done by doing this whole thing this modeling is that we have essentially we have learned how humans rank responses because we can only have humans rank responses for some finite number of questions. What we really want to do is to do this to automate that ranking process so that we can just do it for like tens of thousands of questions really fast. Right? So we have essentially built a model of how humans rank things, right? Which is beautiful. A lot of the stuff here is all very self-reerential which I find very elegant. Anyway, so this can be used to improve GP3 even further. So we take the instruction as before, we feed it. It gives you some answer and then we feed this instruction and the answer to our newly minted reward model. It gives us a numerical rating and then this is the key step. We take this numerical rating and then we use this rating to nudge the internal weights of GPD3 in the right direction. Right? This nudging uses a technique called reinforcement learning. Right? Which just in the interest of time we can't get into in this lecture. But that that's a technique you use to nudge these things in the right direction. So that's what we do. That's reinforcement learning. We nudge it in the right direction. And OpenAI did this with 31,000 questions. Okay. Nudge, nudge, nudge, nudge, nudge. And when you do that, you get GPD 3.5/ingpd. Okay. Uh that's it. And now by the way this step here is called reinforcement learning with human feedback because we use reinforced learning and since humans rank the answers which tread to the building of the reward model we get human feedback. Okay, that's reinforcement learning with human feedback. Yeah. >> Yeah. I have [clears throat] a question regarding the the type of questions that they're using. I can imagine like maybe there are very simple questions to answer because I'm thinking now you can ask GPD like for example respond this as a pirate or something like that that is kind of it's going to be harder to train if you have bunch of questions that are having like small interactions and then there is the question like >> that's a good question. So the quality of the questions in the data set clearly is a big factor because if you have simple simplistic questions it won't be able to handle complex questions later on. So what it's a good question. So what how so the qu so that actually begs the question of where did they get these questions from so they actually got it from their API. So people are asking GPD3 on the API right before it became 3.5 people are asking all the API was already available you know fully available commercially available a lot of people are building products on it already by then and so they collected all those questions and filtered them for quality and that was the question set that they used and then they judiciously added to it with human created questions but they couldn't do a lot of that because it's expensive to do that but collecting stuff that somebody else is asking your API already very easy Yeah, Tomaso, >> uh, this might be more of a philosophical question, but, uh, the human bias that's present in the small subset of human labelers that they've chosen gets eventually compounded in this model that we often consider as the source of objective truth. >> Yes. >> Yeah, that's very true. Um I think the the reward model is probably very faithfully learn all the biases of the human labelers which is why they have these very complex u sort of frameworks and guidelines to try to prevent the bias from happening to mitigate it. So for example they might give the same question and set of possible answers to many many different labelers and only if people pick the same ranking they might use it so that at least inter labeler bias can be minimized right but if everybody's sort of biased in the same direction it won't protect you against that. Um so yeah in general there's a whole work that's being done to try to debias these things and build them without you know too much bias in them. It's like a whole world unto itself which we just don't have time to get into. Uh Olivia, >> um depending on the medium that's being returned by these models, would there be more than one reward model? Because isn't that what Gemini >> would there be more than one >> reward model? Because isn't this what Gemini is running into issues with right now with their image generation is the bias that they try to >> Yeah. So the Gemini business that's going on, it's unclear what's causing it. Um it may be in this step, maybe they were a little overzealous in preventing certain things from happening. Some of these uh systems also have um they will actually intercept the question that you ask and then route it differently based on what they sense is sitting around in the question. So there could be pre-processing post-processing a lot of stuff that goes on. So unclear to me where in the pipeline and it could be more than one place these things may be entering. So yes, so here may very well be where it actually enters a situation where people are people are told if you see any sort of this kind of answer downrank it right don't uprank it and then it learns that ranking very faithfully and then proceeds to apply it where it does should not be applied so that does happen uh Joselyn you had a question >> um I think I still I still don't totally understand why so when I ask chat GBT a question even in a lengthy response it doesn't wander away from the topic that I'm asking about right and so understanding that it it's predicting each word it's sort of taking a random walk from one word to the next in some sense >> but each word it utters >> now becomes part of the input to the next word it utters >> right >> so it's not truly random walk in that sense so the next step is not independent of the previous step >> it depends on what it depends on the journey so far so it's going to try to be very consistent with the journey so far >> okay >> does the does this part with um sort of fine-tuning it on these question answer sets. Does this play some role in it being able to constrain itself and not meander away? >> I don't think so. I think this is more to make sure that you know it does the weights generally tend to produce the right answer. Now what one of the things that is possible is that when when I'm let's say I'm a ranker and I'm looking at a few different answers I'm you know I have to figure out if the answer is helpful if it is accurate if it is uh you know non-toxic right things like that and part of the rubric for evaluating these answers could be their coherence right so it could also be that they are saying short coherent answers are better than long coherent answers but once you adjust for length Maybe coherence is more important, right? It could be any number of these things. So it could play a role in that. >> So just sort of one small followup. So in other words, when it's when it's learning from these question and answer pairs, it's able to look at [clears throat] the whole response and learn something about the whole response rather than just one word at a time, right? >> Correct. Yeah. The the entire question is being ranked. >> Yeah. >> Correct. Correct. >> Yeah. On a related note, um when it's generating a new word on a topic, does the attention pertain to the entire prior text or can you have like traveling attention? So like last five word. >> So yeah, the short answer is yeah, you can you can it's called sliding window attention. It can be done. They typically tend to do it not uh so much because they want to focus more on the the recent words, but more because it actually makes it very compute efficient. U that's why they do it. So it's called sliding window attention. You can Google it. >> So normally it's full attention. >> Normally it's full default is full attention. Okay. So that's what they did. Uh and when they did that and by the way as I think you pointed out that's exactly what's going on. You're training the reward model with these thumbs up and thumbs down. U hold on the questions. And so if you give it the same question to GPD 3.5 in GPD amazing answer. Okay, like night and day difference, amazingly good answer. Um, and so and then to go from 3.5 to CH GBT, they basically followed the exact same playbook except that because they wanted to have a chatbot, meaning something that could carry on a question answer, question answer pair as opposed to just a single question and answer, they wanted question answer question answer, right? Conversation. They trained it on conversations. That's it. Instead of training it on instruction answer data, they trained it on instruction answer instruction answer instruction answer a sequence of such things which are strung into a conversation. That's it. That is the only difference to go from 3.5 to CH GPT and then now chat GPD given you do that it's giving you a much nicer response and then you can ask a follow-on question. Can you make it more formal? Boom. It gives you a nice response because now it knows about conversations. It's been trained on conversational data. So that's it. So that's the whole that's how they built RGBT right and all the things we are seeing later on are all sort of continuations of this sort of approach. So pause for a couple of quick questions. Swati you had a question then we'll go to you and then to you. Yeah. >> So does that make a difference if a new question pair question answer pair or a new training data comes early in the building of the model or later in the building of the model 7 billion parameters. That be good. You mean the order of the questions does it matter? >> So I might have like let's say 5,000 uh images to start with. Now there after my model is trained and developed now I have a new use case that has come in. Will that make a difference if I set it in now? >> So if you have a new use case for which you want to essentially adapt the model there's a whole set of techniques you use which is going to be the next section. >> But it's not >> yeah because what you have out of the box is just a generally good chatbot. It knows about a lot of stuff because it's been trained on, you know, those 30 billion sentences, it can answer a lot of questions reasonably well using common sense and world knowledge. But any specific use case like medical and so on and so forth, it may not know. So you'll need to adapt it to your particular unique situation and that's coming. U all right. Yes. Habit. >> Uh what determines if a whole conversation is ranked positively versus a specific answer proliferating your in your question? >> Is it if the first answer doesn't get a positive response but then after follow the second one does. Is that is that correct? >> Exactly. So if you're a human and you read the transcript of an exchange between two people and I'm giving you two exchanges which all start with the same question, you'll be able to assess which one is a better transcript. That's basically what's going on. Uh there was something here, right? Something. Yeah. >> So I was wondering when you ask a question very often it sounds kind of like you tell that something was written by not by an actual person. Do you think that comes from the reinforcement learning part or where do you think it comes from in this? >> It's a good question. I don't know because I know that part of the evaluation uh the ranking rubric are used is to is to favor responses which sound more humanlike than you know more than robotlike. So if anything I'm hoping that reinforcement learning would actually make it sound more humanike because the rankers would have prioritized that. So if you if it still comes up with robotic stuff, you know, it's something else that's going on. Maybe I mean maybe the lot of text on the internet is not literature. It's just people writing some crap, right? So could be that. Yeah. >> How much of this instruction tuning or conversational tuning is happening in real time within a conversation? So >> none of it. >> None of it. So as you kind of give feedback to the model, it's just basically regenerating it like I don't like that answer. come up with something else. >> No, it's not doing it in real time. Uh, basically whatever signals you're giving it with these thumbs up, thumbs down business, that gets added to the training logs and they periodically will retrain it. Uh, okay. So, by the way, this is instruction tuning in a nutshell and I want to point that out and you don't have to read the whole thing, but just to quickly point out this was where we had to have human involvement, right? In the first step, writing a lot of responses to these questions and then ranking the answers. So these two are still human sort of labor intensive. Now it turns out you can actually use helper LLMs to automate this too, right? This is not what open I did in the beginning with HGBT but now you can do it this way right because there are lots of really good LLMs available for you to automate many of these things. uh we don't have time but if you're curious I had a little blog post on this check it out okay so now we come to the question of well if you want to take a base LLM like GBD3 and make it useful and respond instructions we have seen that we had to adapt it with high quality instruction onset data right using supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning with human feedback right that's what made GPD3 actually useful and became chat GPD by the same token this holds true more generally if you want to take large language model make it useful for a medical use case, a legal use case, some other narrow business use case. You have to adapt it with business domain specific data. Okay. And so let's look at techniques for doing so. All right. So adaptation is sort of the rough name for the process of taking a base large language model and making it tailoring it for your particular use case. And so there's sort of this ladder of things you can do, right? And we're going to look at every one of them. So you can do this thing called zeroshot prompting which is just you literally ask the LLM nicely clearly what you want and maybe just give it to you. Okay. And this is sort of the use case we're all used to in the web interface right you can also do something called few short prompting where you ask it something and you also give a few examples of the kind of things you want right and that helps it a great deal and then there is this thing called retrieval augmented generation and fine-tuning and we'll look at all of them and I'll explain all these things as we go along. Okay, so let's start with zero short prompting where by the way the word short here is a synonym for example. So zero example prompting. You literally ask in the prompt what you want without giving even a single example. Okay. And so let's say we want to build we want to look at product reviews and build a detector to figure out if the product review contains not sentiment. That's kind of boring. Uh whether it contains some description of a potential product defect or not. Okay. And so here is something I actually pulled off Wayfair with apologies to Wayfair. Uh it says here the curve of the back of the chair does not leave enough room to sit comfortably. Okay, sounds like a kind of a defectish kind of thing, right? So instead of bu back in the day, you would have collected all these reviews and built a special purpose NLP based classifier to figure out defect yes or no. Here you can literally just feed this thing into GPD3 uh and ask it tell me if a product defect is being described in this product review and then the curve at the back boom and then it comes back and says yep that's a product defect. Okay so this zero shot you just ask a question you get the answer back. Okay and it actually works remarkably well and the better models the bigger models tend to be much better than the smaller simpler models for doing zero shot. Okay. All right. Now when you adapt an LLM to a specific task obviously you need to carefully design the prompt as you folks know this is called prompt engineering and we're not going to spend much time on prompt engineering except I just want to give a simple example. So if you actually ask Jubid this question what is the fifth word of the sentence very often it'll give the wrong answer. It's very strange why it can't get this answer question right. It's a very simple question. So if it's the fifth word of the sentence is s right uh sometimes it gets it right but very often it'll get it wrong okay but now you can do a little prompt engineering and it'll always get it right. So for example you can say I'll give you a sentence first list all the words that are in the sentence then tell me the fifth word. Okay here is a sentence b it gets it right. So it's an example of you can help it along by being very very prescriptive as to what you want it to do and break down all the steps. Don't make it guess things. It does a great job. Okay. So anyway uh and there are lots of other tricks people have figured out over the the last couple of years. Uh for for a long time this is pretty hot where you say let's think step by step. You tell it give it a question and say let's think step by step. It actually gives the better shot at giving you a good answer back an accurate answer back. Uh now this kind of thing is actually already baked in into the LLMs. So when you ask a question to ch your question your prompt gets appended to what's called the system prompt and the whole thing goes into the LM. You never see the system prompt and the system prompt is telling Chad GPD think step by step take your time don't blurt out an answer stuff like that okay and the system you can just Google it the system problems have been jailbroken you can find it on the web so all right uh and and this is funny I this came out maybe like a month or two ago it says apparently take a deep breath and work on the problem step by step works better than saying work on it step by step and then more recently I literally read this two nights ago apparently if you tell it if you have a math or a reasoning question. You tell it you are an officer on the starship enterprise. Now solve this problem for me. It's higher more likely to get it right. >> Go figure. Thomas, >> I read two more that were super fun. >> Yeah. >> One I will keep you if you solve me >> correct >> and the other one was an answer was I cannot do that for answer was I tried on Gemini and he it was the way to solve it. So >> nice. both like back and forth charge you did you want to say was to solve this can you solve this >> yeah very good excellent one of the things just on that right let's have some fun you can say I'm going to give tip you a thousand bucks if you solve this it says right so this person apparently kept using this tip and at one point it says you keep promising me tips you never give me the tip so I'm not going to solve this problem for you yeah okay so and there are many prompt engineering resources this one that came out a couple of weeks ago which I thought was pretty Good. So I just put a link to it here. Um so now let's look at few short prompting where you give it a few examples. So here let's say we want to build a grammar corrector. Okay. So what you can do is you can actually give it examples of poor English good English. You can see right poor English I eated the purple berries. Good English I ate the purple berries. And similarly three examples right and then you end the prompt with just the poor English input. And then the response from GPD3 is a good English output and it says fix the error. So this is an example of giving a few examples of what you want and just learns on the fly what you what you have in mind what your intention is. Okay. So that's that. Now the ability of LLMs to learn from just a few examples or even no examples and just with a clear instruction. This thing is called in context learning and that was something that GPD2 and GPD could not do. that was new in GBD3 and what they call an emergent capability right it is completely unanticipated by the people who built it and all right so that's that now let's look at retrieal augmented generation by the way this thing is also called indexing sometimes so the the so the the idea of it's called rag retrie rag the idea of rag is actually very simple so let's say that you know we want to ask a question to a chatbot but we want the chatbot to leverage proprietary data that we might have maybe it's a customer call support sort of in a call center kind of operation and you have like this massive FAQ database right content database and you want to give that FAQ to the chatbot along with your question so that it can leverage the FAQ to answer the question for you as opposed to like whatever things it has learned previously in its general training right so can't we just include the entire FAQ the whole data set into a prompt and set it in maybe we just take our question take everything we have potentially relevant to the question everything we have in the data set database just attach it to the question. The whole thing becomes a prompt. Feed it in and say, "Hey, find out for me." Can't you just do that? Theoretically, I think it stops us. The reason you can't do it is because this pesky thing called the context window. So, uh, for any LLM, the prompt plus the output, right, the length cannot exceed a predefined limit. This called the context window. Remember the max sequence length we had in our earlier models where that was the size of the sentence that could be fed in right basically there is a size of the sentence for any of these things right it's called the context window it's there are only so many tokens it can accommodate and since what comes in is what comes out it is for both the input and the output together okay that's called the context window okay and um and and and furthermore when you have a conversation with one of these chat bots the entire entire conversation is fed in every single time. That's how it actually remembers the what's going on earlier in the conversation. It doesn't have any memory per se. Each time you ask a question, the entire thread is fed in. Okay? So, initially you say what's the square root of 17, it gives you an answer. Initially, you only send in the red stuff. Then the next question you ask is the first question, the answer, the second question. All of them are fed in. Then all these are fed in. So with the conversation, you're consuming more and more of the context window as you go along. Okay. So can you imagine taking a whole FAQ asking a question and saying, "Well, I didn't mean that. I wanted something else." And before you know it, boom, you've blown out the context window. It's going to come back and give you an error. >> You finished that you can't does it together or does it take specific windows of it? >> Yeah. So there is a whole research cottage industry around when your thing is longer than the context window. what do you pick? Uh so the simplest case is you have a moving window, right? If if you have thousand tokens, you just look at the last thousand tokens. But there are some cleverer schemes where you can actually take the first stuff that is outside the window that doesn't fit into the window and use an other LLM to summarize it for you and then you attach it to your current prompt. I know it gets crazy. So uh okay. So for all these reasons, we need to pick and choose what we can send, right? To answer a particular question. So what we do is since we can't include the whole thing, we first retrieve the relevant content from the database or the FAQ and then send it to the LLM along with a question we have. Okay? So retrieval augmented sequence generation. That's what's going on. Make sense? And so pictorially um basically what we do is let's say that this is our external set of documents. We take this are think of it FAQ and then we take the FAQ and imagine for each question and answer. We take each question and answer in the FAQ and then we we just we treat it as its own little unit of text and then we actually calculate a contextual embedding for each of those question answer pairs. Remember we know how to do contextual embeddings, right? That's like it's a piece of cake at this point, right? You folks know how to do contextual embedding. Run it through something like BERT, you're done, right? You get you get a context. So you get embeddings for all the things that are in your FAQ. And now when a new question comes in, right, what you do is you take that question and you calculate a contextual embedding for that too. And then what you do is you then look to see which of the FAQ elements you have, which of those chunks are the most similar to your question. Okay? And then you grab the ones that are the most similar and then pack it into the prompt and send it in. Maybe you have 10,000 questions, but you can only accommodate five of them in your prompt because the context window is very small. So you pick the five what you think is the most relevant content to your particular question and then you feed it in. That's the idea that is retrieval augmented generation. Yeah, Rolando. So if does this tie in for example if I were to prompt and say help me work on my startup pitch but given the voice of Steve Jobs is it then kind of going out there and reducing the subset of of data to things that have been written by Steve Jobs and then it's kind of generating it response based >> uh not as a default not as a default typically because a lot of Steve Jobs stuff on the web it's just using that because it's all part of its pre-training data but this tends to be more useful for very targeted applications where you don't expect to know the answer because it is not on the public internet. It's your proprietary data and you wanted to use that proprietary data and this how you do it. Uh yeah this certain >> sure like that there will be some loss. >> There will be some loss because you have to figure out how to chunk it right. Uh maybe you have a 300page PDF and then maybe you look for each section and make it a chunk. Maybe you look for each paragraph, make it a chunk. Again, there's a whole empirical sort of cottage industry of techniques for doing these things better or worse depending on the use case and so on and so forth. But the conceptual idea is chunk and embed. >> Chunking is another use. >> Yeah. In fact, we going to do it ourselves in the collab right now. >> Yeah. >> Can we give more weightage lecture? Uh so in the default implementation no but but in some sense you by picking the five most relevant chunks from 10,000 chunks you're giving it giving the other you know 10,000 minus five chunks a weight of zero and these a weight of one. So in some sense you're waiting it. >> I was just curious how much structure you have to have with an external document say hospital or something. Do you have to do a bunch of like lab? >> No, you just need to make sure it's kind of relatively clean. Uh but you will see in the collab that it can be kind of crappy and it still works. Yeah, because there is so much crap on the internet has been trained on already. So, okay. So, all right. So, let's look at the collab. By the way, retrieval operate generation is in my opinion the most pre prevalent business application of LLMs that I've seen up to this up to up to date. And there's a huge ecosystem of tools and vendors and so on and so forth. I'm going to skip through the verbiage here. Um, so you have to um install the OpenAI library and this thing called tick token which we'll get to in a in a bit. I've already installed it before class because it takes some time. So I'll just make sure all these things are already few good. So we don't have to wait for this. So I've imported pandas as before and so uh and you can read through these things because I'm just basically you know I have an open openi token that I have to use u a key rather key API key and I'm not showing you the key obviously I have to remember to delete it before I upload the collab uh you have to get your own key to make it all work uh but the instructions are here. So we're going to use GPT3.5 turbo to demonstrate rag right so I give it the name of the model and then open a also has a whole bunch of different models which can be used for u you can feed it a sentence or a chunk of text it'll give you a contextual embedding out it's like a nice little API you don't have to use your own bird and so on and so forth you can just use the open AI embeddings obviously you have to pay openai every time you make a request but it's really really cheap at this point u yepa question but by dealing with proprietary data because a lot of companies are like we need to invest in our own L&M because we don't want our data to be going down in this kind of it context how good is the the cyber security or the compliance and legal >> I think each vendor has their own sort of set of rules and contractual commitments they're willing to sign up for so you just >> if you use the data here does this go into the public domain or no >> but the vendor gets to see it >> okay >> right meaning the vendor systems get to see it, but do the vendors employees get to see it if they need to? Unclear. Those are all the like the legally sort of nitty-gritty you have to worry about. The other thing you can do is you can actually just download an open source LLM and do it all within your own premises. That's totally possible to do, right? In fact, um I probably won't have time today. I have a whole section on how do you actually do a fine-tuning with an open-source LLM, which I'll do a video, right, if you don't have time. U okay. So, so we and so this model this embedding ADA 2 is the name of the OpenAI model that actually gives you contextual embedding. So, we're going to use that. So, so first thing we want to so the the use case here is that uh we have taken a whole bunch we want to ask the LLM we want to create a chatbot which can answer questions about the 2022 Olympics like random questions you might have about the Olympics. So, uh so let's first ask it this question. Uh we'll ask it about the 2020 summer Olympics. Okay, that's the query and then this is the the API um request we have to make and you can read through it. I have linked to the documentation here as how it works and then it says that uh Bosshim of Qatar and Tambberia of Italy both won the gold and you can actually fact check this is actually accurate. It's correct. Uh so now let's change the query and ask it about the 2022 Winter Olympics. Okay. And why 22 versus 20 will become clear in just a moment. So, which athletes won the gold in curling in the 22 Olympics? And it says the gold medal in curling was won by the Swedish men's team and the South Korean women's team. Okay, turns out if you fact check this, it turns out, wait for it, Sweden won the men's gold. Yes, South Korean DIM participated, but Great Britain actually won the women's gold. So, it got it wrong. So, it sounds like GBD3.5 Turbo could use some help. And now one of the things we can do is so the thing is the reason why GPT3 3.1 turbo didn't know about this is because its training cutoff date was September 2021. So as far as it's concerned the 22 Olympics haven't happened yet it confidently gave you the wrong answer as it is often prone to do. So and this is by the way is called hallucination where it gives you a very eloquent confident wrong answer. And so um or as some folks have said about um another business school that should remain nameless often in error but never in doubt. So um all right back to this uh so one simple thing we can try right off the bat is to tell 3 3.5 Turbo you can ask it to say I don't know if it doesn't know rather than just make stuff up right and how do you do it? It's very simple. You say in your prompt, answer the question as truthfully as possible. And if you're unsure of the answer, say, "Sorry, I don't know." Okay, now here's the question. Okay, this is a query. So, let's run it through. Sorry, I don't know. Not bad, huh? So, so it worked. It's sort of trying to be humble and honest and, you know, self-aware and things like that. Um, it's more like a a Sloan at this point. All right. So now the reason I as I mentioned earlier there's a you can check the cutoff date and you can see it's 2021 actually you know what let me just uh open a new tab so all these cut off dates are training data right so 3.5 turbo this is what we are using cutff date 2021 okay that's why all right so now what we can do is to to we can obviously provide relevant data on the prompt itself sort of we can leading up to rag here and by the way the extra information we provide in the prompt to help it answer a question is called context, right? That's sort of the lingo for it. So, we can do it, we'll first do it manually. Um, so we first we'll use the Wikipedia article for 2022 Winter Olympics and we tell it explicitly to make use of this context because telling things explicitly always seems to help. So, this is the thing we cut and pasted here, right? Wikipedia article on curling and it's like a pretty long article. It's got all kinds of stuff and it's not even all that like cleanly formatted, right? It's kind of it's very strange. Look at that. So don't don't answer your question, Spencer. It can be, you know, in pretty bad shape. It still seems to work. Okay. So now use below article on the Olympics to answer the subsequent question. If you don't know, say you don't know. Okay. So that's what we have. That's the query. And by the way, before I send it into the LLM, this is the actual query that's going to be sending. I'm printing out the query. Look at how long the query is. Use the article below. And here is the article. B scroll, scroll, scroll. There's a whole thing, right? And it keeps on going on. And then finally, I say which teams won the gold. So, okay, so let's run it. Okay, look at that. Women's curling Great Britain. It got it right. Pretty good, right? I mean, it had to parse all that crap to get and find the nuggets, right? So, nicely done now. But maybe it wasn't super hard because we literally gave it the answer. So, let's make it a bit harder. So, I noticed that this person, Oscar Ericson, won two golds in the event, two medals in the event. So let's ask if any athlete won multiple medals. That requires a little bit of abstraction, right? So all right, same query. Did any athlete win multiple medals in curling? The question has changed. Everything else hasn't changed. Hit it. Let's see what happens. Yes, Oscar Ericson won multiple medals in curling. He won a gold in the men's event and a bronze in the mix doubles. It's pretty cool, right? Take that Google. So all right now we come to retrieval augment generation where instead of doing it manually obviously because it doesn't scale we will do it automatically and so the thing you have to remember as I mentioned just a few minutes ago is that there is a context window for every LLM and for GPD 3.0 of turbo the context window is 1 1600 300 sorry 16,385 tokens that is the length of the input and the output right so we can't exceed that uh by the way GPT4's context window is I think up to 128,000 tokens and GPT sorry Google Gemini 1.5 pro they really need to work on their names Google Gemini 1.5 pro the context window is 1 million tokens okay and in research they have tested 10 million tokens so Crazy times. All that means is that you can upload entire videos and ask it questions about the video. So all right to come back to this. So what we'll do is we'll only grab the data from the Wikipedia articles the all the articles about the Olympics that are relevant to our question by using pre-trained embeddings. So again this is the thing we talked about earlier, right? This is the picture we saw in class. And the the only thing I want to point out is that if you have a particular embedding for a question and a particular embedding for a chunk of text that you have in your database, you have to figure out how similar how related they are. And for that we can use what dot product or something slightly uh almost as dot product which is more easier for us to work with the cosine similarity. We have we have done cosine similarity previously. I've explained it in class. We're just going to use cosine similarity. How similar are these vectors? So that's what we're going to do. Um all right. So the same picture as we saw in class. So the first we what we'll do is we need to break up the data set into sections and then take each section and then run it through the embedding thing. But fortunately for us uh I have code here which actually does it for you manually. You can play around with it later. But OpenAI has already given us the chunked data set. So we just use that because it's just easy for us. And I downloaded already because it took it takes five minutes to download. I've downloaded this thing and I've stuck it in a particular data frame here. So let's print out five randomly chosen chunks. Um so you can see here right this is the first chunk somebody else somebody else this just and look at all this crazy stuff here right the formatting is off but these are all you know basically paragraphs and sections just grabbed straight from Wikipedia with no cleaning. Okay, now we define a simple function to basically send in any arbitrary piece of text into the embedding model and get the contextual embedding vector out, right? And there is this little function that does that. Okay, u we using an embedding model. We send in a text, it gives you something. So let's try it on that is amazing. You should get a vector back. Oh, come on. Don't fail me now. All right. How long is it? 1536. Um, so how about I say hodle is incredible. Like hodle is amazing. Hopefully the two vectors would be kind of similar in terms of cosine, right? So um and so to calculate the cosine distance, I use this particular function from sci. It just calculates the cosine similarity and I hit it. So 0.9934 maximum is one, right? So 0 934 means that they're very very similar. which is comforting because amazing and incredible are obviously synonyms. U okay so now given a data frame with a column of text chunks in it we can use this function on every one of these things to calculate the embedding right and you have a function here that basically does it for you I'm not going to run it uh because it takes a long time so but you can run it later on uh just be prepared go get a cup of coffee and stuff while it does it uh but once you but happily for us open has actually already done this step for us so we don't have to uh so it's already available in this data frame so if you actually Look at this. And you can see here there is a text and then there is an embedding that's right sitting right there right next to it. Okay. And these embeddings are whatever 15 how long is it? 1536 long. 1536 long vectors. Okay. Um All right. So that's what we have. Okay. So now that we have this thing whenever we get a question we calculate the question's embedding and then compare calculate its cosine similarity with all the embedding sitting in this data frame. Okay. So to do that we're going to define a couple of helper functions here. You can read through the Python later to understand is this is basic Python manipulations that are going on. Um and so let's just test this function. So basically we have a little function called strings ranked by relatedness where you give it any input question or text and then it's going to give you the top five most related chunks of text that is had in its data frame. Okay. So uh let me just run this thing. Okay. So curling the things it pulls back it better involves curling and metals and so on. So this one has a cosign similarity of 888 curling at the 22 Olympics. That's good. Result summary. Medal summary. Result summary. It's all pretty good, right? Even the fifth one has a cosign similarity of867, which is pretty high. So it's doing the right things. It's it's picked up curling gold medal was input text. It's picked up the right things from it. Um, now let's see what we can do um with the original question. So here is a header I'm going to use in the prompt. I'm going to say use the below articles to answer the subsequent question. Answer the questions as truthfully as possible. And if you're unsure of the answer, say sorry, I don't know. As before. Okay, that's our prompt. Uh, and now here's the thing. We don't want to exceed the context window, right? So, we want to need to count the tokens we're sending in and the likely number of tokens we're going to get back so that we don't exceed the budget. So, we use this package called tick token package for this. Uh, and then it just, you know, helps you count the tokens. And you can read through this. It's just again some basic Python for counting tokens. And now what we do is um this this where we actually comp assemble the prompt. We start with the header right we have the header which says you know be truthful and all that. Then we say uh here is a question that you need that I'm going to ask you and then you go in there and keep grabbing Wikipedia articles till the number of tokens in your prompt is is exceeding your token budget and then you stop. Right? When you're about to exceed the budget you stop because you can't exceed the budget. Um, and that's that's the whole thing. So here, uh, all right, let's just do tick token. Run this function. Now, it turns out, as you saw, we can go up to like 1600 something, uh, tokens in the context window. I'm just using three 3,700 as my budget. Uh, partly because just to show you how to use this thing. Uh, and also because it's charging my credit card for every token that I'm using, right? So, I'm just being careful. um it charges by the token. It's a beautiful business model. Anyway, so back here, so let's ask the question, which athletes won the gold medal in curling at the Olympics? Here is the data frame that you should use. Here is the GPD model and don't exceed 3,700 tokens. Okay, that's the the query or the prompt. It's going to compose the prompt now. And this is the whole prompt. Okay. Uh let's just go to the very top. It's really long. Okay. So, all right. use the below articles on the subsequent question as possible and boom boom boom boom boom it has all these things it's got a added a whole bunch of paragraphs from the Wikipedia pages okay and then it finally ends with a question which athletes won the gold okay all right now let's just ask it the thing and this is just a little function to to send stuff into the API and now we are finally ready to ask GPD the question fingers crossed all right curling Stefan can tell in the mixed doubles and the team consisting of blah blah blah in the the men's tournament and oh interesting it has actually ignored the Great Britain people completely I think right uh last night it didn't welcome to stoasticity so you can try it when you try it might actually give you the the thing um and so let's ask it now a question about the 2016 winter Olympics uh which by the way didn't happen there were no winter Olympics in 2016. So if you ask it, sorry I don't know. All right. Now let's change the header so that we don't say be truthful. So we will remove the need for it to be truthful and see what happens. All right, which at least won the gold. Oh, now it's telling you about the 2022 Olympics. So it answered an irrelevant question accurately. Okay, if you remove the need for it to uh to be truthful. So the I guess the moral of the story is that um first of all you can use rack to grab stuff from mass databases and it's very heavily used in industry. Number one, number two. Um you have to be careful about these token budgets and so on and so forth. Uh and small wording changes in the prompt can actually dramatically alter behavior which makes it very difficult in enterprise settings to do QA on this stuff. Okay. Uh so a lot of care has to go into it. Uh you know and you have seen examples of for example Air Canada had a chatbot which actually gave the wrong advice to a customer. The customer sued Air Canada and then the court ruled in favor of the the passenger and then they pulled the chatbot off the website. Right? So you got to be very careful. I think without a humanin the loop checking these answers it's kind of dangerous in my opinion at this current state. Hopefully it'll get better but you have to be there's a lot of potential but you have to be to be careful. All right. So this is what we have. Um, and you can actually take this thing here and use it. Um, you can actually, you know, take like a thousandpage PDF that you might have or something and then chunk it and use this approach. And I've done it for a whole bunch of different things. It actually works really well, right? Most of the time it'll make errors here and there. Most of the time it actually works really well. Okay. So, um, yeah. >> Sorry, just a question. when when like GP4 now lets you you upload PDFs, is it junkling that or is it actually ingesting all the >> No, when you upload something because GPD4 Turbo has 128,000 tokens which means it can accommodate a whole long b of documents. So when you upload stuff is not doing any chunking. The chunking you're talking about you have to do. The LLM doesn't even know you're doing it. As far as the LLM is concerned, it's only seeing the prompt it sees and the prompt says, "Hey, here's a bunch of information. Here's a question. Answer it for me using this question. Be truthful." That's it. Now when you ask these things a question um which is later than its training data, you will actually see GP4 saying doing a Bing search and things like that. there. What's actually going on is there's an there's a pre-processing step and a program which is doing a Bing search, gathering a bunch of Bing results, taking the top few results, chunking, embedding, packing into a prompt, sending it into GB4, and you don't know what's all this is going on under the hood. But that's actually so when it's actually thinking and saying Bing search, this is what's going on under the hood. Was was there a question somewhere here? No. Oh, sorry. Yeah. I have a question about formatting. Yeah. So, it seems to be able to understand and ignore irrelevant formatting even though there's colloquial tables, not really defined tables. And also when it outputs formats, it's able to do it really humanly. Is that something that's figuring out through the neural network or just something that's kind of being programmed in the head or somewhere with standard? >> There is no explicit programming going on. It's typically because a lot of the question answer pairs that it was used for supervised fine tetuning and instruction t and reinforcement learning, right? The better answers with the same sort of badly formatted input, the better answers are just rewarded are ranked higher. That's what's going on. But on a related note, what one thing that's very useful is that uh you can actually ask it to send you give you the answer back using certain formats like markdown and JSON and things like that. And by forcing it to adhere to a certain well- definfined formats, you actually increase the chance of it actually getting the right answer in the first place. Uh again, there's like a whole tangent here we can go into, but those are some of the things that uh are part of prompt engineering. All right, so that's what we have here. Back to the PowerPoint. So that's retrieval augment generation and we finally come to fine-tuning. So fine-tuning is when up to this point all the things we have seen don't alter the internals of the LLM. You have not messed around with the weights or change number them at all. You're just using it as a black box. Right? With fine-tuning you actually will train it further meaning the weights are going to change. Okay. So now remember we take something like a causal error like GPT right uh and then and this I haven't fixed this yet. this there is no rel here as I mentioned earlier okay just remember that and then if you have domain specific input output examples like input and output you can just train it like this okay input and then the shifted output uh and that will update these weights right all these weights so this is basically fine- tuning exactly like we saw with BERT and so on and and even with restnet it's the same sort of thing okay that is fine-tuning now before we discuss the mechanics how to do I want to look at a show you a quick example of the usefulness of finetuning. So, so imagine for a sec that we want to generate u synthetic product reviews from product descriptions. So we are building some product which can simulate customer behavior in e-commerce and for that we need to be able to generate the kinds of reviews that customers might come up with right and writing a lot of reviews is very timeconuming. So what you but what you can do is you can get a whole bunch of product descriptions right from the internet. So let's say you ask an LLM, hey write a positive product review using this information here, product description here and it comes up with this timeless, authentic, iconic, right? Seriously, do product reviewers actually write stuff like this? No. This looks like marketing copy, right? This reads like marketing copy because there's a whole bunch of marketing copy on the internet. So it's not good. It doesn't feel like a review. It's not authentic, right? Um, here's another example for Urban Outfitters, and it says, uh, the the boxy and cropped silhouette is flattering on all body types. Come on. Okay, so it's not going to work. So, what we do is we fine-tune the LLM. We can take an LLM and we can fine-tune it with instruction, product description, and product review examples. Okay, that's what we can do. So for instance we can take something like this. Uh let me zoom into this thing. So it says here write a positive review for the following product and then you can have the work. This is the description is the input and the output is the best car my husband's favorite. They fit well. Right? They feel like product reviews. So you just have to get a few hundred of these product review examples. Okay just a few hundred. Um and you may not even need that much. And once you do that, once you do that, you basically do uh used to fine-tuning like I showed earlier, you know, in instruction, input, output, and then you take that output and shift it a bit and make it the actual label, the actual output. Fine tune, fine tune, fine tune, fine tune a bunch of times, gradient descent, weights gets updated. Now you have a new LM, an updated LLM. And when you do that now for the same things, here's what you get. Write a review. These are the best jeans I've ever owned. I am whatever some details. I've been wearing them for a few weeks. They still look brand new, right? It looks much better. Doesn't look like marketing. This is completely fake. By the way, the came up with it after the fine tuning. And then we say, "Write a horrible review because we want to be balanced. These are the worst genes I've ever worn. They're too tight here and there. I'm going to return them and try a 30, but I'm not optimistic. I'm going to stick with Levis's." Few. Okay. So, that is So, these read like real reviews. So just by taking a few hundred examples and fine-tuning it, it completely changes the the behavior that you want for your particular use case. That's the key thing. So for me, the biggest sort of benefit here is that while it took billions of sentences for pre-training the original LLM and then it took tens of thousands of examples to do supervised finetuning and or HF and so on and so forth, for you for it to make it work for your narrow business use case, you only had to spend a couple hundred examples. That's it. It's amazing. Imagine that if you had to, you know, collect like 30,000 examples to make it. Nobody's going to do these things. It's too much work. But a couple of hundred anybody can do. That's why it's so powerful to finetune these things. Yeah. You talked about being able to um you know, in industries where you you don't want to put some of this stuff on the internet, downloading uh the pre-train model and being able to do this on your own. would you still need talking about computer power some of the computers we have now GPUs I don't know how they are um are you able to do some of these very small use cases on those types of devices >> perfect question uh Ike I mean you're going to get to that because the short answer it's hard yeah just a few hundred examples but actually trying to fine-tune these big models on consumer grade hardware is actually not easy so you have to make certain tricks and simplifications which is the next topic uh yeah >> is tuning always supervised like you need those pairs or could you do it if the company has like less structured data? >> No, you can. The thing is it depends on whether you want to make it generally smart about the company's sort of business details in which case you can just take a whole bunch of text and just do an expert prediction on it. It's going to get smarter about generally things. But it doesn't mean it's going to specifically follow your instructions on your particular business problem. So if you wanted to follow instructions, you need supervision. Okay. So all right these three are great reviews. So for small LLMs like GPD2 fine-tuning isn't difficult to go to your question. You can actually do this with small models. So like for example Google had this has released this thing called Gemma which came out recently. It's a small model like two billion parameters or something if I remember the smallest one and those things will typically fit into uh thank you. Uh those things will typically fit into like one GPU and you can fine-tune it. You still need GPUs just to be clear. uh they will actually fit into one thing. But if you want to use a larger model, it won't fit. So to make this work, you have to do other things and that's what we're going to talk about now. So but this there's a family of models called Llama Llama 2. These are open source uh LLMs and they are widely used for fine-tuning, right? Because you can just download the model and just do whatever you want with it, right? It's open. uh I mean it's not strictly open because there are some you know footnote considerations you got to worry about but for most purposes it's open enough uh in my opinion and so what we let's see how hard it is to build the biggest model in this family which is the llama 2 model with 70 billion parameters okay 70 billion parameters so first of all the model is gigantic so 70 billion parameters each parameter is let's say we store it in two bytes per parameter right u and then each of these parame ameters actually we will need a multiplier on each parameter to store various details about how the optimization is done okay we know we won't get into the details here the the one thing I do want to point out is that um this 3 to four uh should really be 1 to six right u so I I had I didn't have a chance to change it this morning but but the point is that it's going to be a huge model right so even with this number it's going to be like 48 to 560 gigabytes just to hold the model in memory and manipulate it and So if you use a GPU like an A00 GPU or an H00 GPU which are all Nvidia GPUs, each of these things typically has 80 GB of RAM memory. So we need between six and seven to accommodate this thing. Six to seven GPUs just to accommodate this thing. So that's the first problem. The model is big just to hold it and work with it. You need lots of GPUs. The second problem, Llama 2 was trained on two trillion tokens of text. Two trillion tokens of text. So these GPUs can process about 400 tokens per GPU per second. By process, I mean the forward pass through the network. Okay? And so if you actually use seven GPUs with all this thing, it's going to take you 8,000 days, right? Let's say we want to do it in about a month, you need 24 20,000 248 GPUs at this cost of two $25 per GPU per hour. This will cost you 4 million. Okay? And we'd expect the actual cost to be a lot higher than this because it's very optimistic. It assumes you just do one pass through it, you're all done, right? In in general, you'll you know you'll make some mistakes. You have to do it a bunch of times and so on and so forth. So this is overly optimistic estimate and that is 4 million. So you need lots of GPUs and you need to spend a lot of money for it. Now what can we do with fewer resources? First of all, you you need to reduce the size of the data set. The second thing is you want to reduce the memory required. So we can ideally do it on many fewer GPUs, hopefully even one GPU literally on Collab. Okay. And so now we have good news on the data front because as I mentioned earlier, while it takes a lot of data to build these models, to fine-tune them for your specific data for use case, you may just need a few hundred examples. Okay, it's no problem at all. So the data for fine-tuning is actually not a problem. Only for building it in the first place, it's a problem. So in fact, there's this famous alpaca fine tune data set. It is 50,000 instruction on pairs and so for that way less than the two trillion tokens and that can actually be done in about 20 hours. You can fine-tune A-50,000 example fine-tuning data set you can fine tune with just 20 hours. Okay, Tomaso, >> could Microsoft's one bit model drastically reduce the amount of comput? Yeah, there's a whole bunch of approximations and simplifications to make all these things fit uh into smaller GPUs and so on and so forth and that's one of them. So, so the short answer is yeah, there are many possibilities uh and we have to very carefully look at them because every one of these simplifications you'll it'll cost you something in terms of accuracy and the ability of the model to do what it needs to do. So there's always a trade-off you have to worry about. So that for hooks who are interested there's this whole field called quantization LLM quantization. Google it and that gives you that's an entry point into that whole area. Okay. So now how do we reduce the memory required so that we can process the data using fewer GPUs ideally just one GPU on collab. So if you look at what actually consumes memory, you have all these model parameters. Let's say you know 70 billion parameters times two bytes each 140 GB gradient computations is another 140 to hold the gradient and then the optimizer state is 2x. And as I mentioned earlier it could be between you know 1 to 6x as opposed to 3 to 4x but we'll just go with these numbers for the moment. And so the total is 560 gigabytes right if you just naively want to use it. So turns out you can't do anything about that. it is just 4140 but by using a trick called gradient checkpointing this whole thing can actually be squashed close to zero basically you say hey I don't mind it running longer but I don't want to use as much memory and that trick is called gradient checkpointing we won't go into technical details that can go to zero but then this thing here the optimizer state turns out even this can be squashed very close to zero and that's actually was a breakthrough from you know maybe a year ago and so to do do that. What we're going to do is to say, look, you know what? Uh there are a whole bunch of weights here, but we're only going to take take those matrices inside each attention layer, and we're going to only look at those matrices. We're going to freeze everything else. So, we're going to take only a small set of parameters, unfreeze them, and update them and see if it's any good, if it actually gets the job done. Instead of unfreezing everything and updating them, right? And so if you look at the weight matrix, let's say the key AK weight matrix uh in llama 2, this is a 8,000 roughly 8,000 by 8,000 matrix, which means that there are 64 million parameters inside each of these matrices. 64 million. Okay. So you can if you imagine this matrix AK here and let's say you thought experiment, you do the finetuning and the numbers have changed, right? as a result of finetuning then you can imagine that the resulting matrix is just the original matrix you had plus just the changes right the original plus the changes and we call the changes delta a k and of course in general this this change is also going to be a 64 million matrix right 8,000 by 8,000 so the question is can we make this change matrix smaller and to make it smaller it seems reasonable because a fine tune will only make small changes to just a few weights it's not going to change By definition, a couple hundred examples, you do some finetuning, hopefully a few weights are going to change and maybe they won't change a whole lot, right? So the the key insight here is that maybe we can force this change matrix to be kind of simple and get the job done, right? And it turns out you can. And what you do is you can think of this matrix as really coming from two thin skinny matrices which if you multiply them gets you the original matrix, right? And I'm not going to get into the mathematical details here. This is called a low rank approximation. Uh but the point here is that you can take two very small matrices and if you multiply them the right way, you actually can recover the original matrix, right? You can approximate the original matrix. And this matrix, as it turns out, these two matrices are much smaller because each one is just 8,000 * 2, 16,000, right? And so this thing has just 16,192 parameters, which is 0.02% of the original 64 million. So this thing is called low rank adaptation or LORA and it's incredibly widely used in the industry. U and so what we do is we freeze all the parameters. We initialize all these mat these change matrices to zero and then we update just the those two skinny matrices right here here we update only those matrices using gradient descent. And when you do that everything will fit into memory. So which means that the whole thing will fit in and you can just use like two GPUs and get the job done. And if you actually use llama's the smaller models like 7 billion 13 billion it can be fine-tuned comfortably on a single GPU on a single collab GPU. So all right uh 954 time does not permit so I will uh so I have a collab on how to do the finetuning uh using this technique. I will do like a video walk through um tomorrow or day after and I'm done. Thanks folks. Have a good rest of your week. [applause] Thank you.