The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So, we're going to start talking about tbacular bone and we're going to do bone today and on weddednesday. And I'm hoping we can more or less finish it on weddednesday. So, oops. Hello. Now a sec. That's you. So, these are some images of tbacular bone and you can see that it has a foam like structure and tbecular bone exists in certain places in the body. There's three main places that exists. So it exists at the end of the long bones. And over here, this is the a femur, the sort of top of a femur. And you can see this is all tbacular bone in here. Uh this is a tibia. And this is, you know, like the top of your knee there. And you can see how the the bone gets sort of more bulbous at the ends and it's filled with the tbecular bone. This is a vertebrae. of vertebrae are actually mostly tbacular bone and they have a really thin shell of the what's called cortical bone the dense bone on top of it. So tbacular bone exists at the ends of the long bones. It exists in the core of the vertebrae and it also exists in sort of shell or plateike bones. So in your skull for example there's a layer of bone of tacular bone in between two layers of the compact dense bone. And in your pelvis it's the same thing. So those of you who took 3032, you remember when I passed around the bird skulls, there was that very porous kind of tbecular bone. Um, so tbecular bone is of interest medically in three main kind of medical situations. So the first one is osteoporosis. So I'm going to talk a little bit about osteoporosis now and then we'll talk about it in more detail later on either I guess we'll probably start today. Uh another medical issue is osteoarthritis and the the properties of the tbecular bone are important in arthritis. And the third issue is in joint replacements. And so we're going to talk a little bit about osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, and then joint replacements. And then I'll talk a little bit more about modeling bone like a foam and how it deforms and how it fails. Um and then we'll talk a little bit how we can model osteoporosis. So let me write down some of these things. Guess we start here. So, tbacular bone has a foam-like structure. And what we're going to see is that we can use the models for foams to describe the mechanical behavior of the bone. And it exists at the ends of the long bones. And at the ends of the long bones, the bones become more bulbous. And really what that's for is to increase the surface area so that the there's cartilage between the ends of the two bones. So there'll be a bone here and a bone there. this cartilage in between them that sort of lubricates that joint and makes the you know low friction at the joint and the the bone gets larger to decrease the stresses on the cartilage. So if you have the same force and you have a larger area you're going to have a smaller stress. So that's why the bone gets sort of bulbous like that and then by having the tacular bone because it's so porous and lightweight you're not having a big dense hunk of bone at the end of the long bones. Okay, so it exists at the ends of the And I'll just say the ends have a larger area than the shafts. And that's to distribute the uh loads on the cartilage or to reduce the stress on the cartilage. And then the tbecular bone reduces the weight. So it also exists in the core of the vertebrae and in fact it makes up most of the vertebrae. And then in things like the skull and the pelvic bones in sort of shallen plateike bones. And so it's the core of a sandwich structure there. So if it's of interest in osteoporosis, in osteoarthritis and in joint replacements. So if we start by thinking about osteoporosis, uh you probably know that osteoporosis is is a disease where the bone mass uh becomes reduced and there's a greater risk of fracture. So there's especially a greater risk of hip fractures and vertebral fractures. And it turns out in both of those sites, if you just look at these bones here, typically if you have a hip fracture, what happens is the neck of the femur breaks. So this is called the neck here. This is called the head, the spherical bit there. So the neck has a fracture and you can see most of the bone there is tacular bone. So it's really carrying most of the load. And the same with the vertebrae. Uh this sort of cylindrical part of the vertebrae here carries most of the load. It has a shell of really thin cortical bone, but it's mostly tbacular bone. And when the the loads are vertical like this, it's really the tbecular bone that's carrying most of the load. And people get um sometimes what are called wedge fractures where instead of having a a sort of cylinder with sort of parallel faces like this. The tbecular bone fails and the the bone ends up like that. So that there's Yeah, I know. You make that wincing expression. It's like ouchy. And in fact, it's very ouchy for people who get that. And when you see, you know, little ladies who hunch over, that's why the bone has actually failed. It's actually been crushed into these wedge fractures and there's no way they can kind of straighten it out and it's quite painful. So uh people who look at osteoporosis are quite interested in the mechanical properties of tacular bone uh for this sort of reason. The hip fractures are particularly serious uh because people become immobilized and then sometimes because they're immobilized they get pneumonia and and in elderly people they sometimes die. So something like 40% of el elderly patients who are over 65 die within a year of having a hip fracture. So, it's not that the hip fracture kills them, it's that they become so immobile and they can't move and they can't walk around uh and they end up getting pneumonia. So, so it's quite a serious thing and there's something like 300,000 hip fractures a year in the US and the cost of treating these hip fractures is something like $19 billion. So, it's yeah, it's a huge problem. And as as the population is aging, as baby boomers like me get older older, uh you know, there's going to be more people having hip fractures. So, it's it's a huge deal, osteoporosis. So, we'll say bone mass decreases with age and osteoporosis is extreme bone loss. And a little later today I'll show you some pictures of what it looks like when people have osteoporosis. So the most common fractures are of the hip and the vertebrae. And at both sites most of the load is carried by the teracular bone. And the hip fractures are the most serious. And 40% of elderly patients uh pass away within a year. Okay. So that's sort of a little introduction to osteoporosis. The next issue that people are interested in is osteoarthritis. And in osteoarthritis, there's a degradation of cartilage at the joints and the stress on the cartilage is affected by the modulus of the bone that presses against the cartilage. You can kind of imagine if you have a fiber composite for instance, most of the stresses if you're loading it along the fibers is carried by the fibers because they're stiffer. So if you have bone like say tbacular bone that has varying density, the denser bits are going to have higher um moduli and there's going to be more stress associated with that. uh and so the the modulus of the tbecular bone can affect how the loads are distributed in the cartilage and that can affect the damage in the cartilage and the shell as I mentioned before the sort of shell of cortical bone or the dense bone uh at the joints can be quite thin it can be less than a millimeter so I brought my little bones along with me again so this is the head of a femur here and this is a a piece of a knee joint here from a tibia and you can see just looking at these how thin the cortical shell is So uh you can get an idea of how thin that is. Okay. So osteo and arthritis involves a degradation of the cartilage of the joints. And the stress on the cartilage is affected by the moduli of the underlying bone and the cortical shell, the totally dense bone. Oops. can be quite thin. So that the mechanical properties of the tbecular bone can affect the stress distribution on the cartilage. And if osteoarthritis gets particularly bad then sometimes people have joint replacement. So when it gets really bad, the cartilage kind of is is degraded completely and the bone's rubbing on bone and that's quite painful. And when it gets to that point, people generally uh have a a joint replacement. And so the way the joint replacements are done is say somebody who's going to have a hip replacement, what they do is they they chop off the top of the femur. So they would chop the femur off somewhere around here. And then they have a metal implant that has a sort of spherical ball that's like the head of the femur. And then it has a sort of stem and a shaft here that kind of goes into the hollow part of the long part of the shaft of the of the um femur. Um and so uh they use a number of different metals for this. Titanium and stainless steel and is a cobalt chromium alloy um are also used. So you need metals that are biompatible, aren't going to corrode, aren't going to have sort of degradation products. And then the bone grows around that implant. And the bone grows in response to mechanical loads. So the density of the bone depends on the magnitude of the load. And the orientation of the tbecula depends on the orientation of the principal stresses that are applied. So let me write some of that down. So they cut off the end of the bone and they insert the implant into the hollow shaft of the remaining bone. And the metals they use are titanium, stainless steel, and a a chromium cobalt alloy. And then the bone grows into that implant. And the bone grows in response to mechanical loads. So the the density of the bone depends on the magnitude of the stresses. And the orientation of the bone depends on the um principal stresses. Okay. Okay. So, one of the issues that comes up in joint replacements is that there's a mismatch in the moduli between the metal and the bone. So, if you think the metal like something like stainless steel has a modulus of around 200 210 gigap pascals and the cortical bone has a modulus of about 18 gigapascals and the turbular bone has a modulus about between about 0.01 and point 0.01 and two gigap pascals depending on its density. So you're taking the bone out and you're replacing it with something that's much much stiffer and that changes the stress distribution around the remaining bone. And uh one of the things that can happen is that you can get loosening of the implant. So the bone can grow in initially but over time you get a different stress field in the bone. If you get a different stress field then the bone can resorb away from the implant and cause what's called loosening. So if the bone if the implant becomes loose that's clearly not a good thing. that's a bad thing. Um, and often orthopedic surgeons don't like to do these joint replacements in young people, partly because um, they don't always loosen, but occasionally they do. And if they loosen, they can go back and do a revision. But you can kind of imagine after they've chopped the head of the femur off and they put one implant in, it's not that easy to go back in and now replace that with another one. You would need one with a longer stem. And, you know, the whole thing becomes a little bit more complicated. So, this issue of stress shielding is what it's called. when you have something much stiffer uh that's shielding the stresses in the bone. Uh the issue of stress shielding means that they don't like to do the replacements on uh younger patients. so you can get stress shielding. And if we just compare the if we look at the cobalt chromium alloy, the modulus of that in gigap pascals is about 210. If we look at the titanium alloys that are used, the modulus is about 110. If we look at the stainless steel, it's 316. Stainless steel, it has a modulus of around 210. And then if we look at the bone, the cortical bone has a modulus of about 18 and the tbecular bone has a modulus of 0.01 to 2 gigap pascals depending on the density. So after the joint replacement happens, the remodeling of the bone is affected. So the idea is that the stiffer metal carries more of the load and then the bone carries less load and then it resorbs. And that can lead to this thing called loosening which is not desirable. Okay. Now, this typically doesn't happen till about 15 years after you've had the implant. So, it's not something that would happen right away, but it can happen later on. So these are all sort of medical reasons why people are interested in tbacular bone because of osteoporosis, osteoarth osteoarthritis and joint replacements. So I wanted to start by talking about the structure of tacular bone and then we'll talk about what the stress strain curves look like in compression and tension. What are the mechanisms of deformation and failure and how we can apply our fo our models for foams to the tbacular bone. Okay. So the idea is that the structure of the bone resembles a foam. And here's some SEM images of tbacular bone. And you can see that the bone has kind of a varying structure. If it's relatively low density, this is a bone that's almost like an open cell foam. If I didn't tell you that was bone, you might actually think it was an open cell foam. And here's a denser piece of bone. And you can see there's still sort of interconnections between um all the openings. So, it's not exactly like a closed cell foam, but it's um it's much denser and it's almost like there's perforated plates in the structure. And then, as I said, the bone can grow in response to loads. So, if you have loads that are more or less vertical, the tbeculi tend to line up and be more or less vertical with some sort of horizontal uh bracing. So, this is a piece of bone from a knee. Uh the condol is sort of the towards the top of the knee. And you can see these are sort of platelike um pieces of bone that are almost parallel and it's not too surprisingly in your knee the loads are typically vertical and then there's little kind of bracing bits that go horizontally here. So you can get different structures depending on um the loading on the bone and the density of the bone corresponds to the magnitude of the load and the orientation of the tbecula um corresponds to the um the orientation of the load. Okay. less resorb. So when the bone density goes down, when you lose bone mass, that's called resorption. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the idea is that the the uh tbecular bone resembles a foam and in fact the word tbacula is comes from Latin and in Latin it means little beam. So you know the foams deform by bending they act like little beams and so the tbacular are like little beams. uh even in Latin there's a range of relative densities and you can see in that image up there you can see that there's a range and they range typically between about 5% dense and 50% dense. So something like 0.1 or 0 2 might be typical. And the low density bone resembles an open cell foam and the higher density it becomes more like perforated plates. and the structure can be highly anisotropic depending on the stress field. Okay. And then I've got another image here of the tbecular bone. These images are using what's called microcomputed tomography. So you probably heard of commuted computed tomography. you know, say somebody has cancer, they get put in a CT machine and they do a scan. The microCT is more of a research tool. It's the same kind of technology, but it's got a much finer resolution. And typically, you put a small specimen into a machine to do this. So, the specimen might be um you know half an inch in diameter and an inch tall, something like that. So, these are done uh by a colleague Ralph Mueller who's in Zurich. uh and this is one of his kind of breadandbut things that he has these images and he looks at osteoporosis and you can see here the difference in the structure uh for the different densities. So here's a 20 26% dense piece of bone in the femoral head. It looks pretty sturdy and substantial. Here's a 10 or 11% dense piece from the lumbar spine. And here's a 6% dense piece. And you can kind of see when you go from, you know, from 26 to to 11, uh, the struts get a little bit thinner. And when you go from 11 to six, the struts get very thin. And in fact, if they get too thin, the struts resorb all together. And some of the struts can just disappear. So when people get osteoporosis, what happens is they first lose bone mass by thinning the struts, but then at some point the struts just resorb altogether. And if you think of, you know, the struts as a biological material, they have bone cells in them, right? So there's little osteoclasts and osteoblasts and osteoccytes that live in the bone, you know, the mineral thing, the bony thing. Uh, and those cells have dimensions of tens of microns. So maybe 20, 30 microns, something like that. So the struts can't get any thinner than that. If they get thinner than that, then the cells can't live and the the thing just disappears altogether. And you can sort of think of from a mechanical point of view if you lose density by thinning the struts you can use our sort of foam equations and say like say the density went from 0 2 to 0.1 uh you could make some estimate of how the modulus and how the strength would vary depending on our foam models. But if you lose density by by uh resorbing the struts the struts just disappear altogether. Then it's as if you had a a steel scaffold or a steel um structure of a building and now you're starting to remove columns and remove beams. Yes, I know that's not good. Not good. And so we'll talk a little bit more about that when we talk more about osteoporosis and you can see the consequences of that. But this image here kind of gives you a little bit of a um a picture of what the bone structure looks like as it gets less dense. Okay. So I wanted to talk a little bit more about the bone growing in response to load. Let me rub off a board. So, you're probably already a little bit familiar with this idea. So when astronauts go up into space, you know, they often do exercises where they have like a treadmill and they've got springs and they're kind of pulling on the springs to try to exercise themselves. And the reason they do that is when they're in microgravity, if they weren't doing some kind of exercise, they would lose bone mass and they would get back to Earth where we have Earth gravity and they would have a problem. So it's it you see it in astronauts in microgravity. The other place you see this um just sort of in everyday life is in professional tennis players. People have done like x-rays of the bones of professional tennis players. And obviously they have one arm that they hit the ball with, right, with their racket. The bones in that arm actually get bigger because they're, you know, they're loading that bone over and over again pretty much every day when they're playing tennis and they're not loading the other arm. So their their two arms are not symmetrical because of this loading from hitting the racket over and over. And the people in 3032 have already seen this, but I couldn't resist bringing up the guinea foul experiments again. So people have obviously you you can only do X-rays on human. You can't sacrifice the humans and look at their bones, but you can with guinea foul. And so people have done people have done experiments where they run guinea foul on treadmills. And they have a treadmill. They have one set of guinea foul that they run on the treadmill that's horizontal. They have another set of guinea foul that they run on a treadmill that's inclined at 20°. So, one would think they might have more stress on their bones from that. And then they have a control group that they don't run on the treadmill at all. And then what they do is they um they have a force plate on the treadmill. So, as the guinea foul is running um they measure the maximum force and they're taking high-speed video. And then they measure the angle of the knee at the point at which the force is maximum. And they can see there's a change in the angle of the knee um when they put them on the incline treadmill. Not too surprisingly. Um, and then they, these are juvenile guinea foul that haven't completely matured their bones. And then after about six weeks of this, they sacrifice the guinea foul and they do scans on the bone and they look at the orientation of the bone and they measure uh sort of the the what's called the orientation of the peak tacocular density, which is a way of characterizing the orientation of the bone. And they find that the the angle of the knee when the guinea foul are running changes by about 14°. And it turns out the angle of the bone, the orientation of the bone also changes by about 14 degrees. So the bone has kind of remodeled to match that change in the forces that are applied as the guinea foul are running on the treadmill. So this is all kind of a demonstration just to show that bone grows in response to load. So let me write down some of this stuff. So we'll say astronauts. Did you see Michael Collins is going to come give a talk at MIT? He was one of the Apollo when I was a kid in the 60s. He was one of the Apollo astronauts. He was like, you know, one of the first NASA astronauts. Okay. Anyway, astronauts. So, in microgravity, they would lose bone if they don't exercise. And tennis players So, the bones get larger in the arm that they hold the racket with. And then I'll just write a little bit of notes about the guinea foul experiments. So this was done by a it's in a paper paner panzer ethal in 2006. So they have one set of guinea foul that run on a level treadmill. They have another set that run on an inclined treadmill. and it's inclined at 20°. And then they have a control group that doesn't run on the treadmill. And then they measure the angle at the knee. At the moment of peak force on the treadmill. And after six weeks they sacrifice the guinea foul and they measure the orientation of the peak tbacular density. And they find that the knee flexion angle uh changed by 13.7°. in the um if you compared the incline versus the level treadmill and they found the orientation of the peak tracular density which they called OPDD. E also changed by 13.6°. So the idea is that the orientation of the tbecula changed to match the orientation of the loading. Okay. And then I have a little video here. So I have Do you like the video? So, I have a colleague who's at Harvard who studies animal locomotion and they do they didn't do this set of experiments, but they do do experiments on guinea foul running on treadmills. And I thought you might find this amusing. So, let me see if I can make this work. Sometimes you walk into a lab and you just think this is what science is all about. I'm about to put a guinea fell on the treadmill. And this is something that we commonly do. Welcome to the Conquered Field Station, a defunct Nike missile base turned scientific managerie. It's owned by Harvard and biologist Andy Bwenner is the director here. So think of it as a research lab facility for doing comparative biomechanics and physiology of largely animal movement and the birds are just the tip of the iceberg. Okay. So do you want to see the uh baby goat in the emu? Obviously. Okay. We keep it because it's sort of like a mascot. There used to be a lizard colony. You can hear the uh yeah, the African grays. Then the jerboas are housed in this room here. This is where we originally did our our pigeon flight studies. So, usually the ones with claws and sharp teeth and aggressive behaviors, you want to watch out for that, as you might expect. But did you know that guinea fowl really lovely to work with sometimes? or that rats are not very good on treadmills. Yes, that's what a rat treadmill looks like. And this and this was historically a treadmill of note. The treadmill that they first hopped kangaroos on and showed that kangaroos stored energy in their tendons enough that they don't actually increase their metabolic rate when they hop at faster speeds. These are the kind of discoveries made here with the use of high-speed video and X-ray machines and semi-ooperative animals. But beyond the basic biology, Bwiner says engineers are using this research to build better robots and it can help improve medical treatment for people with movement disorders. Today, the big excitement at the lab is happening here. Evo Ross is studying how heart rate changes when cockatils fly at different speeds. So, this is a way to look at how much energy it takes to fly. And that cord is measuring heart rate. But instead of the birds flying faster, the wind changes speed. I'm going to turn it on then. It's hard to fly fast and it's hard to fly slow, Ross says. So, the expectation is that the heart rate should be shaped like a U. But so far, Ross is finding that it's a flat line. It's like the bird goes into a stress reaction when it takes off. Is that just because of the wind tunnel? What Ross wants to know is whether or not they need to be stressed to fly in the first place. Come on. That's something that Ross is looking into, but today is mostly about training. Keep going. Come on. Imagine you're a cockatil. A wind tunnel is kind of a strange experience. A bird in a wind tunnel has to confront the fact that the world's not moving past it, which is defies its normal sensory cues. Which pretty well sums up the conquered field station. Generally, you read the New York Times for Science Friday. I'm Flora Lickman. You read the New York Times. Flora Lickman used to work for uh NPR and would make these science Friday videos for them. U but now she has a gig doing things for the New York Times and she does science videos still. Um, I don't know if you quite call them videos, but what they do is they have like these little paper puppets, and the paper puppets are animated and kind of reenact different episodes in science. Uh, and it's kind of amazing how they do these little um, science videos. So, if you if you Google Flora Likman, you'll see more science videos with all sorts of neat things. Um, I guess the other interesting anecdote is I went to the Conquer Field Station once and um, I had done a study on uh, quills and animals that have quills because the quills have a foamy kind of structure in the middle. So, they're keratin. They're sort of like hair-like structures and they have an outer shell that's dense and then they have sort of a foamy thing in the middle. Uh, and anyway, I'd done this paper on quills and how they work mechanically. And a technology review did a little article about it and they said they wanted to take a picture of me with a hedgehog. You know, the hedgehogs are little European. They're like those small cute things. Um, and I said, "Well, if you can find a hedgehog, um, I'm happy to have my photograph taken." And they had a hedgehog at the Conquered Field Station. So, we went out there. We, you know, had these big leather gloves and they took a picture. And I said to, I don't know if it was Andy or who was, but I said to one of the people there, um, what did you do with a hedgehog? And he said, "Well, we tried to do the the treadmill kind of study." You know, they try, but hedgehogs are like porcupines. When they get scared, they curl up into a little ball. And so they said they would they would put the the hedgehog down under the treadmill and they would start it up and it would make a noise and it would get scared and it would just go into a little ball and it would kind of slide along to the end and then it would kind of get flopped off. So that was the end of the hedgehog experiments. But they did have walabeees there the day I went. So yeah, they have all sorts of animals that they put onto treadmills, birds that they fly. So it's kind of interesting to go there. Okay, but the main idea here is that uh there was this set of experiments with guinea fowl that showed um just how precisely the orientation of the bone matches the orientation of the loads. Was there a difference between the control group? Ah, so I have slides. I have slides. Hang on a sec. I got distracted by my uh my video. Sorry. Okay, so here's a sort of schematic of Guinea foul on treadmill and on the Oops. Where's the little duda here? So on the level the knee flexion angle was whatever this is 76.3 and here was the 62.6. So that's the difference is 13.7. And then this kind of table here summarizes these results. So um this is the maximum terular density and this is the angle and here we have the incline the uh let's see the control was the yellow and the level was the blue and they've got the values for that peak uh turbacular density orientation. So they've got that for the level and then they looked at the difference between the incline and the level in the the knee angle. That's what this thing here is. Um, and then between the level and the control, there wasn't really any difference in the in the knee angle. Um, because the control one's just I mean they were just walking around. Um, so those are the that's the sort of slide that has the actual data on it. All right. And then I showed you the video. All right. So, we need to do a couple more things before we get to the modeling. Um, let me get a drink. Okay. So if we want to use the the uh models for foams to try to describe the tbecular bone, we need to know something about the properties of the solid. Remember we use the properties of the solid in the models. So we want to get the properties of the solid in the trabaculi. And there's a couple of ways you can do this. Uh to get the moduli, you can use an ultrasonic wave propagation method. And you can measure a modulus that way. And if they do that, they measure a modulus between about 15 and 18 gigap pascals. Another way to do it is to take a piece of bone, do a compression test on it, measure the modulus before you do the test. You put it in the microCT machine and you get a picture of the structure and then you use that as the input to a finite element analysis. So the finite element analysis is a sort of computer numerical analysis to do mechanical calculations. And if you know what this the modulus of the structure is, you can back out what the mod modulus of the solid must have been from the final element thing. And those those sorts of experiments also showed that the modulus was around 18. And it turns out that moduli is about the same as cortical bone. And um the properties of the solid tbecula are very similar to the solid cortical bone. So let me scoot over here. So if you use ultrasonic wave propagation People have measured a modulus for the solid intacular bone of 18 gigap pascals. Or you can do a finite element calculation based on microCT data for the structure. And then you measure the overall modulus for the tbecular bone and then you back out the modulus of the solid. And people who've done that have gotten values of around 18 gigap pascals too. And that's very similar to what cortical bone is. And so we're going to use the following properties for the solid in the tacular bone. We're going to say the density is 1,800 kg per cubic meter. The Young's modulus is 18 gigapascals. The yield strength um has different values in tension and compression. It's about 182 megapascals in compression and it's about 115 megapascals in tension. So those are the solid properties. There we go. So then if we look at the compressive stress strain curves um they have the shape shown on the screen there and you can see how similar the stress strain curves are for those for a foam. So there's the same three regimes that we see for the foam. There's a linear elastic regime over here. There's a stress plateau here and there's some densification regime here. These are three curves for three different relative densities. as the relative density goes up, the stiffness goes up, the plateau stress goes up, and the densification strain goes down. So, just the same as as the foams that we've looked at before. Um, and if we look at the mechanisms of deformation and failure, people have looked at this. These are on whale vertebrae. So, these are tests that are done in a microCT machine again by Ralph Mueller's group. And here the specimen is unloaded. And here's the same specimen loaded. So you can see this platin has come down a little bit. And if you look at this sort of column here, this tbacula here, you can see it's kind of bent out and bowed out more. And people have found that usually the linear elastic behavior is controlled by bending of the tracula. And the u plateau stress is usually controlled by some sort of buckling. Uh but it's not elastic buckling. You don't recover it. You know, if you take a piece of bone and you compress it, it's going to have a permanent deformation. So, it's it's inelastic buckling. And I think we have oops some more pictures. This is another example from whale bone from um Ralph Mueller's group. So, here's the bone unloaded here. It's loaded to 4% strain. Here it's to eight. And you can start seeing right in this area here. If you compare with up there, it's starting to deform. And if you go up to here to 12% strain, you see that strut right there? That was this guy up here. And you can see that it's buckled right over. So people have made measurements like this in observations and you can actually see the buckling. And people have also uh done finite element modeling. They can take a microCT scan and input that to their finite element model. And then if they do the compression and they input the properties of the solid, they can see that they get a buckling kind of failure. If you have tbacula that are very aligned, let's see the next one. No. Oh, wait. We have one more. Here's one more in the buckling. So this is one of Ralph's little movies. So when when it unloads, it looks like it recovers. But this is this is all just um you know, it's an animation. He takes several stills and puts them together and it doesn't actually recover. It's just the way that it shows. But again, you can see these are two different specimens of different densities and you can kind of see how the um the struts deform. They bend and then they buckle. Okay. Uh okay. Let me stop there and I'll put some stuff on the board. Okay. So we'll say the compressive stress strain curve has the characteristic shape of cellular solids. And the mechanisms of deformation and failure usually there's bending followed by inelastic usually um inelastic or plastic buckling. And sometimes if the um tbecula are aligned like that knee that I showed you, if the tracular are aligned or if they're very dense, then the axial deformation is important. And I'll just say people have found this by making observations uh using microcomputed tomography or by finite element calculations. Yep. Okay. And this is a stress strain curve in tension here. At tension you get failure at smaller strains and you get micro cracks in the bone. And these next plots just show some data for the bone. So we're plotting we're plotting the Young's modulus here. So this is a relative Young's modulus. The modulus of the bone divided by the solid cell wall material. Here's the relative density. Here's data for lots of different specimens of bone. So some of this data is for human bone, some's for bovine bone. Um, sometimes the data is taken where the orientation of the tbacula doesn't line up with the direction of the loading. So you might have tbacula that are kind of oriented this way, but you're loading it this way. There's some there's sometimes a different strain rates. Um, let's see, you know, there different groups. And so there's a huge scatter in the amount of data in the range of the data. Um but you can see if you look at it broadly and you look at that whole cluster of data the the data lie close to a line uh of a slope of two and if you think of the open cell foam model and you had bending of the cell wall and so you'd expect that the modulus would vary as the density squared. So that's kind of the limit of how we do the modeling. It's we're really just interested in seeing how the properties vary with density. We're you know if you had a particular piece of bone I don't think you could use the models to exactly predict what the modulus of that bone would be. And here's the compressive strength here. So this is the relative compressive strength here. We've normalized it with the yield stress of the um solid bone. And here's the relative density. And you can see again this line is of slope two. So that kind of speaks to the buckling type failure mode. And I think I have another one here. This is the tensile strength. So if you pull the bone in tension, you wouldn't expect to get buckling. You'd expect to get plastic yielding. And if you got yielding and you use the open cell foam model, you'd expect a slope of three halves. So this line has a slope of three halves. And this line is is sort of towards the upper bound of that set of data. You could imagine a a line that went through it a little bit lower, but the same slope. And so these open cell foam models, they don't they don't predict the properties of a particular piece of bone because the bone can have some anisotropy to it. You can have, you know, the orientation of these things may not be perfectly lined up with the loading. Uh but overall the models give you a a sense of um how the bone is deforming and failing. Okay. So let me write some of this down. So that's data for the modulus, the compressive strength and the tensel strength. And those have been on those plots. Those values are normalized by um data for cortical bone. Oh, it's just the I thought somebody was talking. It's just the chair squeaking. And as I said the spread in the data is large and that's due to anisotropy in the bone uh and misalignment between the bone orientation and the loading direction. So when people first started doing tests on tbacular bone, they typically were orthopedics labs and the orthopedics labs tended to initially cut the bone specimens on anatomical axes. So they would do, you know, the superior inferior or the medial lateral or the posterior anterior, but the bone uh orientation didn't line up with those directions. So the bone might have been it this way, but they were loading it this way. And so that gave this misalignment. Uh then there could be some variation in the solid properties too. So you could imagine some solid might have more micro cracks than another. So if you took say human bone of different ages, you might expect the older bone to have more micro cracks in it. So these plots kind of put a lot of data together and then the lines are based on models for open cell phones. So the relative modulus goes roughly as the relative density squared and the cell walls are bending. And the compressive strength goes roughly as the modulus squared. And that's related to this plastic buckling. And then the tensile stress or tensile strength depends on the formation of plastic hinges. And it goes roughly as the density to the three halves power. And one uh observation that people have made is that in compression if the modulus and the strength both go as the density squared then the ratio of the strength to the modulus is just a constant and that in fact's just the strain failure or the strain for that say um the plateau And that's a strain of about.7%. And that's pretty consistent intramaccular bone. Okay, let's see. And we said sometimes the bone was relatively aligned. So here's that picture of the femoral cond again in the knee. And you can see the bones lined up. If you have bone that's lined up like that and you load it along the direction of alignment, then you can get axial deformation in the traculi and then you would expect the moduli would go linearly with the density. And here's some data for the Young's modulus and the compressive strength of a of bone that was fairly aligned. So this was selected to be aligned. So here's the modulus here and the square data points are um the longitudinal uh direction and the little diamond thingies, little stars are transverse. So here and here's a line of slope one. And again it's you know they don't all lie perfectly on that line but roughly the the slope is about one there. And then similarly here, this is the compressive strength. The little squares are the longitudinal data and they're not exactly on a slope of one, but they're more or less on a slope of one. So I'll just say in some regions the bone may be aligned and then axial deformation is important. And then you would expect the modulus to go linearly with the density and the strength to go linearly with the density in the longitudinal direction. Then finally, I wanted to finish up the bit on the modeling by making one of these plots a little bit like we did for wood. So here's the Young's modulus of bone plotted against the density. The tbecular bone is down here. It's sort of the lowest density. And then this is the collagen that's in the solid part of the bone. And this is hydroxy appatite, the mineral. So the modulus of hydroxy appatite is around 120 gigap pascals. And the modulus of collagen is somewhere around five. And if you make composites of collagen and hydroxy appatite, their moduli are going to be in this kind of envelope here. And compact bone, the modulus fits in around here. Remember I said it was around 18 gigap pascals. So then if you take the compact bone and you turn it into tracular bone, you'd expect the modulus would go down along a slope of two. So here's our little slope of two. And more or less that's what you see with the tracular bone. Okay. So the the idea is that the models give you kind of a general idea of how the bone is behaving, but it's not really meant to predict a particular piece of bone because a particular piece is going to have um a particular geometry. Typically they're not sort of equax and isotropic. All right. So are we good with kind of the general overview? Are we good with how fewer equations there are now that we got past the first part of the course? Yeah. Okay. Um, so I'm I'm going to talk a bit more about osteoporosis and I'm going to talk about some modeling that my group did uh to sort of look at the consequences of osteoporosis and then later on we're going to talk a little bit about using metal foams as a possible replacement material for tracular bone as well. And I have a little bit of a talk on uh using tbecular bone in evolutionary studies uh to see um whether or not a species was bipeedal or quadripedal. So, I think I talked about this a little bit in 3032, but I have like more slides and more stuff I'm going to talk about. Okay, so let me get myself organized. Uh,oop So osteoporosis comes from the Latin and it actually means porous bones. So osteo means bone and not too surprisingly parosis means um porous. So this next slide gives you some idea of what osteoporotic bone looks like. So the top slide is normal bone in a 55year-old woman. These are sections from a lumbar spine. And that bone up here is 17% dense. So the relative density is 0.17. And this is a section from the same bone, the same area of bone in an 86 year old woman and it's 7% dense. So you can see there's a huge difference in the density and you can start to see what happens when you lose bone mass. So if you look at this bone up here, it's all well connected. Like each little tbecula is connected to its neighboring friends. And you can see down here, I mean, you look at this and you kind of go, "Ouch just looking at it." Because this, you know, this piece of bone here is just kind of dangling off. not connected to anything. And you can see the the struts have gotten thinner. So they've lost bone mass by thinning. And then as I said, when the when the thickness gets sort of less than they roughly equal to the size of the cells, then the cells can't live anymore and the the bone uh strut just disappears altogether. So it's not too surprising that if you lose this much bone mass that the um there's mechanical consequences and there's a greater risk of fracture. And as I said, the most two the two most common types of fractures are hip fractures and vertebral fractures. Okay. So, so let's see here. So, as people age, everybody loses bone mass. And happily for you, and not so happily for me, the bone mass peaks at about 25 years old. So, you're probably either not at the peak or, you know, just barely at the peak. And then it decreases after that every year. I'm considerably older than you. And in women when you go through menopause the sessation of estrogen production increases the bone loss. And so uh typically osteoporosis is most common in post-menopausal women. An osteoporosis is defined as a bone mass 2.5 standard deviations or more below that of a young normal mean. So it's not like you fall and break your hip and you they say you have osteoporosis. It's based on the bone mass. And as I said the tbecula thin and then they resorb completely. So anybody here take Latin? Yes. I did Latin for one year. One year in high school. So tbecula with an e on the end here. Tbcula, I suppose, is the plural. Tbecula with an a is a singular. And that's that's comes from Latin. You so you don't say tbeculas. That's that's a no no. All right. Get rid of these. Okay. So if we saw that the strength of the bone varies as the density squared, you can begin to see how sensitive the strength is going to be to uh this bone mass loss. So say you went from a a density of 0.2 to a density of 0.1, you know, the density's changed by a factor of two. So the density has gone down by half, but the strength is going to go down by a factor of four. You're going to have the strength be a quarter. And so you're going to have a big change in the strength. And you can imagine as the tracularly thin, this buckling gets easier to happen. And then once the tacula begin to absorb, as they kind of disappear altogether, it's it's like I said, it's like having a a building uh framework and now you're removing beams and columns and the strength is going to go down even more dramatically. And the way we model the um osteoporotic bone is we use finite element analysis. So, you know, before we talked about using the unit cell for the honeycomb, but to use a unit cell, you have to have, you know, repeating unit cells, and obviously you don't have that. You know, you've got local variations in what the structure looks like. And we also use the dimensional analysis. And the dimensional analysis uh relies on the geometry being similar from one specimen to another. And you can't really rely on that either for the osteoporotic bone. And so what we've done is use and this is what other people do as well is use finite element modeling to represent the bone. So initially what we did was we used a 2D voronoi model. So you remember we talked about voronoi honeycombs and voronoi foams. So I like to start out with simple things. So we started out with a 2D voronoi model uh for a honeycomb. Then we did a 2D representation of vertebral bone. And then we did a 3D voronoi. And I had a couple of students who did this. Matt Silva was the one who did the first two and Surka Vagela was the one who did the the last one. So let's see. I think I think that's probably a good place to stop there for today. So next time I'll talk about the um modeling of osteoporotic bone. We might talk a little bit about metal bone as a substitute for tbacular or metal foams as a substitute. Um I don't think we'll get to the evolution stuff. We probably won't quite finish next time.