The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, today is all about the predecessor problem, which is a problem we've certainly talked about implicitly. Say binary search trees. You want to be able to insert and delete into a set and compute the predecessor and successor of any given key. So uh maybe uh define that formally and this is our our not really our first but it is an example of an integer data structure and uh for whatever reason I don't brand hashing as an integer data structure just because it's its own beast. Um but in particular today I need to be a little more formal about the models of computation we're allowing or I want to be uh in particular because in the predecessor problem which is insert delete predecessor successor there are actually lower bounds that say you cannot do better than such and such with hashing there aren't really any lower bounds because you can do everything in constant time with high probability so I mean there are maybe some lower bounds on deterministic hashing that's harder but if you allow randomization there's no real lower bounds whereas predecessor there is and in general predecessor problem key thing I want to highlight is that uh we're maintaining here a set of s uh the set is called s of n elements elements uh which live in some universe. U just like last time when you insert you can insert an arbitrary element of the universe that probably shouldn't be an S or it'll get thrown away. Uh but the key thing is that predecessor and successor operate not just on the elements in in S but you can give it any key. It doesn't have to be in there and it will find the previous key that is in S or the next key that is in S. So predecessor is the largest key that is less than or equal to X that's in your set and successor is the smallest that is larger of course if there is one. Okay. So those are the kinds of operations we want to do. Now we know how to do all of this in login time. No problem with binary search trees. in the comparison model. But I want to introduce two more say realistic models of of computers uh that ignore the memory hierarchy but think about regular RAM machines, random access machines and what uh they can really do and it's a model we're going to be working in for the next I think five lectures. So important to set the stage right. So these are models for integer data structures. Uh in general we have a unifying principle which is the or unifying concept which is a word of information, a word of data, a word of memory. It's used all over the place. A word of input, a word is the machine theoretic sense, not like the linguistic sense. It's going to be a w bit integer. And so this defines a universe which is I'm going to assume they're all unsigned integers. So this is 2 to the w minus 1. Those are all the unsigned integers you can represent with w bits. We'll also call this number 2 the w little u. That is the size of the universe which is capital u. Uh, so this matches notation from last time, but I'm really highlighting how many bits we have, just W. Now, uh, here's where things get interesting. I'm going to get to a model called a word RAM, which is what you might expect, uh, more or less. But before I get there, I want to define something called a trans dichotmus RAM. Tough word to spell. Just means bridging a dichotomy, bridging two worlds, if you will. RAM is random access machine. I've certainly mentioned the word RAM before, but now we're going to get a little more precise about it. So, in general, in a RAM, the memory is an array, and you can do random access into the array, but now we're going to say uh the cells of the memory, each slot in that array is a word. Everything's going to be a word. Every input if you want all these X's are going to be words. Everything will be a word and in particular this the things in your memory are words. Let's say you have s of them that's your spacebound. Uh in general a transdicomus RAM you can do any operation that reads and writes uh a constant number of words in memory and in particular you can do random access into that memory. uh but in particular we use words to uh serve as pointers. Here's my memory of words. Each of them is w bits s of them from I guess zero to s minus one. And if you have like the number uh three here that is can be used as a pointer to the third slot of memory one two three you can use numbers as indexes into memory so that's what I mean by word surface pointers so in particular you can implement a pointer machine uh which no surprise but for this to work we need a lower bound on w this implies w has to be at least log of the spacebound. Otherwise, you just can't index your whole memory. Right? If you've got sus one things, this 2 wus one better be at least sus one. So, we get this lower bound. So, in particular, uh presumably s is at least your problem size n. If you're trying to maintain n items, you've got to store them. So w is at least log n. Now this relation is essentially a statement uh bridging two worlds namely you have on the one hand your model of computation which is has a particular word size and in reality we think of that as being 32 or 64 or maybe 128. Some fancy operations on on Intel machines you can do 128 bit or so. Uh and then there's your problem size which we think of as an input. Now, this is relating the two. It's a little weird. I guess you could say it's just a limitation for a given CPU. There's only certain problems you can solve. Uh, but it theoretically it makes a lot of sense to relate these two because if you want to if you're in a RAM and you've got to be able to index your data, you need at least that many bits just to be able to talk about all those things. And so, the claim is basically your machines machines will grow to accommodate memory size. As memory size grows, you'll need more bits. Now, in reality, I mean, there's only about two of the 256 um what do you call them? Particles in the known universe. Uh so, word size probably won't get that much bigger. Beyond 256 should be okay. But, uh theoretically, this is a nice way to formalize this claim that word sizes don't need to get too big unless memories get gigantic. So, it may seem weird at first, but it's very natural. And all real world machines have big enough words to accommodate that. Word size could be bigger and that will give you essentially more parallelism. But uh should be at least that big. All right, enough proitizing. Then the that's the trans dichotmus RAM the end. Uh and the word ram is a specific version of the transdichomus ram. where you restrict the operations to C like operations. These are sort of the standard there are instructions on basically all computers uh except I mean a few risk architectures don't have multiplication and division but everything else on everything. So these are the operators unless I missed one in C. Uh they're all in Python and pick your most languages. Got integer arithmetic and including mod. You've got bitwise and bitwise or bitwise exor, bitwise negation and shift left and shift right. Okay, these we all view as taking constant time. They take uh one or uh one or two uh integer inputs, words as inputs. They compute an answer. They write out another word. Of course, you can al there's also random access array dreference, I guess. Uh which you can Yeah. So that's the word RAM you restrict to these operations. Whereas transdichomus RAM you can do weird things as long as they only involve a constant number of words. Word RAM it's a regular thing. So this is basically the standard model that all integer data structures use pretty much. If they don't use this model, they have to say so. Otherwise, this model has become accepted as the normal one. It took several years before people realize that's a good model, good enough to capture pretty much everything we want. Okay. The cool thing about word RAM is it lets you do things on W bits in parallel. You can take the end of W bits pair-wise all at once. So you get some speed up but it's a natural generalization of something like the comparison model. Comparison model I guess I didn't write those more operations less than greater than and so on. You can compare things two numbers in constant time get a boolean output via say subtraction and computing the sign. Uh and you think of comparisons taking constant time. So why not all of these things? Cool. One more model, there's kind of a weird one. It's called cell probe model which is we just count the number of memory reads and writes that we need to do uh to solve a data structure query like you you're looking at predecessor I just want to know how much of the data structure do I have to read in in order to be able to answer the predecessor problem how much do I have write out to do an insertion whatever. Um and so in this model computation is free and this is kind of like the external memory model and the cache oblivious models there we're measuring how many block reads and writes there are here blocks are actually our words. So there is a bit of a relation except there's no real you can either think of there's being no cache here because you're just reading in a constant number of words doing something spitting stuff out or in the cell model you could imagine there being an infinite cache for this operation but no cache from operation to operation it's just how much do I have to read in information theoretically to solve a particular predecessor problem we'll deal with this a lot in a couple of lectures not quite yet uh this model is just used for lower bounds it's not a realistic model because you have to pay for computation in the real world. But if you can prove that you need to read at least a certain number of words, then of course you have to do at least that many operations. So it's nice for lower bounds. In general, we have this sort of hierarchy of models where this is the most powerful strongest and below cell probe we have word RAM or sorry trans dichotmus RAM. Then word RAM then just to fit it in context what we've been doing below that is pointer machine and below that would be binary search tree mentioned before pointer machine is more powerful than binary search tree and of course we can implement a pointer machine on a word ram so we have these relations there are of course other models but this is a quick picture of models we've seen so far. Okay. So now we have this notion of a word. Uh in the predecessor problem, these elements are words. They're wbit integers. The universe is defined. And we want to be able to insert, delete, predecessor, and successor over words. So that's the our challenge. uh for context of I mean in in the binary search tree model we know the answer to this problem is theta login in general any comparisonbased data structure you need theta login in the worst case it's an easy lower bound uh but we're going to do better on these other models on the word ram so here some results First data structure is called Venom DOS. You might guess it is by Venom Nabois, Peter. Uh it actually has a couple other authors in some versions of the papers which makes a little bit confusing but for whatever reason the data structure is just named Venom DOS and it achieves log w per operation. I think I'll rewrite this. This is log log u per operation. But it requires u space. So think of u space as being like for every item in the universe I store yes or no is it in the set. So that's a lot of space unless n and n and u are not too different. Uh but we can do better. Um but the cool thing is the running time this is really fast log log u if you think about for example I don't know universe being polomial and n or even if the universe is something like you know polinomial and n is the same as like this right 2 to the c log n uh you can go crazy and say log to the c power so like 2 to the log to the fifth power all those things you take log twice uh then log log u uh becomes theta log log n. So as long as your word size is not insane uh you you're getting log n uh is not insanely large you're getting log n performance. So in general when uh what's it w is order log is poly log n then we're getting this kind of performance and I think in most computers w is poly logarithmic we said it has to be at least log it's also generally not so much bigger than log so log square is probably fine for most of the time unless you have a really small uh problem. Okay, so cool. But the space is giant. So how do we do better than that? Well, um there's a couple answers. One is that you can achieve log W with high probability and order and space with a slight tweak. Basically, you combine Ben & Deus plus uh hashing and you get that. I don't actually know what the reference is for this result. It's kind it's been an exercise in various courses and so on. Uh I can talk more about that later. Then alternatively there's another data structure which in many ways is simpler. It really embraces hashing. It's called yfast trees and achieves the same bounds. So log w high probability and linear space. It's basically just a hash table uh with some cleverness. So we'll get there even though it's simpler. We're going to start with this structure and then it it was historically this is the way it happened. Venom DOS then why faster research are by Willard um and it'll be kind of a nice finale. So if we take the oh sorry there's another data structure I want to talk about which is designed for the case when w is very large closer much bigger than poly log n in that case uh is something called fusion trees and you can achieve log base w of n uh I guess with high probability and linear space the Original fusion trees are static and you could just do log based WN deterministic queries. Uh but there's a new later version that's dynamic achieves this uh using hashing for updates. Um insertions and deletions. Cool. So this is a almost upside down. It's obviously always an improvement over n log base w of event of event or sorry always an improvement over just log base 2 of n. But it's sometimes better and sometimes worse than log w. In fact, kind of makes sense to take the min of them. When w is small, you want to use log w. When w is big, you want to use log base w of n. They're going to balance out. When w is uh root two to the root log n something like that. Uh the easy thing is uh when when these balance out is when they're equal and that will be when uh this is log n / log w. So when log w equals log n / log w. Let's do that over here. Log w log n over log w. uh then this is like saying log 2 w= log n or log w is root log n. So I was right w is 2 to the root log n which is a weird quantity but the easy thing to think about is this one log w is root log n and in that case the running time you get is uh root log n. So it's always at most this and the the worst case is when these things are balanced and then the min of these two or these two are the same and they both achieve root log n. But if w is smaller or larger than this threshold these structures will be even better than root login. But in particular it's a nice way to think about oh we're doing sort of a square factor better than binary search trees and we can do this high probability in linear space. So that's cool. Turns out it's also pretty much optimal. And that's not at all obvious and wasn't known for many years. Uh so there's a cell probe lowerbound. So these are all on the uh in the word RAM model. All these results. The first one actually kind of works in the pointer machine. I can I'll talk about that later. This lower bound's a little bit messy uh to state. The bound is slightly more complicated than than what we've seen. But I'm going to restrict to a special situation which is if you have n poly log and space. So this is a lower bound on static predecessor. All you need to do is solve predecessor and successor or even just predecessor. There's no inserts and deletes. In that case, if you use lots of space like space, of course, you do constant time for everything, right? you just store all the answers. Um, but if you want space that's not much bigger than n, uh, in particular, if you wanted to be able to do updates in poly log, you this is the most space you could ever hope to achieve. So assuming that, which is pretty reasonable, there's a bound of the min of two things log base w of n, which is fusion trees and roughly log w, which is found underus, but it's slightly smaller than that. Uh yeah pretty weird. Let me tell you the consequences a little easier to think about. Ben & Deas is going to be optimal uh for the kind of the cases we care about which is when W is poly log n sorry yeah poly log n and fusion trees are optimal when w is big square root log n log log n. Okay. Um a little messy. So there's this there's this divided by log of log w over log n. If if uh if w is poly log n then this is just order log log n and so this cancels this becomes constant. So in these situations which are the ones I mentioned over here w is poly log n which is when we get log n performance and that's kind of the case we care about. Venom Venom DeBoss is the best thing to do. Turns out this is actually the right answer. Uh you can do slightly better. Uh it's almost an exercise. You can tweak venomous and get this slight improvement, but most word sizes it really doesn't matter. You're not saving much. Um cool. So other than that little factor, these are the right answers. You have to know about venom dubb. You have to know about fusion trees. And so this lecture is about van deose. Next lecture is about fusion trees. Uh this result is from 2006 and 7. So pretty recent. So let's uh let's start manus. Uh yeah, let's let's dive into it. I I'll talk about history a little later. Um the central idea I guess if you wanted to sum up venom deose in an equation which is something we very rarely get to do in algorithms is to think about this recurrence t of u t of square root of u plus order one. What does this solve to log log u right? Just think of think of taking logs. This is the same AST of W = T of W / 2 plus order 1. W is the word size. And so this is log W. Same thing. If we could achieve this recurrence, then boom, we get our bound of log W. So how do we do it? We split universe into root u clusters each of size root u. Okay. So if here's our then I just split every square roo of u items. So each of these is root u long. The number of them is square root of u and then somehow I want to recurse on each of these clusters and I only get to recurse in one of them. So pretty simple idea. Now, uh, yeah. So, I'll talk about how to actually do that recursion in a moment. Before I get there, I want to define a sort of hierarchical coordinate system. This is a new way of phrasing it for me, so hope you like it. If we have a word X, I want to write it as two coordinates, C and I. I'm going to use angle brackets so it doesn't get too confusing. C is which cluster you're in. So this is cluster 0, cluster 1, cluster 2, cluster 3. I is your index within the cluster. So this is 0 1 2 3 4 5 up to root U minus one within this cluster. Then 0 1 2 3 4 5 up to root U minus one within this cluster. So those are the the I is your index uh within the cluster like this and C is which cluster you are in. Okay, pretty simple and there's easy arithmetic to do this. C is X integer divide root U and I is X integer modu. I use Python notation here. Um, so fine. I think you all know this. Pretty simple. And if I gave you C and I, you could reconstruct X by just saying, oh, well, that's C * root U plus I. So in constant time, you can decompose a number into its two coordinates. That's the point. Uh, in fact, it's much easier than this. You don't even have to do division if you think of everything in binary, which computers tend to do. So the binary perspective is that X is it's a word. So it's a bunch of bits, right? 0 one one 0 1 0 0 1 whatever. Divide that bit sequence in half and this then this part is C. This part is I. And if you assume that uh w is a power of two, these two are identical. If they're not a power of two, I mean you've got to round a little bit here. Doesn't it doesn't matter, but uh you can use this definition instead of this one either way. So in this case, c is boy. Um x shifted right w over two basically. So this is this is w over two w over two whole thing is w bits. Uh so if I shift right I get rid of the low order bits. Uh, if I want I, it's slightly more annoying, but I can do it as a an and with um one shifted left w over two minus one. That's the that's probably how you do it in C. I don't know if you're used to this, but if I take a one bit, I shift it over to here and I subtract one, then I get a whole bunch of one bits. And then you take you mask with that bit pattern. So I'm masking with one one one. Then I'll just get the low order bits. And computers do these super fast, way faster than integer division because I mean this is just like routing bits around. So this is easy to do on a typical CPU. And this will be much faster than this code even though looks like more operations typically. All right. So fine point is I can decompose X into C and I. Of course I can also do the reverse. uh this would be C shifted left W over two or with I okay it's a slight diversion now I can tell you the actual recursion and then talk about how to maintain it so we're going to define a recursive uh venom to boa structure of size U and word size W. And what it's going to look like is we have a bunch of clusters uh each of size square roo of u. Okay. So this represents the first root u items. This represents the next root u items. This represents the last root UU items so on. So that's the obvious recursion from this. So this is going to be a vandom B structure of size root UU. And then we also have a structure up top which is called the summary structure. And the idea is it represents for each of these clusters is there is the cluster empty or not? Does this cluster have anybody any items in it? Yes or no. If yes, then that the name of this cluster is in the summary structure. So notice by this hierarchical decomposition, the cluster number and the index are valid names of items within these substructures. Basically, we're going to use the the I part to talk about things within the clusters and we're going to use the C summary structure. They're both numbers between 0 and root U minus one. And so we get this perspective. All right. So formally uh or some notation cluster I so we're going to have an array of clusters is ven and above thing of size uh square root u and word size uh w over two. This is slightly weird because uh the machine of course its word size remains w. It doesn't get smaller as you recurse. We're not going to try to, you know, spread the parallelism around or whatever. Uh, so but this is just a notational convenience. I want to say the word size goes conceptually goes down to W over2 so that this definition still makes sense because as as I look at a smaller part of the word in order to divide it in half, I have to shift right by a smaller amount. So that's the W that I'm passing into the structure. Okay. And then v dot summary is uh the same thing. It's also a venadivose thing of size root u. Then the one other clever idea which makes all of this work is that we store the minimum element in v.mmin and we do not store it recursively. So there's also one item here size one which is the min. It's just stored off to the side. It doesn't live in these structures. Every other item lives down here. And furthermore, if one of these is not empty, there's also a corresponding item up here. This turns out to be crucial to make uh ven and deos work. And then v do max we also need but it can be stored recursively. So just think of it as a copy of whatever the maximum element is. Okay. So in constant time we can compute the min and compute the max. That's good. But then I claim also in log w time log u time we can do insert delete predecessor successor. So let's do that. this data structure. I mean, the solution is both simple and a little bit subtle. And so, this will be one of the few times I'm going to write explicit pseudo code say exactly how to maintain this data structure. It's short code, which is good. Each each algorithm is only a few lines, but every line matters. And so I want to write them down so I can talk about them. And with this new hierarchical notation, I think it's even easier to write these down. See how see how I do. Okay. So we'll start with the successor code. Predecessor is of course symmetric. Uh and it basically has two cases. uh but there's a special case in the beginning which is if the thing you're querying happens to be less than the minimum of the whole thing then of course the minimum is the successor. This has to be done specially because the min is not stored recursively and so you've got to check for the min every single level of the recursion. Okay, but that's just constant time. No big deal. Then the interesting things is that we have recursions in both sides in both both cases but only one. The key is we want this recurrence t of u is 1 * t of root u plus order 1. That gives us log log u. If there was a two here, we would get log u which is no good. We want the one. So in one case we call successor on a cluster. In the other case we call successor on the summary uh structure. But we don't want to do both. Okay. So let's just think about intuitively what's going on. uh we've got this guess I can do it in the same picture got this summary and a bunch of clusters and let's say you want to compute what's the successor of this item so by via this transformation we compute which cluster it lives in and where it is within the cluster that's I so item here now it could be the successor is inside the same cluster maybe there's an item right there okay then I want to recurse in here or it could be it's in some future cluster Okay. So in that case, okay, well let's first let's do the first case. Uh if basically we are less than the max of our own cluster, that means the the answer is in there, right? Figure out what the max is in this structure. The rightmost act item in S that's inside this cluster C, this is C. uh if our index is less than the max's index then if we recurse in here we will find an answer. If we're bigger than the max then we won't find an answer down here. We have to recurse somewhere else. So uh that's what we do. If we're less than the max, then we just recursively find the successor of our index within cluster C. And then the answer we have to add on the C in front because successor within this cluster will only give a name or give an index within the cluster. Then we have to prepend the C part to give a global name. Okay, so that's case one. Very easy. Uh the other case is where we're slightly clever some sense. we say okay uh well if if there's no successor within the cluster maybe it's in the next cluster of course that one might be empty in which case it's in the next cluster but that one might be empty so look at the next cluster we need to find what is the next non-mpt cluster for that we use the summary uh structure so we go up to position C here we say okay what is the next non-mpy structure after C because we know it's whatever that's going to be where our answer lives for successor so that's going to give us basically a pointer to one of these structures C prime which uh all these guys are empty and so there's no successor in there. The successor is then the min in the structure. So that's all we do. compute the successor of C in the summary structure and then in that cluster C prime find the min which takes constant time and then do C prime uh prepend C prime to that to get a global name and that's our successor yeah question could you repeat why is not recursive because looking at this it looks like all of the smaller trees have ah okay Sorry. Um question is why is the minimum not recursive? The answer to that question is not yet clear. It'll have to do with insertion but I think uh what exactly this means I maybe didn't state carefully enough. Uh every venom structure has a min stores a min and that in that sense this is done sounds funny not sort of recursively but everyone stores it. The point is that this item doesn't get put into one of these clusters recursively, just the item. But each of these has its own min, which is then not stored at the next level down. And each of those has its own min, which is not stored at the next level down. Think of this as kind of like a little buffer. The first time I insert into the structure, I just stick it in the min. I don't touch anything else afterward. Well, you'll see when we get to the insertion algorithm, but things it sort of slows things down from trickling. So, so is that the so putting that is double what prevents from sort of that will prevent the insertion from doing two recursions instead of one. So we'll see that in a moment. This point just successor is is very clear. This would work whether the min is stored recursively or not. But we do need we need to know what the min is of every structure. We need to know the max of every structure that at that point I mean at this point you could just say that min and max could be copies. No big deal. And we'd be happy. And of course predecessor does the same thing. Okay. So the slight cleverness here is that we use the min here. This could have been a successor operation with minus infinity as the query, but uh that would be two recursions. We can only afford one. Fortunately, it's the min item that we need. So, we're done with successor. That was the easy case or the easy one. Insert is slightly harder. Delete is just slightly messier. It's basically the same as insert. So insert. Let me write the code again. Okay, insertion also has two main cases. There's this case and the other case. There's no else here. This happens in both cases. And then there's some just annoying little details at the beginning just like over here we had to check for the min specially here we've got to update the min and max and there's a special case which I haven't mentioned yet uh v.mmin will be uh special case is it will be this value none if the whole structure is empty. So this is another way to tell whether a structure or the obvious way to tell whether a structure is empty. It has no min because if there's any items in there, there's going to be one in the min slot. So first thing we do is check is our structure empty. If it's empty, uh the min and the max become the inserted item. We're done. So that's easy case. We do not store it recursively in any of the in here. That's what this means that uh this element does not get stored in any of the clusters. If it's not the very first item or it's not the min item, then we're going to recursively insert it into a cluster. So we always insert uh if we have X in cluster C, we always insert index I into cluster C. That's except if it's uh the min. Okay. Now it could be where a structure is non-MP. There is a min item there, but we are less than the min. In that case where the new min, we just swap those and now we have to recursively insert the old min into the rest of the structure. So that's a simple case. Then we also have to update VMAX just in the obvious way. This is the easy way to maintain V domax and variant that is the maximum item. Okay. Now we have the two cases. Um I mean this is really the obvious thing to get to do insertion. We have to update the summary structure. Meaning if the cluster that we are inserting into cluster C is empty that means it was not yet in the summary structure. We need to put it in there. So we just insert C into V. summary. Pretty obvious. And in all cases, we insert our item into cluster C. This looks bad, however, because there's two recursions in some cases. If this if doesn't hold, it's one recursion. Everything's fine. So, if the cluster was already in use, great. Uh, this is one recursion. This is constant work. We're done. The worry is uh if the cluster was empty before, then this insertion is a whole recursion. That's uh that's scary because we can't afford a second recursion. But it's all okay because if we do this recursion, that means that this cluster was empty, which means in this recursion, we fall into this very first case, right? That structure its min is none. That's what we just checked for. If it's none, we do constant work and stop. So everything's okay. We're only if we recurse in the summary structure we will this recursion will be a shallow recursion just does one thing. You could of course you could actually put this code into the else case if you preferred or sorry into this if case and make this an else case. That's another way to write the code but this will be a very short recursion. So either you just do this recursion which could be expensive or you just do this one in which case we know this one is cheap. If this happens we know this will take constant time. So in both cases we get this recursion square root of u plus constant and so we get log u insertion. Uh do you want to see delete? I mean it's basically the same thing. It's in the notes. Uh same I mean you do the obvious thing which is you delete in the cluster and then if it became empty you also have to delete in the summary structure. Uh so there's again a chance that you do two recursions but uh okay I'm talking about it maybe I'll write a little bit of the code I think I won't write all the code though just the main stuff. So if we want to delete then basically we delete in cluster C index I and then if the cluster be has become empty as a result of that then we have to delete cluster C from the summary structure so so that our predecessor and successor queries actually still work. Okay, so that's the bulk of the code. I mean that's where the action happens. And the worry would be in this if case we're doing two recursive deletes. Uh the claim is if we do this second delete which is potentially expensive. This one was really cheap. The claim is that emptying a venom debose structure takes constant time. Like if you're deleting the last element, why? Because when you're deleting the last element, it's in the min right here. There's nothing. Everything below it, all the recursive structures will be empty if there's only one item because it will be right here. You can check that from the insertion. If it was empty, all we did was change v.mmin and v domax. So the inverse, which I won't write here, is just to clear out v.mmin and v.max. So if this ends up happening, this only took constant time. Uh you don't have to recurse when you're deleting the last item. So in either case, you're really only doing one deep recursion. So you get the same recurrence and you get log u. So for the details, check out the notes. I want to go to other perspectives of venom dus. Um this is one way to think about it and amusingly and this is probably the most taught way to uh do venom dbos. in CLRS described this way because in 2001 when I first came here I presented venom debose like this in the undergrad algorithms class uh with more details you guys are grads so I did it like three times faster than I would in 6046 but um and then so now it's in textbooks and whatnot but this is not how Venom DOS presented this data structure just out of historical interest this is a way that I believe was invented by Michael Bender and Martin Fch Colton who are the co-author authors on catch briefs and around 2001 they were looking at lots of old data structures and simplifying them. And I think this is a very clean simple way to think about venom dubbis. But I want to tell you the other way which is the way it originally appeared in uh their papers. It's actually three papers about by vanoasis about this structure. Most many papers appear twice once in a conference once in a journal. This one there's three relevant papers. There's conference version journal version. The only weird thing there is that the conference version has one author, Venom DBO. The journal version has three authors, Venom, Nabois, Kas, and Zilstra. Um, and they're acknowledged in the conference version. So, I guess they they helped even more. In particular, they I think implemented this data structure for the first time. It's a really easy data structure to implement and very fast. Uh, then there's a third paper by Vandenuzz only in a journal which improves the space a little bit. So, we'll see. a little bit what that's about. But what I like about both of these papers is they offer an a simpler way to get this to get log log u successor predecessor. Let's not worry about insertions and deletions for a little bit and take uh what I'll call the simple tree view. So, uh, going to draw a picture. 0 1 0 0 0. Okay, this is what we call a bit vector. Meaning here's item zero, item one, item two, and here is U minus one. And I'll put a one if that element is in my set and a zero otherwise. Okay, so one is in the set. Uh nine I think is in the set. 10 and 15 are in the set. Um I kind of want to maintain this. This is of course easy to maintain by insertions and deletions. I just flip a bit on or off. But I want to be able to do successor queries. And if I want the successor of say this zero, finding the next one, I don't want to have to walk down. That would take order U time. Very bad. So, obvious thing to do is build a tree on this thing. And I'm going to put in here uh the ore of the two children. Every node will store the ore of its children. Okay. And then keep building the tree. Okay, now we have a binary tree with bits bits on the vertices. And I claim if I want to compute the successor of this item, I can do it in a pretty natural way in log log u time. So keep in mind this height here is w, right? log u. So I need to achieve log w. So of course you could try just walking down this tree or walking up and then back down. That would take order w time. That's like the obvious BST approach. I want to do log w. So how do I do it? I'm going to binary search on the height. How could I binary search on the height? Well, if you look at what I really like to do in some sense, if I if I look at the path of this node to the root, where's my red chuck? So, here's the path to the root. Okay, these bits are saying, is there anybody down here? Right? That's that's what the ore gives you. So, it's like the summary structure. uh if I want to search for this guy, well um if if I walked up eventually I find a one and that's when I find the first nearby element. Now in this case it's not the successor I find it's really the predecessor I found. When you get to the first one the transition from 0 to one you look at your sibling the other child of that one and down in this subree there will be either the predecessor or the successor. In this case we got the predecessor because it was to the left. We take the max element in there and that's the predecessor of this item. If instead we had found this was our first one, then we look over here, take the min, there's of course nothing here, but uh in that situation, the min over there would be our successor. So we can't guarantee which one we find, but we will find either the predecessor or the successor if we could find the first transition from 0 to one. And we can do that via binary search because this string is monotone. It's a whole bunch of zeros for a while and then once you hit a one it's going to continue to be one because those are or we keep that one will propagate up. Okay. So this is the new idea for to get log log u predecessor successor is to uh let's say any roottole path is monotone. It's zero for a while and then it becomes one forever. So we should be able to binary search for the 0ero to one transition and it either looks like this or it looks like this. So our query was somewhere down here in the zero part. I'm assuming that our query is not a one otherwise it's an immediate 0 to1 transition. That's a special case. It's easy to deal with. And then there's the other uh tree, the other the sibling of X, the other child of the one. And in this case, we want to take the min and that will give us our successor of X. And in this case, we want to take the max over here and that will give us the predecessor of X. So as long as we have min and max of sub trees, this is constant time. We find either the predecessor or the successor. Now how do I get the other one? Pretty easy. Just store a linked list of all the items in order. So I'm going to store a pointer from this one to this one and vice versa and this one to this one. This is actually really easy to maintain uh because when you insert if you when you insert if you can compute the predecessor and the successor you can just stick it in the link list. That's really easy. We know how to do that in constant time. So once you do this it's enough to find one of them as long as you know which one it is because then you just follow a pointer either a forward or a backward pointer you get the other one. So whichever one you wanted you find both predecessor and successor at the cost of finding either one. So that's a cute little trick. uh this is hard to maintain dynamically at the moment but uh this is I think where the venose structure came from. It's nice to think about it in the tree view. Now let me so we get uh we get log u uh predecessor and successor. I should say what this relies on is the ability to binary search on any route to node path. Now there aren't enough pointers to do that. Uh so you have a choice either you realize oh this is a bunch of bits in a complete binary tree. So uh I can store them sequentially in array and given a particular uh node position in that array. I can compute what is the second ancestor or the fourth ancestor or whatever in constant time. I just do some arithmetic and I can compute from here where to go to there. It's like the heap regular old heaps but a little bit embellished because you have to divide by a larger power of two not just one of them. So that's one way to do it. Uh so in a in a RAM that all works fine. When Venom Devos wrote this paper though, the RAM didn't kind of existed. It just wasn't as well developed then and the hot thing at the time was the pointer machine and their data structure I guess at that point they called it the Pascal machine more or less. uh Pascal does have arrays and the funny thing is they venom bus does use arrays but mostly it's pointers and you can get rid of the arrays from their structure and essentially in the end venibus as presented like this is in a pointer machine let me tell you a little bit about that so call this original venomous which I'll call stratified trees. That's what he called it. It's basically this tree structure with a lot more pointers. So in particular uh each leaf or every node actually let's say stores a pointer to the 2 to the i ancestor where i 01 up to w I guess no log log w because there's a two to the here. So once you get I mean so I mean the ancestor immediately above me, two steps above me, four steps above me, eight steps above me. That's what I really need to do this binary search. The first thing I need is halfway up. And then if I have to go down, I'm going to need a quarter of the way up. And if I have to go down, I want an eighth of the way up. Whenever I go up from if I decide, oh, there's this is a zero. I've got to go above here. Then I do the same thing from here. I want to go halfway up from here from this node. So as long as every node knows how to go up and by any power of two, we're golden. We can do binary search. Uh the trouble with this is it increases space. This is u log w space which is a little bit bigger than u and the original venom deose paper conference and journal version achieves this bound not you. Little historical fun fact I don't uh not terribly wellnown. Um cool. So that's stratified trees. Um I need to say anything else. All right. Stratified trees. Right. At this point we have fast search but slow update. Let me tell you about updates in a second. Yeah. Question. Um so once you do the binary search and find the first one, how do you find how do you walk back down? Oh, uh I didn't mention but also every node stores min and max. So that lets me do the teleportation back down. Every node knows the min and the max of its subree. Right. One more thing. Uh I was forgetting here. I say this is a lot of pointers to store. You can't store them all in one node. Um and in the Venom Devos paper, it's stored in an array, but it doesn't really need that it's an array. it could just as well be a linked list and that's how you get pointer machine. So this could be a linked list and then this whole thing works in pointer machine which is kind of neat and it's a little weird because if you use a comparison pointer machine where all you can do is compare items there's a lower bound of log n because you only have branching factor constant but here the pro the formulation of the problem is when I say give me the successor of this I actually give you a pointer to this uh item and then from there you can do all this jumping around and find your predecessor or successor. So in this world you need at least u space even to be able to specify the input. Um so that's that's kind of a limitation of the pointer machine and you can actually show in the pointer machine log u is optimal for uh any data structure predecessor data structure in the pointer machine. So there's a matching lower bound log log u in this model and you need to use space so it's not very exciting. What we like is the word ram there we can reduce space to n and that's what I want to do next I believe almost next one more mention actual stratified trees I mean here we got query fast update slow stratified trees actually do update fast as well essentially it's this idea plus you don't recursively store them in which of course makes all these bits no longer accurate it gets much messier but in the end it's doing exactly the same thing as this recursion. In fact, you can draw the picture. It is this part up here, the top half of the tree. This is summary. And each of these bottom halves is a cluster. There's root U clusters down here. So, those are smaller structures. And there's one rootu cluster up here which is or one rootu size v random de structure which is a summary structure. These bits here are really the it's the bit vector representation of the summary structure is is there anyone in this cluster is there anyone in this cluster and so on. Um this of course also looks a lot like the venom debose layout. Take a binary tree cut it in half do the top recursively do the bottom. So that's why it was called the venom deose layout is this picture. Okay. But if you take this tree structure and then you don't recursively store mins and then the bits are not quite accurate, it's messy. And so stratified trees, if you try to read the original paper, it's a mess. Whereas this code, pretty clean. And so once you say, oh, I'm just going to store all these clusters as an array and not worry about keeping track of the tree, actually gets a lot easier. And that was the Bender Fararch Colton cleaning up, which never appeared in print, but it's appeared in lecture notes all over the place. And now CLRS. Um, cool. I want to tell you about two more things. It's actually going to get easier the more time we spend with this data structure. Uh, All right. Draw a box. At this point, we've seen a clean way to get Venonabus and we've seen a cute way in a tree to get search fast but update slow. I want to talk a little more more about that. Let's suppose I have this data structure. It achieves log W query which is fast but it only achieves W update which is slow. Right? How do you update the structure? You update one bit at the bottom and then you've got to update all the bits up the path. So you spend W time to do an update over here. If updates are slow, I just want to do less updates. We have a trick for doing this which is you put little things down here of size theta w that and then only one item from here gets promoted into the top structure. We only end up having n overw items up here and about one over w as many updates. If I want to do an insertion, I do a search here to figure out which of these little uh call these chunks. Which little chunk uh it belongs in. I do an insert there. Uh if that structure gets too big, it's bigger than say 2 * W or 4* W, whatever, then I'll split it. And if I delete from something, gets too small, I'll merge with a neighbor, maybe respplit just like B trees. Um we've done this many times by now. So then but only when it splits or I do a merge do I have to do an update up here. Only when the set of chunks changes do I need to do an a single insertion or deletion up here or constant number. So this update time goes down by a factor of W. Uh but I still I have to pay whatever the update cost is here. So what do I do with this data structure? I don't want to use van deis because this could be over a big universe. Who knows what I use the binary search tree here. I can afford a binary search tree because then it's only log W. Log W is the bound we're trying to get. So you can do these binary search trees. It's trivial. Just do insert, delete, search. Everything will be log W. Okay. So if I want to do a search, I search through here, which conveniently is already fast. Log W. And then I do a search through here, which is also log W. So it's nice and balanced. Everything's log W. Um, uh, down here. Oh, if I want to do an insertion, I do an insertion here. If it splits, I do an insertion here. But that order w update cost I charged to the w order w updates I would have had to do in this chunk before it got split. So this is in our good friend indirection technique we will use over and over in this class. Very helpful when you're almost at the right bound. Uh and it's actually in the followup venom to boas paper. A similar indirection trick is in there. Uh so we can charge the order W update in top to that's the cost of the update to the order W updates uh that have actually been performed in the bottom because when somebody gets split it's nice in its in its average state or when it gets merged it's going to be close to its average state. You have to do a lot of insertions or deletions to get it out of whack and cause a splitter emerge. So boom, this means the updates become log W. Searches are also log W. So we've got Vandom DevO again in a new way. Bonus points. If you take this structure, which okay, right? Even this structure if if we did it in the array form, great. It was order u space. If we did it with all these pointers and we wanted a pointer machine data structure, we needed uh u log w. But this indirection trick, you can also get rid of the log w and space factor. Uh it's a little less obvious, but you take this uh here we reduced n by a factor of w. You can also reduce u by a factor of w. I'll just wave my hands. That's possible. So u gets a little bit smaller. And so when we pay U log W space, if you got smaller by a factor of W, this basically disappears. Uh so you get at most order U space. Okay, but order U is not order N. I want order N space. Darn it. So let's reduce space. As I said, this is going to get easier and easier. By the end, we will have very little of a data structure, but still we'll have log log u. You thought this was easy, but wait there's more. Okay, right now we have two ways to get log u query and order U space. There's the one I'm erasing and there's this take this tree structure with the very simple pointers add indirection. So admittedly it's more complicated to implement but conceptually it's super simple. It's like do this obvious tree binary search on the level thing and then uh add in direction and it fixes all your bounds magically. So conceptually very simple practically you you definitely want to do this much simpler. Uh now what about saving space? Okay, very simple idea which I think again comes from Michael Bender, Martin Foulton. Uh don't store empty structures. Okay, so in this picture uh we had an array of all the clusters but a cluster could be entirely empty like this one. This entirely empty cluster. Don't store it. It's a waste. If you store them all, you're going to spend order U space. If you don't store them all, just don't store the empty ones. I claim your order end space. Done. So, I'm going back to the structure I erased. Ignore the tree perspective for a while. Uh, don't store empty clusters. Okay, now this sounds easy, but it in reality it's a little bit more annoying because we wanted to have an array of clusters so we could quickly find the cluster. Um, if you have if you store an array, you're going to spend at least square root of space because at the very beginning you say here are my root clusters. Now, some of them might be null pointers, but I can't afford to store that entire array of clusters. So, don't use an array. Use a perfect hash table. So v.clustluster instead of being an array is now let's say dynamic perfect hashing and I'm going to use the version which I did not present uh the version I presented universal hashing was uh order one expected but we know uh or I said that it can be constant with high probability per operation. It's a little bit stronger. So now I mean everything's fine. If I do an index v.cluster cluster C that's still constant time with high probability now and I claim this structure is now order N's uh space why is it order N space by simple amortization charge uh each table entry in that hash table to the min of the cluster right every time We're only storing non-mpt ones. So if if one of these guys exists in the hash table, we had to store a pointer to it. Then that means uh the summary structure is non zero. It means you know this guy is non- empty. So it has an item in its min. Charge the space up here to store the pointer to that min guy. Then each mi each item each min item only gets charged once because it only has one parent that has a pointer to it. So you only charge once and therefore uh charge and table entry only charge each element once and that means and that's all your space. So order and space done kind of crazy I guess. Uh if you want there's also the pointer to the summary structure. You could charge that to your own min. So then you're charging twice, but it's constant per item. Uh so this is kind of funny. Again, doesn't appear in print anywhere except maybe as an exercise in CLRS now. But uh you get linear order end space just by adding hashing in the obvious way. Now for whatever reason Willard didn't see this or wanted to do his own thing and so he found another way to do order nsp space log u query with hashing okay but if you just take vanos of any well I guess also you had to think of it in this simple form it's harder to do this in the tree it can be done I think but uh this is a simpler view than the tree I think and then boom order end space but it turns out there's another way to do it this This is a completely different way to do venom debus. Actually, not that completely different. It's another way to do this and uh with hashing and this is what's called going to start with what's called xfast trees and then we will modify it to get yast trees. That's Willard's terminology. Okay. So xfast trees is store this tree but don't store the zeros. So don't store zeros, only store the ones in the uh we call this the simple tree view. This is why I want in particular wanted to tell you about the simple tree view because it is really what Xfast trees do. So what do I mean by only store the ones? Well, think of them each of these ones has sort of a name. What is the name of this item? Uh it name is one or in other words 00001. Each of these nodes you can think of what is the path to get here like the path to get to this one is one zero zero. One means right zero means left. Those names give you the binary indicator of where that node is in the tree. Some sense. So store the ones uh as binary strings in a hash table. again a dynamic perfect hash table. It's said get constant with high probability. Okay. Um and if you're a little concerned uh so what this means the ones are exactly the prefixes of the paths to each of the items right this was item one and so I want to store this one which is uh empty string this one which is 0. This one which is 0 0 this one which is 0 0 0 this one which is 0 0 1. So it's um I take 00001 which is the item I want to store and there's all these prefixes which are the items I want to store. And for this really to make sense you also need the length of the string. I mean you strings of different lengths should be in different worlds. Um and so the way actually XFast trees originally did it in the papers have a different hash table for strings of different lengths. That's probably an easier way to think about it. You store all the items themselves in a hash table. You store all the prefixes of all but the last bit in separate hash table. All but the last two bits in a separate hash table and so on. Now what does this let you do? It lets you do this binary search for the 0ero to one transition. Right? What we did here was oh I look at the bit is it zero or one. Instead of doing that you do a query into the hash table and say is it in the hash table? it's in the hash table if and only if it is one. So looking at a bit in this conceptual tree is the same thing as checking for containment in this hash table. But now we don't have to store the zeros which is cool. Uh so this we can now do search uh you know predecessor or successor fast and log w time via this old thing. Okay. Again you need to you have to have min and max pointers as well. Okay. So in this hash table you store the min and the max of your subree. uh or actually from a one you actually need the min of you need the max of the left sub tree and you need the min of the right subree. Okay, but constant amount of information per thing. Uh this is not perfect however uh in that it uses nw space and also updates are slow. It's order w updates. But we're almost there because we have fast queries, slow updates, not optimal space. Take this add in direction done that's y fast trees y fast trees you take xfast trees you add this indirection right here and you get log w per operation order n space of course this is with high probability because using hashing Because we have, you know, we have factor W bad here, factor W bad here. You divide by W, you're done. Up here, you have N over W space. N over W * W is N. Uh queries just like before remain log W. But now, boom. Uh updates. Uh we pay log W because of the binary search trees at the bottom. But pretty cool. Isn't that neat? I've never seen this before. I mean, okay, I've seen Xfast trees and Y fast trees, but it's really just the same. We're doing taking venom to boas, looking at it in the tree view. You can see where Willard got this stuff, right? It's like, oh man, I really want to store all these bits, but hey, it's way too big. Just don't store the zeros. That means we should use a hasht. Ah, hasht gives you whether the bit is in or out. Great. Uh, now use indirection. And indirection was already floating around as a concept at the time. Slightly different parameters. Fen Deos had his own indirection to reduce the space from U time log W to U but Willard did it and boom he got down to n space in this way. Uh but as you saw you can also do it directly to vandos. I mean it's all these ideas can be interchanged. You can combine any data structure you want with any space saving trick you want with indirection if you need to to speed things up and reduce space a little bit. But so there's many many ways to do this but in the end you get log wer n space and that is sort of result one. It's probably the most useful predecessor data structure in general but next time we'll see fusion trees which are good for when w is huge.