The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Soft linear effective theory workshop. So last time we were talking about normalons and we're going to continue to do that today. So we said that typically in quantum field theory you have perturbation series but actually they're asmtoic and the kind of growth that you might expect is some power. I think I use two different conventions for this power whether it's plus n or minus n but that's just a goes to one over a and there's this factorial growth. So uh we said we could characterize those series by thinking about doing something called the Bell transform and that makes them more convergent because basically we take the coefficients and we divide the coefficients by an n factorial so we get a more convergent series and it may be that this thing exists or it may be that this thing exists and has poles and if it has poles as I've indicated here on the real axis then the inverse transform might not exist. So even though this thing is something that you can define, you can't get back to f. And if that's the case, you can characterize how the original series was diverging based on those poles. And those poles are called renormalons. So if we could calculate to all orders in pertabbation theory and some quantum field theory like a gauge theory that we could just calculate these fs we would find that actually there is this factorial growth and we'd be able to do this but we can't do that because we don't know how to do all the diagrams. So in order to give you an explicit example of what we talked about last time, instead of looking at all the diagrams, we pick a particular subset that we can identify. And that's what we're going to do today. We start by doing today. Part of our discussion of motivating why one might want to think about renormalons was thinking about the pole mass versus the MS bar mass and showing you that phenomenology starts to work better in terms of the MS bar mass and then we even went further than that and said we have should talk about this thing called the 1s mass and we'll come back to that discussion today but I'd like to consider just the explicit calculation of the pole versus the msar mass and show you that you can see this for normalon So if we want to think about the definition of these masses then we have to implement those definitions order by order in pertabbation theory and order by order and pertabbation theory we could calculate the fs but we need to know something about the entire series and that and that is too hard to get your complete series. So we'll pick out an infinite subset of that complete series that we could identify which is unique. And of course we should pick out the an infinite subset that's the easiest to calculate. And the one that we can pick out that's easy to calculate is the following. We look at so-called bubble sum. So graphs with a bubble and then more and more of them. Okay, so the reason that these graphs are unique is because if you look at any order in pertabbation theory, they're the graphs with the most factors of the number of firmians running around in these bubbles. So if you call the number of firmians running around in these bubbles NF, this graph has the most powers of NF. So at each order in perturbation theory, it's unique. It's a unique contribution and it's pretty easy to calculate because there's only one type of diagram contributing. What does unique mean? Unique means that uh there's no other diagram. So you know you might think at each order in pertabbation theory there's hund you know lots and lots of diagrams the one there's only this diagram that contributes to the highest power it's also gauging variant but it's really a unique diagram that contributes to that colorflavor structure. Okay so obviously an ingredient in this is the bubble itself. So if we go back to the bubble plus its counter term and we say there's a momentum P going through it. It's diagonal in color. It's transverse in momentum. Has a factor of ns. and f some other numerical factors there's a logarithm there's some constant and then there's some divergence but we cancel the divergence with a counter term so the graph would look like that and I'm going to absorb all these things into a single logarithm just for convenience So I define a constant C bar which is this 5/3 and then I just put it into the logarithm. Okay. So then this is a geometric series so it's easy to deal with. So gu which is the as a function of p and alpha s which sums up this chain plus counter term diagrams here. There's and bubbles here. And we start at the we get we start with no bubbles. This thing is a projector. Okay, so just explicitly writing out the sum. And what I've done here is I've used the fact that even though I wrote up NF up there, I can convert it to beta KN. So beta KN was 11/3 CA minus 2/3 NF. I can solve that equation for NF and substitute it back in. And that is a convenient thing to do just because you can think that these terms are then related to the beta KN which has to do with the running coupling in some sense. What we're doing is we're saying that even though we either just calculating these NF contributions, we know there's going to be some nonabelian contribution that comes along with it that makes us really into a beta knot. Or another way of saying it is that if you think about characterizing color structures, you could write NF ca NF squ or you could write beta KN CAN KN squared. And these are equivalent ways of representing the different kinds of color structures that can come in at higher order. And we're just choosing to do it this way with the beta knots rather than the NFS. So we convert our NF to a beta KN and it's still a unique subset of the entire set of terms. The terms we're not including are terms like this NFCA or CA squ and we're just keeping these guys which is equivalent to this guy. Does that make sense? Everybody happy? Sorry. The photon the photon propagators the photon propagators all uh cancel each other out. So you get a p^ squ and then one over p^ square p^ square 1 over p^2. So the whole thing looks like a prop a photon propagator just with a bunch of logs. Any other questions? All right. So this is already of the structure where we could think about doing the burell transform because we have a series in alpha s and what the burell transform meant was taking that series and converting it to a series in the burell variable just dividing by n factorial and then doing a sum. So previously the way I wrote that for the conjugate variables we wrote that we had alpha to the n + one and if you think about what we do we just went to b to the n over n factorial okay so basically to convert from this guy to this guy that's what we did and we had to be take special care of the first term but other than the first term that we just had this replacement rule. Now, it's a little convenient actually not to do that exact with exactly the same variable, but a slightly v different variable that's just rescaled. So, I'm going to use a slight slightly different variable here, which is typical. So what we'll do is we'll say that instead of just taking along the alpha s, we'll take along with it the beta kn and we'll say that the conjugate variable to that is u instead of b, but it's just a rescaled. but just taking something along with the coupling constant which is always we're always free to do is just a multiplicative factor. Now if we look at this diagram here the factors of the coupling that we've included are all the ones that have are attached to the bubbles but there's two more. There's one here and one there. And if we're going to make this replacement rule we have to identify all the factors of alpha s because they're all going to disappear and become 's. So we have to take these guys into account too. So we have an extra G squ which I'm going to write in terms of this variable. Okay, so there's an extra factor of g^ squ from the ends. And if you think about what that means, it means that every diagram that we're considering here starts with n equals 1. So we don't have to worry this about this delta function term starts with n equals z. There's no term with no couplings here. So then it is literally what I said that we just take this factor and replace it by that factor. Okay. So burell transform remember is a transform in the variable alpha s. Alpha s goes over to a different space. So it's not a kinematic variable. It's not like what we're used to transforming in but it's perfectly fine for those people that just they came in after I said this. There's no lecture on Thursday. So let me use the following notation. Taking that G ^ squ along with our geometric sum and now expressing that whole thing as a function of momentum still and U instead of alpha S. So I replace the alpha s's and I get that series which we can see is just an exponential series. So I can just calculate the sum or variable U log which if you have an exponential of a log is just a power. So let's organize it that way. So let me write it this way. So just writing the exponential log is that thing raised to the power u taking the u u ^2 e to the c bar u just that's a constant and then taking all the factors of p ^2 there was one from here and then there's u of them from there but I took an extra one from here multiplied on top and bottom by an extra p^ squ hopefully I got the sign All right. Looks like it should be plus but okay. So this thing is kind of nice for computations because when you stick it back into our bubble sum when you stick it back into the diagram that this bubble sum back into the diagram we want to compute we just have effectively a modified gluon propagator. So think of of it as some kind of modified Maybe I should write it in a different color. So it's just like this where we use a different fment rule for that propagator. Okay, so it's not actually that doing these types of bubbles calculations is not any more hard than doing a one loop calculation. You just have to use a different power for the propagator. But your fman roll tricks can your fman integral tricks can handle that very easily. Okay, so it's about as hard as computing this one loop graph. So let's call this thing sigma bubble and let's think about calculating it in terms of the MS bar mass. And then we also cancel any one over epsilon poles which we're not really interested in here. The one over epsilon poles actually come from if we think about what happened with the variables they come from the case u equals 0 is the log divergent piece and if you think about what we want to do in order to look for poles so u equals 0 is actually related to the ultraviolet divergence While values U greater than zero and U less than zero, those are probably these poles that are off the axis in the burell plane. And it's those power law divergences that are probing for reomalons. And we'll see that they lead to poles in the bell plane through this modified So let's calculate an the goal here is going to be to calculate an expression that relates the MS bar mass and the pole mass and that'll be an infinite series and it will be a function in brow space alpha s space that would be an infinite series in alpha s because we've included an infinite number of alpha s's in our diagrams and we go over to bell space there'll be some functional relation between those two masses. Okay, so what's the definition of the pole mass? If you go back to the propagator and you write it in terms of the MS bar mass. So you formulated your whole quantum field theory in terms of the MS bar mass, you calculated that bubble sum, called it sigma, wrote it in terms of the MS bar mass. The general structure of sigma would be that there's some constant piece which I'll call sigma 1. And then there's some sigma two-piece and the pole mass is where the place where you demand that this have this that you just have p minus m pole. So another way of saying that is that if P^2 is equal to M p^² you just set that to be zero. which I can write as an equation like that and then I can square it. So m pole squared which is p sl 2 m bar 2 this thing squared. And if you just think about what that gives, this is giving some equation that looks like m pole is m bar and then 1 + sigma 1 plus extra stuff. So let's do that and figure out what we get from this diagram for the sigma. So it's a usual one loop type calculation. Except instead of the glue on propagator I have this GB new thing which at this point is in alpha s space let's say and then I have the firm propagator there and I've taken into account all the gars and the alpha s's in here and so to go to the burell space I can do that under the integrant. So I just take G ^2 G new bubble K and alpha S K being the loop moment and just send that over to this thing that I'm calling G squ g MU bubble which is not a function of G squ anymore but it's just a function of K and U and as As long as you're staying away from u equals 0, there's no issues related to the order of doing those operations. So at u equals 0, you have to be actually careful if you really want to go figure out what's happening at u equals 0. But that's actually not what we're interested in. So we'll just ignore what's happening at u equals 0. Okay. So combine, you know, stick in the expression that we had over here for this guy and it's just some p^ squ to a power. So it becomes a k squ to a power. So you have k^ squ to a power. You have this guy to a power. Use the usual tricks. Combine denominators. Do algebra and you get some expression for sigma 1 inver space and then from that you can construct the relation between and a pull mass in the and a spar mass. And it might not surprise you having done some one loop calculations that you're getting some gamma functions. So after the dust settles, this is what it looks like 6 1 - u gamma of u gamma of 1 - 2 u over gamma of 3 - you. So the piece that we just calculated or sketched how you would calculate is this. And then there's the tree level relation between these two things which in alpha s space was just that n pole is equal to m bar. But when you transform one to the bell space you get a delta function. So this comes from just that equality at lowest order becomes a delta function in the burell space. So now if you look at this and you ignore u equals 0 then the closest pole to u equals 0 is u equals a half coming from this gamma function. And remember that we had a kind of notation for the strength of a renormal on. Those closest to the pole closest to the origin were the strongest. So the strongest renormal on here is a U equals a half renormalon that strength was related to the fact that basically you got something would be in this case 2 to the n factorial. So 12 to the minus n And so the guy that's closest gives the strongest prefactor to the n factorial growth. That's where that naming came from. Yeah. Um so there weren't any polls the only poll in the modified propagator. Was it um like the one that that made the the denominator advantage but the rest of the polls came from actually doing the one diagram in the in the series. Yeah. So what you're doing is so you're you're actually thinking of probing the infrared structure in this loop. That's what the gluon is doing. And the modified propagator ped to the U is just giving you a kind of a regulator if you like which is the U. That's allowing you to probe what's the infrared structure in powers in this loop diagram. Not just kind of logarithmic divergences which we usually focus on but also in power law sensitivity to the infrared. So, it's like probing low momentum gluons with this modified gluon propagator. And that's those that's what's resulting in these poles. You're probing the infrared structure of the of the loop. So, there would be some other terms that I haven't written. So let me just comment that there's a term there's actually a term that's proportional to one over u that would make it finite at u equals z if we're more careful and we carry out the normalization properly and I also wasn't so worried about anything analytic in and u. So I only was looking at these gamma gamma functions. Okay. So if we actually just specify ourselves to that u equals a half, we can simplify things even further. So I'll stick in u equals a half. And if I stick in u= a half, this becomes mu over m bar e to the c bar / two. If I just put this 1/2 in there, all this stuff with the gamma functions becomes a minus 2 over u - a half. So there's a pole. It's sitting on the real axis and we can't do the transform at this point. Can you drop the delta view? Um you know it's not yeah I don't really need it but just sort of for completeness I kept it. Yeah if I just wanted to think about this term I could drop it. Yeah. So let's think about the inverse paral. So we wanted to do an integral which in this u space would look like this. So u was the conjugate variable to 4 pi over beta alpha s of mu. That was what we transformed. So that's the difference between our old notation our new one. We just have a conjugate variable to this thing. And so this has an ambiguity because on the real axis we have a pole at u equals a half. So there's that pole at a half and you have to decide do we want to go around that above or below. So I mentioned this last time we could think about going past the pole that way or going past the pole this way. And the fact that we have to make a choice means there's an ambiguity. And if you like, you can say, well, let's, you know, let's average above and below or but the ambiguity would then be something like a half going around the pole. So let's actually look at what the ambiguity is. So the ambiguity Well, if we go around the pole, we get a 2 pi i a half integral around the pole. factor mu c bar over two bar and if we put everything together the rest of the prefactor there's a cf over 3 pi beta kn and there's also another mb bar which is this m bar that's out front and I combine a minus two with the six to get a three. So the m bars actually are cancelling close on the pole. Stick that value in everywhere else. Let me get that Does anybody recognize this? Um, it's lambda QCD. Yeah. Yeah, it looks kind of like an instant time with the exponential, but this particular thing is actually exactly lambda QCD. So if we solve this and we invert it and we solve for alpha s that would be the usual formula for lambda QCD alpha in terms of lambda QCD. So we've just shown that the ambiguity up to some constant preactor is exactly lambda QCD and that is exactly our physical idea that we said last time that the pole mass has a delta m order lambda QCD ambiguity and we've just seen that explicitly arise from calculations with the sporell space. Okay. So that's kind of neat. Yep. Is there a way to be careful about the prescription when you do these? Yep. because it seemed like you just multiplied a bunch of p^2 plus together and then just ignore the yeah I didn't I didn't actually ignore the ippsilon the reason I wrote it as minus p ^2 to the power was because of that ippepsilon I I didn't write the ippsilons on the board but if I had it wouldn't change anything that I wrote so the way one way I can say it is that when I actually did these loop calculations I was actually careful about the ippsilon um yeah not not worried about like getting the sign Yeah. Right. And then like when you interchange the order of integration presumably you're doing something violent. You mean the order of the summation and the integration, right? Yeah. And when you inter change that order, the only thing that you So you can do it in the other order. The only thing that actually goes wrong and it's much easier to present it in this order. This is why I did. If you do do it in the other order, the only thing that will change is what happens at u equals 0. So you'll actually see everything that we saw except at u equals 0, it'll be slightly different. And that one over u term that I was talking about, if you want to get that right, you have to think about the issue of changing the order of integration more carefully than I did. But near equal u= half, it's exactly this is this. This is the right result. And near any other u except equals z, we're okay. Yeah. So which counter do we pick? Sorry. Which counter do we pick to define? We don't know. So the ambiguity. So the you have to make a choice, right? If you make it this choice, you've picked one definition. If you make this choice, you've picked another. And I said we can quantify the ambiguity in our choice by thinking about it as half going around the pole. That's kind of the amb, you know, a measure of the ambiguity that we have in in which way to close. It's an it's an ambiguity. I know. But but we we get to define how we calculate, right? So when we say What do we mean by it? Uh different people mean different things. I mean you're not going to see this, right? Unless you go to all orders in pertabbation theory. So order by order and pribation theory, you will never see this poll. So unless you're working to all orders, if if you soon as you work to all orders, you have to make a choice because of what we just did. If you work order by order, there's no choice to make and you just order by order define it with the usual definition. So the moral is not how do we define M pole. The moral is we should use something else other than M pole because M pole has an ambiguity. So we use the MS bar mass M bar here for our calculation but actually the ambiguity wasn't depending on that it really will show up even if we slot of some other short distance mass beside the MS bar mass we would still see do the same ambiguity if we tried to associate it to the M pole and actually this thing is a unique property of the pole mass. It's the pole mass that has this problem not the MSAR mass. Another thing you'll notice is that when we went back and looked at the ambiguity back in the original space in the coupling space which is where we live then the mutependence went away. We just got something that was a constant times lambda QCD. There was no mutendence. So the ambiguity is mu independent just proportional to lambda QCD. If we looked on the other hand in the burell space at the residue of the pole it was muted dependent. So before we did the integral if we just look at even the the pole is u minus a half the residue has a mu power in it in the numerator and that just went along for the ride and became this mu. But when we transform back we had alpha of mu there and the mu dependence was cancelling. And this actually is uh there's one important fact about this. So when we express something like a decay rate which we might originally calculate in terms of the pole mass since maybe that's simpler and we get some series and if we want to express that say in terms of the MS bar mass. Then what we're after doing is we're after actually canceling a pole in the burell plane that occurs in kind of the series that relates this guy to the MS bar mass and then there's a corresponding pole in this series in the decay rate and those have to cancel against each other. So you should think that there's a one over u minus a half pole in the relation of this thing to the ms bar mass that we just computed. And one could also look at for example bubble chains for this particular observable. People have done that. And if we did that, you'd also find exactly the same U equals a half pole in that series. And these are cancelling if we make that change a variable here. I guess I already said that. when you do that. So in practice of course what you do is you you don't have the whole series. So what you do is you just let you want the cancellation to take place at the order you've worked. So say I know alpha squared in this decay rate which is true people do know that and you know the alpha squared relation what you then want to do is you want to make sure that the terms any large numerical factors in front of the series are cancelceing out to order alpha squared and there's only one little caveat what you have to be careful about and that is that you have to expand in the same coupling Okay. So when we do this cancellation order by order, you should use the same coupling constant with the same scale. So as long as both series So you can't for example make a conversion with the MB pole with alpha sa evaluate at the b scale or some other scale. You have to really do it at the same scale that whatever this series is expressed in terms of and that you know you can also think of that as being related to the fact that the burell variable u itself was defined as the conjugate variable to something that was mu dependent. So even the definition of u involves alpha at a particular scale mu Okay, sorry I said that in a bit of a convoluted way, but hopefully what I'm saying is clear even if what I'm writing is not so clear. Okay, so same coupling in this series and the conversion series. And this what I've just said is also a general fact that these poles are artifacts of splitting up physics at different scales. And they will always be cancelceing out in observable things. They're not they're remnants of splitting up physics in in particular ways. They always cancel out of observables. Yeah. So when you say physics of different scales, is that like a proxy for taking a certain subset infinite subset of diagrams and not Yeah. So if you like we introduced a cutoff in our diagrams when we did them like numbers. Yeah. I mean it right effectively you could think of it like that or you know the number of bubbles. Yeah. And that was a proxy that became this U variable and that was becoming kind of a probe for the cutoff dependence. So we'll talk more about that right now. So what is this? How should you think about this cut off? So when we remove the ambiguity, we actually introduce a scale. And the way you can think of that is as follows. You could think that in general the relation between the pole mass and some other mass is some infinite series which has the general structure of a bunch of logarithms perhaps and coupling constants. and some coefficients. So it's a double series in n and k starts at order alpha. So that's why start n is starting as order one. And just because of dimensions, if this is dimension one, that's dimension one. There has to be something of dimension one that we stick there. And I just for let's be flexible about we put what we put there and call it r. So this is a general scheme conversion formula. We could put any kind of conversion into that form. So if we call this thing here delta m then I can also move it to the other side and write it like this. And then what you can say is that if I pick my delta m such that its asmtotic structure is its in infrared structure it's asmtoic structure in alpha is the same as the pole mass I can set up something where I get and we're nomalon free mass mr So the pole mass has this normal ion that we've been talking about. If I set it up so that my subtractions also have the same kind of structure. So for example, with the example that we did, you would need the non-logithmic terms to be n factorial 2 the n beta not the n. As long as we have the right terms in the delta m, we can construct something that's free of that reormal line. Now in msar which is what we did this r scale is just the msar mass itself which is a running quantity but it's evaluated at m bar. So the formula that we get would have m pole is equal to m bar plus m bar time a series in alpha. That was the conversion. So the scale R was fixed to be M bar in this scheme that we talked about last time which is called the 1S scheme where we talked about defining a scheme by thinking about two heavy quarks calculating corrections between calculating perturbatively the potential between those heavy quarks and defining a mass that way. That's called the 1s scheme. In that particular case, you get an extra alpha that we talked about. And the R, the corresponding R would actually be M1s, the M1s mass times an alpha, which is effectively the inverse bore radius for this potential. But we can even be more general than that and we can make this R into just a free parameter. We can just we don't have to fix it in the way that these two schemes do. We can think of it as a floating cutoff. And for any R that we pick the ambiguity delta M will be R independent. Just like the M bar was canceling out when we picked the MS bar scheme. When you pick the 1s scheme the that R cancels out and generically the ambiguity which is just lambda QCD is independent of R. So R is really setting a scale. So really what you're doing is you're canceling something that's happening if you like it in the deep infrared. But you got to when whenever you cancel something you have to sort of decide how much of the leftover do you take. You're canceling something at zero but then you're taking something from zero to something. And that two something is like this is exactly what this r is just like in dim in dim rag. My spelling is atrocious. Just like in in dim rag when you cancel the UV pole that's at infinity right you have one reps on UV but the mu comes in and the mu is setting kind of a soft cut off on your integrals and you think of that as kind of where you've removed down to in the same way this R is kind of saying you're cancelelling something at zero and we have to take along with it some fluctuations up to some scale and R is provided adding that that choice. So we take some infrared fluctuations together with the pole mass. These are the infrared fluctuations that were causing the stability. They're dressing the pole mass if you like, which is like a point particle mass. They're making it into a kind of dressed mass and they're yielding a well- definfined mass parameter that then depends on a scale. So here's the origin. Think that you include all the fluctuations in some sphere around the origin out to R. That's the right physical picture. So the right physical picture here is that when you we're using the MSBAR scheme, you were ignoring powers and there was actually an improper separation between certain power law terms. Those power law terms that you didn't really see very well in MSbar can be seen when you look at the asmtoics of the pertabbation series. They come back to haunt you. You can look at the asmtoics of the pertabbation series using these reormalon borell style techniques and you can figure out how to define masses that aren't sensitive to these problems like the msbar mass. The msbar mass has too large an r scale to be used for b physics. The 1s mass is something that has a small enough scale that you can use it for b physics although it would have potential problems for top quark physics. But you can actually make the scale where you're absorbing the fluctuations up to a free parameter and then you're good to go with any physical problem because you can choose it to be an appropriate scale much like we choose mu to be an appropriate scale. So let me give you one very definite example of how you could define a scheme with this R. So we'll build something that's where we don't have to do any additional calculations. What we're going to do is we're going to use the MSBAR mass the MSAR pole scheme conversion and from that we define the A's that we need. We can take mu equal to r so that the log of mu / r is zero and then we don't need any of the other a's. So then we have a a formula that's a definite thing that looks as follows. So we're tweaking the MSBAR result if you like so that instead of having a fixed scale it has a floating scale. So these are the MSAR values and we don't have the MS bar in front. We have an R in front. And we have Rs in these couplings. And that's a well- definfined scheme called the MSR scheme. And in this scheme, you have a cutoff R that you can just pick as a parameter and adjust it. It's just a parameter like mu that's part of the definition of the scheme. And so this kind of change here would be good for doing physics. This is a good scheme for doing physics when you've where you want to absorb things up to that cut off. So, so you can sort of So, if you're thinking about HQ, you could pick the R to be say a GV freely and it wouldn't care about whether you're talking about a top quark or a bottom. quark or a charm quirk. It's just a free parameter. You can pick it to be something fixed and it wouldn't depend on where you what kind of mass you were starting over here with. So you're just kind of decoupling this cut off from the mass itself. All right, any questions? So when you wrote the series in K that you now got rid of with this choice. Yeah. That was just you being careful about including everything. Yeah. I mean I was just being careful about including all the kind of things that in principle I could see in any arbitrary choice of scheme change. And in any arbitrary choice there's both mu which we defined that was related to the alpha and there was this r showing up and we got logs of mu over r and then msbar the r was mar but you still had mu showing up as well and mu is related to the running of ms bar of the ms bar mass. Um but in general the mu the fact that you have both mu and r is kind of they are they were separate because you define mu for the log cutoffs and you defined r here for the power log cutoffs if you like the power log divergences in the end of the day you might as well just take those cut offs to be the same and that's what I just did mu equals r that gets rid of the logs people worry about u yeah you could worry about u equals one u equals a half is the first thing you should worry So if you want to go to U equals 1, then you need problems that have kind of more information in perturbation theory. So if you just have two loop information, U equals a half is usually perfectly fine. If you have, you know, four loop information, you probably should start worrying about U equals 1. It's just kind of rough. So people don't often talk about U equals 1, though sometimes they do. Okay, so I need a little aside here in order to proceed with what I want to talk about next and that is I just want to define for you how you would define lambda QCD at higher orders in pertabbation theory. So the formula we had used a minute ago is leading log. But we can define lambda QCD even if we go to higher orders. And I just want to do a little bit of algebra set up some notation in order to define this thing at higher orders. So MSAR beta function and we're going to just work to all orders formally and we'll see that we can construct a solution where it's kind of obvious how you would work to whatever order you want to work. So let's just parameterize the series even if we don't know all the terms. We only know up to beta 4. But let's just parameterize the series as a bunch of betas. I'm going to call the cutoff R because we started calling it that, but I could call it mu. I just took mu equal to r. So, so I can rearrange that equation in this way. I can write it as dr / r is equal to d over beta. And then I can integrate on both sides between two values. And on this integral is just giving me a log. This integral is giving me an integral over alpha. So what I'm going to want to do here is make a change of variables. We'll see that the following change of variables. Convenient. So I'm going to make a change of variables in the integration to this t. So I have some dummy variable that I'm integrating over. Let's change the dummy variable t. And basically that's going to simplify the lowest order result because the lowest order result d alpha over beta of alpha well the beta goes like alpha squared at lowest order. So I'm basically making a change of variable where this d alpha over beta at lowest order will just be dt. That's what I'm doing. have to change variables in the limits as well. So call those T1 and T0. and change variables consistently everywhere. And if I do that, this is the kind of form of the result. So this is just a lass series in 1 / t. And the first term we had d alpha over minus beta kn over 2 pi alpha squared and that was just minus dt. So the reason that this thing here is a one is because my change of variable with dt was exactly taking into account all the factors to basically just make it into a one and there's a sign change but I flipped the limits. Okay, so we made the first term trivial and then the higher terms are these terms and these B hats we could figure out what they are and they're just combinations of the beta functions. So once we expand the one over beta we get various combinations of things. I think I won't write B3 but we could also do the integral pretty easy integral to do. And so if you want to write a solution for what the integral is, you could say it's well it's some function that you get from doing the indefinite integral evaluated at the upper limit minus that function evaluated at the lower limit. And g is just that function. So doing the integral of one gives t. doing the integral of the other term and being careful about what's positive and what's negative. I can write as log of minus t. So t was negative. If you look at my definition of t, it had a minus sign in it. So this log is a log of a positive number. Okay. So we have this g of t and g prime of t is just b hat. And if we write a formula, which is not what we're actually interested in here, but might as well write it anyway. If we write a formula that's this way, just taking that formula and writing it this way, then if you think about what this formula is, it's an all orders relation between the coupling at one scale and the coupling at another. It's a formal relation because you need to know the coefficients. But if I someone tells you the coefficients, you can just plug them into this formula. And this is the extension of the usual running formula that you would write down for relating alpha at one scale to alpha at another scale. is a generalization that includes higher order terms in the beta function. So the other thing that we can do is we can rearrange the formula and take account of the fact that we have t we have r1's and r0 zeros and we can make it such that we have only our1's on one side of the formula and r0's on the other side of the formula by splitting the log into two pieces and that's what you do to define lambda qcd. So we can rearrange it as follows. Taking an exponent. So now we only have R0's in this part, R1's in that part. This thing has to be independent of the choice of the R. And that's just this constant lambda QCD. And that's the generalization of this definition of lambda QCD that we had before where it was r0 e to the minus 2 pi over beta not alpha. Now we have the higher terms. They're just encoded in this g function. So if you didn't remember that formula for the lambda QCD, now we've derived it and we've included the higher order terms as well. So the next term this be higher order terms and usually you call this the leading log expression for lambda QCD and this the next leading log once you include that term etc. Okay, but the whole combination is mu independent. The mu independence of this term is only counseling to leading log. Once you include this term, it's counseling to next leading log. The whole thing is mu independent giving this lambda QCD. Okay, so that's end of the aside. So what I actually want to do is I want to come back to our definition of this MSR R mass and I want to treat it really as if we have an I want to think about it like an RG. We have this cutff. Let's see if we can write down an normalization group equation for that mass has a cutff. There should be some equation that tells us how to flow in that cutoff. Let's see what we can learn from that. just this end to the side. So we have a cut off and we already said that we can treat R as a variable that parameterizes the math scheme. And so we can vary R in this MSR scheme just like we'd vary mu in the MSR scheme. So if you like what you're doing when you vary MW in the MSBAR scheme is you're properly taking into account kind of what fluctuations you want to put into your mass in the ultraviolet. And here it's related to this kind of physics that's going on in the deep infrared um that you're also being careful about. Okay. So, we'll have a instead of an R instead of a mu we'll have an R rg. The difference between the mug and the rg is this this time we're talking about powers. We'll see what that what happens. So m pole didn't depend on r. So you get zero for that. And if we just look at our scheme change formula, then we can figure out what the rg is. These this delta m was a function of r and we can define this as r to get the dimensions right times some kind of anomalous dimension. And it's just a function of alpha. So what this guy would look like is again just a series some perturbative series. RG Just writing out our equation. The equation we've come to is this. So r by dr of the mass because of the fact that we're dealing with a power we get an r on the right hand side of this equation. And that's the really really the only thing that's causing a difference from the kind of standard RGs that we've saw so far. And the fact that we got this power which was one is exactly related to the fact that it was a U equals a half reol. If we looked at the renormalons that are further out like U= 1 would give R2. We haven't seen really enough to identify that but that's true. So let's solve this guy in the usual way. Integrate on both sides. From what we just talked about, R was equal to lambda QCD e to the minus g of t. And we can also therefore write that d log r is from this formula dt minus g prime of t. If we follow that through as a change of variable, that's the change of variable we get. So let's switch variable from r to dt. So r d log r is just the product of these things. And I can write it actually kind of a compact way. If I write it as lambda qcd dt d by dt of e the minus g of t. So we got a g prime and then we got a e minus g of t. Let's just write that as a total derivative of that. So if I write it in terms of t then that's the solution that's a formal solution in terms of a and I switch variable also in the anomalous dimension. And that's the formal solution to the RG. And this is a well- definfined integral. There's no problems with doing it. The place where the integral could start causing problems is t equals z. But we're never getting to t equals z. We have cut offs that are keeping us away from t equals z. So it shouldn't shouldn't surprise you that it's a well- definfined integral because the different we said that these things are supposed to be well- definfined in masses that are not sensitive to these renormal problems and taking the difference of two of them should again give us something that's not sensitive to reormal problems but it's interesting that you see lambda QCD popping out and that's Because these two masses and the difference of these cutoffs is related to absorbing a different amount of these fluctuations which were related to lambda QCD. So the evolution would just yield a new well- definfined mass m of r1 which absorbs a different amount of IR fluctuations. a shell out to R1 instead of just out to L R R0 if you like. So you're absorbing those fluctuations together with them pole to get something well defined and how much you absorb related to this cutoff. Okay, so we could do that integral at whatever order we decide. Let's just do it at leading log. So at leading log, we take this guy and we just take the first term, some constant alpha over 4 pi. And so gamma r of t switching variables becomes that constant over 2 beta kn if we keep all the factors and then a 1 / t alpha becomes 1 / t. So if we're at leading log, we should think about having the leading log lambda QCD. So that's what the zero means for this factor. And the integral we'd have to do would be this one. eus t. So you see that t=0 is where there could be a problem. But away from t equals z there's no problem. do that integral gives you an incomplete gamma function. That's just a way of saying that there's this special function that's defined to be that integral. Mathematican was all about it. It's very useful. And actually the incomplete gamma function is an example of a function that has an asmtoic expansion. So if we look at what happens if I expand this incomplete gamma function in alpha t remember is one over alpha. I can expand about alpha. Then it has a series that has factorial growth. Just write that. So expanding about alpha equals 0 is expanding about t equals infinity. And the gamma function actually is in has an asmtoic expansion. And if you just work it out, plug it into Mathematica, say Taylor series, look at the terms, and you exactly see this 2 to the n factorial, which is a u equals a half per normal. And so what's happening is when you take the two the difference of two of these gamas you're converting this asmtoic series. If you take the difference of two of these asmtoic series you're converting it into a convergent series. And we'll talk a little bit more about that next time but I'll stop there. So we can see from this reormalization group we can see again the reormalon and we can see in what way it's sort of solved by thinking about making it shift from here to here because it's the difference of these two gamas not one of them individually. So we can use reormalization group techniques to think about these normal on effects and we'll talk a little bit more about that next time. series. The difference of these is convergent series. Yeah. Well, I'll I'll write that down next time and show you it.