So all right so today we actually come to the last lecture of the class because Wednesday it's going to be project presentations and um so I want to talk to you about diffusion models today which is a incredibly exciting area which I don't think gets It's the same amount of attention in some ways compared to large language models. Uh but it's got enormous potential. Um so I'm very excited to talk to you about it. So you know just for kicks last night I said I asked Chad GPT create a photorealistic image of graduate students in class in a class on deep learning and this is what it came back with. There is a noticeable absence of an instructor plus various students are facing in various directions but apart from that it's not bad. Um and uh here is an example of a midjourney text to image abusion model uh which produces the amazing picture from this prompt. a quaint Italian seaside village with colorful buildings blah blah blah blah blah uh rendered in the style of Claude Monet and so on so forth and that's what you get. It's pretty unbelievable. Uh and I'm sure you folks have played around with these things and you have your favorite pictures and prompts and whatnot. Um now uh February 15th um OpenAI released a texttovideo model called Sora which your folks may have seen uh which I find frankly just stunning what it can do. It can produce a one minute uh video from a text prompt. And so, so if you actually give it this prompt, in an ornate historical hall, a massive tidal wave peaks and begins to crash and two surfers seizing the moment skillfully navigate the fa the wave. Okay. Uh I think we can all agree that such a thing has never happened in history and therefore there it was not in the training data, right? So and then you get this picture, this video and then some random person is coming back in a completely dry [laughter] hall. So anyway, but it's pretty amazing. I think you would agree. So if you actually look at the open sora technical report, you actually find this uh opening paragraph where they say that we train text conditional diffusion models blah blah blah using a transformer architecture. Okay, so now we know what a transformer architecture is. You've been working with it. You're quite familiar with it at this point. So today's class is really about text conditional diffusion models. Okay, so the other building block. Okay, so let's get to it. Uh what I'm going to do is I'm going to sort of uh divide this into two parts. The first part is I'm just going to talk about how do you get a model to just generate an image for you? Right? If you wanted to generate an image from a class of potential images, how can it just generate an image? And then next we talk about okay, great. Now that you can do that, how do you actually control or steer the model to do an image based on whatever prompting you give it? Okay, how do you condition it? How do you control it? Those are all the words. How do you steer it? You'll find all these synonyms being used heavily in the literature. That's basically what they mean. How do you give it a prompt and then steer what gets produced? All right, so let's say we want to build a model that can be used to generate images of stately college buildings. Okay, obviously our very own Killian Court is the finest example of such a thing. Um, and uh, but let's say you want to do that. So what you do is you as as we always do with machine learning, we collect a bunch of data. In this particular case, we collect a whole bunch of images of stately college buildings. Uh, and what you see here is literally me just doing a Google image search with the query stately college buildings. Okay, so this is the kind of stuff you get. Uh, so you have your training data at your disposal. It's ready to go. Now the question is if you have such a model, let's say, and obviously we'll talk about how to build such a model very soon. But let's say you have such a model and every time you sort of sample this model, every time you ask the model, hey, give me an image, you obviously wanted to give a different image, right? Otherwise, it's kind of boring. All right? Some you know maybe you want the Killian Court, maybe you want the rotunda from the University of Virginia. Anybody any UVA alums here? Nobody. Okay. Um, so and right. So the question is how can we actually get it to randomly give us different images? But but they all have to be stately college buildings. It can't be just some random stuff, right? So, how do you do that? And the way we do that, and I still find it really astonishing that this approach actually works. The way we do that is that we actually give it noise. And I will define very precisely what I mean by noise in just a just a bit. Okay, basically assume an image in which all the pixel values are randomly picked. Right? So every time you generate a random image and you give it to the model, you'll it'll use that random starting point and then create an image for you. And because by definition, if you choose noise randomly, they are, you know, obviously going to be different each time. It's hopefully going to generate a different image. But if the model is trained on stately college buildings, it will produce images of stately college buildings. It's not going to produce a picture of a Labrador retriever. Okay, so that's basically what we're going to do. Now, if you look at something like this, the first question of course is that how can we train a model to generate an image from pure noise? This just sounds ridiculous, right? You basically give it a bunch of random numbers and say, give me code. It feels really ridiculous. And at that point, you know, folks can sort of come to a stop and say, "All right, this approach is probably not going to take me anywhere. It's a bit of a dead end. But then some clever people had this very interesting idea. They said um it's not clear how to do this you know um just a quick aside there's this really amazing book which is published maybe 50 years ago maybe earlier than that called how to solve it by George Polia. George Poliov was a eminent mathematician um and he wrote this small book called how to solve it and it lists a whole bunch of huristics that mathematicians use when they solve problems and perhaps the most commonly used heristic is just reverse the question just reverse the question and see if anything comes out of it most of the time nothing will come out of it but maybe some other time something amazing comes out right this is a great example of that heristic at work we don't know how to do this so the question is can we do the reverse If I give you Killian code, can you produce noise out of it for me? And the answer is yeah, of course we can do that. Right? Given an image, we can easily create a noisy version of it. So you can take the original image, you can add some noise to it to get this and you keep on adding a lot of noise and finally you'll get something that's basically you can't tell that there is clean clear clean code anymore. Right? This process, the reverse process is actually very easy to do. Okay? So the question bec by the way for folks of who may not be very familiar with this notion of adding noise to an image or making an image noisy. Let me just show you in a collab just a minute how easy it is. All right. So um we let's say we import a bunch of these things. As usual we have numpy and so there is this thing called the python imaging library pil which is very handy for image manipulations. So we import that and then I just literally read read this image in. I uploaded it before class. Let's just make sure it's here. Okay, good. Kalian.png. So I I read this image. Okay. Uh and then once I read it, I convert it into a numpy array. And then remember in a in any color image, you have three tables of numbers. The the number there's a number for each pixel for red, blue, and green. And then each number is between 0 and 255. U and so here what we do is we divide everything by 255 just to normalize it so it's all between zero and one and we have done this in the past right I do that here uh all right so let me just read this back in convert it and then if you look at the shape it's basically a 411 x 583 * 3 um three channels as we have seen before and then I'll just show it all right that's the picture so now what we want to do is we want to add noise to this picture all we have to do Okay, for each pixel, we basically randomly pick a normal variable, a normal distribution, normally distributed random variable with a mean of zero and a small standard deviation. So it's like a small number and then we just literally add that number to every pixel. But for every pixel, we sample. Every pixel we sample. It's not like we sample once and add it to all the pixels. We sample for every pixel. And so the way you do that is basically literally np.random.normal. normal and then this 3 here is a standard deviation and we tell it generate as many of these things as the as the shape of the image that I gave you. Okay. And then add each one of these numbers to the original image you get this noisy image. Okay. So if you this is the original image these are all the values between 0 and one. And then you add do this noisy image. You can see the numbers have become different. The 23 has become.18.15 has become minus.17 and so on and so forth. Right? You just added a small number random to everything. But as you can see here now you have some negative numbers. You may have some numbers that's greater than one. And we do want everything to be between 0 and one. So all we do is we do this thing called clip it where essentially values smaller than zero are set to zero. Values greater than one are set to one. And so we'll just do that. That's it. Everything over one squashed to one. Everything under zero set to zero. Others leave it unchanged. Now it's again well behaved between 0 and one and we can just plot it and you get this. That's it. That's all it takes to actually add noise to an image. One line of numpy. Okay. Uh obviously you can just put this whole thing in a loop and keep increasing that standard deviation number from 3 point 4.5 so on and so forth. And when you do that you get this nice sequence of clean code and all the way to some very very noisy version of Ken code. That's it. So that's the basic idea of adding noise. Any questions on the the mechanics? Okay, good. Um so so we can add random numbers, right? And we can by increasing the magnitude of the standard deviation of these of these normal random variables, we can make the image noisier. Okay, so that suggests a really interesting idea. What idea would that be? Yeah, doing the opposite. Could you please uh microphone please? >> Uh doing the opposite like recreating the image from the noise. >> So we are trying to create the image from the noise. But that feels a little hard. So what exactly can we do? Be a little more specific. So here we have the ability to take any image and add any amount of noise to it. Right? That's the data we have. There is Kian code and there's various noisy versions of Kian code like that for the return the unit Virginia and so on and so forth. >> I would assume you would do some kind of loss function for the the final image that you get and compare it with the the original image that you train it on and then find uh yeah fine as you go. Okay, you're on the right track. Uh, any other proposals? >> I think we could try to train a neural network to reconstruct the image going from the noise to the noise noisy one. Like we could have a whole data set with images, find their noise counterpart and train to do the oppos network to do the opposite task. Yeah, that's definitely on the right track. That's definitely on the right track. Yep, good ideas. So, what we do more concretely is we we can take each image in the training data and create noisy versions of it as we have seen before. And then what we do is that we say uh we can create XY training data pairs input output pairs from all these images. So specifically what we do is we take the noisy slightly noisy version of Killian code and call it the input and we take the the the nice version of clean code and call it the output. Okay, that's the y1 x1 pair and then we get y2 x2 we get y3 x3 and all the way. So at any point in time, the relationship between X and Y, what's the relationship between X and Y? If you set it up like this as the input and the output, >> it's the set of uh standard deviations and uh the values which you change for each pixels. Those are like weights to which you transform, >> right? Or maybe I was looking for something simpler which was that that's correct. So what he's looking for is really the the relationship between X and Y. X is an image, any image, and Y happens to be a slightly less noisy version of the image. The slightly less noisy is really, really important. You're not going from Killian code, right? You're not going from the image to full noise. That's an impossible leap. You're going from the image to a slightly noisy version of the image. Okay, it is that slightly that allows all the magic to happen. So that's what we have. And so here what we can do with these XY pairs when you have an So here's the thing, right? This is like a larger comment about machine learning and deep learning. Um whenever you have basically what machine learning deep learning are or really it's like this this black box where if you can find interesting input output pairs you can learn a function to go from the input to the output that's it but this sounds kind of simple when I describe it like that but there are like some incredibly non-obvious ways of applying this idea right so for example a few years ago Google had this uh thing which may actually be in production in Google Sheets now where whenever you um sort of choose a bunch of numbers, a range of numbers in a spreadsheet and and then go into another cell, it'll immediately suggest a formula for you. Where is that coming from? It's because all the Google Sheets users all over the world, they have been creating all these numbers with formulas, right? So, someone says, "Look, wait a second. We have all this data on people choosing a range of numbers and then entering a formula. So let's imagine the range is the input and the formula as the output and let's just give a million examples of this pair and see if anything comes out of it and boom you get that feature. Okay. So similarly here X is an image less noisy version of the image. What that means is that we can build a dnoising network. Okay, we can take an image and we can build a network using all these XY pairs to slightly dn noiseise it. Okay. Um and so all how do we do it? We just run stocastic gradient to sit on the data. We have a network. It has X and Y and then Y is a slightly less noisy version and then B. Okay, you're just a network. It has a bunch of weights. we have the we have the right answer in terms of what the images need to be u we can do stocastic gradient descent or atom or something and before you know it if you have enough data you have a network which can d noiseise anything you give it okay um you had a question >> why slightly >> why slightly um we'll come back to that question the the reason is that u in general you you have to do what you can to help the model and this is sort of the proverbial there is an old adage you can't cross a ditch in two jumps. It's too big. So, right. So, you can't do it. So, what you do is you create a bridge to go from here to there. And so, what you do is if you can slightly d noiseise something really well. Well, I can actually den noiseise anything you want really well using that fundamental capability as you will see in a second. >> Just to follow up. So, if you go back the last slide, I could have created the same thing as that is my x1 and that is my y. Then the second one is x2 and still this is the y. So there is effectively there is a learning there that it could have taken from those pairs and come back with okay this is also a possibility this is also a possibility and it found out that noise matrix and it can subtract. >> Yeah. So the thing is you want to make sure that each time the amount of learning it has to do is as bounded and small as possible. If you give it some starting point and an ending point and keep moving this ending point, the gap is still really high for the first several of those starting points. That's the problem. Okay. So to come back to this, so we can build a dinoising model. We can do this. And now when you have once you have built such a thing, you give it some noisy thing and then it'll you know give you a slightly less noisy version of it. Okay, the resolution is going to go up slightly if you do that. This of course suggests the obvious way in which you would use it which is that once you train it we can solve this problem. Okay. And how can we solve this problem? So what you do is you start with pure noise and then repeatedly dn noiseise it. Okay. You get that, you get that, and then before you know it, Killian Kurt has emerged from the fog, right? It's pretty insane that it actually works this idea. So, so the model will generate a sequence of less noisy images and the final one you have is the answer. Okay. Now there's a whole bunch of detail here which I'm glossing over about okay how many times must we run this loop to get to a really good picture. The short answer is you it initially it was like you have to run it like a thousand times. Each each each doising step was like a baby step. You have to do it a thousand times to get a really good answer. Again research has been very active in the area continues to be very active. Now you can I think do it like 50 steps or 100 steps. Right? But diffusion models like this uh they tend to take more time than a large language model which is why if you give a prompt to one of these models like midjourney it will take some time for it to come back with an image and and that the reason for the delay is because it's going through this you know incremental dnoising loop. Yeah. >> Uh from this we understand that each uh the final noise output sample would be very particular to each image in the matrix. So I mean like say two if you take two images the final we are getting is the image in the after when we start voicing it and the final output we get is the noise sample will be too distinct for each of them right >> correct >> so but when we are picking up image to generate a diffusion model and we work backwards we may not have the exact thing available to us what was there initially >> no no the thing is we don't want to necessarily regenerate images that were in the training data right that's kind of pointless we want to geneneral new images and for new images we just use start use noise as a starting point you know the fact that Killian code was here and then the fully noised version of Kian code is here that is used for training and once you use it for training you don't need it anymore because you're not trying to recreate Killian code again you want to create new images which belong to the category of stately college buildings and for that all you you just grab noise send it in it gives you a stately college building end of And because noise by definition is different each time you pick it, it's going to come up with a different stately college building. So the way I think about it is that uh all right so you can think of it as this right this is so when you sample think of this as like the noise distribution each time you sample right there's a little point you pick from here another time you sample maybe you get a point here right each is just you know nice distribution that's it what actually these things are doing is they are mapping mapping it to the distribution of stately college buildings which might be in a you know strange crazy distribution. So each time you sample you just go from here and you land at a point here and when you go from here you know you land at a point there. That's what so what you have done is when you when you take the training data you basically created points here and then found the matching noise here and then flipped it for training as we have seen before and once you're done with it you basically have a mechanism for transforming any entry in this distribution of images to an entry in this distribution of images. So it's a way to transform one distribution to another distribution. That's what's going on. Um all right. Um so there was a question. Yeah. And then we'll go. >> I understand the going from noise to to the image and back how you how the training works. So my question is you know in some of these models today you have you know when you give it the noise now to generate with an image for example it could generate a human with four fingers or you know stuff like that. So is it that the that the model that the training data is not just quite enough to or more as robust enough to uh generate that kind of detail? [cough] Can you kind of talk through like what's more? >> Yeah. So so fundamentally what it's doing is it actually does not understand the notion of fingers and things like that. Right? Because there is like we haven't injected any domain knowledge into this whole process by saying that hey we need to generate you need to generate a human body and here are the semantics of what the human body is right it's got uh five fingers and all the anatomical stuff we're not giving anything we literally giving it pixel values bunch of pictures so everything you're seeing is basically just coming out of that very blind statistical transformation process so it's so you would expect that macrolevel details will probably get it Right? Because there are so many right answers. So imagine it's actually, you know, it's creating um the roof of a house. There could be all kinds of variations in the roof of the house and you would still think it's a roof of a house, right? Because there are many possible right answers. But when it comes to five fingers, there are not many possible right answers, which is why you notice the error very quickly. As far as the model is concerned, it doesn't know, right? It's just producing a statistically plausible sample from that distribution. And since we haven't forced it to obey constraints like five fingers and so on and so forth, it's not going to do any of that stuff. It's an unconstrained process. Now over time, these things have gotten better and better and that's because the data has gotten better to your point. But I think our approach to doing these things is also getting better, right? There are lots of ways to now steer it and control it so it behaves the right way. And that is actually part of what's happening as well. So when we talk about how do you actually give a text prompt and have it build the image for that particular prompt, we would we'll revisit this question. Um okay, there was there were more questions. Yeah. >> Is there some randomness in the model itself? Right. So if you gave it the same noise image twice, will it actually produce the same final image or will it >> Yeah, there is randomness in the process as well. >> In the process process, exactly. Um, so to actually that's a really good point, but now I'm afraid to open my laptop. I'm an iPad. One second. All right. Okay. So, what's going on here is that if you um go to this thing so I talked about we are transforming from here to some crazy distribution here, right? So, what happens that let's say that this is the starting point for the the noise input. This is your noise input and then what it does what you actually do is you go here and then you take this point and then you do a small sample next to it. So you use this as like the mean value and then sample around it and that's actually what gets published in the user interface. That's where the randomness comes in. Okay. So um so back to this was there another question somewhere. >> Yeah. >> Um it's okay. >> Uh I was just wondering about the when going when training on a on a clear picture to go to a noisy image uh to pull from a random sample like random this sample probably pseudo random. I was just wondering if it's like learning relationships that are dependent on pseudo randomness and so when it goes from a noisy image back to pure image it's dependent on that or it matters at all. >> Oh I see. So if I understand your question what you're saying is that it's pseudo random not actually random >> and so therefore there is some signal in the supposedly random generation is it actually glomming onto that signal right is the question. Theoretically, it's probably possible, but in practice, it really doesn't matter because we basically say random is good enough for our purposes. And in fact, in practice, you will see it's not an issue. Um, okay. So, oh yeah, go ahead. >> There's a quick question. when you're doing uh like text to text, let's say you're uh tokenizing the input, but here you somehow have to identify that this is Killian Cord and like a stately home and this is just going from pixel image to or like decoding a pixel image. Um where does the the tag or tokenization of like columns or fingernails or like >> does nothing. It's learning everything from the pixel values. >> Everything. >> Yeah. And this is sort of what I was, you know, when I when Ike asked the question about the four fingers, five fingers thing, it has no idea of fingers. It has zero knowledge about any of these things. All it's seeing is a bunch of photographs. >> Okay. So when you when you type in say I want a hand with green. >> Oh, I see. So we haven't yet come to the stage of okay, how do you actually steer this image using your text prompt? It's coming >> right now. All we're saying is that look, I'm going to give you a bunch of uh photographs of a particular kind of thing, stately college buildings and I want to have a model which at the end of the day I just poke it. Every time I poke it, it gives me a stately college building. That's it. Now I'm going to actually start giving it text and saying okay build the you know create the thing I'm just telling you about that's coming and that's sort of some additional magic is going on to get that done. U okay so this is what we have u and this is called a diffusion model. Okay. And this is the original paper that figured this out. Um, and the the process of actually creating taking an image and creating noisy versions of it to create a training data is called the forward process. And then what we did in reverse is called the reverse process. Uh, check out the paper. It's actually really well written. Uh, and I recommend it. Now, in practice, uh, some other researchers came along shortly after this and made a small improvement. turns out to be actually a big improvement in practice in terms of improving the quality of what's being produced. And so what they said is hey instead of training the model to predict the less noisy version of the image we actually ask it to predict just the noise in the input and then we will just simply subtract the noise from the input to get the image. So instead of saying here is an X X is an image Y is the noisy image we actually tell it here is an image here is the noise that we added to X to get the the noisy version and then just predict the noise for me and then once I get it I just do X minus noise and I get the less noisy version of the image. Okay, this feels arithmetically equivalent but in practice it ends up generating much higher quality images and there's some very interesting theory as to why that works and so on and so forth and you can read this paper if you're interested. Okay, so if you actually look at what's going on in most diffusion models today, they're basically using an approach like this. They're actually predicting each time they predict noise and take it away, subtract it. So iterative subtracting of predicted noise. That's what's going on. So all right, so that's what we have. U now at this point you may be wondering, okay, so far in the semester, uh we have actually learned how to take an image and then classify it into one of you know 20 things, 10 things, whatever. We also taken text and figured out what to do things with it. We haven't yet talked about how do you actually take an image and the how can we get the output also to be another image. We haven't done that yet. Okay. So we have actually not done image to image. How do you actually build a neural network to do image to images? And in the interest of time you're not going to get into it massively but I want to give you a quick idea of how it works. So the the most sort of I would say the dominant architecture to take an in image as an input and produce an image as an output is called the unit. Okay. And that's the architecture we see here. So so fundamentally if you look at the left half so there's a left half to the network and a right half to the network hence the U. If you look at the left half of the network it's it's a good old convolutional neural network like the kind we know and love. Okay. And the the kind that we are very familiar with. So you take an input image and then you run it through a bunch of convolutional uh convolutional blocks and then we do some max pooling and then we keep on doing it and at some point it becomes smaller and smaller and we get something you know like this which we are very familiar with right the the big image with three channels gets smaller and smaller smaller but the number of channels gets wider and wider. it becomes sort of much smaller but much deeper right it becomes like a 3D volume and we have seen that again and again right the left part is just a good old convolutional with pooling layers and then you come to the middle and then from this point on what we do is we take whatever this thing here and then we essentially reverse the process we go from the small things which are really deep to slightly bigger things that are a little less steep and so on and so forth till we get the original size back again Okay. And we do that using the some an inverse of the convolution layer called an upconvolution or deconvolution layer. Okay. And you can check out 9.2 in the textbook to to to understand how it's done. It's it's also called con 2D transpose. Okay. It's a very similar idea and I'm not going to get into the details here but you essentially do an inverse of a convolutional operation to get the size to come back to the bigger size and you do it gradually till the output you have matches the size of the input that came in. Okay, so image gets smaller and smaller into a thing and then you just blow it back up again to get an image back. So that is the unit. Now there's very one very important thing that happens in the unit, right? which is you see these connections, right? Basically, what they do is at every step when you're coming back up in the right half, you actually attach whatever was in sort of the mirror image of the original input as we processed on the left side, we attach it to this side as well. Remember I talked about this whole notion of a residual connection back, you know, many classes ago where I said when uh when an input goes through each layer of a neural network at one point, let's say you're in the 10th layer, you're only seeing what is the ninth layer is produced for you. That's all you're working with. But would it be nice if the the the 10th layer actually had access to the eighth layer, the seventh layer, the sixth layer, the fifth layer? Heck, why not the input, right? Because the more information it has, the more able it's probably to do whatever it can with the input it's giving. Why restrict it to only the input of the the output of the previous layer? Why can't we give it everything that has came before it? Now giving everything is too much. But we can be selective in what we give it. Right? So what these folks decided I'm sure after much experimentation is that if they actually attach whatever was coming out of this layer to this layer before it goes through the output, it really helped. Similarly, this thing gets attached and so on and so forth. And it kind of makes sense. You know, why force it to figure out everything it has to figure out just from this thing that came in, right? Let's give this that that. Let's also give a little here, a little here. So, these residual connections are a huge building block for why these things work as well as they do. Okay? And in general, giving a layer as much information as you can give it is always a good idea, but you can't go nuts, right? Because then you have much more parameters and all kinds of stuff happens. So there is a bit of a balance you have to strike and this was the balance struck by these researchers. And so this thing was originally invented for some medical segmentation use cases but it's just heavily used for everything now. It's a really powerful architecture. Uh questions >> uh can we have example of like in what scenarios we use this kind of >> anytime you have an image to image >> like what kind of conversion do you get image to image? or like what kind of examples of use cases. Let's say that for example you want to take an image and like a black and white image and you want to colorize it for instance boom you unit you want to take an image and make it a higher resolution image unit you want to take an image and for every pixel in the image you want to classify it into you know one of 10 things. So anytime when you want the output shape the shape of the output to be basically the same shape as the input but with other data you need to use this. Yeah. >> But this logic of having access to all the previous iterations >> not iterations >> all the previous layers >> right the outputs of the previous layers >> layers. Uh but this would also help uh clean up and give better categorization like does it always have to be an image to image? >> No. No. In fact, if you look at restnet, restnet is the one in fact that pioneered the idea of the residual connection. So we use it for restnet. We actually use the the transformer stack if you remember it goes through the self attention layer. It comes out the other end and then we add the input back to it and then we send it through layer. So you will see that this residual connection is sitting in two different places in a single transformer block. So it's extremely heavily used. There is something called deep and wide network if I remember or denset which uses the same trick. In fact if you when you're working with structured data right good old say linear regression and you've looked at your data and you come up with all kinds of very clever features you know I'm going to look at price per square foot right you do a bunch of feature engineering and you have a bunch of new features. Well, you should take your old features and your new features and send both in. Why send only the new stuff that you have concocted? Why can't you send everything in? That's the idea. All right. Um, so let's come back here. Now we have seen how to generate a good image. Okay. Now let's figure out how to steer it or condition it with a text prompt, right? Because that's sort of the holy grail. So we want to take so here's some intuition. We want to take the text prompt into account and obviously generate the image. Now imagine if we had like a rough image that corresponds to the text prompt. Just imagine. So the text prompt is you know cute laborator retriever and you have like a very noisy image of a laboratory retriever. This just happens to be handy. You have it. Well now you're in good shape because you just feed that in and your system will denise it for you. Right? Right? You can get a better image. That's pretty easy. So, but obviously in reality, you don't have a rough image. In fact, you're trying to create one of those things in the first place. We don't. So, but what if we had an embedding for the prompt that's close to the embeddings of all the images that correspond to the prompt. So, let's take a prompt and let's imagine all the images in the in the universe that correspond to that prompt. Okay? And now further imagine because everything is a vector. Everything is embedding in our world that that image has an embedding. All sorry the text prompt has an embedding. Every image has an embedding and we have somehow calculated these embeddings so that the text prompts embedding is smack where all the image embeddings are. We will get to how we actually do it in a in just a moment. But conceptually imagine if we had an embedding if you could calculate embeddings for text and embeddings for images. So they all live in the same space. Okay. So if we feed this embedding to a dinoising model because that text embedding is sitting in the same space as all the image embeddings that it corresponds to. Maybe our model can just d noiseise that embedding and give you what you want. Okay, so since this embedding is already close to the embeddings of the things we want to generate, maybe you'll just get it done. So ultimately we want to generate an image and if we had an embedding for that image, we could generate the image from the embedding and we use the text. So we go from text to embedding which happens to live in the same space as all the embeddings of the images we care about. And then from that image embedding, we go to the final image. Okay, this is a bunch of me talking and handwaving. it'll all become very clear but that's sort of the rough intuition. Okay. So, so what we'll know is we'll describe an approach to calculate an embedding for any text any piece of text that is close to the embeddings of the images that correspond to that piece of text. So this is the problem we're going to solve. There's a bunch of text conceptually there are a whole bunch of images that are describe that text and we're going to now create embeddings so that that is close to all the embeddings of those images. Right? It feels kind of like almost impossible that you can actually do something like this, but there's a very clever idea uh that OpenAI came up with that tells you how to do it. So, here's what we're going to do. So, let's say we have an image and a caption. So, here's an image. Uh here's a caption, right? And we need some way to take that piece of text and run it through some network and create a nice embedding from it. Okay? Similarly, we want to take this image, run it through some network and create an embedding from it. Okay. Now, first first question, how can we compute embeddings from a piece of text? First question, how can we comput an embedding from a piece of text? You know the answer. Run through a transformer. Piece of cake. We know how to do that, right? U right in particular, you can do something like BERT. And for an image encoder, you just run it through something like restnet like the the penultimate layer, right? one of the final layer is going to be a very good representation of that image. You get another embedding. So using the building blocks we already know, we can create embeddings very quickly from these things. Okay, but if you just take a piece of text and run it through a bird and you take an image and run it through SNET, you're going to get some embeddings. But why the heck should they be related? They were not trained together. So there's no basis for them to be related. They would just be some two embeddings. Maybe they are kind of similar. Maybe they're not. We don't know. There's no reason to expect that they're going to be similar. Okay, they're just two embeddings. Now, what we want to do is but once we have these, we need to make sure the embeddings that comes out of these two things satisfy two very important requirements. We want to make sure that if you give it an image and a caption that describes that image. So you have an image and a caption that describes that image, we want to make sure that the embeddings that come out of these two boxes, they are as close to each other as possible. Okay? Given an em given an image and a caption that describes it, that's the connection. They have to be close to each other. And conversely, if you have an image and a caption that's totally irrelevant, right? A train rounding a bend with a beautiful fall foliage all around, right? Clearly irrelevant. Those embedings should be far apart. that it to really make sense, right? Pairs of related things should be together, irrelevant things should be far apart. So if you can find embeddings that satisfy these two criteria, maybe we will be in the game. Okay. So now this ensures that the text embedding and the image embedding are referring to the same underlying concept. Right? This these requirements will enforce that. Uh and so the embedding for any text prompt is close to the embedding for all the images that correspond to that prompt. So the question is how do we do this? Uh how can first of all how can we tell how close two embeddings are? You know the answer to this what's the answer >> correct cosine similarity right? We use the cosine similarity of the embeddings. U so we know how to measure closeness. So the question is how can we compute embeddings that satisfy the two requirements and openai uh built a model called clip which is very famous uh to solve this problem right it stands for contrastive language image pre-training uh and this forms the basis for a whole bunch of models that have sprung up after this called blip and blip 2 and so on and so forth but this is the fundamental idea okay so this is how clip works we uh what they did is they took a a 12 block 12 layer 8 head transformer cosal encoder stack as a text encoder uh okay now you understand this right that's what it is eight layer I mean sorry 8 head 12 layer transformer causal encoder TC stack um and and that's a text encoder so we send any piece of text through it right you get the next word prediction embedding and that's the embedding you're going to use uh and they took restnet 50 and made it the image encoder they took rest 50 chopped off the top and whatever was left is the the image encoder. Okay, then they initialized with random weights these things and then they grabbed they grab a batch of image caption pairs. So in this example, let's say that we have these three images u and I have captions to go with these images. Okay, we have these three things and this is the key step. They run the images through the image encoder and the captions through the text encoder and get these embeddings. Okay, it's a forward pass. You send it through this network, you get two embeddings. Um, and then this is what they do. With these embeddings, they calculate the cosine similarity for every image caption pair. Okay? And so imagine something like this. So you have these three captions, you have these three images, and those are the embeddings. uh and then they calculate the cosine similarity for every one of those things. It took me like 5 minutes or 10 minutes to do this PowerPoint. You're welcome. Particularly trying to get this comma to line up is a real pain in the neck. So, so all right. So, we have this here. Okay. And now what we want to do is uh we want these scores to be as high as possible, right? Because the scores in the diagonal are the ones where for the matching picture and caption, right? Those are the those are the those are the the scores for the matching pairs of embeddings. We want them to be as high as possible. Okay. Um so so we want to maximize the sum of the green cells, right? These are the green cells the diagonal. So, so if I if you want to write it as a loss function because the loss function is always minimization, we basically say minimize the negative sum of the green cells. Okay, so the question is would this loss function do the trick? Seems reasonable. You want to make sure the related things are really close together. So you want to maximize uh if that was the only part of the loss function, wouldn't it just kind of squish everything to the same spot in the space? >> Correct. What it's going to do is it's going to basically ignore the input. The optimizer can simply ignore the input, make all the embeddings the same. For example, it can just make all the embedding zero. That's it. And then now we have a perfect cosine similarity for everything. For a any pair of image and captions, the cosine similarity is going to be one. It's perfect, right? So clearly that's not enough. This is by the way is called model collapse, right? So to prevent it from doing that, we need to do one more thing to the loss function. Any guesses? >> Yeah. >> Uh make the images that aren't related not have a cosine similarity. >> Exactly. Right. Exactly right. So what we want to do is we want the scores of the red stuff to be as small as possible. We want the green stuff to be as much as possible and the red stuff to be as small as possible. Together it'll get the job done. Okay. And so um so we want to maximize the sum of the green cells and minimize the sum of the red cells. So the equivalent loss function is minimize the sum of the red cells and the negative sum of the green cells. That's it. So all clip does is that it just grabs a batch of image caption pairs, runs it through the networks, calculates the embeddings and calculates this sum of the stuff here and that is your loss and then back propagates through the network. Boom. Batch batch batch. Do it a whole bunch of times. And OpenAI did this with uh oh this is the official picture from the open from the paper which is worth reading by the way right it comes in text encoder you get these uh embedding vectors image encoder and then boom the diagonal is maximized and the off diagonals are minimized and they did it with 400 million image caption pairs scraped from the internet. 400 million. By the way, you folks who work in the space may know this really well, but uh one very easy way to get a caption for an image, right? You we see images, but where do you think the captions come from? Where did they get those captions? They didn't obviously they didn't ask people to manually label each image of the caption. Where do you think they got it from? >> Google search. >> Uh Google search can help but why does Google search actually find the caption? How does it because Google search is not creating the caption? um >> take it from the ALT text on the images. >> Correct. ALT text. So a lot of folks for accessibility reasons they have ALT text right on all the images they create. A lot of people have ALT text in their images they publish on the web and that's what we use. And the ALT text actually ends up being a a more verbose description of the image than a typical caption which tends to be much briefer. And for us more verbose longer the better because there's more stuff for the bottle to learn from. Um, so that's how they built clip. And so now what we do is we use we can use clip's text encoder by itself, right? We can send in any text and get an embedding that is close to the embedding of any image that described by the text. Okay. Now, by the way, clip can be used for zeros image classification. And what I mean by zeroshot image classification, I'll I'll walk through the picture in just a second, is that typically when you want to build an image classifier, right, you can get a whole bunch of training data of images and their labels and then we train them, right? Maybe you take something like restnet, chop off the top, attach our own output head and train, train, train. Boom, you have a classifier. But the only problem with that is let's say that tomorrow so today for example you had five classes in your problem and tomorrow somebody comes along and says oh actually we have a sixth category right what do you do then well you have to go back to the drawing board and retrain the whole thing with six labels now not five because your problem has changed would it be great if you had a classifier where you just come to it and say here's an image and here are the six possible labels I want you to pick from pick one from me and you want to be able to give it a different set of labels those each time and it'll just use the labels you're giving it and the image and figures out which which label corresponds to the image you just fed it that would be an insanely flexible image classification system right and that's what I mean by zeroshot image classification and you can use clip to do zero short image classification the now how you do it is actually in the picture though not very clearly done anyone wants to How can you use clip to build a like a infinitely flexible image classifier? >> Um I mean the text input was like was trained vert right? So in the same way vert can handle words never seen before does it essentially do that? Sorry, say that again. The second part >> you're saying you're saying it sees a text input with something it's never seen before, right? Yeah. >> Okay. So, in the BERT model, which is where where it came from, in the text encoding in the BERT model, I think we talked about when it sees a word it doesn't know that it's never seen before, it can use the the context words around it to try to >> Right. Right. So, but but here, just to be clear, I I want you to use clip that we just built, right? And assume clip can see any knows all the words because it's been trained on a big vocabulary. You can give it any text you want. It'll create an embedding from it. That's the key capability. >> So it creates a text embedding for >> Yeah. >> because like and then for your image. So comparing similarity scores between the two the image is complete but the text is not complete. there'll be missing pieces and then make some prediction using this. Why is there a missing piece in the text? >> Because um the image the the text the text does not contain the class. Um and then but for the image the way it was trained it was trained like with pairs with class including >> right but we actually know the class now because so the use case is that I come to you with an image and I say here are the seven possible labels for this image and each label is a piece of text. So you can you actually have seven pieces of text and an image and all I want clip to do is to tell me okay the seventh the fourth label is the right one for this image but you're on the right track once you see how it's done you'll be like yeah of course might not be understanding something but wouldn't you just pick the embedding that's the closest to the like the the text embedding that's the closest to the image embedding Correct. You're not missing anything. That's the right answer. Well done. Come on people. Can you applaud our fellow here? [applause] You folks are hard to impress. That's exactly what we do. So here the the key thing to remember the key thing to keep in your head is that when you a label is just text, dog, cat, right? It's just text. So you can just imagine taking each label with which in this case is plane car dog whatever for each one of them you create an embedding you get t1 through whatever if you have n labels for the image you just have one embedding i and then you just create the cosine calculate the cosine similarity and whichever is the highest number you say okay it's a dog that's it it's super just imagine the level of flexibility here so that's a a side use of clip unrelated to diffusion models but that's just thought it's really clever so I wanted to share that okay good u now let's see how we can actually use this entire capability to go to solve the original problem we set out to solve which is can we steer the diffusion model to create an image based on a particular prompt we give it um so now remember if you go back to how we did it we created all these training pairs of x and y based on you know the the noising the image x is the image y is the less noisy version of image. So what we can simply do is we can actually change the input so it becomes the image and then the clip text embedding of the caption for that image. So you have an image and you have a caption. You take the caption run it through clip you get an embedding. By definition that embedding is in the lives in the same space as all the images that correspond to that caption. Right? So you just attach you concatenate the embedding of the clip output of a caption along with the image. You say make that the new input. Now Y continues to be the less noisy version of the image or as we saw earlier it could be just the noise component of the image. Okay, this is the new XY pair that we have. And so now the model is you send the clip X embedding the image X send it through noisy version of the image and you keep on training it for a while. Once your model is trained for when you want to use it for inference for a new uh prompt, you just give it you know Killian quoted MIT during the springtime along with a bunch of noise goes in it starts dinoising it. But because this embedding of this thing thanks to clip lives in the same image space as all Ken code embeddings clean code images at some keep on doing it for a while at some point you'll get Kian code. That's how they do it. That's how they steer the image. It's a two-step process. You create all these clip embeddings uh which clip was a breakthrough in my opinion because they it was one of the maybe the first example. I don't know if it's the very first but one of the early examples of saying we have different kinds of data. We have images, we have captions, we have text. How do we create embeddings for every one of these very different data types that all happen to live in the same space, the same concept space? That was the key idea. And if you look at the modern multimodal large language models, they are all based on the same exact idea. So it's very powerful this approach. Yeah. Now I understand this for images, but for video generation models like Sora, do they have some sort of underlying physics structure or do they learn the physical representations? >> There's a lot of debate on the internet about this stuff. Um they haven't published the results, the full technical report yet. So we don't know for sure but the consensus seems to be no it's not they are not using a physics engine what they have done uh and again this may be wrong once the report comes out we'll know for sure but uh people what people are saying computer vision experts is that it was has been trained on a lot of video game data uh along with actual videos and so on and if you and the corpus of training is so massive that it has basically learned to mimic certain physics aspects to it just as a side effect much like LLM you train them on a large amount of text data they begin to start to do things which you didn't anticipate that they'll do right so for example I read this I thought it's a really great example of what is surprising about large language models is not that you know you train them on a b bunch of high school math problems and then you give it a new high school math problem it can actually solve it that's not surprising you give it a whole bunch of high school math problems in English then you ask it to read a bunch of French literature and then you give French high school math will solve it. That is that is the new news, right? So similarly here I think the expectation is that it's not actually using a physics engine under the hood. It may have used a physics engine to actually come up with the videos and renderings but there are no physics constraints in the model itself. It just comes out of the training process. That's the current view. Once the technical report comes out, we'll know for sure what they actually did. U >> so quick question about stability. It's claiming to be a little bit more real time in their image generation. Um, so >> you mean stable diffusion? >> Yeah, stable diffusion. So, are they jumping through the noise more quickly or are they kind of like pre-prompting it and kind of trick? >> Very good question and there's a very key trick. It's coming. >> Um, >> so here the example of the noise is normal distribution. However, if we have changed the noise distribution, is it change the result? Oh, you mean if you change it to like a pson or some other distribution, it'll definitely change the results because u if you look at the underlying math of why this works, it heavily depends on the Gaussian assumption. >> Yeah. Um there was another question somewhere here. >> Um you may not know the answer because the technical report out, but could it be in terms of video generation sort of analogous to going from like one fuzz one noisy image to another? like you're almost doing a series of still images and learning how to >> No, I think that I think people are sure is is how it's done. So, basically you think think of the video as just a series of frames, right? And each frame is an image and there is a sequentiality to it. Um, which is where the transformer stack will come in because it handles sequentiality. So, in general video stuff typically operates on frame by frame which is just an image. So, that is definitely there. What we don't know is if they also used some understanding of the fact that for example that if an object is dropped it has to fall to the earth in a certain rate or if an object goes behind another object you can't see the object anymore right things like that which we take for granted um the question is are they using it and the consensus seems to be uh in the absence of an actual technical report that no they're not doing it because there are lots of examples on Twitter where people will show a Sora video in which it's not obeying the laws of physics. So you take like a beach chair and then put it in the sand. You see the sand come through the base of the beach chair, right? Or you take an object and put it behind an object. You can still see the object even though the original object is opaque. So you be seeing some evidence that no no it's not obeying the laws of physics. What you're seeing is just an amaz fingers without knowing there has to be only five fingers. Um okay. All right. So we let's keep going now. Um so this there was another paper afterwards and this is the original paper which took that idea of the diffusion model and then diffusion is very slow as Olivia you pointed out. So the question is can we make it much faster? Right? So what they did and I'm not going to get into this whole thing here. I just want to highlight a couple of things. The first one is that um first of all notice that you see unit here. So it they are using a unit right to go from image to image. The second thing is that the clip embedding of the text prompt is basically is woven meaning it's incorporated into the w the into the into the unit through an attention mechanism a transformer mechanism and you can see the QKV business here which should be familiar at this point. So it is integrated into the transformer stack directly that input the clip embedding that's the second thing I want to point out. And then thirdly and this is where the speed up comes. So what you do is instead of taking the image running it through the whole network and creating a slightly less noisy version of the image here what you do is you take the image you run it through an image encoder you get an embedding and now you only work with the embedding you take the embedding and create a slightly less noisy version embedding keep on doing it and these embeddings are much smaller than images therefore they're much faster to process and once you've done it like a thousand times you get a very sort of almost pure noless version of the embedding now you run it through an image decoder to get So this is the the idea here is that you operate um uh in the lat latent space meaning the embedding space and hence it's called a latent diffusion model. So that's where the speed up comes but research continues to be very strong to make it even faster because for a lot of consumer applications people are obviously not going to wait around for I mean who wants to wait for 10 seconds right so uh and so there a lot of pressure to make it even faster um all right so that's what we have obviously um you know they're these models are transforming everything and uh by the way this site here lexicon.art art. You can go check it out. Uh it has a whole bunch of very interesting images and prompts that created the images. So if you're working in the space, it gives you a lot of interesting ideas. But it's not just for you know consumer fun applications. U you know these models are being used to actually you know alpha fold if you'll recall if you give it an amino acid sequence it can actually create the 3D structure. Right? So that's an example of they they don't I don't think they use a diffusion model. But you can imagine using a diffusion model to create these complicated objects. Meaning the objects you create don't have to be images. They can be arbitrarily complicated things. As long as you have enough data about such things to use for training and the notion of noising the input is meaningful, you can create some very interesting structures. you can create 3D things and u you know protein structures and there's a whole bunch of very interesting applications in biomedical uh sciences. So this is really just the tip of the iceberg and now there are these things um there are ways in which you can use diffusion models to create to do large language modeling as well. So there's a lot of overlap and blending and so on going on in the space. So so I'm going to do a quick demo. Um if you look at hugging face there is something called the diffusers library which is like the the as the name suggests it's a library for a lot of diffusion models and let's take a quick look. All right so we will uh the diffusers library has a whole bunch of diffusion models. We going to work with stable diffusion which is one of you know like the the better known models. So let's install diffusers. Uh you will recall when we when I did the quick lightning tour of the hugging face ecosystem for language. Uh hugging face is a whole bunch of u capabilities sort of built out of the box and you use this thing called the pipeline function to very quickly use any model you want. The same exact philosophy applies here. You still use the pipeline. So I'm going to import a bunch of stuff. All right. So, oh, I see I have to do this thing. Okay. Great. F. Okay. So, uh, all right. that we have here. So you you'll remember that we when we worked with text we had to pre we we would grab a pre-trained model and then we actually run it through a pipeline and we can do all the inference we want on it. The same exact philosophy applies here. So um and this very similar to what we did in lecture 8 for NLP. So what we're going to do is we use this command the stable diffusion pipeline from pre-trained and we use this version 1.4 stable diffusion model. Um so let's just create the pipeline and and obviously we have used tensorflow not pyarch here but a lot of these models unfortunately happen to be in pyarch so knowing a little bit of pyarch is actually very helpful um to be able to work with these things and what we're doing here uh while it's downloading uh we are using this fp16 um storage format for the the model weights because it's going to be a little smaller than using 32 bits so it'll download faster. So that's what's happening here. So all right, it's downloaded fine. So now we just give it a prompt and this is actually one of the original famous uh meme prompts a photograph of an astronaut riding a horse. And so uh once we have the pipeline set up uh I'll just a seat for reproducibility. And then literally I do pipe of prompt and then it's actually you can see here 50. So it's going through 50 dinoising steps. Okay. Um and you come up with a national rating of horse. Okay. So that's that. Um you can actually change the seed and you can get get a different um the seed is basically sets the the the random starting point for the image. So therefore you would expect a different astronaut. Yep. This is an astronaut riding another horse. So um I think people came up with these kinds of fun examples because it's guaranteed not to be in the training data, right? So so whatever the model is doing, it's not remember it's not regurgitating what it has already seen. Uh, all right. Give me a prompt. Prompts. Anyone? Wow. >> Okay, that might be a All right. Riding a horse. All right, there are two of them and clearly MIT professors don't have really. Yeah, moving on. [laughter] So, so by the way, um if you you should spend some time with the diffusers library, they have a bunch of tutorials which are really interesting because this core capability of giving a prompt and getting an image out can actually be manipulated for all sorts of very interesting use cases. So, for example, there is this thing called negative prompting. And the idea of negative prompting is that you can give it two prompts and say create an image which embodies the first prompt but not the second prompt. essentially subtract the second prompt from the first one. That's called negative prompting. And you might be wondering like what use is that? There are lots of fun uses. So here we are going to the prompt is going to be a labrador in the style of vermier. Okay, that's the first prompt. 50 steps. Uh look at that. Amazing, right? Uh but maybe you don't care for the blue scarf. So you basically give it a negative prompt. And you basically the negative prompt is blue meaning remove everything that's blue. I don't like this otherwise keep the Labrador thing going. So you run it. Look at that. The blue is gone. Negative prompting. Okay. Yeah. >> If you change that from five from 50 to a th00and will it become less pixelated or will it eventually just keep going and iterating? >> No. Typically, if you do more of these things, it gets better. The quality is much better because each step will den noiseise it very slightly. So, errors won't accumulate and things like that. And the diffuses library gives you lots of controls for fiddling around with all these things. Um, okay. So, that's what we had. Uh, 949. Okay. So, check out this tutorial if you're curious about how this stuff works. And I'm going to do one other thing um because I didn't get to do it earlier on. So uh we spent some time with the hugging face hub and I walked you through a few use cases for text uh where you can take a text model and use it for you know classification uh things like that summarization and so on and so forth. You can do the same thing for computer vision models. So if you have a computer vision problem that just maps to a standard C uh computer vision task you can just use the hugging face hub as well. So um let me just show you very quickly the same kind of thing actually works here. All right. Okay. So, so let's say that you want to classify something. You just import the pipeline as before. And once you import it, you can just literally give it the standard task that you care about like image classification. And and then you can start using it right from that point on. Okay. All right. Okay. So now I'm going to just get this image. So it's a very famous image. Um, right. And we're going to ask it to classify this image. So we just literally run it through the pipeline. And it says the most likely label is 94% probability. It's an Egyptian cat. Seems reasonable. Okay. I mean, it's it's a tough picture, right? Because there are lots of things going on in that picture. It's not like one one image, one object. Um okay so you don't have to use the default model you can actually give it your own model that you want. So for example, you can go um sorry you can go to the hub hugging face hub and you can go in there and say all right I want image classification these are all the models 10,487 models let's sort by I don't know most downloads or maybe most likes u and you have all these models you can pick any one of them so for example let's say you want to pick Microsoft restnet as your one that's what I tried here so I have Microsoft restnet you just s model equals that run it and it takes care of all the tokenization this that and whatnot. It's really very handy and then you run it through the pipeline again and it says tiger cat 94% probability according to restnet. Um so yeah so that's how you do it. Now let's actually try a more interesting example where you want to detect all the objects in the picture which we didn't talk about in class object detection. So just create an object detection pipeline. Same thing as before. when you actually run this command, an astonishing some amount of complicated stuff is going on under the hood. Okay, and we are all the beneficiaries of that. So, thank you. Um, so yeah, so we have this here and then we run it through um the pipeline. It's looking at all the possible things that might be sitting in the pipeline. The results are hard to read. So, let's actually visualize them. Um, and I got some nice code from this site for how to visualize them. Let's just reuse it. So, yeah. So if you plot the results, look at that. Okay, so it has picked up the cat. 100% probability, I guess. The remote, the couch, the other remote, and then the cat. Pretty good, right? Off the shelf, ready to go. No, no heavy lifting required. Now, in in this case, we are actually putting these boxes called bounding boxes around each picture. But what if you actually don't want a bounding box? what you want to actually find the exact contour of that cat or the remote. No problem. We do something called image segmentation. So let's do an image segmentation pipeline uh and run it through. It takes some time. Um all right. All right. Let's visualize it. So you can So each object it finds it gives you a mask. It basically tells you for each object what object it is and then which pixels are on for that object and off for everything else. It's a mask. It tells you where it stands. And you can see here it is the first the object has found is this thing here. And it's perfectly delineated, right? It's pretty amazing. So we can overlay this on the original image and see it has found that and it is Let's look at the other objects. Oh, it has found the remote. That's the second object. And the third remote and the fourth. You think any other objects are remaining? >> Couch. Good. All right, let's find the couch. And look, the couch is pretty good except that the middle part has gotten confused. All right, but it's still pretty good, right? So, yeah. So, that is um so hugging faces all all these things and so you should definitely check it out and if you're not already very familiar with it. So, uh, we have one minute left. Any questions? No questions. Okay. All right, folks. See you on Wednesday. Thanks.