The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Um, I want to continue our discourse about u musicals especially as a way of trying to lead into the two remarkable in many ways landmark films we're going to juxtapose this evening. Remember that our plan here is to juxtapose one film, a classic instance, even a culminating instance of the studio era and of the mu tradition of the musical in the studio era against another kind of musical that appears after the advent of television and after the studio system has begun to break apart in and especially a uh after the uh the the uh fundamental transformation that the audience underwent. migrating from an habitual, a regular, a weekly relationship to Hollywood films to essentially a blockbuster relationship in which they would attend the movies. The vast majority of Americans would attend the movies only once or twice a year. And if you think about the implications of that, that fact alone will explain how profoundly the movie industry was transformed. Incidentally, I should mention to you that this is still not an idea that has been fully understood by what I'll call traditional film historians who are so locked into an idea that film must resemble the kind of thing that I that I uh learned that I watched when I grew up as a boy or as a as or as a young as a young girl. And now that a tradition of scholarship has talked about that is to say those films that never were shown on television or were never made for television uh uh it causes a problem because what these what these scholars tend to do is they ignore the social context within which the function of the movies began to be transformed. Partly there was a kind of hostility on on the on the part of many older film scholars toward the notion that television might be a worthy place to look for uh a valuable cinematic narrative. And it took a long time before the film scholar the film scholarly the com the the community of film scholars even a part of it was ready to acknowledge that television was also an environment in which in which cinema what we might call cinema audiovisisual narrative uh could be uh looked at taken seriously and so forth and of course today it's taken for granted by many commentators many of them no longer even with a cultural memory of the studio era that what goes on on television that shows like Breaking Bad or The Sopranos are the supreme forms of audiovisisual uh entertainment in our society. This too is a little uh oversimpl radically oversimplified and I will return to these questions a bit later when we when I when we talk when I talk about the westerns uh in uh and about and about film in the 70s uh in two weeks. I want to continue our discourse about uh about the musical then first by giving you a very brief uh uh perspective drawn from the film scholar Leo Brody whose essay the aesthetics of connection uh is required reading I think for this week in any case for this week or next week uh and he talks in that essay among other things very richly about the musical and about ways of thinking about the musical and I'm I'm borrowing from an argument he makes in that in that remarkable essay he makes a distinction in that essay or a or a a series of comparisons between a stair and Kelly, the two great male leads we associate with the American film musical. And he sees them very helpfully as contrasting figures illustrating what we might call contrasting elements or contrasting tendencies within the musical form. Uh think if you think about a stare and you saw him in one of his classic performances at the end of our last lecture in that sequence cheek to cheek. If you think about a stare in this way, you can get uh from that sequence, you can get something of what uh we Brody had in mind. He talks about he reminds us that a stare often dances um almost always dances and this is a partial ex a partial exception in the film you saw tonight, only a partial one, but but almost always we see a stair dancing in places that seem intended for performance. to say we won't see uh a stair dancing in the middle of a cornfield or dancing up the side of the Empire State Building as Frank Sinatra and Jean Kelly do in a in a in a musical. It's called On the Town. Uh and it's one it's one of the wonderful MGM musicals. Uh Kelly and Sinatra are dancing in spaces that are inappropriate for dance. But almost all of stairs dances take place either in literal performance spaces or in public environments that seem as if they're quai stage or or or dance environments. Uh in other words, he's he dances in spaces that we expect for dance and and he doesn't violate those spaces in some way. Uh he often in his films plays either a professional dancer or a professional performer of some kind. So when he segways into his performances there's a kind of natural connection. Um uh he's almost always very fancily dressed as you saw in tonight's sequence. Sometimes very often dancing in tux and tails uh but in any case in formal dress of some kind. Uh so he dances in spaces appropriate for dance dressed up in a kind of in a kind of formal way play uh in often playing a professional dancer or performer. Um but there's an immense grace and energy in his in his dancing. He's one of the great dancers in in as many would say the greatest dancer who ever performed in American movies. Uh and uh one way to talk about what the attractions of what he's doing is we can say that what he embodies is a is the principle of grace under constraint. Like a great baseball pitcher. Look, a lot of people can throw the ball 97 miles an hour, but only a very small number of people of pitchers who make a lot of money can throw a ball 97 miles an hour and control where it goes. And we can say that that kind of athletic power to a lot of athletics involves this where you're where you're trying to control um uh tremendous physical energy and the physical energy has to be constrained in certain ways and part of what we admire about the expression of that physical energy is how constrained or graceful it could be it can become. There are many people who make who have made analogies between a stairs dancing and what great basketball players do showing showing tremendous physical energy but also a kind of gracefulness uh uh within the constraints that are imposed upon them by the lines on the court by the demands of the basket and and so by the claims of gravity when they jump and so forth uh and I I make illusion to these uh non-dance analogies because so so many people seem to respond more fully to those than to dance them itself. Even though those of you who have danced or are dancers or know serious dancers will understand that uh dancers themselves are much greater athletes than most athletes and that and that there is a profound form of athleticism of physical energy grace and physical control involved in dance. And we see that in Estair's performances. It's as if he stands for a form of grace under constraint of strength and power constrained but not but not uh u uh undermined by the by the rules and boundaries within which it must operate. It's a form of classical art. And what we can say is that Kelly stands for classicism. Um uh I'm sorry a stair stands for the classic for the cl for classicism and Jean Kelly who is a kind of opposite in this way in his dances stands for the romantic right the classic and the romantic tendencies or energies. I'm oversimplifying here as Brody does, but it again it's a useful and illuminating simplification because we see Kelly for example mostly he doesn't play professional performers or professional dancers. He almost he almost always wears ordinary casual clothing, open shirts, uh jeans. Uh um he um a and um this casualness of appearance is matched by the fact that the dances he engages in often take place in spaces that are not appropriate for dance or almost hostile to dance. And one of the deepest principles of Kelly's performances of Kelly's dances are this is this in a certain sense is this contest between his exuberance and the and energy and the constraints that surround him. But unlike unlike a stare he does not reveal the power and grace of his dance by acknowledging the constraints and living within them. He the the energy of his dance expresses itself in the moments when he overgoes boundaries when he violates uh uh borders of various kinds and there are numerous examples of this in singing in the rain. I'll give you them. I I'll mention some of them in a little while. So, so the contrast between Kelly and a stair in this way both and and look in in both cases I've simplified because they also resemble each other in certain ways but these tendencies distill quality the these this argument distills qualities in them that clarify certain energies or tensions that can be said to be characteristic not only of their the two dance styles the kinds of movies these two stars are in but also in the musical genre as a whole. I'd like to say a couple of things about each of the two films we're going to see tonight by by way of uh uh framing some of the most important issues for you to think about. And I think without trying to anticipate too much and I have to these are very rich complex texts and uh 20 minutes of conversation uh no matter how pointed can never do full justice to them. I don't intend to do full justice to them but I want to suggest some ways for you to think about aspects of these films as you're viewing them. And my hope and expectation is that these perspectives will energize and enliven the film for you and clue cue you in to aspects of the film that you might otherwise not see as deeply or might not occur to you until you reflected on the film after the case. One way to think about singing in the rain then uh our our classic H our example of a of of a Hollywood musical our a culminating instance of a Hollywood musical is to recognize that it belongs to a subcategory of musicals to several subcategories of musicals one of which I've already mentioned the putting on the show the backstage story but here the backstage story is the story of a movie instead of a play but it's the same basic uh uh the same basic situation Uh but it is also sometimes called uh a song catalog movie because there's so many songs in it and it's kind of a kind of catalog or or an encyclopedic uh um uh uh object and an encyclopedia of film of of of of mu of music and of song. Uh and uh this is almost literally true of Singing in the Rain. Arthur Freed, the the the u uh executive producer of so many of uh major films, over 40 MGM musicals between um uh something like 1939. What was the great musical in 1939? The Wizard of Oz. The first musical that is thought to be a a musical in color. And think how organically The Wizard of Oz uses color. Arthur Freed was the executive producer of that film. From that point until sometime in the 1960s, he was the executive producer or the supervisor of something like 40 plus MGM musicals of which Singing in the Rain is a classic is a classic instance. Uh and uh uh so Frerieded had worked as a lyricist, Arthur Freed had worked as a lyricist at MGM with Nasio Herb Brown, the songwriter, uh many years earlier and most of the songs in Singing in the Rain 1952 had been introduced in MGM musicals from 1929 on. So in a literal sense, the film is a kind of encyclopedia of older songs. us and especially two key songs in the film, Broadway Melody and You Were Meant for Me, were both featured in that early uh and and and signature musical that founding musical that I mentioned this afternoon, The Broadway Melody of 1929. So part of the pleasure for older members of the audience in 1952 would have been to hear and see these numbers in the new souped-up arrangements that were created for this film in such and in such artful performances. There's one song in the film that my colleague Martin Marx M A R KS he sometimes teaches this course in the spring. He's a professor of music and he a and he sometimes and I encourage all of you to consider taking it teaches us an advanced course in the American musical. It's a wonderfully interesting course and he knows more about the musical I think than almost any living human being. Uh and I'm stealing from some of his teaching notes here when I when I say this. He says one song that Marty Marx loves to talk about is one a minor song in the film and I'm mentioning it because you might miss it otherwise. It's called Would You and it's a It's a song about it's it's a song that shows the process of dubbing, right? And it's a it's a it's a song that actually has a kind of a uh plot and historical function within the film. It it comes near the end of the film. When it was sung in this moment, it it was all well, it was already old-fashioned in its original day when it was first when it was first uh uh um written and sung. And by 1952, it's much more outmoded. Professor Marx tells us um uh although it's a simple and graceful waltz, it uses an antiquated diction for example uh and and there are other signals that even the fact that it's a waltz that show it to be kind of old-fashioned in a way. But in singing in the rain, this old-fashioned song is used to telescope the process of recording for films shot by shot. Watch how it happens. It's a very exciting moment. uh uh because u um uh uh uh and so what happens then is that the old-fashioned song becomes the cornerstone of the new technology of sound recording. Watch how it happens in the film. And what this calls our attention to is something I I I uh uh is is is something I've talked about earlier and we'll return to in a moment. The whole the idea that in certain in the most remarkable works of art, we are surely aware of the fact that we're in the presence of what the literary critics and the art critics sometimes call organic form. In which the form of the text contributes to its meaning, in which form and content are married, are hard to can't really be separated. that the formal behavior of the text enacts or embodies or articulates or dramatizes what the film is about, what the text means. I'll come back to this point in a in a minute with even more dramatic examples. I I I I hope um um so and an added point about about this would song just this one sort of minor sequence. I'm mentioning this partly to show you how deeply you could actually dig into particular sequences and particular songs in the film and find meaning, relevance, and complexity there. When Debbie Reynolds, who sings the song, looks point blank at Jean Kelly as she sings it, she drives home the question of whether he'll be brave enough to love her. Right? So, it even implicates implicates itself in the love story that's at the heart of the film. Uh um her singing voice, we might note ironically and comically in this scene is actually dubbed for this song. And you'll understand if you haven't seen the film why that's a comic and ironic commentary. Uh she had the wrong kind of voice. It was too flat and nasal for this opereta-like number. So they dubbed her voice. Uh so there's a double iron here because she's playing a dubbber when she's sing when she's singing the song. And you might compare the voice in Good Morning another number in the fil where Debbie Reynolds is really singing and and you can see the difference between the between the two voices. Okay. Um so so uh the the point I've the point I've made the implicit point that I made uh in talking about this one this one number the would you number uh it has to do with what we might call a central element or feature of singing in the rain. its profound self-consciousness. The profound way in which in which it shows itself to be aware of itself to be aware of itself as a movie to be aware of itself as a bearer of diff of of a of traditions of singing of dancing and performance. Uh uh and it's uh that makes it so it isn't simply an encyclopedia of musical history. It's almost an encyclopedia of different forms of of almost all forms of performance. I don't want to go too far but there many many forms of performance are incorporated in the in the film's in the film's grasp in the film's embrace. All right. Uh we can one way we can think of it is as an encyclopedic recapitulation of the history of m of of of musicals uh and of films in general. But as you'll notice when you look at the film there the uh singing in the rain has uh begins by being about the problem of trans of changing a silent film into a sound film because the silent the silent film has been made just at that cusp moment when the transition to sound is occurring and the film in that sense is also a wonderful sort of historical repreeze for members of our for our course even though it wasn't made for that purpose alas. Um and and uh um uh so so in the film then we also get an illusion to and a representation of silent movies but not just any not just some generic idea of silent movies. A very particular kind of swashbuckler adventure film is dramatized there. And then later in a scene I mentioned earlier today in the audition scene, the beautiful girls sequence in Singing in the Rain where a megaphone suddenly turns into a circle of dancers alluding to the Busby Berkeley tradition. Uh we have uh a very specific reference to another kind of movie musical. Right? So juxtaposed against each other are two different kinds of movies. Right? And I've only mentioned a couple of examples. As you watch the film, you'll see dozens and dozens of instances in which the film capaciously reaches back to older forms of performance and tries to incorporate them in some sense into its own structure, into its own energies. Um, and there are many older performance forms in the film. There are forms of slip, slapstick, and katon katon-like comedy, especially in Donald O' Conor's wonderful dance and song sequence, Make The Him Laugh. There are illusions and references and dramatized scenes from vaudeville, from jazz, from what we might call forms of love melodrama uh all the way through the film. And so the what and I've hardly exhausted the I haven't really cataloged even remotely all the kinds of performance spaces and performance uh uh types that the film incorporates and utilizes in the course of its uh uh uh length. uh nor have I even begun to list the number of musical styles, particular particular songs and particular dance styles that are also incorporated into the film. But I've said enough to suggest that the singing in the rain has what might be called a structural or a formal exuberance, a kind of excitement as if it as if it uh as if it every time it turns it wants to make an illusion to another kind of text. as if it feels itself in some sense with a kind of excitement and exuberant energy, constantly in touch with its ancestry and with an ancestry that it tries to define very generously and broadly. And so what we're saying is that formally, structurally, the film is the film is expressing a special kind of intellectual energy, excitement, exuberance, right? Uh and and of course what's interesting and fundamental about that is that those energies are also replicated centrally reenacted in the actual dance sequences that we see in the in the in the uh in the film. It's an a profoundly rich example of what I called a moment ago organic form. The structure or the shape of the film contributes to our sense not only that it has a kind of encyclopedic self-reflective interest in its own history and that it's recapitulating its own history for us as it as it proceeds. We also have a deep sense, a deep sense of the extent to which the film understands that many of the older forms it dramatizes are now simply being archived as if the film understands itself not only as a as a as a dramatic as a dramatic entertainment, but also as a kind of history book or a kind of encyclopedia, literally a kind of archive of all the forms of performance and song and dance that lie behind the making of such of such a film. And of course the this formal exuberance as I said is repeated again and again uh in a in a in an actualized and concrete way in the story in the plot every time the character starts singing or dancing. And as you'll see there's a particular kind of exuberance and energy in many of the dances key themes. Well I've already implicitly been talking about some of the themes. uh but let me mention just two that are seem to me especially significance significant one I've mentioned much earlier and I simply want to remind you again that this tension between what might be called high art and the pretentious expectations of a of a cultural establishment are set up for parody and mockery in this film repeatedly the film is on the side of the of the of the popular and the energetic and the ex and the and the uh unpretentious uh and and and and and one can feel that tension again and again in many many of the sequences in the movie in in in in the in the film. Uh just one obvious let me give you just two obvious examples. one um uh in the very opening sequence of the film, one of the classic moments in the history of American movies, re replayed again and again in in compilation anthologies of the great of great moments in uh in Hollywood, great moments of Hollywood film, uh is the introduction to the film and uh the the the introduction to Singing in the Rain recreates uh a a historical actuality that I need to remind today's audiences of. shows you how old this course is because when I first began to teach this course, these practices were still going on and the students still still understood and in fact had their own experience of exhibition movies in a way that most of and of and of of uh going to theaters that that uh were very lavish and and and and uh uh um in many ways even even pretentious. And what they were especially aware of is something I have to remind you of now, which is that very often Hollywood had a strategy of rolling out its great blockbuster, what it had hoped would be great blockbuster films with very elaborate uh um inaugural events, right? The debut of a film was often a major event and it would be covered by newspapers and and uh uh many Hollywood stars would be would would come and attend and they they would turn they would turn the event into a publicity event partly in order to get publicity for the for the uh release of the film, right? And Singing in the Rain opens with with such a moment in which a film is opening and and it dramatizes the the uh the the uh the comic hypocrisies that attend such uh such publicity gestures. And as the film opens, then we have a we we see a sequence in which the star of the the stars of the of the film we're about to see, Jean Kelly, is interviewed the star of the film is interviewed by a reporter. And he then tells sort of the story of his of of his career. Uh but the story of that he tells is fake is a lie. It's very pretentious. Oh, we went to the best conservatories. We were trained by classical musicians and classical actors, actors, right? And he acts very pretent, but what that's what he says. But what we see, what is shown to us is the actual history of how Don Lockwood and his partner um his sidekick uh um played by the brilliant performer Donald O' Conor uh uh uh really got their start. And so that while he says we were trained in the best uh conservatories, what we see are Donald O' Conor and Jean Kelly dancing in a burles show. and and so the so there's this there's this constant very obvious even in some ways crude uh mockery or laughter at the hypocrisies of of of of Hollywood and part of what's being celebrated there is the exuberance and energy of of unsanctioned forms of performance like the dances that people do in burlesque shows right uh as against what you do when you go to the museum or when you come to the university and have your professor declaim ancient Greek to you in syllables you have no understanding of. Right? So, uh uh so there's one example of how that theme plays out, but you can find it in dozens and dozens of other places in the film, and I hope you'll watch watch for them. Um uh for such moments. So, I so I won't give you my second example. I'm running out of time. I'll let me turn to a next to to the next large theme I want you to be aware of. I call it the theme of outer versus inner. It's really a variation on or or or a or or an extension uh um of the theme of high versus popular art in the sense that it's also about the difference between a kind of pretentious and constraining and old-fashioned view of things and a more spontaneous uh um u and and and uh I we might even say a more spontaneous and popular or democratic view view of things. this when I so and the term I give it is the difference between outer and inner or the difference between appearance and reality and in in fact the example I just gave you in which we have Don Lockwood telling the reporter that he was educated in the best conservatories while we see that he's dancing in a burles show uh is an example of that kind of thing as well but there are many other very dramatic examples and I want to mention u one of them now uh the uh the uh when when uh when the Debbie Reynolds character the love interest of of of the of our protagonist first meets the Don Lockwood character, the character played by Jean Kelly. Uh she pretends not to recognize him even though he's a famous movie star. And she says and she and and she says, "Oh, she spends her time watching Shakespeare, but she doesn't spend much time watching the movies." And Don Lockwood is kind of offended by this. It later turns out, not even that much later, that of course Debbie Reynolds character herself is deeply immersed in the popular culture. Right after she makes this comment to Don Lockwood, a few a few minutes after that, we find her jumping out of a cake as a dancer in a in a uh at a party. Uh and and and and what we recognize, of course, that that of she knows a great deal about Don Lockwood. She's always been a tremendous fan of the movies, but she's been covering it up. And again and again in the in the film, uh, we see this kind of tension playing itself out. This tension between a kind of uh outer facade, a kind of a kind of and the notion is that what what is shown on the outside, what the exterior of things is often fake, a a mere a mere cover for what is authentic and within, right? And you can understand this in a number of ways. But if you think uh one of the ways it plays out in the movie is the question of the person who is who is in front of the audience and singing, but but it's not really her voice. It's the voice of Debbie Reynolds who's behind the curtain, right? And uh that so that so that again this theme of of of the artificial versus the authentic or the outer versus the inner plays itself out in many many ways in the film. That's part of what makes the film so coherent, so so so uh so dramatically effective and energetic. Um uh and so another way of thinking about this sequence, this idea of the outer versus the outer person versus the inner authentic person. Uh the the outer appearance, the illusion that film makes, but what really goes on behind the scenes. And as you'll discover, Singing in the Rain constantly takes us behind the scenes to show us how the illusion of movies is put together. Right. And that's a part of this same theme. So, one of the things I'm trying to call your attention to again is the way in which the the bas the central ideas of the film permeate both its form and its content in ways that make it very difficult to separate. Right. Uh, finally, one last fundamental issue connected to what I've been saying before, the way the film meditates on or dramatizes an idea about the place of song and dance in human life. You will have noticed of course uh uh that I myself feel and uh if you've seen any of the performances uh in this film you'll know yourselves that a principle of energy, vitality, playfulness, exuberance is almost always present in the dances in singing in the rain. Song and dance is seen in singing in the rain as a morally and psychologically revolutionary experience. I think and I use the word revolution in a dangerous way. I don't mean a politically revolutionary way, but I mean in a morally, a psychologically revolutionary way. And over uh so what's going on in some sense is the sense that constraint and convention are constantly threatened by the exuberance, spontaneity, energy, excitement, vitality of the dance, right? And this expresses itself in all kinds of ways in the film. Let me just mention a couple to call your attention to. You'll you'll discover many many other examples. One is the wonderful sequence, the Moses suppososes sequence. This is a sequence in which Don Lockwood and his partner Donald O' Conor have to be trained because they're making the transition to sound and the studio calls in an elecution expert who's a very who's dressed up like a very pretentious oldline professor, right? Uh and he's he's going to teach them how to pronounce things correctly. So he comes in and and he says, "I want you to repeat after me. Moses supposes his toes are roses, but Moses supposes erroneously, right? He's also ugly. His teeth are disgusting. And so you're already offended by the guy before Dawn and his comrade begin to respond. But and also, of course, what's ridiculous about this? It's meaningless talk, right? Or he's so interested in making him pronounce the the O vowel properly that he creates meaning meaningless uh sentences. But but their meaninglessness uh amuses Don Lockwood and his partner. And what they essentially what they do is they take the Moses supposes uh lines and they begin to sort of make fun of them and they begin to make fun of their of their interlocator their teacher. They end up taking a garbage can and emptying it out just as paper and putting it on his head. They end up dancing in a ridiculous way. So they end up dancing on top of desks or up the side of walls. Again, what are they doing? their dances are violating the normal spaces in which we expect people to be walking or standing upright. The very way in which the dance violates normal boundaries creates this sense of exuberance and of freedom. So what they're doing is they're rebelling against the pretentiousness um uh the constraints of these of this kind of of this kind of uh uh high culture expectation uh and and and the song song and dance uh uh in the Moses sequence create a kind of exuberant chaos in which they dance on the tables and make fun of the very elements that they're supposed to be learning. The good morning sequence, one of the great sequences in the history of movies, I think, shows the same thing which it takes place at breakfast in an ordinary domestic space which is transfigured or transformed including the props in something of that we might imagine chaplain doing such imaginative things in which in which the ordinary props of the kitchen uh turning be become partners in the dance become elements in a dance. What we feel is the imaginative power of love and and of performance transforming an ordinary space. And we can see this principle operating in with an even greater force in the title sequence of the film. Probably the most famous sequence of dance in the in in the history of Hollywood. The singing in the rain sequence itself. Uh we see the rain itself. What a funny place to be dancing, right? There's a contradiction. But your exuberance, your energy, your sense of love is so great that even rain doesn't matter. Uh, and watch what happens. He has an umbrella, but he doesn't use the umbrella to protect him from the rain, violating our expectations. There's a one wonderful moment in the film where he hands the umbrella in the midst of pouring rain to someone else who goes by to a pedestrian who goes by, right? Uh there's a moment when he's dancing in the rain. He take puts the umbrella down. The rain's come, but he doesn't have enough rain pouring on him. steps under a downspout to have the even more rain come down on. And when we experience this, what we feel is not what one of the reasons we experience this as joyful and as assertive and as individualizing is the sense we have that these are exactly not things that people normally do. He's overgoing or violating certain conventions or literal boundaries. And there's one moment in the dance very dramatic. I know this incidentally not because I've discovered it myself but because 20 years ago or 15 years ago in this course a student who later went on to work in Hollywood and he still works there. He's a sound genius. He was an MIT engineer who loved this course and was a musician as well. He wrote a paper for me uh uh about that sequence and he showed me this and uh I'm sure that some smart critics also saw it but I learned this from an MIT student in this course about 15 years ago. He analyzed the dance sequence very closely. And one of the things he showed was that the decisive moment in the dance occurs when the ordecisive moment in the dance occurs when the Kelly character suddenly is dancing on the sidewalk jumps off the sidewalk across the curb into the street. And psychologically it has a tremendously profound effect because you don't walk in the street much less dance in the street. The streets for this the street is for cars. But that violation of the boundary expresses the sense of exuberance of freedom that is supposed to be pre that is that is the that is the the essential meaning of of what these dances represent. So energy, spontaneous feeling, performing and overgoing limits is one of the things that's being expressed in the in the in the exuberance of the film's formal structure in its encyclopedic reaching out to other forms which it wants to incorporate into itself and in its particular dance and song sequences. And this energy, this celebration of transformative energy, of the overgoing of boundaries, strikes me as particularly American as a as a as a uniquely interesting expression of what people have sometimes called American optimism. Uh, and even of the democratic spirit of the openness that we associate with democratic that we associate with our ideals, not the reality, but our ideals of democratic society. What these dances and songs tell us then about the place of dance and song in our lives. The idea that you would begin to dance in a space unused to dance, hostile to dance transforms the space. Right? So what this film then says about these things is that our speech can be nudged into song. our way of walking can be edged into a dance and that the ordinary objects in our domestic and public spaces can become props can become props in an improvised valet. When we turn to cabaret, we're looking at a very different kind of object. Uh and it's important to recognize uh what I mentioned earlier and I will develop more fully in a couple of weeks. The fact that now we have gone almost beyond genre. There are people who would argue and there are purists of the music m scholars of the musical film who want to argue that well cabaret really isn't a musical for a variety of reasons. It seems to me a very strange and unhelpful argument. But I think if you watch the film closely, you'll understand why people who are partisans of the great Hollywood musical tradition or even the older opereta tradition represented by by uh directors like Ruben Mamoan would have problems fitting Cabaret into the category of musical. I I think it's a misunderstanding of how we should think about musicals. But uh uh uh for the moment, let's just let let me just encourage you to watch the film and think about how different it is from traditional musicals and especially its tone, its moral its moral perspective. Uh u uh but but also it's it it it's its structure. Uh uh think about that and you'll understand more fully why it's easy to see that this film could not would not have would be very unlikely to have been made in the Hollywood era that it required the kind of freedom that came to film after film was no longer constrained by the necessity to speak to a in a consensus voice. And as I said, these are matters I will try to clarify and conclude with when in two weeks when I return to this question when we talk about film in the 70s and the great 70s western almost contemporary with cabaret Robert Alman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller. I had hoped to say a number of things about Falsy's career but I don't have time and I'm just going to encourage you look him up. He's a very very remarkable figure uh in some I call him the inheritor because he began his career in connection he be he was both a Broadway director and choreographer and a dancer both on Broadway and in films and he uh uh performed and directed both on Broadway and in films. uh he was a first a choreographer in films before he became a director and in his career as a performer and choreographer he linked up with almost all the other great names of the American musical stage both the Broadway stage and the Hollywood tradition and in that sense we can say that that that uh uh Bob FSY is the inheritor of the great tradition of of the American musical and I I wish I could go into detail about this and show you how many affiliations and specific connection ictions he has with the great figures of the classical age of American movies and especially the classical age of of the of the American musical. Uh but but suffice it to say that it's a very rich set of connections and his career is a very remarkable career a very a very honored career. Uh let me mention one fact about his career perhaps most the most remarkable one easy to remember tells you something about his his diversity his as a director his gifts his ambition. In 1973 Bob FSY I think became the only man in history to win an Oscar, a Tony and an Emmy. an Oscar for for uh um Cabaret as best director. Uh and uh a a Tony for as best d or maybe he won as best director or the play that he directed on Broadway. Pippen won as best play on Broadway and he also won a television Emmy for a show starring Liza Manelli, the star in Cabaret called Liza with a Z. uh so and I think he's the only man in history for whom those three awards came in the in in in in the same year for three different for three different texts um uh uh he he directed one two three four five films of which of cabaret was the second they are all well the the the last four uh are are all very remarkable and interesting uh uh texts I I I won't talk about them here except to encourage you to look them up and think about them the theme of performance and the idea of the charact characters who who are characters who are themselves performer performers uh are always at the center of his films even film not all of his films involve dance he made a film about the life of Lenny Bruce called Lenny starring Dustin Hoffman for example uh that doesn't have musical numbers in it but it has many performance numbers in it and it's a very rich complex uh sophisticated film uh um So for an interesting and and and and profoundly serious director um I wish I could say more about his career. I want to say a word about the context of cabaret so you'll understand that aspect of the film more fully too. It's set in Vimar Germany that curious time in the 1920s before the during the rise of Nazism but before Hitler has come long before Hitler has come to power in which the the VHimar Republic uh a vulnerable and and and unstable democracy uh but a but a democracy in which an enormous amount of of of of uh artistic and literary experimentation was taking place. It's the period of German expressionism. It's the period of the great German silent films that we talked about earlier. And so our film Cabaret is set in that era and in that driven era in uh uh in that divided era in which the rise of Nazism was coupled with was or joined to and connected to the uh uh the the fact that German society was was was under immense constraints because it had lost the first world war. The conditions on under which they had been forced to surrender were very ownorous. Uh there was very high levels of unemployment. It was a it was a society it was a schizophrenically divid divided society. A society of great artistic energies but of great political divisions and and and difficulties and and uh nightmare possibilities that were lurking in its in it in it in in in many of its practices. And there's a link or a or at least a partial link between the instability and the excitement but also the dividedness of Vimar Germany and the actual condition of the United States in the era when the movie came out. Right? Because this is the period at the end of the 60s after the late 60s and early 70s probably the most divided time in American history after the second world war before our current moment. Right? And in fact the divisions then were more legitimate. That is by more legitimate I mean they they had a more sensible cause. There was a ter there were terrible wars going on. Uh there were there were there were there were better reasons for the for the partisanship that occurred in the 19 in the late 60s and early 70s than there are for the weird partisanship we're suffering in the United States in the United States today. And and in any case there was a much greater sense in the late 60s and early 70s that the fabric of American society was under attack that it was imperfect. not only because the Vietnam War had so divided the country against itself, but because of other other uh uh matters as well, including the increasing militancy of of the civil rights movement, which had w- which had which had gone from a sort of Martin Luther King type uh uh um uh commitment to to to nonviolent protest uh into much more disturbing and sometime and sometimes violent confrontations with authorities. and with some theorists and speakers actually calling for for uh uh violence and this racial tension was then coupled by another kind of political tension coming from the people from the young men and women who were mostly young men and women who were opposed to the Vietnam war. So it was a very driven and disturbed time. There were then parallels between the instability and the uh disturbance of the Vhimar period and the period uh in which the film appeared and the original audiences I think would have been highly aware of this of this connection would have seen that although the film was set in the past it it spoke to the contemporary moment in a very powerful way. I want to also uh remind you uh that that there are certain aspects there are certain aspects of the style of of uh cabaret that are worth keeping in mind. And one way to think about this is to recognize that both misan sen style and montage style re are are are are embodied at in the film and and and are carried to extremes in certain moments of the film. That is to say, in many of the performance sequences in the film, the camera behaves in an unbelievably frenetic and frantic way, changes your eye uh angle, uh jumps around a lot, dis disorients you sometime, almost disorients you in the style of a Hitchcock. Uh uh and yet in other sequences in the film, especially those outside the cabaret that take place in ordinary life, not in a performance space, the the camera and the editing slow down and become more like a kind of misison style. And the combination of the two is especially rich and interesting. You might want to watch for the way these rhythms alter your sense of what's happening in the film. The way the film slows down and speeds up at certain points. And I mean I I mean this literally in terms of the number of images that go by quickly, but also in terms of the way the physical bodies of the performers move across the screen and of course the way in which the camera itself behaves, whether it's jittery and movement all or oriented toward constant movement or whether it's more stable and and gives you a chance to look at the environment your your uh um this scene is set in. Um, one way I can give you a sense of the richness of of the film is to remind you that there's a kind of texture or multiplicity in cabaret in almost every moment that if you watch for it and you're attentive to it, you will always be rewarded. Let me just give you two very quick examples of what I mean by this. Remember I suggested to you that this principle of multiplicity is one of the principles we turn to if we want to recognize a work of art, right? The difference between a work of art and an entertainment in my terms is that a work of art is just more intelligent. That is to say, it makes more complex use of its materials. So that in a entertainment, a particular event or gesture may have only one function, but in a work of art, it will have multiple functions. It will perform several jobs simultaneously. And if you I'll give you two examples of this. Um, think about what takes place on the periphery of what you're watching and you'll begin to get some sense of one way in which the texture of this film come brings the material alive. There's one moment, I think, fairly early in the film. It's a street scene. We're not paying much attention to what's going on. We see we see, I think, uh, the the protagonist walking in the street and around on the periphery of them or or or sort of not certainly not in the center of the frame. nothing that is commented on by the characters. Uh, a slides by on one of those wheeled platforms that people without legs sometimes used in major cities before. Maybe they still happen, but they but but but they're but but they were very common in the in the first half of the 20th century. And we see this guy who's obviously he's a wounded veteran and he's he's he's an amputee and he pushes himself along on this cart and and we just see him go by. But what's interesting about that is that he's this on the platform has a little flag on his platform. Guess what kind of a flag it is? It's a Nazi flag, right? And this is early in the film before the Nazis have become a powerful force. The rise of Nazism is in the background of the film. As you'll see, come the the Nazis move from the periphery to the center of the frame before the film is over. And that's the fundamental historical motion of the film. But all of that's taking place in the background. The foreground are the central characters and the the the comic and innocent and and ultimately not so comic disturbing love affairs and difficulties that they encounter in this environment. They're too naive or innocent to understand the historical forces that are surrounding them. Uh so that example of the Nazi flag and this crippled figure because the crippled figure is in fact an illusion to the ownerous uh uh u uh u uh demands that were put upon Germany by by France and the other allies at the end of the war. And this is in some sense this crippled. So the the assumption is he's probably a war veteran. I don't remember if he's actually wearing a uniform which would confirm this. It would be helpful if he would, but I don't remember. watch for it and you'll see. But in any case, he's he refers to that and now anyone attentive to the film can recognize that the the historical texture of the of of of the film is is carried by such moments. There's another such moment also so minor that you might not notice it. It the foreground is the love affair. What or not yet a love affair but the acquaintance the deepening friendship between the two protagonists Sally BS and her boyfriend. And uh they go out they go out for a walk in Berlin and Sally pretends that she's this immensely sophisticated woman. Turns out that she's fooling herself and fooling us. Uh uh she's not at all even though she pretends to a great kind of sophistication. And she sings dirty songs in a cabaret and she performs in a cabaret where they make jokes about everything including all forms of sexual perversion. Nonetheless, she's an innocent. She has no way of recognizing the depth and complexity of the evil that's built, the moral evil and moral terror that's building around her. And she's not alone in this. Most of the other characters in the foreground of the film perform this same naive ballet. Although Sally BS is the most powerful instance of it, it is certainly Liza Minnelli's greatest role. Certainly the role that she'll be remembered for long after she's dead, long after we're all in the in the ground. Liza Minnelli's performance in this film will still be treasured and savored, I think. Um, so another instance of the multiplicity when when when we find u uh uh the two two characters are walking in the street and Sally says, "Oh, I want to show you something that I do." And she pulls this guy along. She leans up against the side of an elevated train station, right? And she waits until the train comes by. And as the train comes by, she screams and she says, "See, if you wait for the noise, nobody will hear you scream." And she's just expressing her exuberance, showing her, she's showing him how she commands this space, how she knows how to use this urban space, right? But there's an irony she's unaware of. When she leans up against the wall, behind her, what we see are political posters. And the political posters behind her are defaced. They're both Nazi and communist posters. And the communists and the Nazis are defacing one another's posters. And what is implicit then again in the background against the against the foreground of these of these two relatively naive characters carrying on is the historical reality that's building behind them. Another example of what I mean by the multiplicity the texture of this film right. Uh finally the music all next to finally the musical numbers. Uh penultimately uh the musical numbers another kind of integration is going on in this film. Right when we talk about the integrated musical as Arthur Freed and his comrades during the studio era articulated this idea we're not talking about the form of integration that we see in Cabaret. And this in fact is one of the reasons that some people argue that Cabaret is not a musical because with one exception none of the musical performances in Cabaret take place out of a performance environment. They all take place in the cabaret. The film is about a cabaret performer and we see many performances in the cabaret. Now, when we watch those performances, we see them from angles that no one in the audience could ever see because FSY is a genius with the camera and creates visual effects drawing on the tradition of the Hollywood musical that could never be replicated in a theater. Nonetheless, the performances themselves are theatrical performances. They all are real performances. And when we see the characters behaving like real characters, they don't suddenly burst into song and dance, right? Because there's something theoretically so implausible about that that cabaret refuses that convention, right? It refuses to embrace that basic convention of the American musical, which is that one way that people express their exuberance, I love you. I love you. Now, let me sing a song telling you how much I love you. Right? Whereas in real life, we don't do that. Now, I don't think that this convention is really a bad con is a convention that undermines the music. It's a convention or a rule or a habit, a protocol you need to embrace in order to experience these films appropriately. And it's no more implausible in one sense than the implausibility of opera singers bursting into song at moments of great passion. Right? It's the the convention requires it. It's as if it's as if we're in a form of of of artistic experience in which in which art is crystallizing experience for us. So, I don't mean to undermine this convention at all or cast out on it, but Cabaret refuses that convention. Cabaret says every time with one exception, uh there and I'm calling attention to that exception. I'm not going to tell you what it is, but I want you to watch for it. There's one moment in the film when there is a song sung outside by ordinary people. It happens spontaneously. It may be the most morally and historically frightening moment in the whole of the film. And it's completely believable just as this pl totally plausible that it would happen. But that's the only moment in the film when there's any singing that doesn't take place inside a space intended for singing and dancing. So one of the interesting things about cabaret is that there is a kind of true integration of song and dance because none of that happens except in spaces where it's appropriate, right? Uh realistically appropriate, right? And so you might watch for that and and and the the the complexity that this decision on the part of Bob FSY and the people making the film uh uh uh the the impact of that of that decision on on your understanding of the movie as a whole. Finally, the central themes of the film. I've already talked about them. The theme of innocence, the way the central characters in the film are too innocent to understand the historical forces around them, underestimate them. This isn't just true of the central figures. It's true of the secondary characters as well. Some of whom are even more poignantly uh uh uh more who some of whom even more poignantly embody uh this theme. Uh and then the theme of history. What history is what how how how how the power how the force of history can overwhelm individual desires, individual hopes uh love itself and of course also the limits of satire. The cabaret is a space of satire, a space of mockery, a space of exuberant intellectual distance and disdain. Much of the energy of the cabaret comes from an impulse of parody, mockery, satire, right? And in the very beginning of the film, there's actually a moment where you can see the Joel Gray character who plays this ominous strange uh figure of the MC, the interlocator, right? Uh at in the cabaret. He sort of is the is the master of ceremonies. Uh, and there's one moment early in the film when he when when he uh um in a rather disgusting scene in which they have a sort of they replicate a scene of mud wrestling and and he's mcing it and he reaches down, he picks up a piece of mud, he rubs it on his upper lip and he makes himself look like Hitler and he's mocking Hitler in that, right? Well, if you compare that early moment in which Hitler and Nazism are objects of mockery, there's also an early scene in which we see a Nazi being pulled out of the audience of the cabaret and pushed outside, right? Kicked out of the cabaret because Nazis are thought to be uh unacceptable. They're thought to be vulgarians, right? This is early in the by the time the film is over. By the by the time you come to the very end of the film, one of the very final images of the film shows us the audience of the cabaret filled with Nazi officers, filled with Nazi uniforms. The Nazis have moved from the periphery to the center of the movie. And that's part of the terror uh and that that the film dramatizes. And it also therefore of course dramatizes the limits of satire because the cabaret itself like the characters imagines itself to be exempted from or apart from history. It can maintain its mockery, its distance. Satire can protect me from all the And of course, the cabaret is just as naive as the characters themselves. It's overwhelmed by the forces of history in a way in a way that the characters themselves also are. Both of these films in their own way have generated a tremendously interesting and serious volume of discourse both uh uh in terms of their musical qualities and their and the qualities of their of their choreography and in terms of their content. They're really such complex films that watching them together makes an immense intellectual demand on everyone. I know you're capable of that, but I hope that you'll take the time to let the implications of these films settle into your mind for days and maybe even weeks after you've watched them. And I hope, of course, that this first viewing will only be the first of many. I wish you the joy of these wonderful movies.