The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So folks, um, we're going to get started into thin films for a moment, but, uh, I saw two of you at least in the class at Eli Yablanovich's talk on, uh, gosh, what was it? Tuesday. Tuesday, it was. Uh, how many how many attended the talk? Show of hands. Three. Okay, three. Awesome. Must have missed one of you. Um, very interesting talk. Uh, this was a talk about solar cells given from the perspective of somebody who does light management. And so I wanted to share with you uh a book that described essentially from where he uh takes his efficiency calculations which are based largely on thermodynamics uh and less on the continuity equations. Um Peter Verfl's book uh physics of solar cells. Brilliant, brilliant book. I'm going to pass it around. On page 33, very easy number to remember 2* 3. Uh on page 33 he starts delving into the derivation that Eliablanovich uh presented during his talk. uh so folks can uh follow along from the thermodynamics point of view, maybe read up a little more and and understand that perspective. But uh he very very briefly touched upon essentially the same physics uh but from the perspective what we've been talking about in class in terms of carrier densities and current flows. He had it on the bottom of a slide perhaps halfway through the talk on four different bullet points. Does anybody remember what those were? you know why did he achieve such a high efficiency conversion efficiency with the galliumsite cell does anybody remember that point he had a thin device right uh so by thinning the device down uh if he's able to concentrate the carriers if he's able to collect all of the charge carriers inside of that very thin layer he'll have a higher charge carrier density and the charge carrier density is what influences the the separation of the quasifermy energies which is what influences the voltage output of the So he was able to obtain a higher voltage output because he had a thinner solar cell. He was able to concentrate the carriers in in that thinner region by light trapping by light management. And so as a result of having a higher carrier concentration, he had a higher separation of the quasifirmy levels and hence a higher voltage output of his device. So in reality it was very simple from the perspective of what we've been learning in class here. Uh how he was able to obtain the very high efficiencies of gallium arsenide. Um the physics is well known. It's not new physics. It's actually quite old physics and that uh approach has been used within the crystal and silicon solar cell community uh for some time as well. Uh the back surface reflectors off of the devices are highly optimized and the texture is as well to scatter the light. Um so I would invite you to take a look. Um and this is another example of how technologies can flow from one uh photovoltaic system into another. Right? So you can learn a lot from uh material systems that you aren't working on necessarily yourself. Uh that's uh another take-home message from the talk at least that I walked away. Any other impressions that folks would like to share before we dive into the lecture. Yeah. A question about um uh carrier collection. Sure. How's it possible to extract any uh energy from carriers which are collect or generated in front of the junction because even if they diffuse into the junction you have nothing to fall down. Okay. So you have to think about it always from the perspective of the minority carrier. So if you generate an electron whole pair, your minority carrier is now a hole in the N plus region. That hole diffuses across the junction. The electron stays. I see. I see. Okay. Um so uh did anybody else pick up on on the point at the very beginning of his presentation? He said uh a P and junction isn't necessary to separate charge. Okay, that's fine. We've talked about heterogunions. We all agree uh there are other ways to separate charge. And he said an electric field is not necessary to separate charge. But then he immediately went into discussing how the chemical potential was slightly lower in the contact than it was in the semiconductor which would result in a charge imbalance which would result in a field. And I think Gene Fitzgerald from the material science and engineering department, Professor Fitzgerald called him out on it and said uh isn't there a field there at the metal contact? He said quiet wise guy we'll get back to you later. But um essentially his point was a very small electric field is necessary. Right? So um his his point was a matter of degrees uh that you don't need a massive electric field. Uh a very slight field is all that's necessary to start driving a current through your system. Okay, just wanted to make sure we were we didn't uh leave that talk thoroughly confused uh with our with our head on backwards. Um we're going to talk about thin film materials today. Why thin film solar cells? Well, we've been talking about crystal and silicon solar cells that have a lower optical absorption coefficient. So you need a larger amount of material or a larger optical path length to absorb a significant fraction of the light. Already in lecture number two, we saw how other material systems that have higher optical absorption coefficients are able to absorb this equivalent amount of light in a a thinner amount of material and less material. So to put this in perspective, what we're talking about on one hand with the crystal and silicon devices is we might have a device that's maybe three or four times the thickness of your hair in crystal and silicon. And for the other materials, for these thin film materials, you might be talking about a material absorber that has maybe 100th the thickness. So something on the order of a micron or 50th of the width of your hair. So that's uh the the perspective of scale that we want to have in mind. We're talking about thin films. We're talking about uh uh thin materials really on the order of one micron or so. And even brittle materials at one micron thickness if uh if deposited on compliant uh substrates can be flexible. All right. Uh another thing to keep in mind in thin film technology is that the scale of the thin films industry is about onetenth that of silicon industry right now. So the crystal and silicon uh industry is is going full full force. Gang busters right now uh it's uh in and the thin film uh is growing is is is a growing fraction but it's on the order of 10% of the total world market. And many many many startup companies which are young, dynamic, fun. And that's why today I'm not wearing a tie. I'm in startup mode. I'm a lot more relaxed. Uh we're going to be talking about thin film technologies and diving into some fun uh some fun work. So uh we'll we'll talk about uh these specific technologies of thin film materials. And before we get into those, I'm going to address some general topics about deposition and of course general uh uh parameters that affect all thin film material systems. Um we have to appreciate the sheer diversity of technologies that are out there on the market. We have a variety of different solar cell materials that are available. Some of which are thin films, other ones wafer based crystallin silicon. And um all of these technologies have to consider cost, resource availability, and eventually environmental impact as well. So these are some of the things I'd like you to keep on the forefront of your mind as you uh as we talk about these different technologies. Think about the broader picture and ultimately this cost or uh the unit uh sorry the the amount of money per unit energy produced is really uh paramount in determining marketability in determining um uh the the scale to which they'll uh penetrate the market. This is the one slide that you have printed out. You have one per pair of students or you should uh so if you um don't have access to that uh particular slide uh feel free to share it with the person next to you. Um this is representing as a function of time going back to the 1970s the record solar cell conversion efficiency. The chart is maintained by a certain Larry Kazmki at ENL. Uh actually he's he's uh he used to be the head of the uh of ENL's solar program. He stepped down a few years ago uh after a very successful run many years. And uh he's a bit of a father of the US PV industry. He's been around for a long time and has been tracking the growth of the PV industry and of course the uh improvement of performance over time. Many of these devices, many of these record efficiency devices are very small area. And many of them were actually grown for the int the explicit purpose of getting onto this chart. And so when you're trying to make a record efficiency device, you do things a little differently. Let me give you an example. you'll optimize your anti-reflection coding for air, not for glass. Right? So, if you want to uh uh minimize the the reflectance off the front surface, you'll be optimizing it for air, which has a refractive index of one, as opposed to glass, which has a refractive index of 1.5. So, there there there are some tricks that one does and engages in. And some are a little bit under the table, too. The it has been done in the past that people would do an HF dip of their silicon based solar cells right before measuring the efficiency. uh the uh hydrofuloric acid would result in surface passivation but of course it would result in a very low uh surface uh adhesion of the metal. So the metal would flake off afterwards. It wouldn't pass a tensel test but um you would nevertheless achieve instantaneously higher efficiency. Those practices have largely been weeded out. Um these were the early days when it was the wild west of solar cells. Um in in in more recent times there there are some very strict standards and there are only a few laboratories around the world where you can take these uh standard measurements. Uh the one at ENL is extremely well staffed uh in terms of the quality of the people. Uh they're notoriously underresourced, but that's another issue. Um but in terms of the quality of the people there, uh very very good uh very thorough uh very uh pedantic and careful about taking their measurements. And if you ever have a question about how to perform a solar cell efficiency measurement, they're a very good resource. Uh their website would be an excellent place to go. So these uh data points here versus time represent the record cell efficiencies. They may be on very very small pieces of material. They may be on a centimeter squared, perhaps even smaller. Uh so they're not necessarily representative of what is in commercial production today. Let me give you one example. uh the record crystallin silicon cells which are in blue here um has has been at around 25% for about a decade and uh actually a little more than a decade and uh the record efficiency uh crystal and silicon device uh has um in essence um not been supplanted for for many many years. Uh there are a number of reasons for that. It's it's very much approaching its theoretical efficiency limit. uh people haven't necessarily tried specifically to get a record efficiency crystal and silicon device. They're more intent on making lower cost silicon devices than record efficiency ones. And uh the average module efficiencies are somewhere down at around here actually somewhere in the uh 14 uh you know 13 to 15% range for module average module efficiency. You have some modules that are in the uh 18 19 20% range but most of them are are significantly lower. And the record cell efficiency, as you can see, is 25. So there's a significant delta between what is commercially available and what the record cell efficiency is. There are several reasons for this. To make a record efficiency cell, you have to throw everything at least the minimum. You have to make sure that every plank is really really high. That costs a lot of money typically. And so doing that cheaply is is a big challenge. Uh some companies like First Solar for instance that has some of the lowest cost modules in the market. We'll describe how they're made in a few slides. First Solar forwent the anti-reflective coating on their glass for many years because it just didn't make cost sense. It didn't help optimize this function right here. Although you'd get more energy out, the dollars that it took to add that component just didn't make sense for them. So, uh you have to think about a few different uh perspectives. You have to think uh both in terms of cost and in terms of performance. The performance what it does or what it tells you is that this material system has potential. It has been demonstrated we can get to high performance, right? It's it's a proof of concept. The trick now is to get there at low cost. Um, and that's pretty much what you should walk away from from this chart having seen. Another thing to keep in mind is that it takes a long time to improve the performance of a new material. If you're starting out somewhere down at around here, it's going to take you a while to reach higher uh efficiencies. Granted, we can learn a lot from the previous material systems. We could learn a lot by reading those old ENL reports for the the the project reports that are available online of all the people who were working towards these record efficiencies, what they did differently, how they advanced and how they improved cell performance and leverage that information as you try to develop your material. Uh but the fact of the matter is it'll still take a bit of time to to to develop new technologies and you can see that by some of the newer materials that are coming along down here. For example, the organic based solar cells. Okay. So, um, thin films general issues. Uh, so we talked about the the advantages here that we're squeezing the cost of silicon out of or the squeezing the cost of the absorber layer out of the module, which is excellent from a cost point of view. Um, but obviously uh there are trade-offs involved. If it was all a walk in the park, we would be 100% thin films and have abandoned silicon by now. Uh, there are both advantages and disadvantages of thin films. um instead of disadvantages, perhaps a happier way of looking at this is challenges and opportunities for getting PhDs and other uh advanced degrees. Um so let's go up into advantages. Uh the advantages of thin films quite simply is that you're using a very thin amount of material. Uh so thin in fact that it's uh virtually insignificant in terms of the total cost structure of your module. Uh, one perspective, uh, is that if you're depositing a thin film using a a fairly, uh, lowcost technique, um, like, um, uh, like a a closed space sublimation type process, um, you may be able to deposit the material for as much cost as it takes the cardboard that separates the modules from each other uh, in the stack that's being loaded onto the 18-wheeler out of the factory. Just to put things in perspective, it's very cheap to deposit these these thin layers. Now, uh, let's hop down to the disadvantages real quick. If you're depositing a very thin layer and it's it's it's not high efficiency, then you need more glass, more encapsulates, more framing materials, more labor and everything for the same amount of power out. If your efficiency is low, your cost will be higher. Even if you have a dirt cheap absorber layer, you might as well get the absorber for free. If your efficiency is too low, all of the other commodity materials are going to outweigh that cost advantage because the commodity materials scale with area. If you have low efficiency, you need a larger area module to make the same amount of power. So at some point if you look at the cost of the material versus efficiency you start entering negative territory. You actually have to be paid right if you're producing like an eight or 7% module typically uh you you would have to pay your customer for them to accept your module. So um you really have to achieve a minimum efficiency target to be cost competitive. And as a rule of thumb, that's typically 10 to 12%. For today's costs of glass, uh, encapsulates, framing, uh, uh, materials and labor and installation and so forth. So, back up to the advantages, there's a potential here for a very low thermal budget. If we're able to print, say, a micron thick layer onto a substrate, uh, remember we go back to that high-speed printer analogy. uh there's a potential for a low thermal budget which means thermal budget is the amount of uh uh heat that you're introducing during the uh processing uh as a result of a very low thermal budget uh you have a potential cost decrease instead of heating things up to 1400° C uh over several several hours having all that massive amounts of electricity that go into producing the the crystal and silicon wafers here potentially we could be printing stuff on on flexible substrates so that's the thermal budget argument in terms of conformal deposition ition and uh and flexible substrates. There's a potential here for roll-to-roll deposition. Picture a newspaper plant, right, where you have one roll of paper on one side being pulled onto another spool on the other with some deposition process happening in between. If you can deposit on a flexible substrate, this is the vision. And there's uh if you're not depositing onto a flexible substrate, but onto a hard substrate like this one right here, this is glass, a thin film material deposited on glass right here. Very small one. Oops. Some tape in the front. Let me get rid of that for you. Here we go. It's in a a nice little um protective uh coating here so you can uh have a look at it without uh worrying about getting your fingerprints all over it. Um and the company name is fully removed. Check. Okay. Um this is uh an example of a thin film material deposited on glass uh without any anti-reflective coating, just the absorber material. Um so you can get a sense. It looks gray. It's about a micron thick, very it's about um about about 170 times thinner than those wafers that you saw uh uh on Tuesday. So that's an example of a thin film material be making its rounds. uh that there's a large amount of technology transfer with the thin film display, the flat panel display industry um with uh deposition on glass like that one right there. And uh there's a potential to be very nice for for building integrated PV applications if you're able to get get rid of the glass and deposit it on a conformal substrate. You could envision roof shingles, right? Or other flexible uh uh substrates that would allow you conformal coverage on on undulating rooftops and so forth. um radiation hardness. This is just a small aside, but there are some materials that have uh better radiation hardness than silicon. What does radiation hardness mean? It means that if I send something into outer space where we don't benefit from the the radiation shield of our own atmosphere in the Ben Allen belts on Earth uh and we have uh proton bombardment and and uh uh other forms of radiation uh uh striking our module and creating damage within the absorber layer. Some compounds are naturally better at resisting degradation of performance than others and that's what radiation hardness means. So there are some thin film materials that are exceptional for for space applications. The challenges and opport Oh, go ahead Ashley. What are some is gallium arsenide one of them? We're going to show you in a few slides. We'll show we'll compare them all as a function of uh irradiation exposure time. The disadvantages or shall we say challenges and opportunities for PhD and master students? um lower efficiencies in crystal and silicon, potentially larger module costs. If you're able to improve the performance of these thin film materials, uh you know, wow, you have uh now equivalent performance of crystal and silicon, but at much lower cost, good for you. You have a marketable product. Um potential for capital intensive production equipment. Not all of the production equipment is as low cost and as low thermal budget as simply printing on a piece of paper. As a matter of fact, that's one of the more avantguard and and R&D uh type of of deposition processes. Uh most deposition processing, the vast majority of companies used are actually quite capital intensive and the costs of the equipment can add up. Um sometimes, not always, but sometimes scarce elements are used. We're going to have a debate about that on next class on Tuesday. Um put an asterisk next to that. I'll get back to that as soon as the slide is over. And um spatial uniformity is a challenge during deposition. Imagine trying to deposit a film one micron thick over glass that is 1 meter uh in in in size. Right? You're talking about a six order of magnitude aspect ratio here. So we have to somehow deposit a film a micron thick and layers that are even thinner that might be only a few tens or hundreds of nanometers on top of that and below that absorber layer um to separate charge for instance. And that's really challenging to do on a very large scale. And that is an engineering challenge or a process engineering challenge that had many uh startup companies uh flailing for a long time. Think of spatial homogeneity in the following manner. If you have one region of your solar cell that's producing a lot of power and the region next to it is not and they're connected in parallel through the the contacts. Power will flow from the good region into the bad region. Right? So you have internal current loops inside of your your your module uh that is uh essentially decreasing the power output of your module itself. So that's why homogeneity is important. Um this is just to represent uh the vision of a roll-to-roll process in the upper right hand side there kind of a a visionary uh uh um uh cartoon that is being enacted by one company in particular unisolar based out of Michigan. they do have a roll-to-roll process uh and PCBD we'll describe what that is in a second deposition of this uh material so-called amorphous silicon and here are some building integrated solutions just showing you what you can accomplish or what the vision would be if you had this uh really flexible uh substrate that you could literally take as a as a you know a roll from Home Depot bring up to your rooftop it out on your roof much like you'd lay down a piece of tarp or plastic and then take a staple gun and just or nail gun and uh drill it into location. Uh that would be an example of a much reduced installation cost. Right? So you have the potential here of reducing the installation cost of solar uh as a result of of um of the form factor of your module. And this here is another example of a building integrated photovoltaic solution with thin films. The fact that it looks really nice, it's very sleek, you would never guess that those are solar panels there. And that's of course from aesthetic point of view uh a huge benefit. Common growth methods. How do we make how do we make that uh uh that sample of copper indium gallium dicelanide that thin film material that happens to be making its way around the classroom right now? How do we actually make it? Um well not only the the material I just described there are other materials as well. We'll talk about the general classes of growth methods. So this is the uh material science processing uh class condensed into a few slides. uh bear with me. This very high level uh but it it it aims to highlight the the techniques that are most commonly used in PV today. We're going to start with what are called vacuum-based thin film deposition technologies. And the reason I'm separating vacuum from non-vacuum is because if you have a system that is comprised of these large stainless steel chambers that you typically see when you go walking in the physics building. Um if you have vacuum chambers that those are typically quite costly, at least the large scale ones that are in commercial production. uh as the name would suggest, you need to have pumps uh to suck out the air inside of the vacuum, inside of the chamber, and that that's how you create the vacuum. The vacuum is necessary because typically you're transporting atoms from some sort of source, either a gas or a solid target onto the substrate. So, you're transferring individual atoms or clusters of atoms from uh some source onto the substrate that uh will ultimately hold your thin film device. And that process requires a limited number of of interactions of those atoms or or clusters of atoms. In other words, a large mean-free path as these make their way to your substrate. And that's why the vacuum is typically required in these deposition systems. There are variety of ways to accomplish this goal. Um, one class of techniques is called chemical vapor deposition, often referred to as CVD. This typically involves flowing in some form of gas into your chamber and uh and and then uh allowing that gas to react uh uh on the surface of your sample or uh above the surface of your sample and ultimately depositing on the surface. Um the chemistries involved in in CBD processes can be quite complex and the reaction process itself can be very difficult to master. Uh so you might have some friends who are involved in spectroscopy shining lasers at their system and looking at the absorption lines and trying to figure out how these molecules are evolving uh between when they're inserted into the chamber and when they actually wind up as your film. Uh because understanding the reaction, the chemical reactions that take place is essential is key to really controlling the CVD process. The other class of technologies involves what's called PVD or physical vapor deposition. And this tends to be a bit more straightforward. We tend to have uh uh atoms of of a specific type. They may be ionized or they may be charge neutral and they're making their way to your substrate and the chemistry tends to be much more simple but the apparatus around it to make those to to give the incentive for the atoms to leave the target and and deposit on your substrate that tends to be more complex. And so uh some of these tools uh especially molecular beam epitexi can be very expensive, very slow, very high quality but but very expensive as a result. And so a a very simple way to think about uh the vacuum-based deposition technologies is a compromise. This is a an oversimplification indeed, but it's an easy way to get started about thinking of the parameter space of all these techniques. It's a compromise between speed and quality. Some of the techniques that are fastest also tend to be the lowest quality materials and the other ones that tend to be the slowest tend to produce the highest quality materials. How do you optimize somewhere in between somewhere in that parameter space to get reasonably high material just enough that you can produce a high efficiency device? Remember that saturation of device performance versus diffusion length. At some point it just doesn't make sense to keep optimizing your material. You got it good enough. You're good to go. Um so that's that's uh one of the things to to consider um when you're choosing your deposition system. So let's go into a few examples of these uh vacuum-based deposition systems within the PVD techniques within the physical vapor deposition techniques. One of the most commonly used in manufacturing at least in some startups uh you have examples like Mia sole uh is sputtering and the sputtering process is uh essentially very very straightforward. You have a plasma uh you the plasma consists of uh of of atoms that are charged. These are accelerated toward your uh your target which is comprised of the elements that you want to deposit onto your substrate. Your substrate is sitting up top and these uh this target material is sputtered off and eventually makes its way up uh and sticks to and eventually grows the film on that orange platin up here at the top. That is your substrate. The substrate is facing down. Why is the substrate looking down? Why wouldn't you invert this and put the target on top and and and the substrate on the bottom? What could happen then in terms of purity of the deposition process? Good. Christie fall. So stuff could gunk could fall onto your your your substrate. Are you trying to grow a thin film a micron thick and you're trying to avoid any imperfection and now gravity is working against you in that case because you're if you were to invert this, your target would be on top. You could have stuff raining down onto your substrate. There are a few people who sputter down. It's very tricky. Uh you have to be able to control your process very well and avoid flakes from coming off. Uh there are folks who sputter sideways, saves some ground space in their factory. They might load things uh vertically, put them in, and many people at least in R&D sputter uh uh up. So again, uh you're you're creating this this plasma. Uh the charged species are accelerated toward the target. Uh they sputter off uh atoms which are then uh uh deposited onto your substrate, which is there at the top. And uh the film that was just being uh passed around is an example of a sputtered film. The spatial uniformity of sputtering over large area depositions can be on the order of a few percent. So the uh ability to control this process in terms of spatial uniformity is is fairly good. Um you can also employ radio frequency modulations to the bias voltage. That's called RF sputtering for radio frequency. Um industrial applications usually involve large rotating targets. Um, so for those of you, how many people actually work with some sputtering materials or have done it in the past? One, two, three, four, five, six. Okay, so you know, at least in the laboratory, if you have a fixed target, you wind up with that racetrack, right? Um, so if you have a fixed target in a lab and you're trying to deposit your films, if you wear it down several hours, uh, eventually that the the metal uh that you're trying to deposit or the ceramic that you're trying to deposit will usually wind up having a bit of shape to it. Instead of being flat on the surface, you'll have a what's called a racetrack. it'll dip down near the edges and um that can result in a change of the deposition rate of the uh of of of the species that you're trying to deposit. And from a homogeneity point of view, that might be disastrous in a company. And so there are methods to uh to move your target to avoid uh that sort of effect from happening. And when we talk about large targets, we're really talking about large targets, right? These aren't your lab scale 2 inch or 3 inch. these are much much bigger uh in commercial production. So um in terms of of comparing sputtering against other growth technologies um there are technologies that are more conformal because this is more of a line of sight deposition technique. Uh the atoms are are moving toward your substrate, right? But if you have uh some uh some shape to your your your your substrate, maybe you have a ledge or ridge, uh in that case uh you won't necessarily coat that uniformly. Uh you might have uh less being deposited on that edge rather than the flat sections. And so conformality of coverage or conformal surface coverage can be an issue with sputtering. Let's talk about the next uh technique uh that is commonly used in thin film uh inorganic thin film deposition. Excuse me. Um uh this is called metalorganic chemical vapor deposition. So again we notice the CVD appearing at the end. We know it's a chemical vapor deposition process. M O in this case standing for metal organic. The reason metal organic is because we typically have a metal like this uh representing the indium right here and then little uh u organic uh compounds on the outside. Those are methyl groups. The little gray and the two uh white dots those represent uh three methyl groups uh around the the indium. So trimethylinium and uh what we do is we flow these um these molecules into our reaction chamber and uh control the temperature gradients inside in such a way to have those molecules deposit on the surface leaving the indium behind or the metal behind and the reaction products uh float away out the back. Um and uh that is represented chemically here on the surface. This is a zooming in right at the surface of our sample. So right where the gas interacts with the thin film material that you're depositing this is representing the incoming metal organic molecule right reaching the surface uh this represents right here the uh uh the separation where we have the um the indium atom shown in in in in black right here and then the the methyl groups are are moving off and essentially those will be sucked out of the chamber uh leaving behind in this particular case you have a layer of indium forming probably another layer of of material underneath. Say for example uh your your other species comprising the the thin film maybe phosphorus. So it would be indium phosphide growth. Um this metal organic chemical vapor deposition uh is very nice from the point of view that uh you tend to form homogeneous films uh very good surface coverage. Um the disadvantages would be that many of the inputs and outputs are toxic. Not always but many of them are. uh they have to be volatile and reactive so that you can uh crack the metal on your surface and and and create the the the thin film. If it wasn't reactive, you would just have it flowing through and leaving um not having reacted with your substrate. Uh but because of the reactivity involved, often times these aren't not very friendly for human beings or for other organisms. Um it was not uncommon in the early days of MOCVD reactor development where they'd have this little stack going up to the roof and then they do maintenance on the roof, they'd find all these dead birds lying around. Um that obviously has improved since people have put up the appropriate filtration on the out on the on the on the output of their growth system so-called scrubbers to prevent toxic gases from being released into the atmosphere. But you do have some uh some old stories. Um okay so the proper design of metallorganic precursors is essential. You can easily see how if you change the molecule that you're bringing in, all of a sudden now your reaction temperatures are changing, the rate of deposition is changing, right? And and and you you have to optimize your growth process all over again. So part of the trick of doing good MOCVD is knowing your chemistry, being able to design or synthesize these metal organic precursors. And the deposition process is very sensitive to temperature, pressure, the precise surface uh orientation and preparation. what carrier gases as well are are mixed in with the metal organic precursor that you're putting in and the byproducts obviously need to be managed. So that's MOCVD in a nutshell. Yes. And the pure quality is much better for MCB than it is for SP. Um it depends on a lot of factors. So the reason the purity of MOCVD is generally better than sputtering is because the mass flow controllers necessary to control the gas flow for the are specific for particular types of gases. Now, in sputtering, because of the versatility of the sputtering uh chamber, you could take this target out and put, you know, maybe Ashley comes along into your sputtering chamber and she puts in another target of another metal, and now you're depositing two different metals in the same sputtering chamber. You're going to get crosscontamination. There are things you can do to minimize crosscontamination. You can have a chimney around your target to prevent uh uh flakes from coming down. You could have uh you could uh sand blast the sidewall uh coating and so forth to prevent stuff gunk from building up around the side, but you're still going to get a lot of crosscontamination here. And furthermore, uh the purity of your film is dictated by the purity of your target. And if you go online and look at Alpha Azar or Serak or some of the big uh uh metal uh selling firms which are essentially from where the the target manufacturers are are are purchasing their precursors and they can pack them and and and and make their targets. uh the target purity or the metal purity is only on the order of uh maybe 29s to 69s pure typically within that range. So um from an MOCVD point of view, you could do a distillation process and increase the purity of your precursor gas uh and avoid that. So I think two two big reasons why MOCVD can produce higher purity films in a sputtered uh system. one is the quality of the of the target. Uh and the other I think bigger parameter at least in in our growth systems is uh crosscontamination. And whenever you deposit say at EML they have a sputtering system there from AJ or over at Harvard CNS there's another AJ sputtering system there. Uh you're going to get crosscontamination. Just look through the log book and see what people have tried to deposit. It's uh it gets kind of scary. PECVD plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. So, similar to the previous variety right here, but instead of saying um okay, we're going to put the burden of the design, the scientific design onto this interface right here and onto the chemist who has to design this molecule that reaches a surface and breaks up in just the right way in in an orderly fashion, leaving behind the metal and letting the the the other gases go away. What we're going to do here instead is to shift the burden of separation onto the plasma. So, this enters the realm of physicists. We can flow in gases. We can break them up inside of a plasma, atomize them or at least create radicalized versions of them and then uh allow them to deposit onto the substrate. Very simple in theory. In practice, what happens inside of that plasma depending on the temperature, depending on the frequency and other factors, um you'll get different types and the pressure, especially the pressure, you'll get different types of uh uh molecules forming in the plasma. They may be charged and they'll be accelerated toward your substrate and eventually grow and form a thin film. But depending on what species you have up there that is being deposited on your surface, you'll get different types of of of of thin films growing, different quality material. And so, uh, again, this shifts the burden back to the spectrosc spectroscopists to measure what is exactly the composition of that plasma. What is the active uh molecule that's being accelerated and deposited on the surface? And usually it's some uh probability distribution function of various species. We have um the plasma is created by this uh radio frequency uh uh the radio frequency uh or let's put it this way. Usually you have a plasma frequency of around 13.56 megahertz. Um does anybody know why this 13.56 keeps on coming up over and over again? Yeah. The energy to ionize hydrogen, right? Well, the Yeah. the the the 13 if we're thinking about EV, um that would certainly be the the the energy necessary to to remove the the the electron from the uh the hydrogen atom. Uh but this is another reason. Yeah. It's a special band just dedicated for these crazy noise emitting like you know medical and industrial purposes. Exactly. So this is this is falling within the radio frequency regime uh which would affect communications and if uh everybody was allowed to run uh rockshot around using uh creating these very high intensity emission sources of radio frequency waves uh we would very likely have interruptions to our uh police uh uh uh communications or maybe even our radios or uh cell phones. uh and so at at some point uh they had to say look we we have to assign definite bands within the radio frequency space and allocate them to specific purposes. In one band they allocated to all the scientists and medical personnel and said you have to operate your equipment in these specific bands. Um, and we'll give you a few of them because we know that, you know, one frequency doesn't work for all the things you're trying to do. But for medical equipment, uh, for, uh, scientific equipment, and I believe even some, uh, uh, home electronics like microwaves, there are, uh, specific bands dedicated to them. And that's, uh, why we have this 13.56 number popping up over and over again. The reality is that if you change the frequency, you'll change the nature of your plasma. You may change the deposition rate and the quality of your film as well. And so there are people who get special permits and have these uh uh uh the radio frequency shielded rooms where they do experiments outside of or excursions outside of the 13.56 MHz range. So this is a PCBD. Excellent conformal surface coverage. Again, because you're biasing your substrate, uh you're able to uh conform the electric field is usually always perpendicular to the surface. And so the uh angle of entry of those uh uh atoms or molecules, the the ionized species uh entering the surface is going to be normal to that surface. And you can get good coverage around uh uh um rough uh textured surfaces. The deposition is very sensitive to temperature, pressure, power, carrier gases, power of the uh here as well shown. And the byproducts uh as well need to be managed because sometimes you're sucking out in this particular case uh you could be pulling out silene as shown right there. And we talked about all of the uh uh risks involved with siline in our last class. So, as you could guess, each of those different deposition techniques is used or is favored for specific uh material systems. And um we shouldn't forget as we we talk about all these fancy vacuum equipment that look nice and cool as you walk through the labs and you see these big stainless steel chambers. Um we shouldn't forget about the simpler, lower cost, lower thermal budget, lower capital equipment cost techniques, the solutionbased deposition methods. And these involve printing, they involve electro deposition, spin casting, collo colloidal synthesis, layer by layer deposition developed here at MIT and other technologies as well. Um, I want to point out two technologies in general that are uh the first of which is still under some development. Printing. Obviously, we have printers for uh inkjet printers. That's pretty straightforward. But printing for actual solar cells is something being commercialized by only a handful of companies. uh nanosolar being one of them and uh I would say there there aren't any uh authoritative um uh textbooks that will describe for you their technology because it's largely under wraps. They're a startup company and it's not uh publicly available. Electro deposition on the other hand is fairly wellnown. You're uh again applying a voltage difference between uh two electrodes, one of which will be your substrate, and depositing species contained within your electrolytic solution onto that substrate, growing your layers. Because you're growing at room temperature, uh these films tend to be um u I would say tend to have uh uh rough surfaces. That could be a downside of electro deposition. Uh they might have some pin holes as well, but you do get fairly large grained materials. Uh it can be a very gentle growth process. And of course the advantage is lower temperature. So you have a variety of different growth techniques. Uh let's talk about the general issues uh involved with thin films in general and then we'll dive into the specific materials. So taking the same tactics we've taken the full class going from fundamentals uh toward the technologies. Yes. Just curious do you know of many companies that actually h um I know of some companies let me think which I can talk publicly about. Ah um so IBM they presented at the uh electrochemical society meeting last Monday uh here in Boston. Uh they're an example of a company that is developing electrochemical deposition processes for uh material systems including copper zinc tin sulfide and copper indium gallium dicelanide. We'll talk about the latter uh in a few slides but that's one example of a company. Okay. Okay. So, general issues in thin films. Um, thin film compounds are typically not always but typically binary, turnary, quatary or multinary semiconductors. Meaning uh you don't have just one element comprising the semiconductor species. You might have several and they form a crystal structure with repeating uh structure but alternating atoms typically. And so if you have multiple atoms in one compound, a couple of issues could arise need to be controlled to to grow good films. The first involves phase stability. What is shown right here in moltenary parameter space. This is the chemical potential of zinc, copper and tin in a so-called zinc copper tin sulfide uh uh material system. This red fin right here is showing you the parameter space within which this compound is stable. If your stochometry takes an excursion from that red fin, you could wind up into in in a in a bphase regime, meaning uh you have ccts and something else, a copper tin sulfide, a zinc sulfide or some other species that happens to be nearby in phase space. Um one way to think about this is uh it just you have a homogeneous uh material. If you exceed a solubility limit in one direction or another, you'll have precipitation of a secondary phase. So you have to make sure that in in a gross uh perspective on a a percent basis you're in the right regime of stochometry. Stochometry meaning the ratio of different elements in your system. So it's like cooking. You need the right set of ingredients to make uh the right uh material. Now uh that's that has to do with large uh large excursions from stochometry can result in phase decomposition. Small excursions from stochometry a much more subtle effect can occur. Let's imagine for a moment that we have two species comprising our binary material. One species is uh has three veence electrons. The other species has five veence electrons. Now because of a small error in stoeometry, maybe something in the order of a few tens or hundreds of parts per million uh in stoeometry, we didn't get the ratio just right. We were off by a little bit. Now we have one of our compounds in excess and the other one in in in in deficiency. If we have uh a different number of electrons uh surrounding the atoms, we could wind up with uh an excess uh free carrier density. In other words, you could self dope your material if you're unlucky. In other words, if the material system has a propensity for this and you can change the free carrier concentration and because the free carrier concentration is changing, you might even change your mobility. Uh so there are uh some some effects that can occur uh as a result of small excursions from stochometry. As a result of the self-doping, you're shifting the firmy energy inside of your semiconductor. And as a result of shifting the fermy energy, it might uh uh lead to a cascade series of events. There could be other defects that form as as a result of the firmy energy change. You could have other uh uh so-called anti-sight defects. atoms could switch positions inside of your lattice and uh as a result of that um have a very low minority carrier lifetime u in in in certain materials. So nailing the stochometry both from a a very large sense you know to avoid phase decomposition instead of having a dalmatian film you have a phase pure film um and from a small uh from from a from a local perspective once you get on to this phase space where you can grow your film uh well you'll want to make sure that your stochometry is controlled to avoid self-doping and to prevent certain types of intrinsic point defects from forming uh that might uh lower minority carrier lifetime or change carrier concent concentration uh change other properties of your film. For those who are working on these sorts of materials, I'm happy to talk at ad at Nalm about these topics. Um maybe after class since this is a more detailed subject. Um another topic of of interest in thin films is grain size. Uh at some point grains don't matter anymore. U the grain size typically if you exceed the uh the thickness of your film by about a factor of five. In other words, if the grain diameter is about five times thicker or wider than the thickness of your film, grain size is not as much of an issue. But if you do have very small grains, um they can impact performance because carriers will interact with those grain boundaries and depending how recombination active they are or where the grain boundary is pinning the firmy energy. Uh the density of states that at the grain boundary will dictate the effect on device performance. So these are some very uh rough plots in crystal and silicon for thin film devices um and for some thicker ones as well. Cell performance as a function of grain size. And I show crystal and silicon because the data is really well developed for it. But you see similar types of plots for organic materials for uh uh some inorganic thin film materials like sigs and so forth. And uh this convolutes a few different parameters. you have to take into account that the recomination activity of the grain boundary is also a factor. Next topic, general topic of interest. Um, another tool that we'll want to have in our material science toolkit as we start designing these materials. We have to think about the interfaces between the different materials. Especially in thin films, interfaces are so important because we don't have much bulk anymore, right? Um so the device could really be affected or or device performance really reduced if we uh don't pay proper attention to our interfaces. What are these plots over here? These plots are used to grow some very high efficiency materials for example by MOCVD or molecular beam epitexi. And what is represented on the horizontal axis is lattice constant. Lattice constant refers to the equilibrium spacing of atoms inside of your material. So uh this regularly repeating unit cell that defines a crystal uh is has a certain lattice constant a certain distance physical distance shown here in angstroms. The energy of the gap is shown on the vertical axis. And if we want to select two or three of these materials to stack on top of one another to absorb well at different portions of the solar spectrum, we'll be choosing, for example, one band gap at around 1.9 EV, another band gap of 1 EV, or maybe if we want three materials, we'll go even higher at the at the top end and lower at the low end. So we'll stack different materials on top of each other to absorb preferentially in different regions of the solar spectrum and hence exceed the shockly quiser efficiency limit because now we're absorbing well in two or three different colors as opposed to just one. And the energy gap here is is important because you want maybe one at one material at 1 eV, one material about 1.9 eV, but you also want to make sure that they can grow on top of each other, that you're not going to get a mismatch at that interface, that the lattice constants aren't so different that you wind up with these dangling bonds at the interface where you have an atom coming down and nothing on the other side for it to bond to. And so you need to make sure that uh the the materials that you grow are matched in lattice constant but varying in band gap if you're trying to grow a multi-junction device if you're trying to grow a very high efficiency solar cell device. And so the the um growth or matching of materials one on top of another is important especially for the multi-junctions also for some of the single junction materials if you really want to minimize the interface recombination. So let's look at this uh growth system up here. the uh uh the one that um is is typically used in high efficiency solar cell materials. We have uh germanmanium right here, gallium arsenide and indium gallium phosphide which is essentially a mixture between gallium phosphide up here and indium phospide down here. You can alloy the two together and get an indium gallium phosphide mixture and stack these three materials on top of one another. German germanmanium, gallium marsite and indium gallium phosphide. They have three different band gaps. They absorb in three different regions of the solar spectrum but they have a very similar lattice constant and so the interfaces will be very well maintained. That's an example of uh using a chart like this to design your your solar cell materials. Next topic is material abundances. If we're trying to uh engineer uh all of these other parameters that we've been talking about, the lattice constant, the band gap, uh the grain size that depends that that also is a function of how the material grows, the ability to self dope. We have all of these materials issues that we have first and for foremost in our minds. We go to the periodic table, we find some compounds that work, we're really happy about it. Um but then all of a sudden, life comes along and slaps us in the face and says, "Well, we don't have enough of this material to really scale to get all the way to the terowatt sol. I wish I had known about this before when I first got started. Um, so we're we're presenting to you up front uh the state-of-the-art of what is known about material abundances. And these last two studies right here, APS critical critical energy or energy critical elements and the DOE critical material strategy. Both of them represent a synthesis of the information essentially the equivalent of the IPCC reports in climate change. But the best synthesis that we have right now about the abundancies of different elements out there, there are as well a variety of different papers that have been published on this subject over the last couple of decades um or even earlier. Um so what we have to keep in mind is that uh our our stardust out there is is not an infinite supply. uh every element we have on the planet that we know of came from fusion reactions in stars and there was a probability distribution function of of uh of of the appearance of those elements as a function of Z on the planet as a result uh biased toward the lighter elements and some of the heavier elements are in lesser supply that we know of on the earth's crust. Not to say that the deposits don't exist. Not to say that these studies right here are the author authoritative end all and beall. We might discover next year or next month or tomorrow a huge deposit of a particular element at a specific spot, let's say under the Arctic. Um, but from what we know right now, that's the stardust that we have to work with. Uh, these are are abundancies. So, if you'd like to design around it, um, I'd advise looking into those uh, reports as well. And finally, radiation hardness. Getting back to Ashley's question, gee, what are the most radiation hard uh, species? This is the efficiency of solar cell performance normalized uh at the very start of a test. And this is the um the the the the equivalent radiation damage. Um the amount of of you can also think about this as the amount of of um momentum or energy depending transferred to uh the atoms inside of your semiconductor. that would result in lattice damage that would result in a decrease of minority carry lifetime or mobility which ultimately would impact cell performance and efficiency. We can see that different material systems have uh different degrees of radiation hardness. Some maintained their high efficiency until very high radiation dose and others uh degrade much quicker. And um look at this. This is a dose in orbit per year right around there. And you can already begin to see that some of our most uh uh common uh compounds are are not doing too well out there. Not doing too well in outer space. The gallery is actually on the bottom. So we have we have the radiation hardness to take into account if we're uh putting these solar panels out there into outer space. Um this is one uh older study I would definitely encourage you to look uh there may be some newer studies as the solar cell efficiency improves they become more sensitive right because you begin decreasing your efficiency uh with smaller variations in the minority care diffusion length um so those charts might look a little different for as time goes by is the effect of the radiation cumulative so for example like gallium marsenide or any of these would just continue to degrade as they're out in space so Um is the effect of radiation dose cumulative? Uh I am not the expert on this particular topic but from what I know about radiation exposure of detectors at synretrons which is is uh a little uh similar not not not quite the same um the mech mechanisms involved uh with this essentially involve atomic displacements within the lattice. You have atoms physically being displaced from their equilibrium positions as they interact with this incoming radiation. and the probability that it occurs as a function of time uh will will increase per unit volume. Uh and hence it is it can be thought of as a cumulative exposure effect. Um the first order impact would be on minority carrier diffusion length um impacting both lifetime and mobility. Uh and to the effect that you have a relationship between exposure time, lattice displacement, lattice displacement, minority care diffusion length, minority care diffusion length and efficiency, you might be able to model this effect. That would be my uh uninformed answer. Again, you might want to look this up yourself. Question. Do you know why the improves? Oh, why does it improve with efficiency? Uh, I don't know specifically uh why that is for this particular case, but I do know that some materials are what are called defect tolerant. Some are more naturally able to withstand uh anti-sight defects or a certain uh concentration of damage, internal surfaces, voids, grain boundaries. Um, cadtel cadmium teleride is uh is is fairly defect tolerant. It's one of nature's gifts to humanity in that regard. Um the the degree to which a material can be uh defect tolerant depends partly on the carrier density. If you have very high carrier densities, you tend to screen defects. Uh uh another reason why they could be defect tolerant, um all of these compounds are somewhere between an ionic and a covealent semiconductor. In a coalent semiconductor, uh the those materials tend to be very defect intolerant. Uh because there's um let's say the the uh the uh uh co uh the the the conduction band and veance band as a function of position tend to be very flat. The material tends to be fairly homogeneous throughout. The electron density is fairly well distributed in a coalently bonded material. In an ionic material, you tend to have charge localization. So energy as a function of position might look like this in an atomic scale as you go from one atom to the next atom in your lice to the next one to the next one to the next one. And that reflects the localization of charge in your material. Those materials can be more defect intolerant because conduction can happen more from a hopping mechanism than from a band conduction mechanism. Um and this is really a gradient in between in most materials. They tend to be partially ionic, partially covealent. um going down the list here and there's a a bit of a shift between cadmium sulfide and zinc sulfide in terms of the the ionicity coalent soel uh would be with the chalken two lower than sulfur on the periodic table I would imagine it would be at this transition as well but I have to look that up gives you a place to get started and read more about it uh and then reliability and degradation uh this is important if you this is a crystal and silicon module being loaded into an environmental testing chamber inside of that chamber the module is going be put through hell and back. Uh the temperature is going to be raised. Uh the humidity is going to be pumped in. Sometimes ultraviolet light is even put in there as some of the more modern advanced ones. And uh then the temperature can drop uh down to uh temperatures as low as -40° C uh depending on what the environmental chamber is designed to to do exactly how it's designed to stress or test your module. And the idea is to promote an accelerated degradation of the module on purpose to test what its failure modes will be. And we'll see these when we go take the tour of Foundhuffer CSSE in a couple weeks. This is the crystal and silicon module being loaded in. If you to put a thin film material. Now the thin in crystal silicon our material is very very thick and uh we said that the native oxide was very uh tenacious. It was only a few tens or maybe hundreds of instros thick and the junction depth was on the order of a micron. So surfaces I mean if you if you have water attacking the surface of your silicon wafer water vapor really not too much of an issue and silicon is fairly inert anyway. But now if you take a fairly reactive material uh a thin film material that might react with air or might react with water and it's so thin that uh the these these uh rusting modes or or reaction modes the weathering modes uh can really impact a large fraction of the thickness of your device. Now you become a lot more sensitive to accelerated degradation. Now you become a lot more sensitive to the elements. Um and this includes both oxygen and water. So if uh if if the uh if the ambient is able to penetrate through the encapsulate and get to the active absorber material, you may have accelerated degradation of module performance as a result. And so there are there are also some unique failure modes for thin film modules. If you have two different species in your uh comprising your your your compound, one of them might be prone to move in electric field. For example, copper is notorious for uh zipping along in in in electric field and electromigrating. And so that's a failure mode that doesn't exist in large uh uh thick crystal and silicon modules, but could exist in thin films. And so because of all of this and because of the growing realization that the way we test crystal and silicon modules and and and drive them to failure is not the same uh that we might be able to achieve failure in a thin film module. There are newer testing protocols such as this IEC61583 that have been introduced in an attempt to um test appropriately thinfilm modules for their respective failure modes. And this is I would say still uh work in progress. So much so that we have a group project uh focused on in part on this. Um it's it's still a work in pro in in in process to try to figure out how do we appropriately test these synfo modules um toward the point where they they can fail. Um any questions so far on these topics because these are are are general general issues that will affect all thin film materials. I wanted to make sure that we were comfortable with these general topics before we dove in uh in any detail into the technologies themselves. Yes. question about lice matching. Yeah, important to l match the semiconductor to the contact as well or is that not as um so the question was is it important to to lattice match the semiconductor to the contact? Um so let me uh emphasize that in many uh semiconductor contact uh combinations you would have a highly doped semiconductor right before the contact a very localized region of highly doped semiconductor that would create a tunneling junction. Um in that case the density of states at the interface doesn't matter because you have a tunneling junction. You're able to tunnel straight from the semiconductor into the contact. Um the lattice matching would matter though if you didn't have a tunneling junction. If you had a regular shot qomic contact then you might have to worry about the density of interface states which would be regulated by the number of dangling bonds and then you might want every single atom lining up pairing up with a neighbor on the other side. So lice matching would be important for context there. All right, fun stuff. Wow, we've had our good dose of material science for the day. Um, thin film cost structure. I just wanted to highlight one quick thing. This material right here, that's not the absorber material. The absorber material is a really tiny fraction of the material. Um, this uh comprises the other materials uh within the module as well, right? So, uh the the the encapsulates, the glass and so forth. Just keep that in mind uh as a kind of asterisk. So, it's a typical thin film cost structure. It evolves with time. This is a few years old this slide but it gives you a sense a feeling. Um in terms of global production this is a year old data now from 2010. Uh during this past year uh so this is 2009 data shown in 2010. The 2010 market was very harsh um for uh the thin film producers many of which tend to be in the United States and in Europe. uh in 2010 prices dropped quite a bit and that favored the low-cost Chinese solar cell manufacturers many of which were invested in crystal and silicon technology. So by no virtue of or or or uh say uh no no detriment of the technology itself uh market dynamics worldwide due to other factors uh tended to favor crystal and silicon during the past year and the market share of thin films contracted a bit. So it's now about 90% crystal and silicon 10% thin films worldwide in 2010. uh but the breakdown between the different um uh thin film technologies we had so-called cadmium telide sigs that's copper indium gallium dicelanide and amorphous silicon and the dynamic between 2009 2010 was that the amorphous silicon shrank a bit sigs grew and cadtel continued growing but more marginally because it was already big to begin with so uh you could think of this red uh portion growing at the expense of the green if you want to translate this into 20110 numbers So what is uh sigs cadel amorphous silicon? What are those materials? Um well we'll get into that. I think the best thing to do is to leave this for next class. I'll briefly go over cadtel just because it is so important. It is the biggest uh well the the single biggest US solar cell manufacturers producing cadmium telide solar cells or cadtel for short. And um to make just a description of what you your solar panel would look like in cross-section, this is your glass on the back side here. This ITO is indium tin oxide. It is a what? Transparent conducting oxide. Very good. So the itto is a transparent conducting oxide. Your light, your sunlight is coming in through here. So this is an electrically conductive layer, but it's um it's it's transparent. So it's allowing the sunlight through. Tin oxide. We'll get to that in a second. uh cadmium sulfide and cadmium teluride. So the cal cadmium teluride layer is the layer that's absorbing most of the sunlight and producing electron whole pairs. The cadmium sulfide is providing the heterogunction separating charge at the heterogunction between the cadtel and the cad sulfide. This tin oxide is generally an intrinsic layer. Um it's uh it's uh assisting here with the itto on the front contact. Uh and then you have your back contact that extracts charge from the back. Um there are a couple more tricks to creating a good CADTEL device that involve uh uh chlorine treatment and passivation of defects. Um that's where some of the activation comes in. U this is another view of the CATEL device and cross-section. Another um example this transparent conducting oxide in this case is florine doped tin oxide. Another uh uh uh TCO material but very similar structure here. The CAD tel being the ptype material and the CAD sulfide the ntype material. The thicknesses of these different layers you can see the cadtel is only a few microns thick and the CAD sulfide is is even uh thinner. It's a very thin layer just serving to separate the charge. The band structure uh of the sorry the band diagram of um of a cadtel solar cell is shown right here. We have the cadtel here and the CAD sulfide right here. So you can see the junction. Notice because of the uh thickness of this layer, the band bending at these interfaces extends quite an appreciable percentage of the total thickness of your device. Whereas in crystal and silicon, we had the band bending right near the junction region. So right within a few uh hundreds of nanometers, maybe a micron away from the junction and the device was 100 microns thick. So we had 100 microns approximately of this of this flat band condition at least in the dark. uh here we have uh band bending extending an appreciable percentage of the total thickness of our device just by virtue of the fact that we have such a thin film right and uh the characteristics uh it's it's very well um the the the the deposition technology of cadel as I said it's it's it's nature's gift to humankind if you put cadmium and tallarium together in a pot and start heating it up uh what evaporates is cadel it congruently evaporates so you could use a process called closed space sublimation where you essentially sublime your cadel uh and you deposit it onto your substrate. If you try to do this with most other compounds in a periodic table, you'll get either one element or the other element evaporating first. They'll create an over pressure. They'll evaporate off and you won't get your compound depositing, but you'll get one element depositing on your substrate preferentially. CADEL again nature's gift to humankind. The two come off together and form a cadtel layer. And so that congruent evaporation makes it very nice from a deposition point of view. Very lowcost, high throughput deposition process for solar benefits from environmental concerns. Um, cadmium has raised quite uh a bunch of concerns amongst um uh folks in environmental groups because uh it's a known carcinogen. Uh it is responsible for uh in Japan for the um I believe it was called the ichi ichiban which means the ouch ouch disease. Uh it was a a disease uh that was acquired by by folks exposed to to cadium uh during manufacturing and as a result uh cadel solar panels are not allowed to be installed in Japan. So first solar cannot sell its cadtel products in Japan. Um there are very tightly regulated uh uh emissions laws in the EU and the United States especially in the EU where cradletograve uh recycling of CADEL solar panels are are necessary. So you'll see a lot of CADEL solar panels in large field installations or in commercial buildings where it's very easy to collect them all after uh their 20 or 25 year lifespan and bring them back to the factory as opposed to having them distributed amongst hundreds or thousands of smaller systems deposited on rooftops. The arguments in favor of having cadmium inside of solar panels is the following. That, you know, it's better to tie up cadmium inside of a relatively inert compound, cadel, than to have it go off uh and and and and cause problems on its own. Um if you heat it up, uh the cadtel would evaporate um congruently. Typically, cadmium uh is is is so called negligible amounts are released during fires. And I put it in between quotes because these are studies uh very good studies and and I I I um I trust the work coming out of uh Fifth's group uh very much. The uh his critics would argue that well the studies were paid for in part by First Solar. So how do you trust studies like that? I would counter in saying this is a pretty good group uh out of all the people who do life cycle analysis he's within the top top tier. Um, so it's it's it's some question uh as as to as to that. People do do question, you know, were the temperatures used in these studies representative of what you'd actually get in the hot zone of a fire and so forth. There's a public fear and perception issue. It's a big deal. And um uh the folks would would argue uh uh that that um that cadmium much less cadmium is released per kilowatt hour than say in a battery uh where we would use a a nickel cadmium battery for instance. um and uh safe production methods now fully automated and uh recycling is guaranteed by law. So you have arguments in favor and against. Um I'm going to stop right here and I'm going to pull aside the teams during the last 15 minutes of class. I emailed you. Uh if those of you had checked your email uh before last uh uh night at 5:00 should have received an email saying you're on a particular team project team. Find your partners cluster together. Joe and I are going to come around and spend a few minutes with each of you just to make sure that uh our first steps are clear and that we have a a forward path and we gain some momentum. So, uh, self assemble and don't leave the room before I have a chance to come talk to