The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Today we continue our theme on integer data structures and we're going to cover one data structure called fusion trees uh which introduce a bunch of cool concepts using might call bit tricks using the word level parallelism to do lots of great things. Uh to do those great things we need to do something called sketching which is taking essentially taking wbit integers and making them less than w bits but still having enough stuff that we care about. And then uh we can actually compute those sketches using integer multiplication in a very clever way. Uh and uh given a bunch of these slightly less than w bit numbers we can compare uh several for the price of one operation. It's parallel comparison. And then a particularly nifty thing uh which is new this time I haven't covered it before is how to compute the leftmost one bit in a w bit integer in constant time. Uh all very cool and so we're going to combine all these techniques and get fusion trees. What do fusion trees give us in the end? Basically the goal is to get log base w of n uh predecessor and successor. So we're again talking about the predecessor problem. We saw we did log of w last time with venom dus and y fast trees. Uh so then with the two of them together we get log w and log base w of n. The min of those two things is always at most root log n uh but sometimes much better than that. So fusion trees are great when w is big. Venom Debose was good when W was smallalish like poly log n uh venom debose is optimal w here we're thinking about w being closer to n uh or maybe n to the epsilon or something then we get uh constant time if it's n to the epsilon anyway uh the version we're going to cover is static uh and it's uh linear case and it runs on the good old word RAM which you may recall is regular C operations on W bit words w is at least login so you can do random access um and anything else I think that's the version we will cover and that is the original version of Fredman and Willard and it it was invented in 1990 which is one year after the called fusion debacle. So that's maybe where this name come came from. There's other reasons it might be called fusion trees which we'll get to. Uh and cool. So now there's other versions of fusion trees which I will not cover but just so you know about them. Uh and in some sense we will pseudo cover them. There's a version for an AC0 RAM. It's a model we haven't talked about. It's another version of a transdicommus RAM um somewhere off to the side next to word RAM. AC0 is a circuit model and it's basically any constant depth circuit of unbounded fan in and fan out. And so in particular what AC0 forbids are operations like multiplication. I think this used to be a bigger deal than it is today. I think multiplication used to be an order of magnitude slower than integer addition. Uh I checked on current Intel architectures is about three times slower than an addition because of pipelining. A lot of things get cheaper. But uh in in some theoretical sense multiplication is worse than a lot of other operations because you need to have a log and depth circuit. So you can't quite get as much parallelism as you can with integer addition. If you don't know about circuit models, don't worry about it too much. But AC0 means no multiplication sort of simpler operations. The weird thing about the AC0 RAM is it lets you do weird things uh which are AC0 but are not in C. So you could look you could look at the intersection of AC0 RAM and word RAM and that would basically be word RAM without multiplication. Uh but AC0 RAM allows other operations as long as there's some circuit that can compute them. Sometimes they're reasonable operations like most significant set bit is an AC0 operation. So you don't have to do any work to get this operation. So some sense this makes your life easier. In other ways, it makes your life harder because there's no multiplication and we're going to use multiplication to compute sketches and other things. So, it's both better and worse. Uh this is by Anderson and others few years after the original fusion trees. Uh more interesting is that there are so this is a version of fusion trees. More interesting are the dynamic versions of fusion trees. Uh so there's one that the first version it's actually first it's actually published later but there's a general trick for dynamizing uh static data structures. We actually saw one. You may recall weight balance search trees was a way to dynamize a static data structure. Turns out it doesn't work so great on fusion trees because the time to build a fusion tree uh is polomial. It's not linear. So that's kind of annoying. Need polinomial time to build this thing. So weight balance is not enough to slow down the rebuilds. There's another structure which we won't cover called exponential search trees. It has this log and overhead but other than that it it gives you a nice dynamization. So these are updates. Uh there's another version which uses hashing and achieves log base w expected time for updates. This is by ramen and uh so this gives you optimal I mean or matching I should say the fusion tree query bound. You can do inserts and deletes the same amount of time if you allow expected. And essentially the idea is to do sketches more like hashing. I mean think of sketching as just hashing down to a smaller universe. And in expectation that will work well. Although it's open actually whether you can achieve this bound with high probability. So it's an interesting open question. Uh, cool. So that's sort of the various versions of fusion trees, but we're going to just cover the static ones because they're interesting enough. Dynamic ones are not that much harder than the regular. So how do we achieve log base w of n? Well, we've already seen b trees which achieve log base b of n. So presumably it's the same idea. And indeed, uh, that's what we'll do. What we want is a B tree with branching factor ideally W. We can't quite achieve W though. So it's going to be W to some small constant power and 1/5 is the one that I'll use in this lecture. You can improve it or make it worse up to you. Uh but any constant up here will do because then log base w to the 1/5 is going to be 5 times log base w of n. Uh so we have a node somehow it has branching factor w to the 1/5. So uh then the height of the tree of course is is theta log base w of n. So that's all good. But now what we need to do is doing a predecessor search given a node we need to decide in constant time which branch has our answer. So normally in a B tree you would read in all these keys and then you know compare your item to all of them and then decide which way to go because in a B tree we can read all of these items in one operation. Now here is that possible? Think about it. You've got each of these keys is w bits long. there's w to the one of them. So the total number of bits in a node to store all those keys is w to the 1 + 15 which is a lot. There's no way you can read all those bits in constant time. You can only read order w bits in constant time. So we can't look at them all. Somehow we still have to figure out which way to go correctly in constant time. So this is the idea of a B tree or sorry a fusion tree node. We need to be able to store uh k which is order w to the 1/5 keys. I'm going to give them some names. X0 up to X K minus one. Assume that they've been pre-sorted. We can pre-process and do all those things. Going to constant time predecessor and successor and uh it's going to be linear space and it's going to require polomial uh pre-processing. And this is the annoying part. If this was just K pre-processing, it would be easy to make fusion trees dynamic, but it's K to squared or K cubed or something depending on how fancy you are. It's not known how to do it in linear time. Cool. So that's really our goal. If we can implement fusion tree nodes and do pred constant time predecessor on this small small value of n basically when n is only w to the 1/5. If we can do constant time for that, then by plugging in breeze, we get the log base w of n for arbitrary arbitrary values of n. So it's really all about a single node doing that fast. So the rest of the lecture will be about that. So uh I want to introduce this idea of sketching and to do that going to think about what it takes to distinguish uh this small number of keys. Okay, high level idea is well we've got W to the 1/5 keys. Each of them is W bits. Do you really need all W bits for each of them? It seems a little excessive. If there's only W to the 1/5, you should only need about W to the 1/5 bits of each to distinguish them all. So that's the intuition. And indeed, you can uh formalize that intuition by viewing each of the keys as a path in a binary tree. So this represents the bit string uh 0 1 0 1 1 0 one. Zero means left, one means right. Okay, this is a transformation we use a lot. So maybe that's in your set. Maybe uh this other uh bit string is in your set. Maybe uh this bit string I got to make these the same height. which is a little challenging. So maybe those are the three suppose you just have these three bit strings w bit strings in your set. So this is a tree uh of height w because each of the keys has w bits. So maybe k is three. Those are your three keys. Okay. The idea is look at the branching nodes. Here's a color. So you've got a branching node here and a branching node here. Okay, because there's three leaves, there's only going to be two branching nodes. So the idea is, well, I really only care about these two bits or it would be enough to think about these two bits. Okay, we'll we'll look at this more formally in a moment. But by by storing this bit, I know whether the key is over here in the left or over here on the right. And then by storing this bit, I don't really care about it for this word, but it will distinguish these two words. So if you just look at the bits that contain branching nodes in this uh try view, then uh it's enough to distinguish all of the xis. So this is x0 x1 x2. Okay, let me formalize that a little bit. So we have uh k minus one branching nodes uh in this uh height w tree of the k uh keys because there's k leaves there's going to be k minus one branching nodes uh because the k leaves are distinct. Uh so this means they're at most k minus one levels uh containing a branching node might be fewer but maybe it's nice to add in another key over here on the left. I mean, if I was lucky, there'd be another key over here, and then I'd be using this bit and getting two for the price of one. If I'm less lucky, it'll be more like this. So, here's another X value. Uh, and in this case, I I care about this branching node. So, I care about another bit here. Okay. But if I have four keys, it'll be at most three bits uh corresponding to these levels. So call these these levels correspond to bits. You know this is the first bit, second bit, third bit so on. Uh this is the most significant bit next and then the least significant is at the bottom. Uh so these correspond these levels correspond to important bits. That's a definition. And we're going to give these bits a name. B 0 B1 up to B R minus one. Those are bit indices saying which bits we care about. Um and we know that R is less than K and K is order W to the 1/5. So there are only W to the 1/5 important bits uh overall among these K keys. So the idea is don't store all W bits for all the keys. I mean you have to store them but don't look at them. Just look at these important bits for the keys and then life is good because there's only W to the 1/5 bits per key. There's only W to the 1/5 keys and so the total number of important bits among all K keys is small. It's only uh w to the two- fifths which is less than w. So it fits in a single word and we can look at this in constant time. So that seems like a good thing. Let me tell you what properties this has. Let me also define the notion of a perfect sketch of a word X is going to be what you get when you extract bits B 0 to B R minus one from X. So in other words, this is a a bit string, an R bit string whose uh i bit equals bit b i of x. Okay, so you've got bit string which is x. You say, oh, the important ones are this one, this one, this one, and this one. Inside here is either a zero or one. And there's other bits which we don't care about because they're not important. And we just compress this to a four bit string 0 1 1 0. Okay, this is sketch of X. Um, and to be a little bit more explicit about how I'm labeling things, this is B 0. This is B1, B2 and B3 because uh yeah because you number bits I think this is right. We'll see later. Um going to number bits from the right hand side. This is the zeroth bit one first bit second third fourth which is the opposite of this picture unfortunately. Sorry this is bit zero bit one. Anyway, this will be convenient because uh yeah, anyway uh cool. So that's perfect sketch. Um for now I'm going to assume that we can compute this in constant time. This one answer is it's an AC0 operation. Uh it's kind of that's not so obvious but it's true. Uh so on an AC0 RAM you can just say oh this is an operation right? It's given one word and uh well okay it's given this these description of bit numbers but those will also fit in one word and then it extracts does this bit extraction. Okay, we're going to see a reasonable way to do it but for now take that as an unreasonable way to do this. So uh perfect sketch is good because um it implies following nice property. If you look at the sketch of x0 that's going to be less than the sketch of x1 and so on. is going to be less than the sketch of x k minus one. Okay, sketch preserves order. We assume that uh where do we have it? Over here x0 is less than x1 is le less than x k minus one. And because we're keeping all the bits that where these XI's get distinguished with this one it doesn't matter whether we kept here it doesn't matter whether we kept these guys but in particular we keep the bits that have all the branching nodes that will preserve the order of the XIS. So we know that the order of the X size is preserved under sketching. The trouble is the following. Okay, suppose you want to do a search, a predecessor search, right? So you're given some query Q and you want to know where does Q fit among the XI's because that will tell you which child to visit from here. So okay, you compute sketch of Q seems reasonable. move into sketch world and now you try to find where sketch of Q fits among these guys. So you can do that and I claim you can do that in constant time. It's again an AC0 operation. Uh but the nice thing is the sketches all fit in one word. So also this single sketch fits in one word. Um no big surprise there. Uh so let's say you can find where sketch of Q fits among these items in constant time. The trouble is where the sketch of Q fits is not necessarily the same as where Q fits among the XI's because Q was not involved in the definition of sketch. Q is an arbitrary query. They come online. You have no I mean any word could be a query, not just the XI. So you've set everything up to distinguish all the XI's, but Q is going to fall off this tree at some point and uh that kind of messes you up because if say Q fell off here, you don't have that bit. You won't notice that Q fit there. So we have to do some work. And this is what I call descetriifying. And I kind of like a big board. So Okay, let me draw a somewhat more methodical and smaller example. The right number of levels a little bigger than my usual tree. Um, and get my red. Actually, maybe he's two colors. So here's a kind of real example. Uh now it has four keys. And here I'm in the lucky case where this is an important bit. And I get sort of two for the price of one. I cared about this branching node. I cared about this branching node. And so I only have to store two bits in my sketch for these four nodes. In general, it might be three bits, but this will just make the point. So it's it's actually life is in some ways harder in this situation. Okay. So what are my bitst strings here? Over here I've got 0 0 0 which corresponds to always going left. Then I've got 0 0 1 0. Uh over here I've got 1 1 0 0 and 1 one one. We drew these pictures for Venom DOS. Right? And the idea is is we're going to use some of the similar perspectives at least. Okay. But the important bits were the very first the leftmost bit I should say and then uh two bits after that. So these guys and so the sketch here is 1 one zero 0 1 and 0 0. And you can see this is the minimal number of bits I need to keep them in order. But it does it. It works. You can check this works in general. Okay. Now comes the query. I have a problematic query I'd like to draw and it is 0 1 01. So 0 1 01. So here's my query Q. Let me draw these as white. Okay. Query is 0 1 01. If we take the sketch, we get 0 0. Okay, those are the important bits. So if I search for query of 0 0 uh you know I will find that it happens to match this key or it matches the sketch of this key. But that key is neither the predecessor nor the successor of that query. So this is bad news. I find the predecessor in sketch world which is the red stuff. I get the wrong answer. In general, they could be very far away from each other. Here, I've got it one away, but that's as big an example as I can draw. So, how do we deal with this? This is the detation I claim. So when I do this query, I end up finding this guy X0. I claim that I can still use that for something something interesting. Okay, let's say we have uh sketch of Xi is the predecessor of the sketch of Q. And so sketch of Q is sandwiched between sketch of X I and sketch of X I + one. First of all, we're assuming I can compute this in constant time. I can find where sketch of Q fits among these guys because it's just fits in two words. And for now, let's just assume all operations on a constant number of words are constant time. We will see how to do this. This is parallel comparison. Okay. So you figure out sketch of Q fits here. I want to learn something about where Q fits among the XI. It's obviously these may be the wrong answer, but I claim uh I can do something useful by looking at the longest common prefix of those words. So I want to compare Q not sketch of Q but the real value Q and uh either x i or x i + one. Uh, and I what I want is the longest. So I look at the longest common prefix of q and x i. I look at the longest common prefix of q and x i + one. Whichever of those is the longest, that's my longest common prefix in the tree. It's the longest common ancestor or lowest lowest common ancestor. Sorry. Okay. So let's do it. We've got uh we found that sketch of Q fit between I guess these two guys. The way I've written it with the inequalities, it's between X0 here and X1. So in this case, the longest common ancestor is or the lowest common ancestor of this node and Q is going to be here. Also this node and Q happens to also be here. So this is the lowest we can go. And what this means is that um these guys they they shared the bitst string up to here. We were on the blue substructure up till here. This was the node where Q diverged. We followed a pointer here along a non-blue edge. That's where we made a mistake. So this lets us find in some sense the the first mistake where we fell off the tree. So that's some where we fell off the blue tree. That's useful information because now we kind of know well we went to the right whereas all the actual data is over here in the left subree there. There is no blue stuff in the right. So that tells us a lot. If we want to now find the predecessor of Q, it's going to be whatever is the max in this subree. So I just need to be able to find the max over here. So this is the idea. Uh now there's two cases depending on whether we were in the right or in the left from that node. So um so let me write uh this uh find the node Y where Q fell off the blue tree. So this node Y we can think of as a bit number here. the the leftmost bit was still on, but then the next bit was off. And so we look at I'll call that bit y + one or maybe size of y + 1. If that bit uh equals 1, that's the picture we have. Then what I'm going to do is set a new quantity e, which is going to be this is a new word. it's going to be the bitst string Y followed by a zero followed by lots of ones. Okay, whereas uh our bitst string Q had a one here and fell off the tree. What we're instead going to do is identify this node, the rightmost node in this subree. Okay, that's not necessarily an XI, but it's a thing. And then we're going to do again this search in sketch space but now using E instead of Q. If we do that I what is what is this node? Let's uh label it 0 011. If you do you look at the sketch bits this has a sketch of 01. So if I did a search here I would actually find that this is this is the answer and that actually is a predecessor of Q. In general, this is going to work well because essentially, but some of these bits are going to be sketch bits. This one was not, and we made a mistake there. We went right. We should have gone left. These ones, some of them are going to be sketch bits. Some of them are not. But whichever ones get underlined, it's going to be a one, which means uh we're going to sort of do the right thing. We want the very rightmost item in this tree. So if we always go right whenever there's a sketch bit then we will find and then do a a search in sketch space we will find the rightmost item in this tree. So if we then do a search on E we're always going to get the right answer. So we're in the end we're going to do two searches in sketch space. Once with Q to find this place where we fell off then once with E uh where we actually find the right answer. And there's a symmetric case which is if we went left and we should have gone right then we go right and then we put a lot of zeros because then we want to find the min in that tree. Okay. So back to search we compute sketch of Q. we find it among uh the sketch of the x i's. This gives us this y. Uh so we find longest common prefix y equals longest common prefix of q and x i or x i + one. And then we compute E. And then we find sketch of E sketch of XI's. And the claim is that the predecessor and successor of sketch of E among sketch of XI equals the predecessor and successor of X sorry Q our actual query among the X Nice. So, this is a claim. It needs proof, but it's what I've been arguing that E gives us the right structure. It fixes all the sketch bits that are potentially wrong. We found the first sketch bit that was wrong. We fixed that one. and then the remainder as long as we go all the way to the right uh we'll find the max or in the other case we went we go want to go all the way to the left because we want to find the min. So that's this claim you find the predecessor sketch of e on the sketch of the xis which is just this thing again. So again we can do it in constant time then we find uh I mean I have to be a little bit more precise here of course we find the predecessor and successor we get a sketch of the x i. I have to undo that sketch operation. Really the way to think of it is uh predecessor and successor really returning a rank. What is I want to know the i that matters. So if it fits between uh sketch of x i and sketch of x i + one. If sketch of e fits between those then I know that q will fit between x i and x i + one. So in terms of that rank I the index in the array. Does that make sense? This is kind of the the end of the uh what's the right way to put it? This is the big picture of fusion trees. Okay. At this point kind of should believe that everything works. And uh overall what are we doing? We're building a W to the 1/5 tree. It's not yet clear why W to the 1/5, but um and so we have to implement these nodes that only have W to the 1/5 keys. So we're looking at a single node and say, hey, look, there's a bunch of keys. Let's just look at the important bits. That defines this sketch operation. Now, if we want to do a search, we do this uh double search. If we compute the sketch, find the sketch among the sketches, uh find our mistake, compute our proper query, compute the sketch of that, find that sketch among the sketches, and then that index in the array of sketches will be the correct index of our actual query Q among the XI. Okay, now there are several things left to be done in a reasonable way. One is how do we compute sketches? How do we do this kind of operation of taking the bits we care about and bringing them all next to each other? Uh second thing is how do we do this find? This is parallel comparison. So it's basically all the bullets up here. We have how do we do a sketch? How do we do parallel comparison to find where one sketch fits among many sketches? And there's also most significant set bit. Where did we do that? uh in computing the longest common prefix. So if you have two bit strings, you want to know where did they first differ. The natural way to do that is compute the exor which gives you all the differing bits and then find the first one bit from the left. Okay, so this is really uh most significant set bit. So we need that operation. Okay. So that we have our work cut out for us. But the overall picture of fusion tree should now be clear. Uh it just remains to do these three things. And this is where sort of the the engineering comes in I would say. Any questions about the big picture? All right. So, uh, the first thing I'm going to do is sketch. Uh, and as I've hinted at in the outline here, we're not going to do a perfect sketch. We're going to do an approximate sketch. This will probably be the most work among any of these operations. Parallel comparison is actually quite easy. sketching is I think the biggest insight in fusion trees. Uh so perfect sketch takes just the bits you care about. Okay, that we need. We only want to look at the bits we care about. But it's easy to look at the bits we care about. We can apply a mask and just and out the bits we care about. Everything else we can zero out. So that's easy. The hard part is compression. taking these four bits and making them four consecutive bits, but they don't really need to be consecutive. If I added in some zeros here in a consistent pattern, that would still work. I'd still preserve the order among the sketches, and that's all I care about. And this is where I'm going to use the slop I have because right now I have W to the 1/5 keys. If I did perfect sketch, the total number of bits would only be W to the two- fifths. But I can go up to W. So, what I'm going to do is uh basically spread out the bits, the important bits in a predictable pattern of length uh W to the 4 fths. Predictable just means it doesn't depend on what X is. So the when there are extra zeros here, uh you know that's fine. But there's always going to be two zeros here, one zero here, three zeros here, no matter what X was. As long as it's predictable, I'm going to preserve order. And as long as it's length order w to the four fifths, if I take w to the 1/5if of them, that will still fit in a constant number of words because it'll be order w bits total. So that's what I can afford. And now I'm going to do it. So here's how. First thing, as I said, is we're going to mask the important bits. I just want the important bits. I should throw away all the others. And so this is going to be uh x prime equals x bitwise. And and here's where we're going to use the notation that the bits count from the right. I want the bi bit to correspond to the value two to the bi. Okay, this this thing is just a bit string. Okay, it's it has ones wherever the important bits are. So if this is B 0, B1, B2, and B3, I just want this bit string, which is I you can think of this as one shifted left bi times. So I get ones in exactly the positions I care about. And if I bitwise end that with X, it zeros out all the other bits. This is what we call masking. Okay, so that's the obvious thing to do. And then the second idea is multiplication and it's just like well you know maybe we could do it with a multiply and then we'll just work it out and the answer is yes you can do it with a multiply. So that I imagine was the big insight was that see that multiplication is a very powerful operation. So we're just going to do x prime times some number m and we're going to prove that there exists a number m that does what we need. So I'm going to write this out a little bit algebraically. So we can think about what m might be. Uh now x prime only has the important bits. So we can write that as a sum i = 0 to r -1 of x b i 2 to the b i. So I'm introducing some notation here. xbi is is that important bit bi one or zero? Okay, this is just a dreference of the bit vector of the bit string. Um, and so you multiply that by that position to the I mean this is binary definition of binary notation, right? But we only care about the important bits because only those are set. So that's x prime and then we're multiplying that by m. Now m could have any bit set. So I'm going to but I'm going to write it like this. Is it really only R? Yes. I'm going to assume that M only has R bits set same as uh the number of important bits. R is the number of important bits. Uh but I don't know where they are. So I'm just going to suppose they're at positions m0 m1 up to m r minus one. So I've got to find what these mi should be or mjs. And now I'm just taking this product. So we can expand out the product algebraically and see what we get. So what's this product? uh sum i = 0 to r -1 sum j = 0 to r -1 2 to the I mean just the product of these. So 2 to the b i + mj. Okay, that's the algebraic product of those two things. That's why I wrote it out this way so I can see what's going on. The point is when you do multiplication, you're doing sort of these pair-wise uh products. the the guys that are going to survive are the ones where the XBIS are one of course but they survive in multiple places. Uh essentially the MJS shift all of those bits by various amounts. So it used to be at this position uh to the BI, but now we're shifting it by MJ for all J. So some of those bits might hit each other then they add up. That's really messy. We're going to avoid that and design the MJ so that all of these values are unique. Therefore, bits never hit each other. That's step one. And then furthermore, what we care about or what we're trying to do is to get all um get the XBI to appear in a nice little window consecutive interval of uh W to the four-fifth bits uh somehow by setting the MJS. So, let me tell you the claim. which we will prove by induction. So we're given these BIS that we can't control. Those are the important bits. Uh and the claim is we can choose the MI such that three properties hold. First one is that B I plus MJ are distinct for all I and J. So that was that these bits don't collide with each other. So there's no actual summation here. These sums could then be replaced by ors which makes it very easy to keep track of where the bits are going if we can achieve this property. Uh, property B is that uh turns out the the bits I'm going to end up caring about are B 0 plus M0, B1 plus M1, and general B I plus MI. Right? In general, we have BI plus MJ for different values of I and J. I claim the ones I care about are the ones where I and J are equal. So I'm going to look at these bits and in particular I want them to appear in order in the bit string. Okay. And then third property I need some more space is that if I look at the span of those bits. So I look at B r -1 + mr -1 minus b 0 + m0. That is the interval that these bits span. I want that to be order R to the 4th power because R was w to the 1/5. So this would be order w to the 4 fths. That's what I need for everything to fit in in uh so this is guaranteeing that these bits are uh the sketch that I need. Okay, they appear in order and they're not to they don't span a very large interval. just w to the 4 fths. This is what I need to prove. If I can prove this, I have approximate sketching. So let's prove it. uh proof happens in two steps. First thing I'm going to worry about is just getting these guys distinct. Then I'll worry about the order property. So here's how we get them to distinct. And these are going to be uh the MI primes. Not quite the mis that we want, but they're all going to be integers less than r cubed greater than or equal to zero. Uh, and they're going to have the property that the bi's plus mj primes are distinct mod r cubed. So this is a stronger version of a. We really just need them to be distinct. But to make it easier for the other steps, we're going to force them to be distinct mod r cubed. Okay, how do we do this? Uh by induction. So let's suppose that we've picked m0 up to mt minus one. So suppose by induction that we've done that and now our goal is to pick MT prime. Okay. So how do we choose MT prime? Well, what can't it be? MT prime has to avoid uh basically M I prime I believe minus BJ plus B I'm going to call it K I guess so different K but uh if it avoids all expressions like this then uh MT prime plus BJ will be different from m I prime + b k in other words all of these things will be distinct so it has to avoid this modulo r cubed if I can avoid all of these things so this is for all uh i jk if mt if I can choose mt prime to avoid all those then I'm happy because then uh these things will continue to be distinct and then I apply induction okay well how many choices are are there for I, J, and K. For I there's uh I guess T choices because MI can be any of these any of the previous values. For J there's uh it's called R choices. For K there's R choices. That's how many important bits there are. So the total number of choices is T R squared. But T here is always less than R. So this is going to be less than r cubed. So that means there's less than r cub things we have to avoid. But I have r cubed allowable choices. I'm working modulo r cub. So I just pick any one that avoids the collision. This is basically deterministic hashing in a certain sense. We are choosing these values deterministically to avoid collisions in this simple hash function. Okay. It takes time. It's going to take polinomial time to compute this thing. And you can imagine if you just plug in hashing, this will work with some probability and blah blah blah. But I want to make it always work uh deterministically because we know what the x's are here. All right. So we've avoided collisions just there's enough space. That's all. That was step one. Step two, this was this will solve property a even modulo r cubed. Now we have a little bit of space. We're allowed to go up to r 4th. And now we just need to spread out these bits. So that's step two. Basically, we want we're going to set mi to be these values that we chose plus this weird thing uh w minus b i plus iir cubed rounded down to a multiple of r cubed. So I guess you could put this in parenthesis if you want. Uh rough idea is we want to take mi prime plus iir cubed because these mi primes they're all values between 0 and r cub minus one. Okay, we got everything working modulo r cubed. Um if we could just add iir cub to each of these values that will spread them out, right? because each of these values used to fall just in this tiny range IR cub. So if we can spre move the next one to the next position, move the next one to the next position and so on. Spread them out to the left by adding on multiples of of R cubed. Then that will achieve property B. Okay, the only the annoying issue here is we don't want to mess things up modulo R cubed. So we need to round things down to be a multiple of r cubed so that um so that this is congruent to mi prime. That's what we want. We want it to stay congruent mod r cubed. Okay. Well, why do we need to round down to a multiple of r cub? We were adding on i cubed. Well, it's not quite mi that we care about. It's m i plus b i. Those are the bits that we want to be nicely ordered. And so we kind of need a minus bi here. So that when we take mi plus bi, those cancel. Okay. But then bi is not a multiple of r cubed. So you've got to do this rounding down to r cub. Also negative bi is a negative number. We can't really deal with negative numbers because you can't go left of zero. So we have to add on this w just to make things work out. Okay. So it's a little messy. uh and I don't I don't want to spend too much time on why this formula is works but I think you have the essence of what's working. This is just to avoid negative numbers. This negative bi is so that when you add it to mi uh you uh that cancels and so you end up with this I you get these r cub separations in the end. Let me draw a picture perhaps uh somewhere. In the end, if you look at the bit space uh so this is w bits and you divide it up into uh multiples of r cubed All of the um MI primes are over here. So these are MI primes. You don't know in what order anything. They're just kind of randomly in there. He chose them pretty much arbitrarily in the low end of the spectrum from 0 to R cubus one. And then what we want is for uh x0 + m0 to fall somewhere in this range. and then x1 + m1 to fall somewhere in this range and x2 plus m2 to fall somewhere in this range. Okay, if I do that and it's weird because the bits are numbered from zero to the left here uh then I will have this property. Okay, and I I claim this assignment does that. It's an exercise you can check uh that indeed xi plus mi will fall in this range. Okay, so this gives us property B. It also gives us property C because we've been fairly tight here. Uh there's R of these guys. Uh and each R of these group of these intervals of size R cubed. And so the total range of these bits is going to be R 4th. Okay, we started at X0 + M0. we end at xr -1 minus uh plus m r -1 that's going to be somewhere here but if you look at just that interval of bits so there there are more bits actually over here uh yeah in particular because of this w bit part this whole picture basically starts at bit w and then there's all this stuff to zero so this is a more accurate picture doing this multiplication the garb Garbage happens here. We have no idea. Garbage happens here. We have no idea. Actually, garbage happens all over here. But what we know is that these bits are what? The bits we care about. These are the XI plus MIS. Uh if you look at XI plus MI, they give you XBI. Okay, they exist in other places, but these bits will have the the important bits. Now the the bits are also like all over everywhere else. But none of the bits hit each other. So these bits remain correct because nothing else collides with it. And so if I just mask out those bits again. So I have to do another mask. I did one mask here. I did a multiplication and then I have to do another mask. Uh so why don't I write it over here? So we mask with uh we end with sum i = 0 to r -1 of 2 to the b i + mi. Those are these circled bits. So if we grab those things and then we shift right by why am I writing X? Sorry these are all B's too many letters. Uh and we shift right by B 0 plus M0 because we don't care about all those leading bits. So we shift this over to the left. We did the mask then we will just have the important bits and they will occupy over here an interval of size at most uh say order r cubed r 4 sorry clear so this is approximate sketching this is definitely a bit complicated but it works let me review briefly so our algorithm was simple We mass we we have a bit string X. We just want to get the important bits and compress them to a thing of size R 4th. So first of all, we threw away all the non-important bits with this mask. That was easy. Then we just did an arbitrary multiplication and we proved that there was a multiplication that avoided collision. So the sums basically turn into ores or exors. I mean you never get two one bits hitting each other. So you don't have to worry about that. And we did that with the simple inductive argument. And then we also wanted the BI plus MI to be linearly ordered because we need to preserve the order of the important bits. We can't just permute them. And we needed them to occupy a small range. And we did that basically by adding IR cub to each of them. But it was a little messy and we had to add W and blah blah blah. Okay. Um, but in the end, we got our our important bits to be nicely spaced out here by pretty much putting an R cubed in between each one. So those were our bi plus MITs. They occupy this range of r 4th. We mask out all the rest of the garbage because this multiplication made a quadratic number of bits. We only want these r bits. There are r 2 one bits in here. Mask away all the others. Take these bits, shift them over. Now they occupy a nice interval at the beginning. size order r cubed r sorry sorry r to the 4th and that's our approximate sketch. So sketch should only take r but we're being sloppy with this multiplication trick. The best we know is to get down to r 4th and that's good enough. And that's why I set everything to w to the 1/5 because this is w to the four fths. We're going to have w to the 1/5 of them. And so if you take these sketches and you concatenate them, fuse them together if you will, and that's fusion trees, then the whole the sketches of all of the keys x0 up to x k minus one will occupy order one words because it's order w bits. W to the 4 fths times w to the 1/5. Okay, which brings us to parallel comparison. I have all of these approximate sketches. So you could start forgetting approximate sketching. Somehow we get these W to the four-fifth bits. We want to concatenate them together and then in parallel compare all of them to the sketch of Q. Okay, the sketch of the XI we can pre-process. We can actually spend a lot of time finding the sketch function. But then we have to fix the sketch function. We have to be able to compute sketch of Q in constant time. That's what we just did. Sketch of Q is one and one multiplication and another and. So computing sketches is fast. That's the steps computing sketch of Q. Now next step is find it among the sketch of the XI. So this is the next thing we want to make fast. That's actually pretty easy. You probably know you can compare two integers by subtracting one from the other. So, we're just going to do that, but in a clever way. So, we can do k subtractions for the price of one. Not I'm going to define the sketch of a node to be the one bit followed by the sketch of x0 dot dot dot one sketch of x k minus one and I'm going to define sketch of q to the K power so to speak to be zero bit followed by sketch of Q dot dot dot zero bit sketch of Q. Okay, this is aligning things so that if I did this subtraction and this one I would basically be comparing Q with all the X size at once. Okay. Uh the point is these sketches this is the thing that fits in order one words right these sketches are w to the fourths bits and there's w to the 1/5 of them so this whole thing is order w bits so it fits in one word this thing also okay happens to be the same bits repeated many times but also fits in one word uh how do I compute this thing I can do it with a multiplication it's sketch of Q times uh 0 0 0 0 0 0 one. Okay, so ahead of time I'll just premp compute this this bit string that has ones at the rightmost slot for each of these uh k uh fields. If I just take that multiply by sketch of q then I get this. Okay, so this is easy to do in one multiplication. Now I take this thing minus this thing take the difference and the key thing is because I put these one bits here I'm taking this minus this point is either this one bit will get borrowed when I do binary subtraction or it won't it gets borrowed when this is bigger than this otherwise it doesn't get borrowed so I'm going to at either a zero or a one here and then some garbage, which I don't care about, and a zero or a one here, and then some garbage. And I'll just uh mask that out. Um I'm ending with uh 1 0 0 1 0 0. And so I end up just with the 01 bits and the rest zeros. Okay. And these bits get it right. uh it's one if the sketch of Q is less than or equal to the sketch of X I and it's zero if the sketch of Q is greater than the sketch of X I because when it's greater that's when the borrow happens and then the one turns into a zero. So ones indicate less the query is too small or they're just right and zeros indicate that they're greater. Now the xis were in order. So probably x0 is too small and so this bit will end up being a zero. Probably x k + 1 is too big so this bit will be a one. In general it's going to be a monotone sequence of bits. If you look at these bits, these 01 bits, they're going to be monotone, uh, they'll be zero for a while and then at some point they'll switch to being ones. And that transition from zero to ones, that's what we want to find. This these keys are too small. These keys are too big. This key is just right. Uh so we fit between this would be position i and position i + 1 and we fit between x i and x i + 1. Well, not actually x i and x+1. We fit between sketch of x i and sketch of x i + one. Okay, that's what we need to find. Now that is again the problem of finding the most significant one bit. But in this case I can uh I don't need that operation. I can do it in a simpler way. But we're almost done, right? We've done all this parallel comparison. We just need to find that transition between zeros and ones. Turns out there's a cool way to do it. Cool way is multiply that word times ah good friend this thing uh 0000001 okay this is a little harder to think about but take this bit string multiply by this Okay, what that does is it takes this string, it includes it because there's a one right there. It shifts it over by one field and includes it. Shifts it over by another field, includes it. So, this repeats this thing. And now collision happens because they're perfectly aligned. If these one bits ever hit each other, they'll be summing. Now, some of them are zero, some of them are one. uh instead of computing the position of the 0ero to1 transition, we could equivalently just count how many ones are there because then that's I mean that's counting from the right whereas this counting from the left whatever same thing uh so if I could count how many ones I'd be all set and in this case if you look at right here this will be the number of ones I claim because if this one was there it will stay there and then all the other bits get shifted over and fall right here on top of this bit. So as they get added up you'll get some carries and you know things will move over but this is not very big because we're talking about uh k bits. So this is only going to be width log k. Okay. Whereas this this I mean there's tons of room here before we get to the next shift. Okay. So I just look at these bits. I mask them out. I shift them over and that gives me the number of ones. This is a cute way to count the number of ones in a bit string when the bits are spread out nicely. They have to be at least log k away from each other. Otherwise you get collision. This doesn't work for an arbitrary bit string. But for a bit string like this, we're all set. We can count how many ones there are. Then we figure out where this transition is. Okay, that is parallel comparison. One more thing to do which is uh most significant set bit. place we needed this was we were taking the exor of Q with XI and then we wanted to find the first bit where they were differing. So after you take the exor you've got some bit string that looks like this. You want to find this bit because that's the place you diverged. Then we would turn that to zero and change the rest to ones. That's easy to do if we know where this bit is. And this is a generally useful operation. It's used all over uh computer science I would say. uh so much so that most CPUs have it as an instruction. So on Intel it's called CLZ and it has many names. They're in the notes. Uh most compilers provide this to you as an operation on architectures that have it otherwise they simulate it. Uh they probably don't simulate it as well as I'm going to tell you uh because we're going to do this in constant time on a regular word RAM just C operations uh which does not seem to have made it into popular culture. It's slightly complicated, which is why. Uh, but what's cool is we're going to use I'm going to do this relatively quickly because I don't have a ton of time. We're going to use all the things that we just did again quickly. Most of them just as black boxes. All right. So, here's what we're going to do. Uh, maybe I should go somewhere new. So I'm going to use sketches, not approximate sketches, but I'm going to use sketches. I'm going to use multiplication. I'm going to use parallel comparison. And in some sense, I'm going to use most significant set bit. All of these things I'm going to use to solve the most significant set bit problem. So here's what we do. We split uh word into root root w clusters of root w bits. Sound familiar? This is exactly what we did in Venom DOS except Venom DOS did this recursively. We're going to do it once. Can only afford constant time. So here's an example. X is 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 Okay, so each of these is root w bits. There's root w of them. It can, you know, it's approximate. It doesn't have to be exactly, but we'll assume x is a nice power of two. So that works cleanly. Um, all right. So the first thing so what the high level idea is I need to find the first non-mp cluster here it happens to be the first cluster and then I need to find the first one bit within the cluster okay hard part is finding the first non-mp cluster actually the hard part or the messy part is finding which clusters are empty which clusters are not this cluster is not empty this cluster is empty these are not empty so I want the the summary vector which is 1 011 claim if I can do that everything else is easy. So let's spend some time on identifying non-mpy clusters. Okay, first thing I do is I take x anded with uh this thing which I'm going to call f 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 F for first. Uh so I'm just seeing which of these uh first bits in each cluster are set. So the result is I get zero uh you know 0 0 0 uh 0 0 0 1 0 0 and 1 0 0 0. So this is in particular that tells me this cluster and this cluster are non- empty. Duh. Because they have the first bit set. What about all those other bits? Well the other bits are going to do in a different way. just the first bits. I need a little bit of room. I need I need this bit of room. I want to put these ones in. Okay, so I've got to get rid of some bits to make room for that. So, this deals with the first bits. Now, I'm going to clear those out. So, I'm going to take x ex x exor this and that will give me uh everything with the first bits cleared. So, we got 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 uh 0 0 0 and 0 1 0 1. Okay, these are the rest of the bits. I've got to figure out this one's not empty and this one's not empty. How do I do it? with subtraction. Okay, I take F minus that thing. This f has ones and they're going to get borrowed when I take f minus this. This one will get borrowed because there's something here. This one will not get borrowed because this is zero. This one will not get borrowed because this is zero. This one will get borrowed because there's something here. That's it. Just we're comparing with zero everything. So, we're gonna get in this case uh zero and some garbage. One and zeros. Uh one and zero some garbage. Okay, I just care about these bits. These are the bits that tell me uh which ones were empty. The zeros are empty. The ones are not empty. Okay, so I do a mask and I get zero and some zeros, one and some zeros, one and some zeros, zero and some zeros. Okay. Uh then I do an exor with f because I really want one for these guys and zero for these guys. One means it's not empty. Zero means it's empty. Got that right? So I'm just inverting the zero bits to one bits and vice versa. So one means this was not empty. One means this was not empty. Those are the non-mpy guys. Okay. I take this and I ore it with this thing. Okay, this was the thing that told me which ones had the first bit set. So if I take the ore of those two, I learn are any bits set because this was dealing with all of the other bits. I threw away this bit, but I had to remember that it was not empty. Okay, so I take that or now this tells me those three blocks were not empty. This one was empty. So now here I have the bits that I care about. Sadly, they're spread out. I'd really like them compressed. So I do that with sketch. I want to compress them to one 011. It would fit in one little thing here because this is root w. There's root w of them. Sadly, I can't use approximate sketch because I don't have enough space. This is W to the 1/2. If I used approximate sketch, I get W, you know, I'd lose this factor of four. It'd be bigger than W. I really need it to be perfectly sketched. Conveniently, you can do perfect sketch in this regime. Before, the BI's were arbitrary things. We had no idea how they were spread out. Here, BI is uh you know root wus one. That's the first one. Plus I * roo w. They're nicely uh uniformly spaced by i root w. In this case, run out of time. I claim you can use mj equal to uh w minus roo w -1 minus j w + j. And I won't go through the proof. There's a sketch in the notes. If you do this uh this is a nice setting of MJ turns out you will get bi. If we look at bi plus mi this cancels this cancels because i equals j you're left with w + j. So in other words you look at bi plus m i uh you get from bit w to bit uh w + root w I guess minus one. These bits will be exactly the bits you care about. So you take those, you mask out the others, you shift it over to the right, and you have exactly your perfect sketch. The thing you need to prove here is that Bi plus MJ are all distinct. So there's no collisions. But in this case, it's easy to avoid collisions. Get all your bits nice and consecutive. Now you've got it down to this thing. Okay. Not quite done, though. I need one more minute. Say, well, uh, that was step one. Identify non-empt clusters. Uh step two was sketch. Step three is uh find the first non-mpt cluster. I claim this is easy. So I take this sketch vector. It only has root w bits. So I use parallel comparison. What do I compare to? I'm going to compare many copies of this thing to 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0. The powers of two. Okay. So I take this I put them in a vector like the sketch of a node and I take the K or I guess root W copies of the sketch of the summary vector that's this 1011. So I compare four copies of this to each of these and I learn which power of two it is greater than in other words what is the most significant set bit. That's why when I told you how to do over here, when I told you how to do parallel comparison, I didn't want to use most significant bit as a subruine because this is a subruine to most significant bit. Okay, over here we could just do this multiplication and boom, we found what the most significant set bit was as long as there was room to fit all this stuff in a word. And because I've reduced everything to size root w and there's only uh there's root w of these things to compare to because that's the width of one of these fields. This all fits in a word. I can do this parallel comparison. Boom. I find the first one bit in this bit string, which happens to be the first bit. That tells me that this cluster is a cluster I care about. So I take those bits out. I mass them out, shift them over, and I find the first one bit in that cluster. How do I do it? In exactly the same way. Cluster again root w bits. I use parallel comparison to compare it to all these things in constant time. I find where the first one bit is there. Uh and then it's uh I take this cluster C. I take this bit uh D and my answer is uh C root W plus D. That is the final index of the most significant one bit in constant time using all those fusion tricks once again. And and that in the end gives you fusion trees on a word RAM static. It's uh complicated, probably impractical, but pretty cool. And we're going to use these bit tricks again.