The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. We continue um um uh uh this week with uh and next week uh our with our conversation. It's really our final conversation about the genre forms that are at the center of the Hollywood era. uh with a consideration of the western. Um and perhaps we should begin by acknowledging how central the western is as a movie form in um in in the history of American cinema. Before the advent of television in the late 40s, the first American television broadcast is 1946. And we can say that television is actually established as a social experience in American life. Certainly by the late 40s by say 1949 or 1950. Um and it's through the 50s that television spreads through the society and become begins to supplant the movies. uh um so so that before television let's say before 1950 nearly 30% of every movie made in the United States was a western uh uh all the way through the Hollywood era and and in fact in the in the in in the silent era the uh as as as I will uh describe briefly again this evening when I do a kind of mini history of the of of the of of the western movie uh even in the silent era it's a central form Um, and even after the 1950s, even after the advent of television, nearly half of all movies that we might identify as sit in the past, as historical movies were westerns. Um and of and of course as I suggested when I talked about the musical the western can be understood along with the musical as America's as as a uniquely American form even though at a certain point in the mid and late 1960s certain gifted Italian directors began to take over the western and darken it and throw a kind of European cynicism into the tradition of the western. By that time the western genre had evolved and transformed in ways that uh made this cynicism not completely unique, not totally European because a kind of subversiveness had uh uh perspective had begun to enter the American version of the western as well. Nonetheless, uh the western the the the the western form underwent profound transformations and it's those transformations that I want briefly to talk about uh here as an in an introductory way and I'll return to those to that sort of what we might call the trajectory or the career of the western uh briefly this evening uh when I introduce some comments I want to make about John Ford and about his classic western the film we're watching tonight the searchers. I wanted to to talk a little bit more uh not only about the western but about why the western might be seen as the signature American form, why it is so central uh not only to the history of uh American cinema but in a certain sense history uh central to the cultural history of American society. One way to see this is to reframe the idea I've been suggesting all all through the term. This notion that at a certain point the movies be became a form of central storytelling in the society. The the form of storytelling that that that most Americans that more Americans than any other form participated in and experienced. A form that I that I've come to label consensus narrative. a kind of story system that appeals across social barriers and across age that that that intends in some sense to express what might be called the dominant or the central values of a society. We've talked about this idea uh I've talked about this idea already at some length and I don't want to spend too much time on it here but I want to complicate those ideas one more time by reminding you that that uh one way to think about or one way to frame this notion that the movies and and and the western form in particular uh embody this notion of a story uh form that intends to reach the whole society or to speak for the whole society or to embody the central values of the whole society. Uh is one way of understanding the implications of that is to recognize first of all that uh the Hollywood system which is so committed to forms of genre representation uh is particularly um um served by by by the principles of repetition that are in inherent in the conventions that surround the western. Even though western the content of westerns or the attitudes within westerns might undergo great transformations, the basic formulas remain recognizable from the earliest days. We're thinking about the costumes, the horses, the guns and so forth. the the and and and and even certain certain basic plots and subplots that keep returning in the western as as with the musical there are certain the genre is so uh uh robust that it has many sort of sub forms within it. So that one can talk about uh westerns that involve uh battles between sheep herders and and and ranchers. Or one can talk about the westerns that are that are uh focused on the laying of the transcontinental railroad. Or one could focus on westerns that uh that focus on the conflict between white settlers and Indians. Now many westerns combine a number of these elements and there are other subg genres we could we we could describe. uh well the very fact that that that the that the that there are these these subg genres is a measure of how robust the system the uh how robust the system became and one one way to think therefore about this idea that I've labeled consensus narrative uh uh or or what another way to think about what I've earlier in the course called the cultural work of the movies or the cultural the anthropological job that that genre forms in general during the Hollywood era perform is to recognize that we can understand the specific genre as a distilled instance of the larger process of the movies, right? As a smaller clarifying instance, uh we can understand it in a certain sense uh as a as a as a forum, a a space of conversation, a a space of discourse in which the culture engages in a kind of ongoing conversation. use remember the terms I used earlier borrowing from from the English critic Raymond Williams. I said that we can understand that these these these genre forms or these consensus forms could be said to mobilize uh three different strains of attitude an emergent a dominant and a traditional set of voices. And that one of the explanations for why genre texts and the Hollywood movies specifically and the western in particular are often so conflicted or divided is precisely that they embody or incorporate uh attitudes that are some attitudes that are traditional and old-fashioned, some attitudes that are emerging and are and challenge uh traditional ideas and also what we might call central or dominant values and that and that not every text will balance those elements in exactly the same way. The second point about this is to recognize that one of the beauties of genre, one of the reasons they serve such a fundamental cultural or anthropological function in a society is precisely that they go on forever. That no that we can, in other words, we can think of genre forms as a kind of ongoing continuing conversation centered on the same formats and the same conventions. And if the if the genre is stable and if you and and if the society produces these genre forms over decades, the genre form itself becomes a mirror in which out from which we in which we can see reflected the changing values and assumptions of the culture. Right now, this might be true of any kind of a of a a particular genre form in any medium, but it the reason that it has special force when we're talking about the movies in the 20th century in the United States is precisely because the form is so central to the society because so much of the society participates in it. So the picture of the society that is the ambivalent and conflicted picture of the society that emerges from studying these genre forms uh is likely to be far more illuminating about the larger culture than let's say a study of a of a of a subcultural form like let's say like opera. uh not that the opera isn't worth studying and doesn't reflect certain cultural values too, but because the opera appeals to a particular subculture, the values are going to be narrower. The kind the kinds of assumptions it the people writing opera and attending opera make about the larger culture and about aesthetic experience are are profoundly different from the much from from from the much more dispersed and democratic attitudes and assumption and accessible uh uh notions that that that that animate the creation of a of a of a consensus form of a form that's trying to reach the whole the whole of the culture. So this is a way of reminding you then that the study of what we might call the sociological or the anthropological importance of of of the study of popular forms in general and of American movies in particular, the western genre even more especially. We can think therefore of the western as a as almost as a form of a of a kind of national theater, a kind of repatory company in which the same relatively a relatively small number recognizably small number of actors and actresses of directors and and and and other subsp specialists who names are never remembered cons collaborate to create um uh the film. We can think of the movies uh as embodying in a certain sense uh uh and uh what what what what uh what I'm calling the theater of a nation. And I'm b I put the phrase in quotation marks not because it's a fancy phrase but because I want to call attention to the fact that I'm actually borrowing a phrase from a great literary historian who wrote a book about Shakespeare's audience and about Shakespeare's plays and about the public theater of Shakespeare's day and called that theater called that that theater the theater of a nation and in a certain sense we can say that the Hollywood uh system was a similar kind of theater uh it doesn't follow from this that every text created there uh is a is a noble work of art. And it's very important to recognize that the distinction I'm making between uh an anthropological perspective and an artistic one must hold here because the because and there's another reason for emphasizing this because the fact of the matter is it's very hard in a course like this especially some of these films are so wonderful my own enthusiasm encourages you to like them and I want you to like them. Nonetheless, it's very important to recognize that I'm not trying to tell you a merely triumphal story about about how magnificently uh American movies began to sort of realize their possibilities and dramatize experience because in a certain fundamental sense these consensus values are not necessarily noble ones and the western's a particularly clear instance of this. In other words, what I'm talking about in a certain sense is the extent to which these genre reforms carry the lies, the prejudices, the nasty qualities of a society as as well as their ideals and values. And we can feel those elements even though the films themselves want to tell uplifting stories, the values embedded in them may not be so attractive at all. And the western is a particularly clear instance of this. A reminder again that we don't just look at films for aesthetic satisfaction. We don't just look at films for we don't need to just look at films for mere enjoyment. They are they are uh they are anthropological artifacts of the greatest importance exactly because they they they existed at such a central at such a fundamental space in the in the larger in the larger society. Why would the western why would the western be such a central form? Why in some sense could we think of the movies with its vast wide giant screen as the ultimate destiny of the western? I think one explanation for the power of the western film because there were western stories and other western formats before the advent of film and I'll talk about them in a moment. Uh why would the film be such a decisive space for the western? And I think if you think about it for a moment you'll recognize instantly why that is the case. The format of the of the movies is particularly conducive to the sense of grandeur and largeness, spaciousness that's characteristic of western spaces and of the parables of of heroism and and uh town and and and uh so social social creation, society creations, the creation of a of a particular culture or environment in the in the wilderness, the the establishment of civilization as a as a recurring theme in the western. This kind of this kind of um recurring subject is at the very heart of what of what of what westerns do and uh turn the the u uh movies I think into a particularly appropriate environment for the for the largeness and grandeur that westerns that westerns represent. But that in itself isn't quite enough to explain why the westerns occupy such a partic central place. And of course there are historical and cultural explanations as well. The first explanation is that the movies are born at the end of a period in which we could say the real west actually existed. In other words, the movies come in just at the moment. The the the movies actually are are still around when when the experience of what we call the west was still historically actual. It was no long it wasn't quite in the past. It repres the the western the western genre is focused in really on on a 30-year period. uh the what what some critics have called the real west in the period uh uh from about 1860 through 1890. this uh and this is the period of the Civil War, of a whole variety of Indian Wars, of the laying of the transcontinental railroad, of the California and Dakota uh uh gold rushes, uh the period of of the range wars I mentioned a little while ago between the settlers and great ranchers who wanted to keep spaces open for their cattle. And of course we now realize it's the period although the the early westerns didn't want to acknowledge this and told a kind of opposite story. Uh the uh it's also of course the era in which we exterminate virtually the era of genocide against Native Americans, the extermination of the Indians and of the buffalo that roam the the western plains. Um uh and and even before this real west moment was over, even before it was uh uh became a a became history, uh um it had begun to be mythologized. Uh it was mythologized in the popular culture simultaneously uh with its actual existence. And there were a whole series of of uh forms of publication and forms of drama that drew on the west and stories of the west and began to uh establish what we might call the the uh basic conventions of the western mythology or the parable of uh the the the parable America likes to tell itself about the nature of the settling of the west. One of these uh forms were the dime novels that appeared uh in the late uh uh 19th century and into the early 20th century uh available usually in in in paperback on news at newsstands and they they uh some of them were immensely popular. They uh they they uh uh what here's one title, a very famous one. What the uh the equivalent of a bestseller I guess of of of the day published in 1882, the life times and treacherous death of Jesse James, 1882. And of course the the what what what what these what these dime novels did was they took what were quai historical events sometimes real events and immensely elaborated them fictionized them into heroic fables of various kinds often celebrating people like Jesse James who may well have been outlaws and disreputable people in actuality. Uh um another uh another title, the illustrated lives and adventures of Frank and Jesse James and the younger brothers, right? Uh and you can imagine what that that kind of thing uh um would have done. In addition to the to these dime novels, there were also stage performances, plays. They were often for some form of melodrama set in the old west uh and involving uh uh the the u basic costumes and accutrants of a western, right? Pistols and cowboy hats and school marms from the east and so forth. But perhaps even more important than these two sources and they were very powerful and important forms of popular culture before films that helped establish what we might call the mythology of the west were the Buffalo Bill shows, the wild the wild west shows. These were unbelievably popular and successful. Here is a picture of the of a kind of uh flyer that would be distributed in small in small towns or sometimes in larger towns as the Wild West show when the Wild West Show came to town. Uh um the the star of the Wild West show was was William Cody Buffalo Bill. uh he had a a very modest actual career in the west, but it was immensely elaborated by him and his publicists into something much grander and more remarkable. Uh Buffalo Bill made his first stage appearance in 1872 in a stage melodrama called Scout of the Plains, which went on a two-year tour, right? And then in 1882, 10 years later, he formed his own Wild West show, which became immensely popular, traveled all over the country, and then made trips to Europe. He even did one Wild West show uh uh uh before the Queen of England. Uh and it was an immensely successful uh uh uh public enactment. The basic elements of the Wild West show contained the essential mythology that then moved into the movies. uh they often dramatized uh uh in the w in the wild west show they often dramatized a battle between white men and Indians in which the Indians were very treacherous and were finally defeated. Uh they sometimes in fact in some of the uh uh forms of the wild west show they reenacted the battle of little big horn in which at the last minute there was a rescue. They reversed history in it uh sometimes in in in order to dramatize uh an outcome that was more appealing to the to the white audiences. uh the Wild West the Wild West. So the Wild West show staged battles between cowboys and Indians. And in fact, one one of the great historical ironies historical irony that our the director we're looking at next week, Robert Alman, actually picks up on in one of his films called Buffalo Bill and the Indians, a film he made in the 1970s, 1975, I think. Uh uh one of the shocking things is that the at a certain point at least for two years I think one of the participants in the Wild West shows were was were Sitting Bull was Sitting Bull himself the defeated Indian the defeated Native American leader at at uh uh who who who was now domesticated and actually became part of the show. And in the in Altman's fictionized version of this episode, a drunken Paul Newman plays Buffalo Bill and uh uh he's mocked and made fun of in some sense by a character who represents uh uh uh sitting a chief sitting bull who has all the dignity. Well, he's almost the only character in the film with real dignity. Uh it's a subversive post Hollywood po post Hollywood era western as you might guess. So, so the the Wild West shows, the Buffalo Bill Wild West shows were essentially an early rehearsal for what the movies became. And many of the elements of the Wild West show, fancy roping, fancy shooting, uh conflicts between cowboys and Indians, um uh the u uh uh uh performance of of various horse riding tricks, uh hering of cattle and so forth, all sort of contained the elements that then moved into the movies in an even more systematic and powerful way. And then I might mention one final source, the novel itself. Uh, in the at the beginning of the of the 20th century in 1902, one of the bestselling novels of all time in English was published. It was a book called The Virginia by a writer named Owen Wister, and it remains one of the bestselling books in the history of the United States. It still sells thousands of books every year. I once found in a used bookstore an edition of of the Virginia that that that had been published I think 15 years after its original publication and that edition was I think the 50th edition of the book was it it went through an incredible number of and in fact the edition I had also included beautiful illustrations that had obviously were added uh uh to later editions once the popularity of the book became known. So what we find is that the popular culture before the advent of movies had already in some sense created a full-fledged mythology of the western had familiarized the the society with the basic attitudes, assumptions, costumes and fundamental uh archetypal characters who organize the western. And there's one further thing to emphasize. This may be the most important thing of all. What we might call the intellectual culture. There was not only was there a real historical background to the western and not only was there a profound form of popular culture in in in theater in in public performances like these Wild West shows and in dime novels as well as in literary novels a tremendous compost of discourse that already sort of establishes the genre even before the movies arrive. There was also a final touch and this is this is the thing that helps to explain I think maybe more powerfully than the other examples I've given you why the western had such a hold and continues in some ways to have such a vestigial hold on the American imagination and on America's sense of itself and that is what happens in what I call here the intellectual culture in 1893 one of the most famous historians Frederick Jackson Turner published an essay in the American Historical Societ published an essay in the uh or or delivered delivered a lecture and then it was later published as an essay delivered a lecture to the American Historical Society and the title of the essay was the significance of the frontier in American history. It's probably the single most influential uh historical essay about America about the American past. It's been uh attacked and undermined and qualified and and uh its limitations have been widely discussed over the last 25 years, but it still remains in some respects a seminal essay even when historians are reacting against it. One of the most important central essays about uh uh the nature of American uh uh culture. And in this article, in this article, Frederick Jackson Turner argued essentially that he he was trying to make a case for what makes the United States unique. He was making a case for what we now call American exceptionalism, right? A dubious proposition. But let's listen to his argument, which has has which has a good deal of power and interest. He said essentially that the existence of free land of a continuously receding um settlement of a continuously receding frontier uh um the advance of settlement westward. uh with European settlers always pressing against that frontier that this the existence of such a reality in American life had altered inherited notions of social class and aristocratic government and had created a tendency toward what Turner implied were or said were the American ideals of individualism and classlessness of democracy itself. In other words, the United States, according to to uh uh Turner's argument, uh had a particularly open and democratic feel because the existence of this frontier allowed people to escape uh uh into a new life to to uh to to find possibilities to escape the confinements of social class, even perhaps in some small degree of gender, although feminist historians have have certainly shown how confining the life of women in the West actually was. Uh, nonetheless, a a sense that the existence of the frontier made the United States a a uniquely individualistic and a uniquely free society. What Turner had done, of course, was define a central historical myth for European-Americans, for the white society in the United States. Uh, and uh uh we we've come to recognize the limitations of the argument. What's the most profound obvious limitation that occurs to you instantly? How about the people who were already here? Right? In other words, one of the things that's wrong with the Turner thesis is it's a it's oblivious to the existence of the Native Americans who were who were pushed aside by the white settlers. It's a very complex story. And I don't want to oversimplify it. I don't mean that the that the heroic white people who got in the kanesogga wagons and who settled the west about whom there are dozens if not hundreds if not thousands of certainly thousands if we account stories in all formats of movies and books and short stories and plays and so forth. No, I don't want to suggest that there was no that there was nothing heroic or remarkable about about that behavior. There was the United States is not wrong. the American culture is not wrong in some sense to celebrate the heroism of those people. But of course, as we've come to realize and as many of our most recent westerns openly acknowledge, uh this original mythology which sort of celebrated unambiguously the the white settlement of the west was actually also in some sense an invasion and even a genocide. And the the turner thesis doesn't even imagine that. It sees it as a triumphal reality. So there were limits, terrible limits to the argument. But there's also something profoundly helpful about the argument. There is a sense of spaciousness, a sense of new possibilities, uh, a greater hostility to social class and inherited wealth in the United States than there are in other places. And for both good and ill, the United States celebrates forms of individualism as against communal behavior with a kind of intensity and compelling power that many many not just Europeans that many many non-Americans think is excessive and think has been reflected in some sense in in various forms of of of uh national behavior which we needn't discuss in detail now but you can all imagine your own your own examples. So the so but to but to come back to the primary point then one of the reasons that the it's as if the movies were sort of waiting for the western as if the western form already in some sense in fundamental ways fully formed uh in comes into the movies just as the movies as the movies are born as if the two as if the format of the movies and the content of the western were made for each other in some sense and it becomes one of the dominant one of the signature features of American cinema one of the fundamental aspects ects of what the western is, if we think of it as a kind of cultural mythology, uh is that it is it tells a founding story, right? It tells the story again and again. It repeats it every time you see a western in some sense. Every western is implicitly a story about the foundation of the of a society, about the creation of a community, right? Uh uh it's always implicitly about it and in many westerns this is an explicit topic, right? uh and and uh uh what what we can say is that this means that the western is the United States's form of a kind of story that every culture has, right? The the ancient Greeks had a had had a founding mythology grounded in the Iliad and the Odyssey, right? And uh the uh the uh uh tutor England had a founding mythology partly promulgated by Shakespeare in his his in the history plays that that that that were put on in the public theater in the in the uh um um in this in the in the 16th century. Um and and and uh what we can say about these founding stories is that they are always in some sense in some in some sense fantasies or fictions, but they articulate values and assumptions that the culture in some sense would uh uh would like to believe about itself. And that and that and and by their reiteration, by their repetition, by telling them again and again, they instantiate these values, these assumptions about the society uh in the in the in the culture as a whole. Their very repetition is important because one of the fundamental things about a myth or a mythology, one of the most fundamental things about it is that it's a collective. It's a collective story. It's not made by a single person. Right? And and one way to think about all westerns, although of course many of the best westerns have the traces of more than the traces have the imprint of individual contributions. John Ford. John Ford is a great director and there are aspects of John Ford's personality in every one of his westerns. Nonetheless, even the most profoundly 40 and western is still a collaborative form. Not only because Ford as a director because the movies are inherently collaborative because they have so many different people who contribute to the creation of the whole. No one even the most powerful director can completely control everything. Right? The greatest directors know how to collaborate with their performers and their writers. Uh but in any case, it's a collaborative form to begin with, right? But there's another kind of collaboration. Several other kinds. What are they? One of them is the te every western is implicitly in a conversation with every previous western. And in that sense, there's no author, right? It's a colle the story of the American western. The in that sense is a collective story. It's a creation of the culture. It's a create and in fact every new version of the western adds to the mythology in some sense. Right? So in that sense we can think of genre forms generally the western in particular as a as a particular kind of um um ongoing recurring discourse. And if we come back again to the arguments I was making at the beginning of our class about the way in which the ways in which um uh genre forms and especially the western can be seen to sort of dramatize cultural change or the or the way in which uh uh uh society's attitudes may may alter over time exactly because so many elements of a genre are stable and recognizable. those that are different are easy to recognize are are easy to identify and and speculate about. Uh so so the what one of the things we're recognizing here is that in a certain sense the very fact that this that the mythology is open is unfinished reflects something that's fundamental about society too right and this is part of Raymond Williams great insight into culture when he said what he said was culture is a constant mix of emergent traditional and dominant voices it's never over that what culture is is a conversation it's never any it's never any one fixed thing because culture is always in process. It's always changing, right? And what we can say the the the the uh the value of these genre forms and especially because the movies could reach so widely to uh even across linguistic barriers. The value of the movies as or the power of the movies as a as a form of this kind of discourse is over is overwhelmingly clear exactly because we can imagine this process this conversation going on repeatedly over time. the recognizable elements juxtaposed against the elements that are not recognizable allowing for a kind of constant process of re-evaluation of rehearsal and of rethinking right and we can say in fact that that's one of the deep functions that genre forms in general play and it's one of the central functions that the Hollywood movie plays and I'll try to concretize this for you this evening in a very in a kind of it's a kind of comic attempt but I'm going to do give give you a kind of capsule history of the trajectory of the western uh from its earliest days from the great train robbery till to unforgiven. So the western the western is a mythology. It's a mythology. The fact that mythologies themselves are open-ended are spaces in which a society defines and redefineses its identity and its central values makes the western movie a particularly powerful and central anthropological space. It enacts in different ways over and over again a story about the founding of society and at the and it is grounded therefore also in a series of complex dichotoies that are that are that are worth making clear even though they're very obvious when you think about what all westerns do but think about them. One of the dichotoies is the dichotomy between what is thought to be civilized and what is thought to be savage between civilization and savagery. Another is often between east and west in which the east represents uh civilization and the west the s but there's an ambivalence because the east is also a place that is thought to be desiccated and uh with lacking vitality and the west is thought to be an authentic place that tests us in our in our heroic largest possibilities right uh so it's a so and another kind of dichotomy that is uh present in virtually all westerns is a is a dichotomy between what we might call the claims of community, the claims of society on the one side and the claims of the individual on the other side. Right? This is a special problem for the western because it celebrates American individualism so powerfully. The iconic scene of the western in which two men uh wearing guns square off against each other and the quicker one survives. That scene of the quick draw and of the death in the dusty street is a could could be said to be a kind of embodiment of these values in which you have to rely on yourself. You can't re and you can't rely on someone else. You can't rely on the government. You can't rely on the sheriff. You can't rely on the police. You can't rely on your neighbors. You have to trust yourself. And in fact, one of the ways you can see the power of these western mythologies operating is it seems to me in some sense one of the great divides in the United States today over the question of guns and gun control is partly grounded in these myths of individualism that western that the western mythology has been promulgating since the since before the advent of the movies. Right? In other words, the attitudes that and in fact, if you listen to uh even some of the most extreme forms of of uh uh uh gun rights advocates actually talk in a language that we can recognize from westerns, from western movies. Not an accident that one of our recent presidents was a star in western films. Uh and and actually remembered some films he'd been as if they had been actual history. Uh, and I don't say that in a way to sort of disparrage poor Ronald Reagan at all, but as a way of reminding us that the conflu the the confluence or the confusion of actual history with these mythological accounts of the west is a characteristic feature of the American imagination. How could it be otherwise? We have been so inundated in these stories about the west. Uh, so another dichotomy then is that between society and the individual. Maybe finally we can say a dichotomy between culture and nature, right? which is the story that's enacted again and again in the great epic um uh stories that every culture sort of generates for itself. One of the most distinctive features of these dichotoies is the divided hero. A character you'll see embodied with great complexity in tonight's film played by John Wayne. A character who is some the the western hero is often seen very ambivalently as both a savior and a savage. As someone who has the power and authority to bring a kind of uh um decency and and and lawfulness to a community, but who is himself so touched by so tainted by the very savagery that he's trying to tame that he's often excluded from the community once it's been created. And you'll see a wonderful instance, a complex instance of that in tonight's film in the way the John Wayne character at the very end of the film is in a certain sense excluded from the community that he has helped to defend. Um, one way to see many of these things or to or to clarify many of these things is to juxtapo or or maybe as a way of as a way of crystallizing uh the this process I'm talking about whereby uh a genre form can in some sense dramatize uh u val changing values. I want to I I want to show you one scene uh and maybe I'll just end with this scene. Uh and this is a scene from McCabe and Mrs. Miller the film you're going to see in two weeks. a a western that comes after the breakdown of the Hollywood system, after the movies, no longer had the responsibility or the obligation uh no longer saw it saw themselves as as having to speak to everyone. Uh a moment of great in many ways a extraordinary artistic freedom, the period of the early of the late60s and through a good part of the 1970s. Many people would say it was a moment in in American cinema uh unrivaled for its complexity and its richness. And one of the reasons it was such a rich moment was that the movies had been liberated from their responsibility to talk to the whole culture. There was an irony connected to that because they had smaller audience, right? But they now but but it gave them a kind of a uh political freedom, a kind of moral freedom that they hadn't had before. Uh and I want to show you one scene. One reason I'm choosing it is because it will resonate for you when we when we come to McCabe and Mrs. Miller. But it requires that you know one thing. The scene, the iconic scene that I mentioned earlier where two heroes or one hero and a bad guy square off against each other on a dusty street at to draw a gun might be said to be the most recurring or the most or the quintessential western scene, although there are others we might nominate as almost as important. Uh, and in order to understand the scene you're about to see, you need to recognize that what lies behind this very subversive version of the shootout are dozens, if not hundreds of earlier scenes in which heroic characters that we greatly admire shoot down bad guys in the street, right? Well, here's a scene from McCabe and Mrs. Miller of this iconic moment. Now, remember, McCabe and Mrs. Miller comes after the consensus dispensation. It's now it's free not to be a consensus form. But what one reason I want to show you this is I hope you can recognize that what gives this scene its power is not it's very brilliantly photographed and dramatized. But what gives it its power is not has very little to do with what is what what it itself does. What grants its enormous authority are the dozens if not hundreds of prior scenes with which it's in conversation against which it is contrasting itself. because this scene of confrontation between two individuals who has the faster gun right uh is as I've suggested the iconic moment in the western and and it is in in the in the heroic western in the traditional western it's a heroic moment of her of of I mean of individual self assertion in which good conquers evil watch Robert Alman's version of this Bye. I wasn't trying to hit it. The trick is not to hit it, but to make it float. See, he's lying. You were supposed to realize he's lying. He meant to him. Here comes the cowboy who's just on his surfing. All the prostitutes loved him. Hey, hold it, honey. What? Hold up in your target practice a cuz I don't want to get shot. Well, then get off the bridge, you saddle I want to buy some socks. I got a long ride ahead of me. What's wrong with the socks you got on? I wore them out running around half naked in that wh house over there. Actually quiet place. You've been there yet? Take off your boots and show me. You're dodging me. I said take off your boots and show me a sucker. I ain't going to do that. What are you wearing that gun for? No, I just wear it. Can't hit nothing with it. Well, that don't make no sense. What kind of a gun is it? Oh, them good guns. That's what I got. Must be something wrong with it. Nah, it's me. I just can't shoot good. Well, let me see it. Come on. Maybe I can fix it for you. Okay. And so what the scene what the scene does is it turns on its head uh what we might say are the central values or assumptions that have lain behind such a scene in pro in in dozens if not hundreds of prior westerns. And that's a distilled example of this process of a conversation that goes on if it goes on for a long enough time the the content of the conversation can virtually reverse itself. Even though the genre remains stable and that's one of the that we might call that the genius of genre the genius of a genre form and it has to do with what it is a version of what I mean when I talk about the cultural work or the anthropological function that movies