The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT OpenCourseware at ocw.mit.edu. It's because if I was not, this would be basically the last topic we would ever see. And this is arguably probably the most important topic in statistics or at least that's probably the reason why most of you are taking this class because regression implies prediction and prediction is what people are all after now, right? You don't need to understand what the model for the financial market is. If you actually have a formula to predict what uh the stock prices are going to be tomorrow and regression in a way allows us to do that. And we'll start with a very simple version of regression which is linear regression which is the most standard one. And then we'll move on to slightly more advanced notions such as nonparametric regression. At least we're going to see the principles behind it. And uh I'll touch upon a little bit of high dimensional regression which is what people are doing today. So the goal of regression is to try to predict one variable based on another variable. All right. So here the notation is very important. It's extremely standard. It goes from one uh it goes everywhere essentially and essentially you have you're trying to explain y as a function of x. Okay, which is the usual yals f ofx question except that you know if you look at a calculus class, people tell you yals f ofx and they give you a specific form for f and then you do something. Here we're just going to try to estimate what this link function is. And this is why we often call uh y the explained variable and x the explanatory variable. All right. So um we're statisticians. So we start with data. All right. And what does our data look like? Well, it looks like a bunch of input output to this relationship. All right. So we have a bunch of xi yi. Those are pairs. And I can do a scatter plot of those guys. Right? So each point here has a x coordinate which is x i and a ycoordinate which is y i. And here I have a bunch of end points and I just draw them like that. Now if so the functions we're going to be interested in are often function of the form y = a + b * x. Okay. And that means that this function looks like this. So if I do x and y, this function looks exactly like a line and clearly those points are not on a line and it will basically never happen that those points are on a line. There's a famous uh t-shirt from I think UC Berkeley stats department that shows this picture and put a line in between them like we're going to see it and it says uh statisticians so many points and you still managed to miss all of them and uh and so basically essentially we don't believe that this relationship y is equal to a plus bx is true but maybe up to some noise and that's where the statistics is going to come into play. there's going to be some random noise that's going to play out and hopefully the noise is going to be spread out evenly so that we can average it uh if we have enough points average it out. Okay. And so this epsilon here is not necessarily due to randomness but again just like we did modeling in the first place it essentially accounts for everything we don't understand about this relationship. All right. So for example uh uh so here I'm not going to be uh so okay give me one second. So uh I'll see we'll see an example in a second. But the idea here is that if you have data and if you believe that it's of the form a plus bx plus some noise, you're trying to find the line that will explain your data the best. Right? In the terminology we've been using before. This would be the most likely line that explains the data. So we can see that it's lately we've just added another dimension to our statistical problem. We don't have just x's, but we have y's, and we're trying to find the most likely explanation of the relationship between y and x. All right? And so in practice, the way it's going to look like is that we're going to have basically two parameters to find the slope b and the intercept a. And given data, the goal is going to be to try to find the best possible line. All right? So what we're going to find is not exactly A and B the ones that actually generate the data but some estim est est est est est est est est est est est est est est est est est est est estimators of those parameters a hat and b hat constructed from the data all right so we'll see that more generally but we're not going to go too much in the details of this it there's actually quite a bit that you can understand if you do what's called univariate regression when x is actually a real valued uh random variable so when this happens this is called univariate regression And when X is in RP for P larger than or equal to two, this is called multivariate regression. Okay. And so here we're just trying to explain y is a + b x plus epsilon. And here we're going to have something more complicated. We're going to have y, which is equal to a + b1 x1 + b2 x2 + b p xp plus epsilon where x is equal to the coordinates of x are given by x1 2xp or p. Okay, so it's still linear, right? they still add all the coordinates of x with a coefficient in front of them but it's a bit more complicated than just one coefficient for one coordinate of x. Okay. So we'll come back to multivate regression. Uh there's a of course you can write this as a uh uh xrpose b right. So this entire thing here this linear combination is of the form xrpose b where b is the vector that has coordinates b1 to bp. Okay. Uh sorry here it's in our d p is the natural notation. All right. So our goal here in the univariate one is to try to write a model make sense of this little twiddle here essentially from a statistical modeling question is going to be able to the question is going to be what distributional assumptions do you want to put on epsilon are you going to say they're Gaussian or you going to say they are binomial uh okay um are you going to say they're binomial? Are you going to say they're Bernly? Uh so that's going to be uh what we're going to make sense. And then we're going to try to find a method to estimate A and B. And then maybe we're going to try to do some inference about A and B. Maybe test if A and B take certain values if they're less than something. Maybe find some confidence regions for A and B. All right. So why would you want to do this? Well, I'm sure all of you have an application why. If I give you some X, you're trying to predict what Y is. Machine learning is all about doing this, right? Without maybe trying to even understand the physics behind this. They're saying, well, you give me a bag of words. I want to understand whether it's going to be a spam or not. You give me a bunch of indic economic indicators. I want you to tell me how much I should be selling my car for. uh you give me a bunch of uh uh uh measurements on some patient. I want you to predict how this person is going to respond to my drug and things like this. All right? And so often we actually don't have much modeling intuition about what the relationship between X and Y is. And this linear thing is basically the simplest function we can think of. Arguably linear functions are the simplest functions that are not trivial. Otherwise, we would just say, well, let's just predict X Y to be a constant, meaning it does not depend on X. But if you wanted to depend on X, linear functions are basically as simple as it gets. Turns out, amazingly, this does the trick quite often. All right, so for example, if you look at economics, you might want to assume that the demand is a linear function of the price. All right, so if your price is zero, there's going to be a certain demand, and as the price increases, the demand is going to move. Do you think B is going to be positive or negative here? What? Typically, it's negative. Unless we're talking about maybe luxury goods. Uh where, you know, the more expensive the more people actually want it. Uh I mean, if we're talking about actual economic demand, it's probably uh definitely negative. All right. Uh it doesn't have to be, you know, clearly uh uh linear so that you can actually make it linear, transform it into some linear. So for for example you have this like multiplicative relationship right P uh you know PV equals NRT which is the IDS ga ideal gas law. uh if you want to actually write this relationship if you want to predict what the pressure is going to be as a function of the volume and the temperature uh and uh well let's assume that the uh so n is the avagadra constant and let's assume that the the radius is actually uh fixed then uh you have basically you take the log on each side right so you get pv equals nrt Okay. So, so what that means is that log PV is equal to log n RT. So that means that log P plus log V is equal to log N R plus log T. Okay. So this here we said that R is constant. So this is actually a constant. I'm going to call it A. And then that means that log P is equal to minus log B. Seriously uh that log p is equal to a uh minus log v plus log t. Okay. And so in particular if I write b uh equal to -1 and c equal to + one this gives me the formula that I have here. Now again it might be the case that you know this is the ideal gas law. So in practice if I start recording pressure and temperature and volume those things I might make measurement errors it might be slightly different conditions in such a way that I'm not going to get exactly those and I'm just going to put this little twiddle to account for the fact that the points that I'm going to be recording for log pressure log volume and log temperature are not going to be exactly on one line. Okay, they're going to be close. Actually, in those physics experiments, usually they're very close. It's actually because the conditions are controlled in under lab experiments. So, it means that the noise is very small. And uh but for other cases like demand and price, this is not a law of physics. And so, this might change. Uh even the linear structure is probably not clear, right? At some point, there's probably going to be some weird curvature happening. All right. So this slide is just to tell you maybe you don't have obviously a linear relationship but maybe you do if you start taking logs expect uh exponentials squares you can sometimes take the product of two variables things like this right so this is variable transformation and it's mostly domain specific so we're not going to go into much details of this any questions. All right. So, um, now I'm going to be given, uh, um, so if we start thinking a little more about what those coefficients should be. Well, remember, so just everybody's clear why I don't put the little i here, right? I don't put the little i because I'm just talking about a generic x and a generic y, but the observations are x1, y1, right? So typically on the blackboard I'm often going to write only XY but the data really is X1 Y1 all the way to XN YN. Right? So those are this points in this two-dimensional plot. And uh but I think of those as being copies independent copies of of the pair XY. Okay, they have to have the the to contain the relationship. And so when I talk about distribution of those random variables, I can only I talk about the distribution of XY and that's the same. Right? So the first thing you might want to ask is, well, if I have an infinite amount of data, what do I what what can I hope to get for A and B, right? If my sample size goes to infinity, then I should actually know exactly what the distribution of XY is. And so there should be an A and a B that captures this linear relationship between Y and X. Okay? And so in particular, we're going to try to ask the population or theoretic values of A and B. And you can see that you can actually compute them explicitly. So let's just try to find how. So as I said, we have a bunch of points on this line close to a line. And I'm trying to find the best fit. All right? So this guy is not a good fit. This guy is not a good fit. And we know that this guy is a good fit somehow. So we need to mathematically formulate the fact that this line here is better than this line here or better than this line here. So what we're trying to do is to create a function that has values that are smaller for this curve and larger for these two curves. And the way we do it is by measuring the fit. And the fit is essentially the aggregate distance of all the points to the curve. All right? And there's many ways I can measure the distance to a curve, right? So if I want to find, so let's just open a parenthesis. If I have a point here, so we're going to do it for one point at a time. So if I have a point, there's many ways I can measure it distance to the curve, right? I can measure it like that. That is one distance to the curve. I can measure it like that by having a right angle here. That is one distance to the curve. Or I can measure it like that. that is another distance to the curve, right? There's many ways I can go for it. It turns out that one is actually going to be fairly convenient for us and that's the one that says let's look at the square of the value of x on the curve. Right? So if this is the curve y is equal to a + bx. Now I'm going to think of this point as a random point capital X capital Y. Okay. And so that means that it's going to be instant. It's going to be X1 X Y1 or X2 Y2 etc. Now I want to measure the distance. Can somebody tell me which of the three the first one the second one or the third one this formula expectation of y - a minus bx^2 is is is which of the three is it representing? The second one where I have the right angle. Okay. Everybody agrees with this. Anybody wants to vote for something else? Yeah. The third one. Who? Everybody agrees with the third one. So, by default, everybody's on the first one. Yeah. Yeah. It is the vertical distance actually. Right. So, and the reason is if it was the one with the straight angle with the right angle, it would actually be very complicated mathematical formula. So let's just see why, right? So and by y I mean y okay so uh this is this means that this is my x okay and this is my y right so that means that this point is xy so what I'm measuring is the difference between y minus a + b * x right this is the thing I'm going to take the expectation of the square and then the expect So a + b * x if this is this line this is this point. So that's this value here. This value here is a plus bx. Right? So what I'm really measuring is the difference between y and m plus bx which is this distance here. And since I like things like Pythagoras theorem, uh I'm actually going to put a square here before I take the expectation. Okay, so now this is a random variable. This is this random variable. And so I want a number. So I'm going to turn it into a deterministic number. And the way I do this is by taking expectation. Okay? And doing expectation. If you think expectation should be close to average, this is the same thing as saying I want that in average the y's are close to the a plus bx, right? So we're doing it in expectation, but that's going to translate into doing it in average for all the points. All right. So this is the thing I want to measure. So that's this vertical distance. Yeah. Oh, again. Okay. Sorry. I'm just uh this is my fault actually. Um maybe we should close those shades. Okay. I cannot I cannot do just uh one at a time. Sorry. Okay. So the uh um All right. So now that I do those uh vertical distances, I can I can ask well now I have this function, right? to have a function that takes two parameters a and b maps it to the expectation of y - a + b x^2 sorry the square is here and I can ask well this is a function that measures the fit of the parameters a and b right this function should be small the value of this function here function of a and E that measures how close the um point xy is to the line a + b * x. Well, y is equal a + b * x. uh in expectation. Okay, agreed? This is what we we just said. And you can think if again if you're not comfortable with the reason why to expectations, just think about having data points and taking the average value for this guy. So it's basically an aggregate distance of the points uh to their uh to the uh the the line. Okay, everybody agrees this is a legitimate measure. If all my points were on the line, if my distribution, if y was actually equal to a plus bx for some a and b, then this function would be equal to zero for the correct a and b, right? If they're far, well, it's going to depend on how much noise I'm getting. But it's still going to be minimized for the best one. So, let's minimize this thing. So here I don't make any uh again sorry uh I don't make any assumption on um on uh uh the distribution of x or y here I assume somehow that the variance of x is not equal to zero. Can somebody tell me why? Yeah. No, here I've actually written the expectation of the square. If I wanted to write the square of the expectation, I would just do this. So, so let's just make it clear, right? Do you want me to put an extra set of parenthesis? That's what you want me to do. Yeah. Okay. That's the one that makes sense. So, the square of the expectation. The expectation of the square. Sorry. Yeah. Dyslexia. All right. Uh, any question? Does this assume that the error is Gaussian? No. I mean in the sense that like if we knew that the error was like follow we want to minimize the y why so you know the answer to your question so I just want you to use the words that uh right so why would you want to use the fourth power because like we want more expectations to be very rare or more rare than yeah so that would be the maximum likelihood estimator that you're describing to me right I can actually write the likelihood of a pair of numbers AB and if I know this that's actually what's going to come into it because I know that the density is going to come in into play when I talk about the but here I'm just talking about a this is a mechanical tool I'm just saying let's minimize the distance to the curve another thing I could have done is take the absolute value of this thing for example I just decided to take the square before I did it okay so regardless of what I'm doing I'm just taking the squares because that's just going to be convenient for me to do my computations for now but we don't have any statistical model at this point right I didn't say anything that y follows this x follows this. I'm just doing minimal assumptions as we go. All right. So, the variance of x is not equal to zero. Can somebody tell me why? What would happen in my what would my point cloud point look like if the variance of x was equal to zero? Yeah, they would all be at the same point. So, it's going to be hard for me to start fitting a line, right? I mean, best case scenario, I have this x, it has variance zero. So, this is the expectation of x and all my points have the same expectation then so yes I could probably fit that line but uh that wouldn't help very much for other x's right so I need a bit of variance so that things spread out a little bit and um and uh okay I'm going to have to do this I think it's just my um Okay, let's hope I'm gonna All right, so I'm going to put a little bit of less variance and the other thing is here I don't want to do much more but I'm actually going to think of X as having uh mean zero and the way I do this is as follows. Let's define X tilda which is X minus the expectation of X. Okay. So definitely the expectation of X tilda is what? Zero. Okay. And so now I want to minimize in AB expectation of Y minus A + B X squared. And what I'm going to the way I'm going to do this is by turning X into X tilda and stuffing the extra um and and putting the extra uh um uh expectation of X into the A. Okay. So I'm going to write this as expectation of y minus a plus b uh expectation of x which I'm going to call a tilda and plus b xtilda. Okay. And uh everybody agrees with this. So now I have two parameters a tilda and b. And I'm gonna pretend that now X so now it's the role of X is played by X tilda which is now a uh which is now a centered random variable. Okay. So I'm going to call this guy a tilda. But for for my computations I'm going to call it a. So how do I find the minimum of this thing? Derivative equal to zero. Right? So here it's a quadratic thing. It's going to be like that. I take the derivative set it to zero. So I'm first going to take the derivative with respect to a and set it equal to zero. So that's equivalent to saying that the expectation of well here I'm going to pick up a two y minus um a + b x tilda is equal to zero. And then I also have that the derivative with respect to b is equal to zero which is equivalent to the expectation of well I have a negative sign somewhere so let me put it here - 2x tilda y - a + b x tilda. Okay. See that's why I don't want to put too many parenthesis. Uh okay so I just took the derivative with respect to a which is just basically the square and then I have a negative one that comes out from inside and then I take the derivative with respect to b and I have since b has x tilda in factor it comes out as well right so the minus2's really won't matter for me and so now I have two equations the first equation well it's pretty simple It's just telling me that the expectation of y minus a is equal to zero. So what I know is that a is equal to the expectation of y. And really that was a tilda which implies that the AI want is actually equal to the expectation of uh y minus b * the expectation of x. Okay. just because a tilda is a plus b times the expectation of x. So that's for my a and then for my b I use the second one. So the second one tells me that the expectation of x tilda is equal to a + b * the expectation of x tilda which is zero. Right? Okay. But this a is actually a tilda in this problem. So it's actually a plus b expectation of x. Now this is the expectation of the product of two random variables but x tilda is centered right? It's x minus expectation of x. So this thing is actually equal to the coariance between x and y by definition of coariance. So now I have everything I need, right? How do I just I'm sorry about that. Uh so I have everything I need. Now I'm just I have two equations with two unknowns. And uh all I have to do is to basically plug it in. So it's essentially telling me that the coariance of XY. So the first equation tells me that the coariance of XY is equal to A plus B expectation of X. But a is expectation of y minus b expectation of x. So uh it's well actually maybe I should start with b. Oh sorry sorry sorry. Okay I forgot one thing. Sorry this is not true. Right? I forgot this term. X tilda multiplies X tilda here. So what I'm left with is Xtilda. It's minus B times the expectation of X tilda squared. So that's actually minus B times the variance of X tilda because XTilda is already centered. Okay, which is actually the variance of X. Okay. So now I have that this thing is actually a plus b expectation of x minus b variance And I also have that a is equal to expectation of y minus b expectation of x. Okay. So if I sum the two Right? So if I sum the two, those guys are going to cancel. Those guys are going to cancel. And so what I'm going to be left with is coariance of XY is equal to expectation of X, expectation of Y. And then I'm left with this term here minus B times the variance of X. And so that tells me that B, why do I still have the variance there? Y but sex still the center right so you just you just need to have one that's centered for this to work oh I see um right I mean you can check it but uh basically when you're going to have the product of the expectations you only need one of the two in the product to be zero so the product is zero so um okay why do kept my uh so I get a a and then the b expectation. Okay, so that's probably earlier that I made a mistake. So I get a So this was a tilda clear about the So that tells me that a tilda maybe it's not super fair of me to yeah okay I think I know where I made a mistake I should not have centered I wanted to make my life easier and I should not have done that and the reason is a tilda depends on b so when I take the derivative with respect to b what I'm left with here since a tilda depends on b when I take the derivative of this guy I actually don't get a tilda here but I really get um sorry so again this was not uh so that's the first one yeah so this is actually here, right? When I take the derivative with respect to B. And so now what I'm left with is that the expectation. So yeah, I'm basically left with nothing that helps. So um I'm sorry about that. Let's start from the the beginning because this is not getting us anywhere and any and a fix is not going to help. So let's just do it again. Sorry about that. So let's not center anything and just just do it brute force because we're gonna b x^ squ. All right, partial with respect to a is giving equals zero is equivalent. So my minus two is going to cancel, right? So I'm going to actually forget about this. So it's actually telling me that the expectation of y minus a + b x is equal to zero which is equivalent to a + b expectation of x is equal to the expectation of y. Now, if I take the derivative with respect to B and set it equal to zero, this is telling me that the expectation of uh well, it's the same thing except that this time I'm going to pull out an x. This guy is equal to zero. This guy is not here. And so that implies that the expectation of XY is equal to A * the expectation of X plus B times the expectation of X squ. Okay. All right. So the first one is actually uh not giving me much. So I need to actually work with the two of those guys. So I'm going to take the first. So let me rewrite those two equal inequalities that I have. I have a plus b e of x is equal to e of y and then I have e of xy. Okay. And now the what I do is that I take the I multiply um this guy. So I want to cancel one of these things, right? So what I'm going to uh yeah, so I'm going to take this guy and I'm going to multiply it by E of X and take the difference. Okay. So I do times E of X and then I take the diff I take the I take the sum of those two and then those two terms are going to cancel. Okay. So then that tells me that B * E of X^ squared plus the expectation of X Y is equal to. So this guy uh is the one that cancelled. Then I get this guy here expectation of X times expectation of Y plus uh the guy that remains here which is uh B times the expectation of X^2. So here I have B expectation of X the whole thing squared and here I have B expectation of X squar. So if I pull this guy here what do I get? B times the variance of X. Okay so I'm going to move here and this guy here. When I move this guy here I get expectation of X time Y minus the expectation of X times the expectation of Y. So this is actually telling me that the covariance of X and Y is equal to B * the variance of X. And so that then that tells me that B is equal to uh coariance of XY divided by the variance of X. And that's why I actually need the variance of X to be non zero because I couldn't do that otherwise. And because if it was, it would mean that B should be plus infinity, which is what the limit of this guy is when the variance goes to zero. Okay? Or negative infinity. I cannot sort them out. All right? So I'm sorry about the mess, but uh that should be uh more clear. Then a of course you can write it as a by plugging in the value of b. So you know it it's only a function of your distribution, right? So what are the characteristics of the distri? So distribution can have a bunch of things. It can have moments of order four of order 26. It can have heavy tails or light tails. But when you compute le squares, the only thing that matters are the variance of x, the expectation of the individual ones. And really what captures how y changes when you change x is is captured in the coariance. The rest is really just normalization, right? It's just telling you I want things to cross the y-axis at the right place. I want things to cross the x-axis at the right place. But the slope is really captured by how much more coariance you have relative to the variance of x. Okay. So this is essentially setting the scale for the x-axis and this is telling you for a unit scale. This is the uh unit of y that you're changing. Okay. So we have explicit forms and what I could do if I wanted to estimate those things is just say well again we have expectations right the coariance is the expectation of XY minus the product of the expectations I could replace expectations by averages and get an empirical coariance just like we can replace the expectations for the variance and get a sample coariance and this is basically what we're going to be doing all right this is essentially what you want the problem is that if you view it that way you sort of prevent yourself from being able to solve the multivaried problem because it's only in the univaried problem that you have closed form solutions for your problem. But if you actually go to multivariate, this is not where you want to replace expectations by averages. You actually want to replace expectation by averages here. And once you do it here, then you can actually just solve the minimization problem. All right. Okay. So, um, one thing that arises from this guy is that this is an interesting formula, right? Think about it. If I if I have that y is a + b x plus some noise. Now not things are no longer on the on something. I have that y is equal to a + bx plus some noise which is usually denoted by epsilon. So that's the distribution right? If I tell you the distribution of X and I say Y is a plus bx plus epsilon I tell you the distribution of Y and if maybe that those two are independent you have a distribution on Y. So what happens is that I can actually always say well you know this is equivalent to saying that epsilon is equal to y minus a plus bx right I can always write this it's just uh I mean it's the tology but here for those guys this is not for any guy right this is really for the best fit a and b those ones that satisfy this gradient is equal to zero thing then what we had is that the expectation of epsilon was equal to expectation of y minus a + b expectation of x right by linearity of the expectation which was equal to zero. So for this best fit we have zero. Now the coariance between x and y uh between sorry x and epsilon is what? Well, it's the coariance between X and well epsilon was Y minus A + B X. Okay. Now the coariance is by linear. So what I have is that the coariance of this is the coariance of X and time Y sorry of X and Y minus the coariance well minus A + B coariance of X and X which is the variance of X coariance of XY minus A plus be co variance of x and let coariance of uh okay I didn't write it so here I have coariance of xy is equal to b variance of x right uh so why uh what did Okay. Coance of XY. Yeah, that's because I cannot do that with the coariance. Um, yeah, I have those averages again. Um, no, because this is centered, right? Sorry, this is centered. So this is actually equal to the expectation of x * y - a + bx right the the coariance is equal to the product just because this right hand side is actually centered. So this is the expectation of x * y minus the expectation of a uh * x a * the expectation of x plus b minus b * the expectation of x^2. Well actually maybe I should not really go too far. So this is actually the one that I need. But if I stop here, this is actually equal to zero, right? Those are the same equations. Okay. Yeah. So we're just saying that if I actually believed that this best fit was the one that gave me the right parameters, what would that imply on the noise itself on this epsilon? So here we're actually just trying to find some necessary condition for the noise to hold for the noise. And so those conditions are that first the expectation is zero. That's what we got here. And then that the coariance between the noise and x has to be zero as well. Okay. So those are actually conditions that the noise must satisfy. But the noise was just not really defined as noise itself. We were just saying okay if we're going to put some assumptions on X on the epsilon what do we better have? So the first one is that it's centered which is good because otherwise the noise would shift everything. So now when you look at a a a linear regression model typically if you look if you open a book it doesn't start by saying let the noise be the difference between y and what I actually want y to be. It says let y be a plus bx plus epsilon. So conversely if we assume that this is the model that we have then we're going to have to assume that epsilon we're going to assume that epsilon is centered and that the coariance between x and epsilon is zero. Actually often we're going to assume much more. And one way to ensure that those two things are satisfied is to assume that x is independent of epsilon. For example, if you assume that X is independent of epsilon, of course, the coariance is going to be zero or we might assume that the conditional expectation of e of epsilon given x is equal to zero. Then that implies that okay now the fact that it's centered is one thing. So if we make this assumption, what the only thing it's telling us is that those abs that come right, we started from there. Y is equal to A plus B X plus some epsilon for some A and some B. What it turns out is that those ep's and B's are actually the ones that you would get by solving this expectation of square thing. All right. So when you asked back when you were following Yeah. So uh when you asked uh you know why don't we take the square for example or the power four or something like this then here I'm saying well if I have y is equal to a plus bx I don't actually need to put too much assumptions on epsilon if epsilon is actually satisfying those two things expectation is equal to zero and coariance with x is equal to zero then the right a and b that I'm looking for actually the ones that come with the square not with power four or power 25. Okay, so those are actually pretty weak assumptions. If we want to do inference, we're going to have to assume slightly more. If we want to use t distributions at some point, for example, and we will, we're going to have to assume that epsilon has a Gaussian distribution. So if you want to start doing more statistics beyond just like doing this le square thing, which is minimizing the square criterion, you're actually going to have to put more assumptions. But right now, we did not need them. we only need that epsilon has mean zero and coariance zero with x. Okay, so let's start with so that was basically probabilistic, right? We're trying to say if I were to do probability and I were trying to model the relationship between two random variables x and y in the form y is a plus bx plus some noise. This is what would come out. Everything was expectations. There was no data involved. So now let's go to the data problem which is now I do not have I do not know what the expectations are in particular I don't know what the coariance of x and y is and I don't know what the expectation of x and the expectation of y of y are so I have data to do that so how am I going to do this well I'm just going to say well if I want x1 y1 xn and yn and I'm going to assume that they're iid and I'm actually going to assume that they have some model right so I'm going to assume that I have that a so that yi follows the same model so epsilon i and I want say that epsil expectation of epsilon i is zero and coariance of x i ep epsilon i is equal to zero so I'm going to put the same model on all the data. So you can see that A is not AI and B is not BI. It's the same. So as my data increases, I should be able to recover the correct things as the size of my data increases. Okay, so this is what uh the statistical problem look like. You're given the points. There is a true line from which this point was generated, right? There was this line. There was a true AB that I used to draw this plot and that was the line. So first I picked an x say uniformly at random on this interval 0 to two. Let's say that was this one. Then I I said well I want y to be a plus bx. So it should be here. But then I'm going to add some noise epsilon to go away again back from this line. And actually that's actually mean here. We actually got two points correct on this line. So there's basically two epsilons that were small enough that the dots actually look like they're on the line. Everybody's clear about what I'm drawing? So now, of course, if you're a statistician, you don't see this. You only see this. And you have to recover this guy. And it's going to look like this, right? You're going to have an estimated line, which is the red one, and the blue line, which is the uh uh uh the true one, the one that actually generated the data. And your question is, well, this line corresponds to some parameters a hat and b hat. How can I make sure that those two lines, how far those two lines are? And one way to address this question is to say how far is a from a hat and how far is b from b hat. Okay, another question of course that you ask is how do you find a hat and b hat? And as you can see it's basically the same thing. Remember what was a? So b was uh the coariance between x and y divided by the variance of x right we which I can rewrite as the expectation of xy minus expectation of x time expectation of y divided by expectation of x^2 minus expectation of x the whole thing square. Okay, if you look at the expression for B hat, I basically replaced all the expectations by bars, right? So I said, well, this guy I'm going to estimate by an average. So that's the so xy bar is 1 / n sum from i= 1 to n of x i * yi. XAR of course is just the one that we're used to. And same for Y bar. X squar bar, the one that's here, is the average of the squares. And XAR square is the square of the average. Okay, so you just basically replace this guy by Xbar, this guy by Y bar, this guy by X² bar, and this guy by Xar in the square. Okay, so that's basically one way to do it. Everywhere you see an expectation, you replace it by an average. That's the usual statistical hammer. You can actually be slightly more subtle about this. And as an exercise, I invite you to just to make sure that you know how to do this computation. It's going to be exactly the same kind of computations that we've done. But uh as an exercise, you can check that if you actually look at say well what I wanted to minimize here, I had an expectation, right? And I said, let's minimize this thing. Well, let's replace this by an average first and now minimize. Okay. So if I do this, it turns out I'm going to actually get the same result. The minimum of the average is basically this when I replace the average by the sorry when I replace the expectation by the average and then minimize it's the same thing as first minimizing and then replacing expectation by averages in this case. Again, this is a much more general principle because if you don't have a closed form for the minimum like for some say likelihood problems, well, you might not actually have a possibility to just look at what the formula looks like, see where the expectations show up and then just plug in the averages instead. So, you might this is the one you want to keep in mind. And again as an exercise. Okay. So here and then you do expectation replace by averages and then that's the same answer and I I encourage you to solve the exercise. Okay, everybody's clear that this is actually the same expression for a hat and b hat that we had before where we that we had for a and b when we replace the expectations by averages here. By the way, I minimize the sum rather than the average. It's clear to everyone that this is the same thing. Right? Yeah. So we did switch the derivative and the expectation before you came I think. Um all right so indeed the picture was the one that we said. So visually this is what we're doing. We're looking among all the lines. For each line, we compute this distance, right? So, if I gave you another line, there would be another set of arrows. You look at their length. You square it, and then you sum it all, and you find the line that has the minimum sum of squared length of the arrows. All right? And those are the arrows that we're looking at. But again, you could actually think of other distances and you would actually get different uh you could actually get different solutions, right? So there's something called mean absolute deviation which rather than minimizing this thing is actually minimizing the sum from i= 1 to n of the absolute value of y minus a + bx i and that will that's not something for which you're going to have a closed form as you can imagine uh you might have something that's sort of implicit uh but you can actually still solve it numerically and this is something that people also like to use but way way less than the le squares What did I just what? The sum of the absolute values of y i minus a plus bx i. So it's the same except that I don't have the square here. Okay. So arguably, you know, predicting uh price uh a demand based on price is a fairly naive problem. Typically, what we have is a bunch of data that we've collected and we're hoping that together they can help us do a better prediction. All right, so maybe I don't have only the price, but uh maybe I have a bunch of other social uh indicators. Maybe I know the competi competition, the price of the competition. Maybe I know a bunch of other things that are actually relevant. And so I'm trying to find a way to combine a bunch of points, a bunch of measures. Let's say for example, there's a nice example that I like, which is uh uh people were trying to measure um something related to uh your body mass index. It's so basically the volume of your the density of your body and the way you can do this is by just you know really weighing someone and also putting them in some you know cubic meter of water and see how much overflows and then you have both the volume and the uh and um uh uh and the mass of this person and you can you know start computing density but uh as you can imagine you know I would not personally like to go to a gym where the first thing they ask is to just go in some uh uh bucket of water. And so people try to find ways to measure this based on other indicators that are much easier to measure. For example, I don't know, the length of my forearm and the circumference of my head and maybe from maybe my my belly would probably be more appropriate here. And so, you know, they just try to find something that actually makes sense. And so there's actually a nice example where you can show that if you measure I think one of the most significant was with the circumference of your wrist. This is actually a very good indicator of uh your uh your uh body density. And uh it turns out that um if you stuff all the bunch of things together, you might actually get a very good formula that explains things. All right. So what we're going to do is rather than saying we have only one x to explain y's, let's say we have 20 x's that we're trying to combine to explain why. And again, just like assuming something of the form y is a plus b * x was the simplest thing we could do here. We're just going to assume that we have y is a + b1 x1 plus b2 x2 plus b3 x3. And we can write it in a vector form by writing that yi is x i transpose b which is now a vector plus epsilon i. Okay. And here on the board I'm going to have a right hard time doing boldface but all these things are vectors right except for y which is a number right? Yi is a number. it's always the value of my y-axis. Okay? So even if my x-axis lives on this is x1 and this is x2, y is really just the real valued function. And so I'm going to get a bunch of points x1 y1 and I'm going to see how much they respond. Right? So for example, it's the my body density is y and then all the x's are a bunch of other things. Agreed with that? So this is an equation that holds on the real line. But this guy here is in R P and this guy is in RP. It's actually common to talk to to call B beta when it's a vector and that's the usual that's the usual linear regression notation. Y is X beta plus epsilon. So X's are called explanatory variables. Y is called explain variable or dependent variable uh or response variable. It has a bunch of names. You can use whatever you think feel more comfortable with. They should it should actually be explicit, right? So that's all you care about. Um now what we typically do is that rather so you notice here that there's actually no intercept. If I actually fold that back down to one dimension, there's actually a is equal to zero. Right? If I go back to P is equal to 1, that would imply that yi is well say beta * x plus epsilon i. And that's not good. I want to have an intercept. And the way I do this rather than writing a plus this and you know just have like a an overload of notation. What I'm actually doing is that I fold back I fold my intercept back into my x. And so if I measure 20 variables, I'm going to create a 21st variable which is always equal to one. Okay? So you should need to think of x as being one and then x1 x p and now sorry xp minus one I guess. Okay. And now this is in RP. Okay. So the we I'm always going to assume that the first one is one. I can always do that. If I have a table of data, if my data is given to me in an Excel spreadsheet and here I have the density that I measured on my data and then maybe here I have the height and here I have the wrists circumference. And I have all these things. All I have to do is to create another column here of ones. I just put one, one, one, one, one, one. Okay, that's all I have to do to create this guy. Agreed? And now my x is going to be just one of those rows. Okay, so that's this is x i this entire row and this entry here is yi. Okay. So now for my noise coefficients, I'm still going to assume ask for the same thing except that here the covariance is not between X between one random variable and and another random variable is between a random vector and a random variable. Okay, how do I measure the coariance between a vector and a random variable? Yeah. So basically well okay uh yeah so yeah I mean you know coance vector is equal to zero is the same thing as it norm equal to zero but yeah this is basically thought of entry-wise for each coordinate of x I want that the coariance between epsilon and this co this coordinate of x is equal to zero so I'm just asking this for all coordinates again in most instances we're going to think that epsilon is independent of x and that's something we can understand without thinking about coordinates. All right. So, yeah. I'm sorry. Can you repeat the question? I didn't hear. Yeah, beta is the parameter we're looking for, right? Just like it was a and the pair above the whole vector beta now. So there's no well you can you think of an intercept of a function that takes I mean there is there is one actually that's the one for which betas all the betas that don't correspond to the vector of all ones. So the intercept is really the the weight that I put on this guy. That's the beta that's going to come to this guy. But we don't really talk about intercept in two dimensions. If sorry if x lives in two dimensions. Uh the way you want to think about this is uh you take a sheet of paper like that. Right? So I have now I have points that live in three dimensions. Right? So let's say one direction here is x1. This direction is x2 and this direction is y. Okay. And so what's going to happen is that I'm going to have like my points that live in this threedimensional space. And what I'm trying to do when I'm trying to do a linear model for those guys when I assume a linear model, what I assume is that there's a plane in those three dimensions. So think of this guy as being going everywhere and there's a plane al close to which all my points should be. Right? That's what's happening in two dimensions. If you see higher dimensions, then congratulations to you. But uh I can't. All right? So um uh but you know you can definitely formalize that fairly easily mathematically and just talk about vectors right so now here if I talk about the le squared error estimator or just the le squares estimator of beta it's simply the same thing as before just like we said so remember you should think of b as being as beta as being both the pair ab generalized okay so we said, "Oh, we wanted to minimize the expectation of y minus a + b x^ squar right now. So that's in for p is equal to 1. Now for p larger than or equal to two, we're just going to write it as y - x transpose beta squared Uh okay. So I'm just trying to minimize this quantity. Of course I don't have access to this. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to replace my expectation by an average. So here I'm using the notation t because beta is the true one and I don't want to to just so here I have a variable t that's just moving around and so now I'm going to take the square of this thing and when I minimize this overall t in our p the arg min the minimum is attained at beta hat which is my estimator. Okay. So if I want to actually compute Yeah. Uh you mean the previous slide? So again I'm just defining an estimator just like I would tell you just take the estimator that has coordinates four everywhere. Yeah. So um so um yes. So the answer is yes. I'm I I was just trying to think if this was captured. So it is not captured in this guy because this is just telling me that the expectation of epsilon i minus expectation of epsilon i is equal to zero. Okay. Yeah. So yes I need to have that epsilon i has mean zero for let's assume that expectation of epsilon i is zero for this problem. Um, and we also need we're going to need something about some sort of question about the variance being not equal to zero, right? But this is going to come up later. So let's think for one second about doing the same approach as we did before. Take the partial derivative with respect to the first coordinate of t with respect to the second coordinate of t with respect to the third coordinate of t, etc. So that's what we did before. We had two equations and we reconciled them because it was fairly easy to solve, right? But in general, what's going to happen is we're going to have a system of equations. We're going to have a system of P equations, one for each of the coordinates of T. And we're going to have P uh unknowns each coordinate of T. And so we're going to have the system to solve. Actually, turns out it's going to be a linear system, but it's not going to be something that we're going to be able to solve coordinate by coordinate. It's going to be annoying to solve. You know, you can guess that what's going to happen, right? We here it involved the coariance between X and epsilon right that's what it involved to understand um sorry the coordinate the the correlation between X and Y to understand how this the solution of this problem was in this case there's going to be not only the correlation sorry the coariance between X1 and Y X2 and Y X3 etc all the way to XP and Y but there's also going to be all the cross coariances between XJ and X K and so this is going to be a nightmare to solve like in this system and what we do is that we go on to using a matrix notation so that when we take derivatives we take derivative we we talk about gradients and then we can invert matrices and solve linear systems in a somewhat formal manner by just saying that if I want to solve the system ax= b rather than actually solving this for each coordinate of x individually I just say that x is equal to a inverse time b right so that's really what why we're going to the the equation one because we have a formalism to write the that X is the solution of this system. I'm not telling you that this is going to be easy to solve numerically, but at least I can write it. Okay? And so here's how it goes. I have a bunch of vectors. I have So what are my vectors? Right? So I have X1. Oh, by the way, I didn't actually mention that when I put the lowercase, when I put the subscript, I'm talking about the observation. And when I put the superscript, I'm talking about the coordinates, right? So I have x1 which is equal to one x x11 x uh one p x2 which is one x21 x2 p all the way to xn which is one x n1 xnp. All right. Right? So those are my n observed x's and then I have another y1 y2 yn that comes paired with those guys. Okay. So the first thing is that I'm going to stack those guys into some vector that I'm going to call y. So maybe I should put an arrow for the purpose of the blackboard and it's just y1 to yn. Okay. So this is a vector in rn. Now, if I want to stack those guys together, I can either create a long vector of size n times p, but the problem is that I lose the role of who's a coordinate and who's uh who's an observation. And so, it's actually nicer for me to just put those guys next to each other and create one new uh variable. And so, the way I'm going to do this is rather than actually stacking those guys like that, I'm going to take their transpose and stack them as rows of a matrix. Okay? So I'm going to create a matrix which here is denoted typically by I'm going to write x doubleb bar and here I'm going to actually just so since I'm taking those guys like this the first column is going to be only ones and then I'm going to have uh well x11 x1 p and here I'm going to have x n1 x np okay so here The number of rows is n and the number of columns is p. One row per observation, one column per coordinate. And again, I uh make your life miserable. Uh because this really should be p minus one because I already used the first one for this guy. I'm sorry about that. It's a bit painful. Uh so usually we don't even write what's in there so we don't have to think about it. Those are just vectors of size p. Okay, so now that I create this thing, I can actually just basically stack up all my models. So y i equals x i transpose beta plus epsilon i for all i = 1 to n. This transforms into this is equivalent to saying that the vector Y is equal to the matrix X time beta plus a matrix plus a vector epsilon where epsilon is just epsilon 1 to epsilon N. Right? So I have just this system which I write as a matrix which really just consists in stacking up all these equations next to each other. All right. So now that I have this model, this is the usual le squares model. And here when I want to write my le squares criterion in terms of matrices, right? My le squares criterion remember was sum from i= 1 to n of yi minus x i transpose beta squared. Well, here it's really just the sum of the square of the coefficients of the of the vector y - x beta. So this is actually equal to the norm squar of y - x beta^ 2. That's just the square norm is by definition the sum of the square of the coordinates. And so now I can actually talk about minimizing a norm squared. And here it's going to be easier for me to take derivatives. All right. So we'll do that uh next time.