The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. If I wanted you to remember three equations, really commit them to memory that allow you to essentially do everything that we've done, they'd be the following three. The first would essentially be Newton's second law. We use that all the time. And in vector form, summation of the external forces on a rigid body must be equal to the time rate of change of the linear momentum of the of the rigid body. And that we know is equal to its mass times the acceleration of its center of mass with respect to an inertial frame. And this the / means with respect to an inertial frame. That's Newton's second law. And of course we use it all the time. Now Oiler improved added to what Newton worked out for us. And let me actually just point out over here. So P with respect to O then is M velocity of G with respect to the inertial frame vector vector vector. Okay. What Oiler taught us was that the summation of the torqus about a point A is a time rate of change of the angular momentum with respect to that point plus the velocity of the point cross P with respect to So that's our general equation for angular momentum or for torqus and remember h with respect to a is the crossroduct of r. I write this guy. So we define angular momentum as just a crossroduct of the distance from the point that we're at to the I didn't write this right. This is a with respect to g cross p. So that's our general definition of angular momentum. And finally, the third equation is the one that I showed you last time, which does appear in the book, but not until you get into chapter 21. And that is that you can write H with respect to A as H with respect to G plus R G A cross P with respect to O. There's something wrong here. I Matt, what have I done wrong? You have to slip my brain because I don't do it. I don't think about think about this. This is the Yeah, it's a summation. There we go. In general, this is a summation. And it is the location of all the little particles I with respect to A cross the linear momentum of each particle m I v I with respect to O and we add all that up we get the ang that's a definition of angular momentum and we generally for rigid bodies then reduce that to saying that It's a mass moment of inertia matrix computed with respect to a times omega x omega y omega z. That's how we generally express this. But the third equation I want to come to is this one. Yeah, that's not true in general. A general this is Iris respect to aa. Let's just let's just do this. So I've just slipped a bit this morning. Okay, I'm thinking too much about where I'm going here. This equation I introduced last time. The book doesn't make a big deal about this at all, but it's really it's a fundamental equation that we proved from scratch very simply last time. And this this equation allows you to solve lots of problems without even for example knowing the parallel axis theorem. It'll just get you through it even without knowing things like that. So with these three equation, you can do all the problems that we've done. And I'm going to do two or three examples this morning just kind of and including coming back to a discussion of the parallel axis theorem. Okay? So these three are the ones you I recommend that you remember. Okay? Because everything else will flow from we know like we have special cases. So when a is at when a is at g right then the uh the veloc or or when the uh yeah when a is at g then this just this just reduces to h with respect to g when there's no ve no no when a doesn't move this term goes away those are all special cases which you can just substitute in the numbers and discover for yourself if you don't remember those but these are the three equations you want to have in kit to use. Okay. So, last time I I kind of classified problems in four different classes depending on these simplifications, right? And the class 4 problem was the more general case and that's when the point A can is allowed to move or per is allowed to move in general and that last equation we had there came was very can be very handy in those cases and I mentioned a problem last time but I didn't work it out and that's simply this problem where you've got a block maybe a box on a cart and you want to and you're accelerating the cart. At what point will a block tip over? So, this one I've put a nail right here. So, the block can't slide, but it will tip about this point. So, if I accelerate it slowly, nothing happens. If I accelerate it fast enough, it tips around that point. So, that's the key. If identifying the points have to work. So, that's the key bit. What's the greatest acceleration that I can have so that this block will just not quite tip? That's the problem. If you didn't have the nail there, there's also the possibility that it'll slip without tipping over. Okay, so that's another problem that we'll address at another another moment. Okay, so let's do this problem quickly. So this is our problem of And I've got a handle here. And I'm pushing on it with a force. Got a couple of wheels. This is m1. This is m2. And I'll have an inertial frame here. X y. So the question is, what's the maximum force that I can apply such that the block won't tip over? And I've got a little nub there so this thing can't slide. Okay. And this is my point A because that's the point I expect it to rotate around the uh XY and Z's coming out of the board. Okay. So Newton's second. So we apply it first from Newton's second law. Or we say the sum of the forces in this case on the system by the system I mean m_sub_1 and m2. We want to remember that you can collect things together at times. So the sum of forces on the system in this case is then m_sub_1 plus m_sub_2 and it's the acceleration of that point. And in this case, we are just going to do in the uh x direction because we know that's the only one where there's any action. So the sum of the forces in the x direction is the total mass of the system times the acceleration in the x direction. So the x dot we're looking for is f over m1 + m2. So this is trying to find out what the maximum value for this is. Okay. Now next we can apply the torque equation because that's the key one and that's the sum of the torqus. Now it's just on the box at with respect to point A and we can say we're looking at that we need a free body diagram now of our box. You got a M1 G down and you might have a normal force upwards generally. But now we want to think about where's the where are the forces going to be acting on the box when it's just at this point that we that it's just barely about just barely starts to tip. So we're hypothesizing that here at A there'll be some upward force, right? And it's going to take care of the static equilibrium, but it's also uh could enter into our moment calculation if we weren't clever with respect to where we calculate this point. Okay, so the sum of the torqus about this point, we don't have to bring this one into it. We do have to consider this one. So the R here cross that force, we get a moment mg. And I need some dimensions on my box. We'll call it B and a height H. So the moment arm this axon is B /2 and it's in the minus C direction. So I get a minus M1 G B /2 K hat. Those are my external torqus on the box because the normal force supporting it on the floor is acting at a now and that's must this must be from our second formula. DH with respect to A DT plus the velocity of A with respect to O cross P with respect to O. And P with respect to O was M V G with respect to O. Right? So we need to know what is the velocity of A with respect to O. Well, we're only allowing motions in this direction. We have and this has to be evaluated in the inertial frame. So we have a coordinate X here. So it's going to be some X dot and I'll give you a capital I hat just to remind you where that's in the inertial frame. What is the velocity of G with respect to O? Yeah, you know, in this condition, we're saying we want the block not to quite tip over. That means it's moving with the cart at exactly the same velocity. So, it's the same. It's also equal to A with respect to O. But if that's the case, what's the crossroduct between velocity of A with respect to O and G with respect to O? Ah, so that one goes to zero. That's because of this. Okay. Okay. Okay, so that leaves us with uh we don't have to deal with these terms, but we do need to compute h with respect to a. And now I'm going to use this formulation because it makes this problem easy to do. I don't have to deal with parallel axes or any of that. So I'm going to use my third equation and it says that this is h with respect to g plus r g with respect to a cross p with respect to o. Okay. So I'm going to now work it. So if you notice I I chose this problem kind of on purpose today because I started saying here's three really important equations. We use all three to do this problem. Okay. So now we're exercising the third. So my block here since we're dealing with angular momentum rigid bodies I now have to think in terms of a coordinate system attached to the block and I'll formulate it so it's lined up the same way. So this is a x1 I'll call it y1 and z1 but x1 and and big x these are in the same direction and so z and z1 and capital e and that means that my i hats are the same as the unit vectors associated with my coordinate system attached to the body. Remember, this is this body body fixed coordinate system and allows us to compute moments of inertia. And I'm going to have this located at G. Okay. So the only rotation that we're allowing in this problem, this is this is basically a 2D planer motion problem. It could conceivably have X and Y translations and a Z rotation constrained in the Y. So it has possible rotation and translation. So the only Z only omega we're considering is this omega Z. And so we'll let's we'll proceed to use it to compute H. So we'll use this formula. So h with respect to g is just I'm doing a couple of these things sort of carefully just to remind you of where these things all come from. This is i with respect to g and in this case 0 0 omega z and we come out of this then the only this is a are these principal axes. So if they are this is diagonal right. So I've located these through G you know taken into consideration the symmetries I know because of symmetry these are principal axes. Therefore this is a diagonal mass moment of inertia matrix. So when I calculate to do out the multiplication I get I Z Z with respect to G omega Z K hat that's the there's only one component one vector component of H that comes out of that and that's H Z is that I ZZ G omega Z K hat there are two other possible components of h, but they're both zero. There's no other rot. There is no other no angular momentum in the x or y directions. Okay. RGA in this problem is from here this is point A to there. So RG with respect to A is B over 2 I + H over 2 K. That's the location of just the position of G with respect to A. B over two over H over two up. Okay. So in order to complete my calculation of H of A, I need to get the second piece. So the RGA cross PO. So, RGA is my B / 2 I plus H over 2 K cross and then my ang my linear momentum is M1 X one dot in the Ihat direction and it either be capital I or lowercase I. They're the same. Right? So this is my second term the RG cross P I cross I these two this pair gives you nothing. So it's k cross i is a j and so you get i z respect to g omega z and then a k term from here m h over 2 x dot and it's also in the A and that's my total angular momentum now with respect to A and I think this is a uh cake. You're right. Wait a second. K I should give me a J, right? Yeah, K cross I gives me a positive J, right? J based off your This is This is a Okay, good catch. All right, so what happens now? Now we get J cross I gives you a minus Okay, that that should be okay. And let's see if that agrees with what I wrote here. Yes, I did it right on the paper. Just couldn't put it right on the board. and all of Okay. So now the sum of the torqus with respect to a we've already figured out that it's minus m1 g b / 2 k hat must be equal to the time rate of change of from our second equation dh hdt and we've already figured out that the second term goes away. So it's just then the time rate of change of that expression. Oh, I think we could probably do it straight away. So the time rate of chain, the derivative of this, you get omega z dot, you get an x dot. The k doesn't rotate. So there's nothing that comes from that. You take that time derivative, you get I Z Z with respect to G omega Z dot minus M1 H over 2 X dot. And these are still all in the K direction. And that's a that's an equation that it's only has K hat terms on the left hand side, K on the right. So this is just one comp potential component of the torque and so we can drop the K's at this point and we now have an expression for the external torqus in terms of the accelerations of the system. This is essentially theta dot of it tips and that's the linear acceleration. But now then the key to the uh problem is we're trying to find out when just at the point it might tip but doesn't. So what's omega dot? Omega Z dot. Okay. So what we're looking for, we let omega Z dot or require that to be zero. And this makes this even simpler. And you find out then that m1 g b / 2 = m1 h / 2 x dot. And I've had minus signs on both sides, so I've gotten rid of them. And the m1's go away. And I can solve for h for x dot. And that's going to be g b over h. Okay. And we started off saying what's the maximum force? So this is now X maxx the acceleration maximum and the force maximum is just equal to M1 + M2 X do max or and let's see if that makes sense if B and H were equal. Sort of a common sense argument here. B and H were equal. That tells you that you could accelerate this at 1 G, just one G. And that makes sense. The mg here is putting a restoring moment down. That'll be mgb over two. And the acceleration of this is putting an overturning moment on it in the other direction. That would be mgh g over two. And if h and g h and b are the same that then it would be exactly 1g. Now so that's the answer to the problem. If you'd wanted to live dangerously from the beginning, you could have done this with a fictitious force. I just mentioned in passing. I am not recommending that you generally go there. This was a very straightforward way of doing it. We just started with these three laws and we just worked our way through the problem and just and all the way to the end and it fell out. If you did want to live dangerously though, you could say that when you accelerate this, you can think of there being a fictitious force that is equal to minus the mass of this object times the acceleration on the center of gravity. a force that is pulling it in the other direction. So you could think of there being a force m1 x dot opposite to the direction of the acceleration. This is minus the mass times the acceleration is the fictitious force. Here's your point A. Here's the gra here's gravity m1 g. This is the distance B over two. This is the height H over two. And you could say just at that moment of balance, the sum of those two moments should be zero. The sum of the external torqus. And you would end up with a m1x dot h over 2 minus m1 g b over 2 and you come up with the same answer. But for most of us that's a that takes a real leap of faith to do that to make convince yourself that you're right. Right. You got to know a lot of dynamics and remember all the parts and pieces to be able to just go there. But if you do it just carefully, those three equations, it'll all work out. Yeah. Because as long as the condition satisfied that it doesn't tip over, what's the rotation rate of this block? Zero. So, we're not we're not solving for dynamics in this problem of the thing tipping. It isn't rolling on us. We're coming just up to the point that it tips and said we're not going any farther. And so, we just require the two moments, the one essentially caused by the acceleration, this fictitious force. It's got to be just in equilibrium with the restoring moment provided by mg. That's essentially the problem we've worked. But we've done it really carefully just using these three laws. And the real problem though, if you didn't have the nail here, is if now what if you need to test your solution, could you ever actually reach that rate of acceleration before the thing starts sliding on you? And you know, maybe not. This thing slides before it tips. Okay. Method taking into account M2. Taking into account M2. Yeah. Uh so the the angular momentum was all calculated with respect to the rigid body M1, right? The only reason M2 entered into it is the this is the way things happen, you know, in real life. It's just a real problem. It's a box on a cart and it's going to tip over and you're pushing on it. How hard can I push? To do that problem, you just have to consider these to begin with so that you realize that oh the the acceleration involves both of these masses. But the angular momentum part of the problem involves only the box that's tipping. So there's you know problems even as simple as this one looks has their little complications and you've got to work you got to work through them. So just so we had to treat the body as a two-body system to start with and then look at angular momentum for just the box the or screw exert a force on uh yes absolutely does it create a moment no and that's why we can don't have to consider it I could have written I could have put it in there and probably should have if I done a free body diagram here. Um, you could still say that there's a reaction force upwards here. I'll call it r y. And another one this direction, I'll call rx. And uh, when computing moments about this point, neither of them entered into the problem. And that's why we like to do our calculations for angular momentum with respect to points around which it the body rotates because that allows us to not have to solve for those unknown forces that pop up there. So yeah, indeed there are forces there. Okay, got it figured out. So we view you we've talked a little tiny bit about the parallel axis theorem. And so this I'm going to consider this a slender rod. I can spin it about one of its principal axes and calculate its angular momentum or whatever I need. And if I move it over to an axis that's I just move it over by a little bit. Let's say this is the uh what coordin this is the x- axis here in my body. This is the z. So it's at omega z. And I've moved my ax my point around which I'm rotating over by a small amount a. That's this distance between these two holes. And by parallel axis theorem, we could say, well, now there's a mass moment of inertia with respect to A, which is the mass moment of inertia with respect to G, which is M L^2 over 12 if this is the length plus the mass times this distance squared. We know how to do that. So, but now what happens if I take this this uh stick, my slender rod, and here's my original X Y Z C and I want to move it my point A my stick now I'm going to move it over by an amount A and up by an amount C so that it's now up here with respect to this point so that's this stick has been like this and now I'm and it's been rotated about that that's a simple case. Now, I want to rotate it about this axis when it's moved over to like that. Okay. So, not only have I moved it, so here's the original problem like this, but now I move it up and over. Maybe I'll do it there. And now I spin it. I'm talking interested in angular momentum about this point for so now it's dynamically unbalanced for sure. This thing is trying to wobble and it's been pushed up and over. So is there a way to get do how do we solve that problem? How do we compute the torqus for this problem? Well, we could try to go at it with parallel axis to start with, but you don't know how to do that in general for this problem. So what do we go to? we go back to those three equations and just start there and it'll all fall out. And I'm going to do this kind of briefly for this problem. So I want to compute H with respect to A h with respect to G plus R G with respect to A cross P. And now this is r g a is this vector right here that position vector. Okay. And the only rotation is omega z. This is our z-axis. So I can write this as I ZZ with respect to G 0 omega Z plus my RGA cross PO and that in this problem let's get the vector right this time it's A in the I direction plus C in the K direction cross now We need to know what's P with respect to O. But that's just the velocity of this of the center of mass which is now here. The velocity is omega cross r. So when you do that, you've done that problem lots of times. It's this distance. It's the perpendicular distance uh cross k. You're it's got to be going into the board. If it's spinning like this, we know the answer's got to come out plus j and it's r. It's a omega z in the j direction cross m a omega z, but it is in the jhat direction. That's your linear momentum. And we're c this is RGA crossed with the linear momentum. Okay, this here is M velocity of G here with respect to O that's this term. So we carry out this calculation and we get and I need a J. Okay. So I cross J gives me a K. So I'll get two and this this is a diagonal matrix because we began with a set of principal axes for our stick. So this term is I ZZ with respect to G. I shouldn't have written ZZ here. It's just I with respect to Z. We multiply this out. We get pick up just this term. Omega Z K hat plus I cross J is K. So that's M A 2 omega Z K and K cross J is minus I minus M A C omega Z in the I hat direction. Okay. So this is my angular momentum and reminding you know it is a vector. This has got components in the K and the I directions. All right. And I've rewritten it here. This also could be written. And this is h with respect to A is I with respect to A times the rotation vector. If we had just set out with this problem and said we're going if we know the mass moment inertia matrix computed with respect to this point and multiplied it by our our rotation rate vector, we would have gotten should have gotten the same answer. So we didn't do that. We just worked it out using the straight form just this formula. But we've essentially discovered the answer. This is the rotation around K. This is the term. This is the ZZ term with respect to A. And it really should looks like the familiar parallel axis piece. It's the amount that you moved this axis over. And you're the amount axis you're spinning around. You moved it over a. And you know the parallel axis theorem just says add ma squ and you've got the answer. But we also moved it up and it gave us another term. What do you suppose that term is? So this is i z with respect to a. This term by a parallel axis theorem you're familiar with it. This one is I and this is XZ with respect in the A coordinate system. Okay, this is we've created we've made this thing unbalanced. The angular momentum vector no longer points in the same direction as the rotation. It has a K component and an I component. And sure enough, when I spin that thing like that, I feel that additional torque out to out on the around my hand down here where I'm holding it, this thing is going trying to pull it back and forth. Okay, so we have essentially just shown we've just arrived at the parallel at a more complicated parallel axis theorem by just using this basic formula. Okay. So, Williams uh in the dynamics that second handout from Williams has actually given us a general formulation for parallel axis theorem. Now, this is just handy to know. I'll just give it to you. And if you have problems have a problem someday where you just like to go directly to this statement. So now I'm just going to say in general we could have moved over by A, up by C, and actually into the board by another by B. So X I'm moving A, Y, I'm moving B, Z I'm moving C. Okay. So you could have all those possible moves of the new point about which you're rotating. Yes. With respect to A, does that mean that you're rotating about point A? You are rotating about point A. isn't point A just at the origin about the middle about G. Okay. And we can calculate angle angular momentum of this object with respect to G and learn some things, right? But now we've built a different device. This is just this is an object now that is in fact u spinning. You know maybe a uh you know let's imagine it's a fan blade and you've broken one blade off. The motor is here. A proper fan blade would have you know blades on both sides so it's nice and balanced. The shaft has some length that it sticks out. And now you break off one of the blades. And so you've got a you have a system that's doing this, but this is going to put a lot of unusual loads on this point down here. So it's it's it is rotating at the same rotation rate about this point, but it is now a system whose center of mass is over here and it's up. It's not only it's above this point and it's out from this point, the center of mass. And now you compute the angular momentum with this point and take its time derivative. You will find all the torqus required to make this happen. A little louder. The movements ahead and chat movement that you've moved the center of mass away from this axis of rotation and you've moved it you've moved it up and over. So let's actually let's think about that for a minute. This is our beginning point, right? We're at G. If I just move it up, does it cause any problems? It's still balanced. And you'll find out that nothing's nothing's happened in this problem. H with respect to A is the same as it was before. All right. But now you move it up and over, it starts causing complications. Yeah. Um, in the equation you wrote, um, H= I omega Z. Um, so IA doesn't have like a direction, but you have an iZ term and XZ term and you're multiplying it by a vector with an omega in this term. So how are you getting an I hat? How does that look? Okay, so the there's an I haven't gone into this and I'm not going to when this the I matrix is a thing called a tensor. And so this is just this is a convention that you can make it very mathematical and and assign unit vectors to each of these terms inside but I haven't done that. But the convention here is that this the h the angular momentum is a vector. It consists of three components. It has three potential vector components. HX in the I, HY in the J and HZ in the K directions. And we in a compact form say we can express that by multiplying its mass moment of inertia matrix with respect to A times the vector that is its rotation. Now I only have one component in this omega but it is in the k direction and the when you multip when you take this vector and multiply it by the top row that gives you everything that's i. You multiply this vector times the second row it gives you everything is in the j direction in the result. It's part of h y in the j direction. You take this vector and you multiply it by the third row it gives you the z directed components. Okay, so this one because this one when we multiply this out what's in this matrix is this matrix diagonal? No way. And that's because that's we move we we've gone done something strange here. It's not diagonal. And when you multiply this times this top row, there's a term here which is not zero. I shouldn't write zero. Make an X here. This times this gives you an omega Z times that in the Ihat direction. Okay, this term comes from there being something there. Okay. And I'm just going to give you a generalization that you can go back and read the Williams handout which he says if you want to know you want to rotate about some fixed point A then you can say that this matrix is equal to the one with respect to G which is in our case is diagonal. The original one that we had is doesn't have to be but if you pick principal axes this will be diagonal plus m b ^2 + c^ 2 - a b - a c it's symmetric. This is a 2 + c^2. And so for rotating a system, if you know its mass moment of inertia matrix with respect to G perhaps principal axes and you want to rotate it about any other point where you've moved it by an A, by a B, by a C, this is essentially the general parallel axis theorem. Again, you can just plug it in and use that. And you can see what would happen in this case if you multiplied. You add these two together. They add term by term. This goes into the upper up this point. This one adds to this. Okay. So in this problem in our particular problem this becomes uh you have an I XX I Y I Z with respect to G terms. It's diagonal to start with. And then we don't have a in our problem that we did there, we didn't have a B. We did have no B terms. So the B terms are all zero. But you do end up with a minus AC term over here. And if you multiply this by 0 0 omega Z, see what happens? You get minus AC in the I direction and you need an M here. And you come down here, you get the IZ G uh omega Z in the K direction. That's those two terms. Here they are. Yeah. Hope I need the plus a squ. Yeah. So, when you move it over um to the end of the stick, normally like you're just shifting it um parallel, but now there's gravity. Is that why you have this? Say again. So, normally if you just take a stick and you have an um a principal axis and you move that parallel to the end, you wouldn't get all of this. But yeah, so if you just move it So there, I'm glad you asked the question. is normally or the the types of problems in which we usually use the parallel axis theorem is you've been spinning it around one axis everything's it's a principal axis everything's fine and you want to just move that move it over. So we do that with when we do pendulum problems. Here's a thing around the center and we just want to know what's how does this thing behave when we move it up here? it becomes a pendulum. And we would like to compute the angular momentum around this point. We say, oh, we've moved at a distance d. The new mass moment of inertia in the z direction is the original plus md^2, right? Well, that's the so when you only make one move, when you only have an a, a b, or a c, you never get any of the off diagonal terms because they're products. See? But if you start make more doing more than one, you introduce complications. And that's part of the reason I put this up is there's limits limits to the simple parallel axis theorem. But there is a general way of doing it. Yes, I believe her actual question involves what causes the tors. So what cause what what causes these torqus when you have two when you okay we've talked about this a little bit before the angular momentum when we calculate angular momentum does it never involves gravity never gets in there not in the angular momentum expression so when you go to compute d the der time derivative of the angular momentum you will not find torqus that are caused by gravity You just can't do them. It's not part. But are the torqus in the system? I mean, why I just hold this here? There's mg down and there's a static moment caused by this thing trying to twist this down. When you sum the torqus, when you do the sum of the torqus in the in the equation, you do your free body diagram, that term will appear. But it is balanced by some physical torque over here that balances it. It does. You just won't find it from doing DHDT. It's just part of the static equilibrium of the system. But the reason when you move this the pin over the reason you even have the shift is because of No, no, no, no. So, she's asking asking if is gravity the reason you you I'm not I'm I'm not even quite sure. How did you how did you shift the line? or the Z component of your okay. So this let's just say that uh let's just make this a real physical problem. I'm making an airplane engine and and I'm making an an airplane with propeller on it and the bearing that supports the propeller shaft. If I put it really close to the propeller, okay, then it's doing this and everything's fine. What if I extended the propeller shaft? Okay, so now the bearing is back here and now the propeller spins. Does that cause any torqus, any loads back here on the bearing because I've extended it? No. And you could prove that just by going through this. You do dhdt and you find out the only torqus when it's nice and balanced are those required to drive this propeller in the in the in in the direction of the axis of rotation. But as soon as you do something to that propeller, like you mount it off center, which rarely happens, but if you dinged if you broke off the tip of one of the blades of this propeller, you'd now have a propeller that looks like that, right? And now even in the original system, if you keep it your bearing is right close, this is this is spinning around. But is it putting a load? Sure. There's a centrifugal force that is going around and around. Has nothing to do with gravity. Nothing at all to do with gravity. Okay? It's just because this you now the mass center is out here. It has momentum. The time rate of change of of that linear momentum is a centripal is a force making this thing go in a circle. Okay. Now, if I extend the propeller shaft, so it's like that. And I I foolishly designed my airplane. So it had a long propeller shaft sticking out there. If there's a little bit of unbalance in this blade so that you're not spinning about the mass center, you're spinning about some other point. Now that centrifugal force going around is pulling this is bending trying to bend this back and forth around this bearing. And because of the way in which we formulate angular momentum, if you formulate it about that point and take its time derivative, you it will reveal those moments. It's really amazing that it can do that for you, but it has a zero nothing to do with gravity. Okay. All right. So handy uh hard to remember this from just a blackboard presentation but it's in that second reading by Williams. He does a not very he proves it in a very simple way using know summations of the miris and so forth proves it in a very simple way but a very general handy formula that you can use. Okay. So, let's uh have another topic which I'm not going to do. We've got a few minutes. You have muddy cards. We've been thinking about that. And let's ask questions. Yeah. Ma, where did I get the the ma? Ah, I was doing that kind of fast and I probably even messed it up. So let's uh let me check the so I was doing for the example that r g a equals we moved it over by AI and up by c k. So and plus z j. We didn't move it in the J direction. Okay. So this is my mount that I've moved it. I've moved it and I'm out A and I'm out C. So the Williams formula would say ah that new mass moment of inertia matrix with respect to A becomes the original plus and now I every place there's a B here it goes to zero. and the remaining bits I add with those. So I should get a m whoops this is a c^2 no second term the third term is minus m a c over here that one is zero this one becomes a^2 + c^ 2 minus yep m and this one is minus m a c 0 I Z and A^2 + B^2. So it's just a squ. So that's this is now correct. Pardon? Yeah. All of these needs m a squ m. Okay. So that's our problem when we did two shifts. But a second we shifted it in two directions we get uh these off diagonal terms which means that if you are actually making this device rotate about point A you will get these unbalanced moments. It's dynamically unbalanced. Okay. Yeah. Um should we be trying to find our diagonal moments of inertia directly or should we uh just do a momentum equation to have them fall out like the integral with x * y. So he's kind of asking advice on whether or not we ought to be trying to find the ang the inertia matrix about other points right like the I with respect to a where I started today I said you can always you can basically do all the problems with these three equations and this doesn't mention parallel axis theorem we use this to find in fact to solve this problem we didn't talk paralle class of serum at all. It just that the answer dropped out. And if we looked into that carefully, we could generalize that. We could work now with that a bit and say, "Ah, there's a pattern to this. I'll bet this can be recast like this." And it can. So if you want to if you if you know this exists and you don't want to have to grind through finding these uh the terms that come from here, You can do the problems by finding the mass moment of inertia matrix with respect to a. You can use this form only when you have fixed axis rotation. The thing is the point a is about which this rotation is occurring. then you can write down write the formula just directly like that. So you got to be careful when you apply the parallel axis theorem. Okay, this pro this the nice thing about these three forms is they're generally true. A point A can move point A can be accelerating. The problem that we did here, point A is accelerating, not only moving, it's actually it's not even an inertial frame. We solved this problem. This is a non-inertial frame problem. Went right at it and got and solved it directly. Okay. So, I would say if you have any doubt to answer to your question, when you're in doubt, just use the formula. You don't need to. And then you will need to find moments of inertia with respect to the center of mass. And it's in your interest to use principal axes because they're easier. Yeah. If you were to say equation, you would have to take the derivative. So you have vectors are not changing. Correct. Ah. So if you took the derivative of this dhdt, right? This one just gives you omega z mega dot mega z dot. That's your spin in the direction of rotation. This term, that unit vector rotates. This gives you two terms. gives you a an I term omega I and it gives you an omega J term. Okay. And what those are, those are two torqus. This problem, there's a torque caused by the centrifugal force trying to bend this in the in the J direction. And if this is accelerating, you know, a theta dot term, there is a torque trying to bend this thing backwards. Okay, get them both. All right, muddy cards and see you on Thursday. Thursday, we're going to do a nasty problem and it is a leadin to a problem. You can do the same problem extraordinarily easily using energy and that's kind of the purpose of doing it. So you see both ways of doing it.