The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. Today we continue our theme of integer data structures and today we're going to look at priority cues instead of the predecessor problem. So something a little different. Insert, delete, and find min. Uh it turns out priority cues are equivalent to sorting in the sense that if you have uh let's see if you have a an f of n normally say f of n but here we're going to depend on both n and the word size priority q. Well, then of course you get a sorting algorithm. Just insert everything into the priority queue and then find min, delete, find min, delete and so on. So that's the trivial direction of the equivalence. But it turns out both of these are true. If you have a sorting algorithm with n* f uh time then you can convert it into a priority q that in the worst case every operation takes only f of n comma w. So that's the uh that's the equivalence as a result of thor from a few years ago 2007 kind of a a cool breakthrough. There were earlier versions that weren't quite as efficient, but this gives you perfect efficiency turning as any sorting algorithm to priority Q. Rough sketch of the data structure is you have a bunch of sorting algorithms which you run now and then to get on little parts of the input in order to build an overall priority queue, but it's very complicated. Um there was an entire class project on assimilating it and understanding it. Um it's a bit beyond what we can cover in the class. Uh so I'm going to take this as given and tell you instead about sorting algorithms because there's a major open problem here which is can you sort n integers n w bit integers in a word ram's word size w in linear time we still don't know uh but we have a bunch of results in particular we're going to talk about a couple uh interesting cases where we can get linear time sorting uh if you've seen radic sort you know another interesting case where linear time sorting is possible Uh let's see it's interesting open problem here. Can you get constant time decrease key and ideally also insertion? Uh but decrease key would be handy because this would then this would be useful for uh uh for do in this reduction if you have a sorting algorithm like to get a priority Q with constant time decrease key that would have applications to Dystra's algorithm. Of course, if you can sort in linear time, then everything can be done in constant time. So, this is not the most interesting open problem, but it would be a step in that direction. Uh, cool. So, let me tell you some bounds about sorting. So we have n w bit integers and you take any of these bounds divide by n you get the priority qbound the best best that we know. So of course there's comparison sorting which takes n login. Okay so that's an upper bound trying to beat that try to get rid of the log. Uh there's counting sort from undergraduate algorithms that takes n plus u time because you need a t build a table of size u you've got to zero out all the initial counts. So that requires order u time. Uh this is interesting really when the word size equals log n. So that's a case of potential interest because then you know 2 to the w is just n. So this is linear time. uh but it's even if w is two times log n or 1.1* login then this is uh bigger than n log n so not very good but we have radic sort which is a bit better and this is n * w / login if you do it right um you have some word size w you're using counting sort for each digit in the radics Uh so you can afford that the word size of doing counting sort to be exactly login which means you have your overall word you're dividing into chunks of size log n each of them you can do in linear time so the number of chunks you have to do is w divided by login and this is linear if w equals order login right but only then so it spies you a little it uh but still not great. Okay, there's some other sorting algorithms we've implicitly seen because we've seen Venom DOS. I mean any predecessor data structure gives you a priority Q data structure. Priority Q's uh didn't say or didn't write it but I mentioned insert delete find min is a weaker operation than predecessor or successor. So we can take Venom Dau's uh predecessor data structure and convert it into a sorting algorithm and we get order n * log w. Now this is a little bit tricky to compare. Of course log w sounds better than w but there's this divided by log n which makes it a little hard to compare. Um it turns out there's a another version or you can take this sorting algorithm and achieve a bound of n log w over log n. Okay, so this is a slight improvement in here. It's similar to your problem set this week. Um this specific problem was a problem set in 2005 of this class. Uh so you can check out check it out if you want to see how to do this slight improvement. But now this is clearly better than this because here we have W over login. Here I've got a login front. So this is a win over radic sort. So venonos here's another way in which it's interesting. It gives us a strict improvement over radic sort. And in particular uh do I care? Well, actually both of these are order n log log n if w is not too big poly log n. Uh so this doesn't actually matter but it's it's clearly better than this one. Again if W is order log N you get this to be linear but in particular it says overall you get n log log n up to w being polylo. Okay why do we care? Uh because there's this other nice algorithm signature sort which covers all large word sizes and this is an algorithm we will cover today. It only works when w is large. And large means log to the 2 + epsilon n. This is no matter what epsilon is. In reality, it's probably log 2 n * log n^ 2. But uh be a little sloppy and just say a little bit bigger than log squ. And then it runs in linear time. Okay. So if you were if you were graphing this in your mind, you've got you know time and there's a nice bound here which is order n and we have other you know everything's above n log n maybe here we have this is hard to draw n log log n okay I'm I'm imag this is asmtoic space which doesn't really exist but you know what I mean uh and then this is the word size versus log n this is hard This is a really weird picture. Never drawn this before. Uh so you know we initially you know radic sort okay log n we could do the we could get linear time. Okay. Uh or order login. Great. Uh what this is saying is once you get out to log to the 2 plus epsilon n you can also do linear and from here over we have linear time and here over we have linear time. So the question is what about this middle range between log n and log 2 plus epsilon. Uh well one thing we could do is use ben and noa sort get an n log n bound and so that's one way to fill in this range in the middle and that means overall you can always sort n integers in n log log n time if if w's big you use signature sort if w's small use venom to both sort. So this implies n log log n for all w. So that's something uh it's not the best known. Uh let's see first result in this direction by han in 2001 and it achieved this bound uh deterministic and in the AC0 RAM. So without using multiplication uh which I guess venom devos doesn't either unless I'm missing something. So uh but it got rid of the randomization which is necessary to get linear space in venom deos. Uh and the current best result on sorting. It's by Han and Thorup in 2002 so a while ago. They achieved n square log w over log n which is similar to this bound just has an extra square root here. So it's a little bit better than phenom debose sword. It uses some clever tricks. It is randomized. So still the best deterministic bound is n log log n. uh and let's see we can plug that in for this range here and it will imply that you get n square root log log n uh for all w because in particular if w is order uh is if it's pol if w is poly log n then this is just log log n uh so you get this bound uh of course for all w because large w are already covered. So uh this sorting algorithm is a little bit messy and possibly not the right answer. I would conjecture you can sort n integers in linear time for all w but that is big open problem. This is the current state-of-the-art. Uh so um this this open question is really about for small w when w is poly log n or actually when it's between log and poly log. Uh so to give you a piece of the complete picture I want to uh tell you about signature sort because I think you have to use different techniques when w is small versus large. We know that from fusion trees and venoas. Uh so I'll tell you about the slightly large case when w is at least log to 2 plus epsilon. how to get linear time. And this is fun. Uses bit tricks. It uses a lot of cool ideas. Uses hashing, lots of things. Um, it also uses uh another sorting algorithm called packed sort. This is not doesn't fit in the regular table because it's for a situation when more than one input number fits in a word. So, we're going to let B denote the number of bits in the inputs. So, we have Bit integers. Then when w is at least b times login log login lo login. So you can fit login lo login integers in a single word then you can sort them in linear time. So it's like your machine is just a little bit bigger than what you'd need to represent the integers. Then the all sorting can be done in linear time. And as you might imagine this two this log to the two plus epsilon buys you a little bit of room with some tricks namely sorting namely hashing. All right, but that's where we're going. And we'll use another yet another sorting algorithm, Bonic Sort, which you may have seen. It's a sorting network. It's in uh it's in CLRS up to second edition, but it got removed from third edition. I guess they thought people didn't use sorting networks, but we use sorting networks here uh because it gives us parallel sorting and the word RAM is all about using the parallelism in your word. So we'll get to those. I'm going to start at the top level which is signature sort and we're going to leave things to be done and then pack sorting will be one of them and bonic sorting will be used in pack sorting. So it's it's a chain like this. Cool. So I'm going to assume my signature sort that w is at least log to the 2 + epsilon n times log log n. Okay, this is really just a change in what epsilon means. You make it a little bit if you're given some particular epsilon, make it a little smaller than you can afford to add that log n factor. This is just for convenience. Uh, now here's the idea. This is a pretty cool idea, I have to say. It's by Anderson and others in 1998. Okay. Okay, a word size is big which is both good and bad. It means the numbers we have to sort are big. They have a lot of bits in them, way more than login bits. Uh but also we have this powerful machine that can handle uh words of of very large size and do things in constant time on them. So what I'm going to do, I need to I'd like to make some some slop. I want my words to be bigger than my items. So first few steps are about doing that. The first idea is well you've got this giant word log to 2 plus epsilon. So let's split it into chunks and the number of chunks is log to the epsilon. So that means each chunk is uh well it could be even bigger. So it's at least log 2 n but could be bigger than that because w is at least log to 2 plus epsilon. So we don't know these things are of size w / log to the epsilon n at least log squ. Okay, here's the crazy idea. Uh we have the so we're thinking of our our number being divided into these chunks. you know it's being represented in some base 2 the w / log to the epsilon n a bit of a mouthful but think about these digits right uh I claim if you look at a digit most values don't appear okay because how many values are there for a digit well it's at least 2 log 2 n that's a big number that's way bigger than polomial and n but how many different digits are uh well there's n numbers each of them has log to the epsilonn n uh digits in it appearing and so there's you know roughly a linear number of digit values total but the number of possible digit values is 2 to the log log squared n which is huge super polomial so most digit values don't appear in our numbers so what we're going to do is hash the digit values to reduce their space because they're currently living in a universe of 2 log n but there's only n * log epsilon n of them. So we should be able to reduce to a much smaller universe uh and uh using hashing maybe uh yeah perfect hashing even I mean we don't have to be too intelligent here tell you what we get what I'd like is to reduce to a polomial universe And another way to say that is that the hash values are order login bits. So this lets us go to n to the 10 or whatever which is plenty of room right we take any universal hash function then with uh you know as soon as you get to roughly n squared size I mean the square of the number of things by a birthday paradox constant probability none of them will hit each other. That was the second level of perfect hashing. We don't need two levels here. Just say okay uh use order login bits. You can set this to 100 whatever. Uh then with high probability you will not get collisions. So none of the chunks will hit each other. So I'm emitting a step here which is how to okay I'm emitting a couple things here. Um one of them is I want to do this in linear time. Everything has to be in linear time. So one fun part is I have to compute the hash value of all of these digits in a single word in constant time. Okay, so brief aside, how would I compute uh a universal hash function on all of these digits individually in constant time? Well, uh my personal favorite universal hashing scheme is the multiplication method. you just need to multiply by a single value m and then take it modulo something. Uh so if I do multiplication uh I mean if you think of there being something here, something here, something here, m does multiply uh each of these individually. Wow, that's a rough sketch. I want to hash each of these guys, multiply them by the multiplication method. Uh, this would work fine except you get overflows, which is a bit messy. So, in fact, I'm going to have to do it for the odd guys first, multiply them out, mask out the bits I care about, then do it for the even guys separately. Uh, so it's a bit messy, but handwavy proof, you can compute the hash function of each of these guys individually, but in constant time. So that lets me do this. You have to then check for collisions which is kind of annoying. Let's not worry about that. Set this really high. Very high probability. There will be no collisions. Cool. So at this point we have mucked up all the digits. The annoying thing about this hashing is we do not preserve order. It's a little weird for a sorting algorithm to not preserve order. The whole point is to put things in order, but it's going to be useful nonetheless. Right? So each digit has been mangled. Each digit is out of order, but of course the I mean the sequence of digits has been preserved. Some sense all right. So what? Well, at this point we can use pack sorting to sort what what remains. In general, pack sorting can sort n bid integers provided b is small. So w is at least b log n log login lo login. That's the that's the theorem of pack sorting. We're going to delay the coverage of this uh result till later. And I claim that that applies here because let's see um each chunk each chunk is now order log n bits and there's log to the epsilon n bits. So b is theta log to the 1 + epsilon n and w it's at least uh log 2 + epsilon time log n. Okay, so the ratio between these is as needed. It's at least log n * log n. Okay, so that's why this is good. There were these things were huge before. We've compressed them a lot. They were at least log square. Now they're only log. Uh and so now we can apply pack sorting. You can fit all these guys into you can fit log* log items into one word and that's going to make sorting easy somehow. That's to be done. But now the question is what would you do if this suppose we had pack sorting. How does this help you? Because this does not sort the original integers. It sorts these integers that have all of their digits permuted in some random way. We have no idea how the hash function reorders things. So, we're not done with signature sort. It's called signature sort, of course, because of the hashing. You're taking signatures of each of these digits. Another word for hashes. All right. Next step is to build a compressed try. This is a term we haven't used yet. So, I'm going to call these things that we sorted signatures. And uh how many people know what a compressed try is? Okay. No one. Wow. Just a few. So, you haven't seen suffix trees yet. We're going to cover uh where compressed tries come from in a couple of lectures, but we get to see them a little early because they're cool uh and needed for this uh algorithm. So, first notion is the notion of a try. The word try comes re from retrieval uh from old days when information retrieval was what's now called I don't know web searching or whatever. Uh so it's but now it's pronounced try. uh it's just another word for tree but where the children of a tree uh come from a fixed universe. So this is some we've been working with tree with tries all the time in pretty much every lecture for the last n lectures last w lectures I don't know a lot of them we said oh okay well let's just consider the space of all possible keys you know I've drawn this picture a zillion times even when we weren't doing phenom dus which actually stores all of these things uh when we're thinking about fusion trees like oh yeah so we're storing this value and we're storing this value and maybe this value and we understand you know this corresponds to a zero bit these are 0 and one bits this is a one zero one whatever so we understand how to convert a bit string into this picture this is what we call a binary try I want to do the same thing over here except it's not a binary try now each digit is giant so we're going to have some huge branching factor so it's going to be more like a b tree the first node has a whole bunch of children I'm not going to even like I mean it's two to the w / uh log to the epsilon n that's the branching factor okay it's big that's the number of possible values in the first digit okay uh so you know then maybe this child has some node there and maybe you know this one actually sorry I didn't want to draw that way I have a specific try in mind or part of it. Okay, I mean try is going to look something like this. It's just the it's harder to draw but it's the uh larger than binary equivalent of this picture. This would be a try. So let's think about uh a particular situation which is uh suppose we just have two items in this structure. Okay then it's easier to draw. So let's suppose there's some item over here x1. There's some item over here x2. Now generic picture is they have they share some common prefix. This is the common prefix. It's just to understand some particular picture here. then they diverge, you know, then they have their own digit values. In some sense, this is the digit value we care about because it distinguishes them. Uh so there's this idea of a compressed try which cleans up this picture a little bit. The idea with a compressed try is very simple. You draw this try. So I mean here, imagine I'm erasing all the things that do not appear. Okay, maybe all this is gone. So I'm just keeping this part of the structure. Let's do it for the binary case first. The idea in a compressed try is very simple. Uh I'm going to contract uh every non-branching node into its parent. So what that means? So here I'm storing three values uh 0 0 1 1 uh 0 1 0 0 and 0 1 1 uh so some nodes are non-branching that's this node this node and this node and the point is well why store those nodes I mean there was nothing being distinguished at that node so contract it so the new picture if I redrew this would be 0 01 uh oh sorry Also this is non- branching. Okay. So in fact I'm going to contract this into its parent or this into its parent this into its parent. So this whole path this non-branching path will be left with a single edge which I will label 011. But it's a single edge in the structure. Over here we have an edge one and now we have 0 0 here and one one here. Okay is the compressed try representation of these three values. The nice thing about this structure is every node is branching except the leaves which means the number of nodes here is linear in the number of leaves. It's like twice the number of leaves minus one roughly. I guess the root might not be branching but it has no parent to contract into whatever one more nodes two end nodes. That's the binary case. Now over here what we do is the corresponding contracted try picture of this thing will be let's see it's the second edge I'm going to put just a label of two on this edge to say well I'm skipping this node this guy is non-branching so I want to get rid of it and contract it into the parent so now this corresponds to two edges here there are two digits which I could write the digits if I knew what they were but particularly I want to keep track of the fact that they're exactly two of them and then there's a branching node. That one stays uh but then uh actually we'll go straight to the leaves here. This will be uh x1 and x2 and this will have a lot of digits. Okay, so some large number written here. So that's the idea with a compressed try. Now the nice thing about a compressed try is they have linear size. number of edges and vertices is linear in the number of leaves which is the number of values we have here. Uh another nice thing about compressed tries is they preserve order. So if you look at the order of the leaves down here, uh it's the same as the order of the leaves over here, right? We're not really changing order. We're just making things a little shorter to write down. Uh same thing over here. I mean x1 appears to the left of x2. So say the order of the leaves is preserved. Uh the other cool thing about compressed tries is you can compute them in linear time. But let me tell you why we're drawing this picture, right? We messed up all these chunks, all these digits. What does that correspond to in this picture? We've permuted all of the children in this node. We've permuted all the children in this node. Permuted all the children in this node. But otherwise, the structure of the tree is correct. What we wanted to do was compute if we could compute the compressed try representation of the original values just having broken the integers into these pieces. Then if we had that try, we could just do an in order traversal, find the order of the leaves, then we'd have the sorted order of the integers. Instead, what we've computed is not the correct, we didn't compute the correct compressed try, but we computed a different compressed try where every node has its not has its children permuted. So all we need to do is put the children within each node in the correct order. Then we would have the correct compressed try. Okay, that's why we're doing this. Uh but first how do we compute a compressed try in linear time? Uh this is a simple amortization argument. Okay, remember what we're given. At this point, we are given the leaves in sorted order, right? We've just sorted our things. So, all I'm trying to do is compute the try of the stuff above the things. Okay? We're given the leaves of the try in in the correct order. I just need to build the compressed try. The reason I'm building the compressed try is so I can do it in linear time. Constructing the the uncompressed try would take too long. Okay. So, how do we do this? Um, so we have our items XN in order. I want to just insert it into the compressed try. So I start with an empty compressed try. Uh, first thing I do is add X1. So it's just a single leaf. Then I add x2 to the try, x3 to the try. In general, I'll have computed draw a picture uh how to draw a partial try something like this. I've computed the left part of the try already. All the these x i have been done. And now I need to compute I need to add on the ne say x i over here somewhere. So think of how that would look in the try. Uh it has to come off of the right side. uh I guess what would you call this the right spine of the tree some rightmost node over here we want x i to be a new to the right child so maybe uh so one possible picture is there's some node which had some other children maybe this one had x i minus one and maybe x i belongs over here maybe this leads to x i in the uncompressed try this could be potential picture uh in the compressed try this node either exists or got contracted. If it exists maybe there was a previous like x i minus 2 belongs over here. So we already had this node because it distinguished these two xjs. Uh to add the x i is really easy. I just add a node here which and then which points to a leaf of x i. So that could be one situation. Uh the the other situation is only slightly more complicated. So the other possibility is this node didn't exist in the compressed try which means we jumped over it in the compressed try. You know some number bigger than one here. Maybe you skipped three nodes. Who knows? Um so now this node matters. It didn't matter before. Before it was non- branching, but now we add XI. It's branching. All we do is update, add this new guy, add the new pointer to XI. Okay, so constant work. Great. Constant work per XI inserted linear time overall. Not really. Uh, I've cheated a little bit here, which is how do we know where to do this operation? So the changes we make is constant. That's fine. But how did I find that this was the edge where I need to put XI in? You can't do it in constant time, but we can do it in constant amortized time. So what we're going to do is start at the rightmost. Oh, that is not very red. It's not a red chalk. Okay, some red chalk. Uh we start at this leaf, the rightmost leaf, which you go going rightmost as possible. We're going to walk up the tree until we find the right point. I'm going to spend linear time in this pathwalk. Okay, how could this possibly be? Okay, I think you believe that I can do it in linear time, right? Each each point I see do what is my common prefix with actually an easy way is right up front. This this thing right here is x i minus one. These are in these are single integers. So I can just uh compute their exor find the most significant one bit which we did with fusion tree lecture. Uh and boom I know where they differ in bit position. Uh by some rounding I can figure out which chunk they differ in just by you know dividing taking the ceiling. uh so I know the correct depth and then these numbers tell me how much uh how much depth I'm losing as I walk up at some point I'll discover oops I just jumped over the depth I care about where they differ and so at that point I know to do the operation so if this is if there are k edges here on the compressed try I can do this in order k time k plus one let's say why is that okay because uh my potential function amortization is going to be the length of the right uh let's call it the rightmost path. Okay. And before my rightmost path was this thing. Afterwards my rightmost path is going to be this thing. So it got roughly k shorter. K minus one shorter. Okay. Okay, so I charge this k + one cost to a uh potential decrease of k minus one and so the advertised cost is only constant. Okay, easy amortization. Another way to see this is overall we're basically doing an inorder traversal of the tree. So whenever we walk up we'll never visit these nodes again and then we go down a different place. Okay, yeah this guy we're going to walk up again because in order in order traversal we would have gone left and then come back to it and then gone down. So overall we're doing an in order traversal of the compressed try. So it's order it's linear time total. Okay. Still not done though. What we have so far, what have we done? We've taken our numbers. We split them into digits. We randomly permuted the digits by a hash function that magically let us sort them in linear time. Now we've built a compressed try of that representation. The last thing to do is to fix the order of the children from each node. The tree is correct except for the order of the children in each node. So we've kind of sorted a little bit but haven't fully sorted. So that's the last step and we're going to do that with recursion. We're only going to recurse a constant number of times recursively sort Okay. Uh, I'm going to walk through this compressed try that we've built. And I guess it looks more like this. And for each edge, I'm going to write down this key. First thing I'm going to write down is the ID of the node. Let's say uh the ID is the in order traversal index of the node. Okay. So boom. As we traverse the tree, we can just increment this counter. Uh then we also want the uh what I'm going to put in here is the actual chunk value that uh that's at the top of the node. So some something like this or I guess this one. This one consists of two chunk values. So let's call them C1. Two chunk values. C1 and C2. There's the first chunk value and the second chunk value. First digit and the second digit. Just write down the first one. That's really the only one we care about. The second one wasn't branching. So it's no big deal. Okay. So there's some chunk value. Now I don't want to write down the signature chunk value. I don't want to write down the hash value. I want the actual chunk original chunk not the hash that's why I write actual over here and then also I'm going to write down the index of the edge so this is the second edge for example okay now this is in some sense the wrong index and what I want to compute is where it's supposed to be the edges have been permuted so if I sort this thing I claim that I'll find the all the desired permutations okay Why? Because uh if I sort by this uh three valued uh this triple, first thing I sort by is by node ID. Then I'm sorting by actual chunk value, then uh edge index. I don't care that I'm sorting by it. That's just coming along for the ride. So what this tells me is for each node, uh it gives me the sorted value of the actual chunks, not the hash chunks, and then it tells me the order they used to be in. So uh this is a way to to figure out the correct per you want to figure out the sorted permutation of these things. This gives you the old index and so once you've sorted them you know the new correct order is in order by chunk and so this gives you I guess the inverse of the permutation over here of where each edge should be. So once I've done this, the last step is uh you for each node uh permute the edges as given by this inverse permutation. Question explain again that like you're basically sorting three times. No, I'm sorting I'm sorting these single key values. the key value, the most significant part of the key is this. The next most significant part of the key is this. And the least significant part of the key is this. So imagine concatenating these things together into a single key value. Yeah, good question. Well, I'll talk about in a moment how big this key is. But if I sort by the concatenation of those keys, then what happens is I'm sorting by this and then sorting by this. But really, I'm doing one sort operation. This is one recursion. Other questions? Okay. Do you see why this gives us what we need? Right? For every node, we want to sort all those chunks. And so this thing, this information is just so we can keep track of the permutation when we're just sorting by value and not keeping the permutation. This lets us keep track of it. But our our real goal is to sort all the chunk values. And we add in the node ID so that uh we just learn for every node what we're supposed to do instead of globally what we need to do. Maybe you don't have to do this, but it's easier to keep the node ID in there. Okay. How many bits are in this key? So our whole point was to make chunks small so that the keys were small, but I claim this will be a little bit smaller than what we started with. So the node ID, well, there's only nodes. So this is log n bits. Chunk value is I guess W / log to the epsilonn bits, right? Because there are log to the epsilon n chunks. So it's w divided by log epsilon bits. The edge index uh how many different things were there? H whatever is it also w divided by log epsilon I guess. So depends how you count. Um let me think for a second how these ed indices should be stored. I think I'd like to store the edge indicy. I don't want to store the absent down pointers. Okay. Um the way that I built this tree, this compressed try, I was always adding things to the right. So it's like, okay, um storing here, here's the first child, here's the next child, here's the next child, here's the next child. I just keep appending on. It's like an array that you can grow to the right, which you should know how to do in constant time. Even a linked list is probably fine. Uh I don't want to store if there are a bunch of values here that are just null pointers. I don't want to store those items in the array. Okay. So in fact the maximum number of children of a node is n. I mean at the worst case you have branching everywhere. So this is only log n bits to store the index in that array. So, it's an extra level of compression because I didn't mention uh don't store null pointers, just skip them. That's easy to do because always just appending. And in the end, what do I need to do here? Uh step seven is in order traversal of the compressed try and I output all the leaves I get in order. And the point is we computed the compressed try which has the rough correct topological structure. Then we fixed the order within each node. Now we have the correctly sorted compressed try and so you just do an in order traversal output the leads you get in order boom we've sorted all the items. Okay little crazy. Uh so if all we need to do in the end is in order traversal then it's fine. We don't need to store the null pointers. So we don't need to be able to search in this try. So this is enough clear. Okay. The remaining question is why how how expensive is this recursion? So I computed the number of bits is basically w / log to the epsilon n plus order log n the order log n won't hurt us. Now we started with integers of size w total size here was w now we have integers that their size is w divided by log epsilon n. So we've made progress. Cool. How much progress over here maybe so after let's say 1 over epsilon + 1 recursions we will have reached uh E will have decreased excuse me to order log N I guess like 1 / epsilon log N plus W over log to the 1 + epsilon N Okay. Right. If we take W and every time we divide by log to the epsilon n then after 1 / epsilon times we have divided by log n. Get rid of the epsilon. Do it one more time. We get w / log to the 1 + epsilon n. Okay. And at this point we're in good shape. Okay. How if we get the size of our integers to be only w / log to the 1 plus epsilon n then we can use pack sorting because pack sorting conveniently it's a black box at the moment says well as long as w / b is a little bigger than log n so here we've made it quite a bit bigger than log n I mean log to the 1 plus epsilon n bigger then we can use pack sorting so uh reach base case and then use packed sorting. Okay, the only thing is there's this log n. Now epsilon is a constant here. So one over epsilon is constant. So this is just order log n. Order log n doesn't hurt you. I mean if this happened to dominate this then you're saying your values are order log n bits long and so you use radic sort okay so that's not going to dominate in fact you can prove in this case it's not going to dominate w is at least log to the 2 plus epsilon so you take w / log to 1 plus epsilon that's still at least log n okay so this will always dominate okay so we did all this work and all we did was reduce our word size by a log to the epsilon factor. But that's enough because after we do that 1 over epsilon + one times we're small enough the words are small enough or the items we're sorting are small enough that we can use pack sorting and boom we're done. Okay, that is the beauty of signature sort. Any questions about that? Definitely not easy. uh but it works. The crazy idea is well decompose into these digits. I mean we decompose into logs epsilon digits because that would be enough. If we could get things down to a single digit life would be easy which I guess is kind of like venom to boas right I mean uh or it's it's like our lower bounds from last time. I don't know only one if we could make it so only one digit mattered then we could afford to do it because each digit is quite a bit smaller. I mean it's smaller by a factor of log to the epsilon n. Uh so we did that splitting and then there was this observation that well most digit values aren't used. So if we hash then things got a lot smaller then we can afford to pack sort except that hash didn't preserve the order. How didn't it preserve the order? Well when you look at the compressed try you see how it got messed up. Each node got messed up individually but overall the structure of the try was correct. So we did all this work to get the structure of the try. Then we had to fix the node order. But that's really just sorting a single digit. And yeah, we have to do it for all nodes. But you add them up. It's still only n items that we need to sort. So I I wrote that B went down. Um N stays the same. The number of things we have to sort stays the same, which is which is fine. Not trying to reduce N. Just trying to reduce the size of our items to be a little bit smaller than W. So then we can use pack sorting. Okay. Okay, I think I've gone over this algorithm enough times. The next step is pack sorting. Now that if we have val uh integers that are much smaller than our word, how do we sort in linear time? And this is going to be essentially a fancy merge sort. It's done in the same paper. uh before we said omega I'm going to essentially make omega a little bit bigger than two. So I want to assume the w is at least twice b + one log n log n. That's just to make this convenient. But of course it doesn't really matter what the constants are. This will make everything fit in one word though instead of a constant number of words. Okay, step zero of this algorithm is the packing part. We can fit more than one element into each word. So, put them in Okay, now we have linear time overall. This is easy to do. Just uh you have some word already. Take those items, shift them left or in the next item. Shift them left or in the next item. Okay, linear time. So in the end, what it's going to look like, oh, I also want to leave a zero bit in between each of them. So we're going to have B. This is going to be x1 here x2 xn. Each of these is b bits long. And then we have one more bit. Uh and in fact the way we set things up this is only half the word. So there's another half over here which is going to be all zero for now. So we have one word contains or sorry this is not n items. This is going to be login log login lo login. Can't fit them all in one word. That would make life really easy. But you can fit login items in the first word. Then the next word is the next login loan items and so on. Okay. Linear time to do that. Uh next step. This is an algorithm. It's not really a step. I should say these are things that we're going to we're able to do and we're going to combine them in different ways. So the next thing to observe this is a sort of bottom up perspective. So first thing we can do is pack things into a word. Next thing we can do is merge two sorted words. Let's say they each have K items and K is at most login. and I want to merge them into one sorted word with two K elements. So I have two of these things and I'll merge them in sorted order. Okay, these when I did this packing nothing sorted but don't worry about that at the moment. Just if I had two of these words and suppose they were already sorted, then I want to merge them and make keep make them still sorted. Okay, X I want X1 to be less than X2 and so on. How much time? It'd be cool if you could do this in constant time on a trans dichomous RAM. You could do anything on a constant number of words in constant time. We're not going to achieve constant time, but we don't need to. We're going to do order log k time. This is the hardest step of pack sorting and I'm not going to tell you how to do it until later. I will tell you, don't worry. Uh but this is going to require bonic sorting. So I have to delay it a little bit. Suppose you had that for now. Let me tell you how the rest is easy. So many black boxes, but they're all filled in in this lecture. Okay. Next thing you might ask is, well, how do I get a sorted word? I see how to get a single word that has login log login items. But how would I sort those items? Use merge sort. Here's a merger. You have a way to merge two sorted lists. So use merge sort. that will give you a way to sort the whole thing. So I'm going to merge sort k equals log n log log n items into one sorted word. So I start out with a word that's unsorted. I do merge sort and I sort them. Okay. So this is not the whole sorting problem, but it's sorting the it's the oneword sorting problem. So how long does this take? Well, it's the usual merge sort recurrence, but then it's plus how long it takes me to split the word. Well, splitting a word is easy. You just mask out the low end or the high end and then maybe shift over. So in constant time, I can get the left half and the right half of the array, which is the word. Then the hard part is merging them. and merging them is one and that takes log k. So this is step one. That's our merger. And so what does this solve to? Well, uh probably easiest to draw the recursion tree. So at the root we pay log k. Then we have 2 * log I guess k over two log k over two. Okay. So at this level we're paying log k this pay at this level we're paying uh two log k minus one I guess okay uh I'm just going to call this maybe well yeah I do need to do that at the bottom I mean everything's constant size so you pay constant how many leaves are there at the bottom level uh k of them okay so at the root we're paying log k at the leaves we're paying k this is roughly geometric. There's this minus one, but it's geometric enough that when you add up all these levels, it's dominated by K. And so this ends up being order K time. Okay, the the minus one here turns out not to matter much. Cool. So this is linear time sorting on login log login items. Everything that fits in a word. Cool. But we're not done yet. We need another level. The rest is pretty easy. It's just uh scaling up. Okay. Uh, let's see. At this point, we're going to assume that all of our words are completely full. So, this merging and stuff was in order to fill up words and to make those words sorted. But once we've done that for each cluster of log n log n items now we can assume each word is sorted and completely full has exactly k elements in it. So each of these rs sorted words uh has k elements. Okay so now the issue is things don't fit in a word and so now suppose they fit in our sorted words. So suppose we've already made a sorted list of R item or sorry of R time K items which fit in R words words each with K items in it. Then I want to take two of these lists and merge them together and get one sorted list of sorted words. So it's it's uh two RK items that are distributed into two R words each of size K. How do I do that merge in linear time? And I only need to do it in R log K time only. Yeah. Question. I'm assuming K is a number word is the number of elements per word. Now K. Yeah. K is this from now on. And they're exactly K elements per word which I mean we've we've already filled up the words. So at this point we can assume that. Okay. But it's exactly equal not less than or equal. Right. Yeah. Over here it's less than or equal to. I know it's a little confusing. I use K for a different call this K prime. Okay. And at this point we filled up to this value of K and now everything has exactly login log login log N items. Thanks. Okay. Uh let's see. I mean regular sorting regular merging algorithm would take R* K time because there are R* K items. But we have this merger over here which will merge two words in log K time. So that's why it's going to be r log k. What's the picture? Well, let me draw it. Uh, we have a list of words. A list of words. How do we merge? Well, we take the first two words, merge them. When we merge them, and we know how to do this in log k time by step one. When we merge them, we get two words. They just are now sorted. Okay, so we've got these two guys sorted and then there's the rest. Uh, I'd like to say output these and repeat, but that wouldn't be quite correct because uh, well, these guys I can output because I've got, you know, K items here, K items here. These are the K smallest among all of them. Those must be the overall smallest K items because I compared K with K. These higher K items, I don't know. They could, you know, they might be good or bad. So, I have to put this high part back into one of these lists. You have to think a little bit about which list to put it into. It turns out if you look at the max item say where did this come from list one or list two you put it into that list. Let's say this came from list two and you put it back into list two and then repeat. Okay. So in log k time here we have output k items and so we end up with an r log k running time overall. Okay. Okay, so it's like regular merge the regular merge algorithm except we use step one to merge words and then there's a little bit of work but this was like old merging algorithm right you take the min and you put the max back in okay except now the max is a whole word okay that's how we merge now why do we do a merger because next thing we do is merge sort And this is the overall algorithm. It's one merge sort. We're going to use this as the merger and we're going to use this as the base case. So it's actually two recursive levels of merge sort. Merur is recursive in within step four for a while until we get down to the level of a single word. Then we use this thing to deal with things in a single word. Okay. So we end up with t of n is 2 * t of n / plus n / k log k. And a base case of t of k is order k. Okay. Uh why is it all this? Okay. This thing is r. Okay. Uh so we have r log k to do a merge. R here is n over k. Why is n over k? uh because uh n is the total number of items. We had r * k items. So n= r k. So r equ= n / k. Okay, that's that. So this is our merge cost. This is the cost of three. This is the cost of two from our if if we have only login log items, so k items, then we can merge in linear time or sorry we can sort in linear time. So we just need to solve this recurrence. Uh well, how's it gonna work? It's gonna be kind of like merge sort, but not quite. So question um when you say so you have in step two you're merging two list of sorted words into one sorted list of two sort of words. Does that imply actually taking the elements within the words and reshuffling them across or you may have to do that right? Uh say that again. So you have two sorted two sorted list of are sorted words. Yeah. The words are are going to change which elements are in which words are changing. But that's thanks to step one. Uh for example, I mean step one can merge any two sorted words and make one sorted word or actually yeah one sorted word. In our case, we're going to actually need we're going to get two sorted words. That was the picture over here. I merge the two guys. I could represent it as one word that's kind of double full and then I can split that into two words. Uh so we again need the split operation but split is just uh you mask this these guys out and you get the high part. This is all zero. Then you shift it over to the left and you get now you've got the high word over as a single word. Yep. So they are shuffling within those two words uh or within one word essentially. via this procedure which we haven't covered. So everything's going to mix around but then there's the low items and the high items and so all the items in here are less than all the items in here. Other questions? Cool. Uh so I need to solve this recurrence. So let's draw another recursion tree. It's easy way solve recurrences. Root is n over k log k. Uh, next level down. See, n got divided by two. So, it's going to be half n over k log k half n over k log k. The end gets divided by two. So, if I add up everything on this level, I get n over k log k. And in general, as I go down, all levels are going to sum to the same value, n over k log k. So up here we're going to have a cost of n over k log k times the number of levels. Now this is where it's a little tricky. This is not log n levels like regular merge sort. We stop at level k. So it's going to be log of n over k. That's the number of levels we get to. Now at the leaf level finally we have things of size order K and we only pay order K. Great. Uh and then how many leaves are there? Uh there's n over k leaves. Okay. So that's an order n cost. This is order k order n. What's this thing? Well, what's k? k was log n log log n. So this is n / log n log n. This therefore is approximately log log n. So that log n cancels with this one. This is approximately log n. So that cancels with this one. So this is order n. That's why we chose these values. So this n overk was not actually that significant. We could have called that n. What is important is that this recursion doesn't work when you get down to a single word. Can't do the same strategy. You need to use a different merger uh for single words because here we have to do bit tricks. For this merge strategy we didn't have to do bit tricks because everything was bigger than a word. Okay. So that's the reason the reason why we have these two levels is not to make the time fast. It's just uh to make the algorithm work. I mean to define the algorithm there's within a word merging and over many words merging. The hard part is this one within a word merging. So that's our next goal. But if we could do that we get linear time sorting for pack sorting when you can fit login things in a word. Any questions about packed sorting? Good. So, last thing is how do we merge two words, two sorted words into one sorted word? And this is where we're going to use bonic sorting. See, it says right here, bonic sort for merging sorted words. Here we know what to do. Much easier in hindsight. So I'm going to take a little diversion and tell you about bonic sorting briefly uh because it's in CLRS. I don't want to spend too much time on it but uh it is something we need. So you need to know how it works. So first thing is the idea of a botonic sequence. This is going to be a cyclic shift of a unimodal sequence. So a non-deasreasing plus a non increasing sequence. So I want non-deasing and then non-increasing. So this is a botonic sequence. I think you know what this means. Um or it could be a cyclic shift thereof. So I could, for example, take this part here and shift it over to this side. So then I'd end up with this, this, and this. This is also bonic. Or I could shift this whole thing and put it over there. And so I end up with that. That's also bonic. So it basically has one min, one max, one min if you're reading it cyclically. One local max, one local min, except it's non-deasreasing. So a little mess here, but same thing. Okay. Uh let's go be over here. So if you have a bonic sequence, there's something called a bonic sorting network which you can think of as a parallel sorting algorithm to sort such a thing. So it's almost sorted but not quite. And there's this way of sorting them. So I'm going to write down I'm going to draw a picture to make it easier for me a little harder. It's a little more annoying to write down the general algorithm. But so what I want to do suppose the number of elements is a power of two. Here's what I'm going to do. First I compare the the first and the midway element and then the next one with the next one and then the next one with the next one. The next one with the next one. For each of these comparisons I put those items in the correct order. So if I do that three versus six, three is less than six. So three stays here. Six stays there. Five is bigger than four though. So four comes over here. Five goes over here. Next is seven versus two. So two comes over here, seven comes over here. Nine versus zero. So zero's over here, nine's over there. Okay, that's an easy set of things, set of comparisons to do. The nice thing is you can do all those in parallel. Okay. Uh just to check here, this was a monotone increasing subsequence and then a monotone decreasing. Okay. Now we have increasing then decreasing and then we have uh decreasing then increasing. uh but if you look at the left half or the right half they are still bonic and that's an invariant bonic will be preserved here also notice all the elements in the left are smaller than all the elements in the right that's not true for an arbitrary sequence but it will be true for a bonic sequence essentially the the the max is somewhere here and so it's going to be spanned by uh some of these intervals that max and by spanning those intervals and in particular comparing that guy with somebody on the the max will get over to the right and uh then the rest of the increasing and decreasing subsequences will follow. It's a very hand wavy argument. You can see clrs for a way to prove that. Okay, just take it for granted. Now, now we recurse on the two sides. So I compare three with two, four with zero. I compare six with seven and five with nine. So what do I get? Uh two is less than three, 0 is less than four. Then I compare six seven less than seven. Five is less than nine. Uh so now I've got four chunks. This one, this one, this one, this one. I recurse on each of them. So 0 is less than two, three is less than four, five is less than six, seven is less than nine. And now I have all my items in sorted order magically. Okay. Okay, but if you believe that invariant that the the smallest n over2 items get to the left and the larger n over2 items get to the right. Uh then by induction this will sort them. It's kind of like quick sort in that sense. Okay, the cool thing is I can do all these in parallel, all these in parallel, all these in parallel. So the total time is log k if I'm a sorting if I'm a parallel sorting algorithm or sorting network. And log k is exactly what I can afford. So the last thing to do is to implement an operation like this or like this. This is kind of the generic picture here in constant time on a word RAM. Uh one other thing is I don't want to sort a bonic sequence. That wasn't my goal. My goal was to merge two sorted sequences. Okay, so I have two sorted sequences. I want to merge them. How do I make that bonic? I just flip. Okay, like that. I take this sequence and I reverse it. If I take a sorted sequence and reverse it, then it looks like this. And so then the result is botonic. Then I can use bonic sorting to sort it. So this is the merge problem and I've just reduced it to bonic sorting. Cool. except how do I reverse a sequence in log k time on a word ram. Uh cute trick. If I have a word and you know it has many items in it, that's our picture. That's our setup here. And I want to reverse it overall. What I'll do is cut it in half. Take all these guys, put them over here. Take all these guys, put them over here. So, I've got the right side, sorry, it's only four cells over here. I've got the left side over here. Then I recursively sort uh sorry, recursively reverse this sequence and recursively reverse this sequence. And then I have the reverse sequence. Right? This is a standard or you know one way to reverse items is to do the big part and then recursively reverse. then I will get I mean this is like uh you know AB reverse is equal to B reverse A reverse just a fun fact so we're implementing that uh now how do I do this well this is the thing I've been talking about uh over here you want to take the high part you just mask that part out shift it to the right you want to take the low part just mask that part out and so I can take each of these parts individually shift this one to the left shift this one to the right or them together and I've reversed So this takes constant time. This is recursion. But the total number of steps will be order log k which is exactly what I can afford. Okay. So that's how I do the reverse reverse part. So if I want to merge now I have a bonic sequence. Last thing to do is how do I do this bonic comparison in constant time. do this. So that's next page. Here's a quick sketch. Going to try to draw the generic picture. So the generic picture is I have this this thing which I call A and this thing which I call B. And we basically want to compare corresponding items in A and B. Though, in fact, there's another A over here and another B over here. In general, there are many A's, many B's, but they appear in this nice periodic pattern. And so, I'm just just going to look at one AB pair, but it's going to simultaneously work for all of them with the same operations. So, that's the dot dot dot here. There's another A and then another B and another A and another B. So, what do I do? First thing I do is make one a a one a a one aa. In other words, I add in these one bits. Remember, we had zeros there hanging out. That was when we're going to use them. So, I set them all to ones in the A list. I take the B list. I just shift it over and leave them as zeros. Okay, time for bit tricks. All right. Then I take this number, I subtract it from this number. What do I get? I get zeros or ones uh for the whether this bit got borrowed, which tells me whether little a is bigger than little b. Then I get some junk. Then I get 01 junk. So on 01 junk. Sure. So zero corresponds to a being smaller than b and one corresponds to the reverse. Okay. Whatever. Uh then I do my usual masking just the 01 bits. Then there's some zeros. Okay, here's a new trick which we haven't seen yet. I'm going to shift this to the right by two or in general by the size of those items. So now I have 01 here, 01 here, and 01 here. Each of these bits might be different. So I take this, shift it to the right. Now I subtract. what this gives me. So I'm taking one 0 0 minus one. What I get is 0 one one one. Okay, in this case there's just two bits except it's not one one. It's either uh 0. Get it right. Either 0 0 or one one. And then we have here zero and then 0 0 or one one. Okay. And so on. So now these are masks. The zeros correspond to when the A's were smaller. The ones correspond to when the B's are smaller. So if I take this anded with this, I get the large B's. If I take this anded with this, I get the small A's or one of some of those combinations. Okay. The point is I take Yeah, I think here I get the small A's. And then if I take this thing and negate it and then mask and mask it with this, I get the small B's. And then I take this thing. I ran out of room. So we've got small A's, small B's. I take this thing, I shift it over. So I have small B's here. And then I or these together, I get all the smalls. Okay, these are designed to never conflict because I took the inversion here. So I get the smaller of the A's, smaller of the B's. So now I've I put the sorted thing, the smaller things in the right order. I do the exactly the same procedure negated. and I get the largest. Okay. Then I or these together and I get sorted. Well, not sorted. I get whatever bonic sort would have done, right? It's doing these pair-wise comparisons by doing this shift and it's putting things in the right order. Taking the small ones always end up on the left. The large ones always end up on the right. That's the definition of the operation we want to do or botonic operated. And because we're just doing shifts and subtractions and all these things, it works. Even though there's not just one AB pair, but there's a whole bunch of AB pairs, they will all be shifted and computed and sorted together. And so a little hard to visualize, but this will do one bonic operation and a constant number of word RAM operations. And so you pop out all these stacks. This gives us a merger that gives us pack sorting. And with pack sorting, we get uh signature sorting. Easy, right? All right, that's probably one of the most complicated algorithms we'll see in this class. But from that, you get a priority Q that runs in constant time provided W is a little bigger than log square M. Boom.