The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, we're going to get started the homework. Does everybody have a copy of the handout? If not, there's some on the steps. stairs. There's muddy cards on the steps and there we're going to do three things today. That's this complex problem. I want to talk about a problem on center of percussion and then if as we have time I'm going to summarize some summarizing statements about uh imbalances which we've talked a lot about off and on. So let's I want you to restrain looking at the notes I've handed out. The notes I've handed out are this complex problem and you'll let you look at them in a minute, but I want to get you to think about some things before you see what's on the notes. But the notes are intended so that you don't have to spend a lot of time writing down messy stuff. You can think and listen and they'll also be sent out on the web so that put posted so you don't have to grab a copy for your friends because I only made a 100 copies and 122 of you. Okay, so let's start with this problem. This is a basically a complex system mass a pendulum and it when you I've made up one for you. So here's my here's the pendulum. It's on an axle stuck into my cart. The cart's got springs connected to it and it naturally has some damping. So this is um a realization of what's been drawn there. So let's just give it a little bump. Cart moves back and forth. Pendulum swings back and forth. If I start it this way, it'll act a lot more crazy. It'll have more chaotic looking kind of motion. The reason for that, which has to do with this is a multiple degree of freedom system, has more than one natural frequency. Has has more than one frequency. It responds all mixed together. And that's why it it'll do kind of crazy things like that'll stop almost stop and then start up again stuff like that. All completely natural. And but if I give it a nice gentle start, it actually mostly vibrates in what I call one mode of vibration. Okay. So that's that's we want to get the equations of motion of this system. So I've the uh I've drawn here I've drawn it. And the first question about a system like this when you go to analyze it is how many degrees of freedom does it have? Right? So I'm going to this I'm going to claim this to be a planer motion problem. It's confined to the board and confined to rotation perpendicular to the board. Okay. Anytime that happens, the uh each object has at most three degrees of freedom. X, Y, and a rotation. So we've conf we said no rotations around X or around Y. So three possible ones for this mass, three possible ones for this mass, right? And the uh then we start looking for the constraints in addition. Well, this one is constrained. It can't move out of the out of the uh See, we've already constrained that. Wait a second. Um, how do I want to say this? This one is certainly constrained in the Y because of the track here. So, that's one constraint. We're starting off with six possible. We've got one because it's constrained in the Y. The uh but it can certainly move in the X. Can it rotate in the Z? this big mass. So that's two. So the of the three possible, the top one only has one possible degree of freedom. X. This one also has three possible degrees of freedom. It's pinned at A. What does that give? What does that do for constraints? So this one take 30 seconds and even talk to your neighbor. How many constraints does cause by the pin at A? All right. So, let's how many believe that there's one constraint provided by the pin at A? Let's see the hands that believe we have one. Get them up high. Up high now. How about two? Okay. How about three? All right. Little uncertainty here. All right. We do. You know the motion today? Have you prescribed the motion at a in any way? In what way? Do you nod in your head? Has to move with the block. We've already given the other block a coordinate. What is it? X. So if you know X, do you know the motion of A? Okay. So you have established the motion of A. So if you know A, you don't need anything additional information about A, do you? It's already been you've already chosen a coordinate for it. So if A is prescribed, that means X1 and Y1 the motion the coordinates describing this thing. And I've given it an started at a center of mass, a little x1 that way, a little y1 that way. Those are my possible displacement coordinates. And it has a rotation coordinate, three possible degrees of freedom, right? X and Y are prescribed at this point. If you prescribe the motion of fix the motion of at any point on a rigid body, what does that say about motion translational motion any place else on the rigid body? Remember this is back to the subtle definition of what we mean by translation. What we mean by rotation motion parallel motion the translation part of this every point on the object moves parallel to every other point. So if you prescribe if you prescribe the translation of any one point you have prescribed the translation for all. So this second body basically its only translation that it can have is X of the main body. So you you have confined it in X and Y. It has no X and Y possibilities. Those are two constraints leaving you with one right one degree of freedom and we use and then we pick a coordinate for it and the natural one to use for that is the angle here. So we need two two coordinates completely describe the motion. it'll yield two equations of motion. Okay, so I you know on quizzes you know you say how many independent degrees of freedom are there? That is the same question as saying how many uh equations of motion are required to completely describe this system or how many independent coordinates are required to completely describe the motion of the system. They're all through the same question. So that that threw a couple of people on the last quiz. Okay, let's move on to free body diagrams. So we now we know we've got two coordinates theta and x. And now you're free to look at your you can free to look at things and I don't I want you to spend most your time thinking and listening and not having to write but make notes as you get insights about things. Free body diagram then two of them. The uh the pendulum piece is actually pretty simple. You got mg down and you have two possible forces at this point of rotation. And I've just named them F1 and F_sub_2. And I've drawn them not arbitrarily, but I've drawn picked a direction to draw them in. I don't know what direction they're in. And that's my complete free body diagram. If I've missed anything, tell me. Or if you have any questions about it, ask me. Okay, the free body diagram for this guy. This is capital M. This one's m1. That's mass m2. just to keep it straight. Lots of possible forces in this thing. Um, reaction forces through the wheels. They're only vertical. I've left out friction, ignored friction. Um, but also these F1 and F2 act at the pin. And notice I've drawn them exactly equal and opposite to these. Kind of a key thing to do. And why do we do that? There's a law What's the law? Newton's third. You got to do that or else it won't work. Okay, there. These are common unknowns, but they're equal and opposite at this point. And we have an M1G hanging down. The spring force resists any positive motion. The spring pulls back. Any positive velocity, the the damper holds back. And that's the uh all of the forces on this thing. It's going to be necessary to be able to break these things down because I'm going to sum things. Uh going to need to have bits and pieces of f_sub_2 and f1. So cosine thetas and sin thetas. Now I don't don't try to resist looking at your paper for a second. Next concept question. We've talked a lot in the last couple of lectures about the best approach to do problems, right? Especially using angular momentum. Do you think you're going to need some angular momentum to solve this problem? An approach using torqus and angular momentum. More than likely. Anytime things are rotating, more than likely. So, what's the best approach here? Do you are we going to compute angular momentum with respect to a that pivot point with respect to g the center of mass? And it's not too obvious. I'm just so let's if you were starting out this problem, how would you begin it? Would you decide I'm going to sum my sum my torqus around point A or I'm going to sum my torqus around G? Did I mark G? Yeah, it's right it's right right at the center. All right, think about that for a second. Got a question? All right, I'm gonna I'm gonna ask you this. Any questions about the question? I just I want you to I want a real show of hands here. I want you just you know what would you do to start with? So, how many would sum torqus compute angular momentum with respect to point A? Okay. How about G? H. Interesting. And it another way or you somebody holding back on me. Not everybody raised their hands here. Okay. All right. Most people do it around A. Uh A would work. Okay. G would work too. And in fact I first when I sat down to do this problem, I did it with A first and then I went and did it with G. And G actually turns out that doing it with respect to G is just slightly easier. Okay. So the approach we need to find two equations of motion. We have two bodies. We're going to do use Newton's and Oilers's laws to go after them. So the starting out first one sum of the forces in the x direction on this body. There's a lot of you know there's a lot of unknowns. So, I'm going to end up with start off with more than two equations because I've got how many unknowns? One, two, three, four. X, the motion X, five, and the angle theta six. I could I could need as many as six equations to start with. If I sum forces in the vertical direction, I can turns out that N1 and N2 here I never actually have to deal with. And I'm going to don't so don't start there. If you think you might not have to mess with them, don't start there. You're going to waste a lot of time. I don't think I'm going to have to deal with them. In fact, I'm only going to need four. I'm going to find four equations involving f_sub_1, f_sub_2, x, and theta. Okay. So, here's how I'm saving a little time today. I've written it down for you and I've written it out. Same same thing on your on your paper. Let's talk about the first one. This is the sum of forces in the capital this capital X direction which is our inertial frame X on the main cart on mass one. So it's got to be the mass times the acceleration and this is not I don't know how that sneaked in there and I've called it in capital I hat direction. Okay. Mass times acceleration. I just sum up all the forces on that cart. spring force holds back the direction of the arrow on my free body diagram tells you the sense of it. Minus kx minus bx dot plus f_sub_2 cosine theta plus f_sub_1 sin theta all in the x ihat direction. Okay. Sum of the forces on my little bar here in the x1 direction. Now x1 is down here and y1 it's off that way. So sum of the forces in x1 is now on mass 2 must be the mass mass that its mass times its acceleration and I've just called it is it's and any doesn't matter which where I do my what point I'm going to do angular momentum with respect to this is Newton's law and it's the mass it's the acceleration of the center of the gravity with respect to an inertial frame but this is in the little ihat direction it's what I want it's the component in that direction I have a minus f1 i in that direction and I have a plus m2g cosine theta I in the ihat direction pretty straightforward with Newton's second law again the other component for Newton in the y1 direction mass times the acceleration in the jhat direction minus f_sub_2j because my f_sub_2 happens to be in the minus direction in the free body diagram minus m2g sin theta in the jhat And finally, I'm going to sum my moments about the ma the center of of mass. It would also work if I did it around A, I would you the reason you normally do it around A, which is why I started there, is why what's the advantage of doing it around A? The potential advantage of going to A. Eliminate forces. Yeah. there f_sub_1 and f_sub_2 don't generate moments at the pin and there's a hope that then you can get what you need to know without ever having to evaluate f1 and f_sub_2 right and in this case uh they are they're going to pop up in these equations and you're going to have to deal with them anyway turns out so it doesn't actually give you much an advantage so it's easier because the torque equation's easier in terms of the number of terms it has what makes It's slightly easier in this problem. You got to deal with F1 and F2 anyway. So, it's just the time rate of change of the angular momentum with respect to G. The uh and that's external torqus. And the only external torque is caused by F2. And I left out a minus sign. You have it on your paper, I think, here. No, it's correct. It's positive. So you have F2 acts on a moment arm about G L2 and it's going to be in the K hat direction. That's the external torque on the system. The it's uh gravity causes no torque because it's acting at the at G, right? And this has got to be the time rate of change of H. I claim in this problem you don't have to uh you don't have to do this but in this problem I claim I can write h as a mass moment of inertia matrix times a vector that is that tells you what the rotation rate is. You in fact can always do this about G. This is I with respect to G. If you know what it is, this I I have chosen the set of coordinates that pass through the center of mass x1 that way y1 perpendicular to it. Are they principal coordinate and z coming out of the board? Are they principal coordinates? Sure you know that we've this is just a uniform rod but just symmetry immediately should tell you that they are. Yes. Um you said that the uh that always work for stationary rotation axis. I thought only work for stationary axis and rotation about the center of mass. You can always do things with the center of mass. Okay, but you could just work this out by the basic definition of uh angular momentum. Don't the hard way. R cross ps and those kind of things. you end up in the same place. This one because it's 0 0 omega Z. When you do the multiplication, this is a diagonal. The only term that matters is this one, right? So that's going to give us an I ZZG. Theta dot, which is omega Z, K hat direction. And it's not theta dot. The H gives you theta dot. Omega Z is theta dot. And we've taken the time derivative, which gives us theta dot. And we know what the mass moment of inertia about a uniform stick is around with respect to g ml^2 theta k. So there's our four equations we have to work with. And do they involve n1 or n2? Not at all. That's why I said we had potentially six. We really only have four unknowns. And now the uh you use these two to solve for f_sub_1 and f_sub_2. Once you get expressions for f_sub_1 and n f_sub_2, you can eliminate them from here and here and you're done. That's all that's but there's a bit of uh a bit of work left to do that. But that's the approach. Use these two isolate f1 and f_sub_2 and plug them into these two to get your final equations of motion. But we have a couple of things we don't know yet that we need in here. The acceleration of that center of mass in the I hat and do and break it into two components I hat and jhat. But that's what we've been studying kinematics for. So, so we need to know the velocity of G with respect to O. We need to know the acceleration of G with respect to O. Okay, so the velocity is pretty straightforward. We've done this many times. It's the velocity of a with respect. You always remember you pick things you know to work from and you try to make as few as possible things you don't know or put them in forms that we know how to go about getting it. These are vectors. Do we know the velocity of A with respect to O? What's A? A is the place where the pin is. What's its velocity of that point? X dot and in what direction? Capital. Okay. So this is X dot capital I hat. And now this term the velocity of G with respect to A. This is a rigid body which is rotating and translating. And we've run into this before, right? And there is the basically the equation for such things is it's the motion of the the translational velocity of the object plus the velocities within the object including anything contributed by rotation. So this term is the velocity of the point g a to the center g with velocity of the center g with respect to point a and that is um write it consistently here. This is the velocity of g with respect to a evaluated if you had no rotation. This is the if you're sitting the other way the books often say it this is what you would see if you were on the object sitting at a looking at g is it moving you'd say no well another way of saying that that's the velocity of this thing if there were no rotation right so this term happens to be zero plus omega and I'll write I'm kind of doing this on purpose we know this is omega z in the i in the k direction but reminding You this the omega is always with respect to the inertial frame cross r g a the ve position vector from between the two points. And this so this case we end up with then x dot ihat plus this is going to be omega z k cross l over 2 little ihat. k cross i is j. So x dot i hat this is in this little j moving coordinate system direction. Omega z is theta dot theta dot l over 2 j hat. I kind of made let me I didn't leave enough room here this is x do I plus okay familiar r our omega term so that's your velocity of g with respect to o we need to find an acceleration of that same point and we're going to take the derivative of this to get a point to remind to we haven't talked about this in a while. This has mixed unit vectors, right? It's got unit vectors in the inertial frame as unit vectors in the rotating frame. Is that allowed? No problem. It's perfectly legitimate, right? You kind you have to reduce it eventually to get a workable equation, but that's just fine at this intermediate stage. Okay, the next thing you want to do is find this a with respect to g a g with respect to o the acceleration and we know that's just a derivative derivative remember with respect to the inertial frame it's why we get the have to deal with this rotation business of velocity of g with respect to o but the derivative of this does I change direction? Nope. So this is just x dot and we have a single term here that we have to take a derivative of. So we get a theta dot l2 j. This is a little lowercase j. But now does j rotate? Yeah. And so this is the derivative of a rotating vector. The rotate the derivative of J is minus theta do I. So minus theta dot squared L over I. All right. And that's all there is to getting G. Now, we could have done I'm going to rem this. Oops. I want that one. I don't want you to be afraid of using the big kind of hairy looking vector 3D vector equation for acceleration. acceleration in this case gets called this is a with respect to O putting it in terms of this problem plus the acceleration of G with respect to A evaluated with no rotation plus omega cross RA plus omega cross omega cross R GA omega cross velocity GA omega equals Z. And I should have one, two, three, four, five terms. There's always five potential terms when you're evaluating the acceleration of a point on a rigid body which is translating and rotating. This is translating and rotating reference frames attached you know on a rig attached to the rigid body and then you just go in and fill it in. This is the acceleration of the rigid body the translational acceleration in this problem. What is that? Louder. Okay, this guy is capital X double dot I hat. Right. This is the acceleration of point G relative to A. If you were in the object on the object it is all right zero. This is uh the Oilarian term. This is theta dot crossed with the distance from the between the two points. Is this zero? No, not necessarily. So this is theta double dot. This is the L over two. That's this. And when you do the crossroduct of K and I, you get J. That's that term. Omega cross omega cross RGA. This is a centripal term. Would you think it's going to be zero? Nope. So this is K cross I is J. Kross J is I minus this is the term that gives you minus theta dot^ 2 L /2 I. And this is our Gololis term. It requires motion of that point G relative to A. Is that moving? Nope. So this term goes to zero. Get the same answer. All right. So, don't be afraid of this this thing. Just lay it down. Just plug the things in and the right things will fall out. All right. On the paper, I break this I I break down uh A with acceleration of G with respect to O into its little I and little J components. And I end up with acceleration of G with respect to O. So I group the terms the I capital X dot sin theta actually have to break this. See this is not in the direction of little I or little J. So I use the I know that I can express capital I as a lowerase I sin theta plus J cosine theta and I use that. So it's X dot sin theta minus L / 2 theta^ 2. It is in the little ihat direction. So this is the ihat term plus x dot cossine theta plus l / 2 theta dot and this is the jhat term. Okay. Yeah. Why you choose to put everything in terms of the rotating? I just you know this you have to always have these same decisions to make and it's what you're comfortable with and what you think is going to lead to the least work. You have no idea how much time I spent working on this problem to put it in a form that I thought I could teach it to you. I spent a lot of time on it. The point being occasionally you have to spend a lot of time working them out, going down a path that doesn't pay off, backing up, going down the next one. On quizzes, on homework, most of what stops you from getting to the final right answer is confidence. you you got to believe that you've learned these things well enough that you know this is the right thing to do and it'll get you there if you just do the arithmetic right. Okay? And we all make little mistakes and you all have to back up and do it again. But that's why the fundamentals and understanding the basic concepts are so important. If you got the concepts down cold, you'll have confidence that your method's going to work. Okay. So I I've got a this is my idle I direction term. This is my J direction term. I can take those and take this bit and plug it in here. Let's just give it a name. Let's call this A and this piece here B. And your A goes right here. That's a and this is b. Okay. And now you've made that substitution. You can solve for f1. And they're they're all in one direction. Now it's all in the little i hat direction. You make the other substitution. Everything's in little jhat. And you can drop them. You no longer have to carry it along. You now have scalar equations. You can solve for f_sub_1 and f_sub_2. So that is that's done. and you take those two expressions. So this implies f_sub_1 equals and this one implies f_sub_2 equals. And you take those and you put f_sub_2. You need f_sub_1 and f_sub_2 and you plug it in here. And in this equation, you only need an F2. And when you do that, you get your two equations of motion. Now, a couple things happen. And it turns when you do this um when you make the substitution in here, you end up with an M X dot cossine^ 2 theta and an M 2 X dot sin^ 2 theta and sin^ square plus cosine^ 2 conveniently equals 1 and that collapses and goes away. So you end up with the two final expressions here after you've made those combinations. So from four over here, I'll call it four prime, you get one of your equations of motion. That's one equation of motion. It's primarily about the translation of the uh rotation of the system come. It derives from all those substitutions in this equation. Curiously, these two bits go together, which if you had worked around A and used dangerously perhaps the parallel axis theorem, you would have ended up with ML squ over three. But that's your first equation. That's one of your equations of motion. And from the first one, the forces that comes from the sum of the forces on the main mass m1 + m2 x dot plus bx dot plus k x. All the usual just things for a mass spring oscillator, but now you got these additional forces that are exerted on that because he's got this pendulum flagging back and forth. And if I made a mistake on the board, believe the paper. I think I've got it all transcribed right. This is your force equation on the main mass. It's the if you didn't have the pendulum hanging there, there's your uh equation of motion for just in a cart going back and forth with springs. Then you have this pendulum hanging on it which requires which puts additional forces on it that come through those F1 and F2 terms and they you can see they have to do with having to accelerate things down there. Okay. Now these two equations are actually quite easy to linearize. So linearize means you can always linearize around the equilibrium position. This is its equilibrium position. small motions that can be described what you see there by linearized equations of motion and to linearize. So for theta small sin theta is approximately equal to theta. Cosine theta is approximately equal to one. And you just have signs and cosiness in here. You let this guy go to one. You let this go to theta here, one here, theta, and you have linearized equations of motion. Now, other problems are can be harder to linearize, but this is particularly simple. Two linear equations solvable. If you solve them, it'll give you two natural frequencies for the system and two vibration modes. All right, that's the end of this problem. Any last questions about it? I'm going to move on to this topic of center of percussion. Okay, this next one's kind of fun. It has a real practical purpose in life. I didn't bring my tennis racket or my baseball bat. But if any of you if any of you play sports that use things that hit things, you know, there's a when you hit the baseball and you hit it that down on the handle, it really stings your hands, right? Or the tennis racket, if you don't hit it right, it just you feel a lot of forces in your hands and you hit it with really sweet, you feel almost no force at all. How many have had that experience? Really common. Okay. So, is there a right place to hit it? The answer is yes. And we're going to go through that right now. So, here's our I'm looking down. Here's my baseball bat. Z is in this direction. This is kind of the top view. So, here's my handle of my bat. Balls coming in. Put some force on it. I think I put it lowercase in the notes. Okay. And I want to know and I want to minimize that force in my hands. I'm going to call this place where it hits P. I'm going to say here's its center of mass at G. Point about which you're holding it and it's rotating is A. And my coordinate system attached to the bat. Remember we always attach you always have this coordinate system attached to the bat in this rotational problems so that we can define things like moments of inertia. So, it's a coordinate system attached to the bat. And here's my y direction. And z's coming out of the board. And this distance is going to be important to me. RGA. And this distance here I'm going to call Q. It's my unknown. And I want to know where the where's the sweet spot. What do I want Q to be so that I minimize the force when at where I'm at A where I'm hanging on to it? So, how many degrees of freedom? How many independent coordinates do I need to do this problem? This problem's complicated because it's a, you know, a real life situation. It's quite complicated and I'm going to do a lot of simplification and claim the answer and then look at the answer and say, does it make sense? Were my did my simplifications make sense? So, I'm going to make this I'm going to do a number of simplifications. I'm going to argue that I think I can get at most of the answer by essentially saying right here where I'm hitting it, my wrists are like hinge point. That's point A. I'm going to assume it rotates about a fixed point at that moment. Okay. Pretty gross simplification of the real thing going on. You really got muscles. just putting moments on it. Your wrists actually are moving some, but I'm just going to say rotating only about that point. It stays in this plane. It's a planer motion problem. At most three possible degrees of freedom, x, y, and some theta, right? And I'm going to make the simplification that it's pinned at a. So if it's pinned at a, what is that? How many constraints is that? Two. One left. So I only need I'm going to pick one coordinate that's going to be my theta. So even though I've made these gross simplifications, will the answer actually turn out to be meaningful? And this G is my center of mass. And let's assume that we know I ZZ with respect to G that is mass moment of inertia for rotation is Z. Okay, assume that we know that it's given. So for this problem the uh when you have fixed rotation points the last that that this problem here that a point wasn't fixed it was moving accelerating. You could have had lots of complicated terms in its expression for torque if you had done it that way. This is fixed today. It makes a lot of sense to compute moments about a. All right. So my first equation here that I want is the sum of the moments torqus with respect to A and these are well they'll all turn out to be in the Z direction here and they are time rate of change of the angular momentum with respect to G which in these planer motion problems always then boils down to the mass moment of inertia for the axis you're rotating it about times the angular acceleration. That's that term. Oops, not g a. Excuse me. We picked our point. We got to stick with it here. Okay, I need that. And this is in the k hat direction. This is the only only term in our torque equation. What are the external torqus? Well, now the z's out of the board like this. I've got a force acting on a moment arm giving me a torque in the other direction. So this is minus f q also k hat. Now I might have done this sooner but we should look at a free body diagram. So, here's a little stick figure of my bat. And I potentially have an unknown force in the y direction, r y, and another unknown force in the x direction here at a that pinpoint where it's rotating it about. Out here is g and g. Is there an m is there an mg term? Well, there's gravity, right? But it's acting it's in the minus Z direction. And I'm this is I'm still I'm looking down on it. This is a top view. So gravity would create a moment in the Y direction. And I don't need I don't I don't have to deal with that. My only moment this is my for this is my torque equation only has khat terms in it. Gravity creates a a moment in the Y which in fact you have to that's a static equilibrium problem. You do have to provide that when you're holding the bat or else the bat would droop, right? It doesn't have anything to do with the dynamics actually. Okay, here's here's G. There's no gravity term that you can see. It's pointing into the board and out here is my point P and here's F. Okay, so I need an equation. I have equation for moment equilibrium. I need a some dynamic equation. I have two possible equations for force equilibrium. How many unknowns do I have? But none no others. Three possible unknowns. I'm going to need three equations to get rid of these two terms, right? And I looking ahead. My objective is to make that term go to zero. So I both have to find an expression for it and then figure out how to make it go to zero. That's all that's that's how you do this problem. Okay. So the from let's do sum of the forces in the y. So you have an r y j hat minus f also in the jhat direction. And that's basically all there is to that. But that must be the mass of the bat times the acceleration of G with respect to O in the Y direction. So that's our J hat component. This is just component of acceleration in the Jhat direction. And the sum of the forces in the X, we look at those. Well, we have an RX in the I and there are no others. And that must be then the mass of the bat times the acceleration g with respect to O of the bit in the x direction. And that'll be in the i hat. So I've got two unknown accelerations now to have to deal with. But we know lots of kinematics now. So let's do it this way just to give you the practice. Acceleration of G with respect to O. Acceleration of A with respect to O plus the acceleration of G with A. Omega equals Z plus Omega dot cross RGA plus 2 omega cross V G A omega equals Z. And finally plus omega cross r one two three four five terms. Our vector 3D equation is f figure it out quickly. What's this term? Z what? fixed point of rotation. That was our assumption. This guy goes to zero. Okay. The velocity in g was effect zero. Okay. Another zero. Omega dot cross r. So that could you know there's an angular acceleration which there might be cross r that's a perfectly legitimate term. And that'll give you a this will give you a theta double dot just like before. It's in the k direction cross r g a in the i. That's this term right here. Okay. This velocity of g with respect to a on the bat that went zero the corololis that goes away. So at this point we've only got one term from there and this term is our centrial term. think there's going to be a centrial force. Common sense, should it be? Anytime you have rotational something rotating about a point, if the center of mass is not the point of rotation, you will have you will be make forcing a mass to move in a circle. And that always requires centrial acceleration always requires a force. This for sure will give you a term which is a minus omega z^2 type term times the r the distance rg that's its radius and it's inward so in this direction it'll be ihat three terms same as before we now have our accelerations Okay, so from our top equation up there from the summation of forces in the y, we'll now substitute these in. We have m rg a j hat the acceleration term. See we ended up with uh the theta the k cross i term gives you j. So the oilarian term is going to show up here. So that we need a theta double dot and this is in the j direction that comes from the the acceleration we figured out and that's equal to minus f plus r y. And this is all little J hat. Let me write the other one first. Here. Here's the summation in the x direction. That's mass times our acceleration in the iH direction. And what term? We only ended up with one term doing that. And that's our centrial term. So we get minus r g a theta dot squared ihat. That's the centripal acceleration times the mass. And the only term that it is equated to is the other reaction force. Okay. So, here's the here's the here's the key step in this problem. We want what to be zero so that we're hitting it at the sweet spot. What's the original objective? We We don't We want R Y to go away. All right. Make it go away. So f then I'll do it as an intermediate step. Just a sec. F is then I'm going to leave R Y for just a second longer. R Y minus M R GA theta dot and since this is my com I can drop the J hats this is now a scalar equation I can find an expression for this force that I don't even know what the force is but the ball exerts on the bat but it exists I can say this must be true and my objective is that this should be zero so that says when that's true F is minus M RGA theta dot and I'm going to use that in just a moment. So I'm going to substitute this into our first equation up there for moment equation number one. So this implies that f is minus m r g with respect to a theta double dot and this goes into one which I have an fq so I do that notes This is now also a scalar equation. I can drop the k hats. So I z with respect to a theta dot equals minus fq k minus fq but f is minus. So the minuses cancel. So I get m r g a theta double dot times q. Now I ZZ with respect to A can be expressed as M times something we call the radius of girration squared with respect and this has got to be with respect to A. the radius of gyration for rotation about AI can find an expression like this so that it's equal to izz about with respect to a and all the radius gyration means is if I took all the mass and put it that distance away the mass moment of inertia of that concentrated point mass with respect to the point of rotation is the same as in the real object so this is just a you know convenience that we use so that's mcap square. And that says then that m cappa^ 2 a equals m r g a theta dot. I have a theta dot here too. Sorry. Times q. And I can solve for q. The theta double dots go away. The m's go away. and Q is just kappa squared a divided by r g a. So let's and that's the that's this that's the answer to this uh center of percussion problem. Here's your bat. Here's A. Here's G. Here's P. The um Q is about here. Whoops, excuse me. Q is the distance to P. It's always outside of G. It'll always be outside of G. We'll have to think about maybe a reason for that. So, here's the center of mass. Here's RGA. And here's this point at which you want to hit at the sweet spot. And it's always kappa squared a over r. Now, you how could you how do you get to kappa squared a? Well, you need to evaluate zzz with respect to a. But I ZZ with respect to A. You can do parallel axis theorem. I ZZ with respect to G plus M RGA squ right and you have that. So if we were to do this, I gave you a quick example. If this were a uniform rod, right? I ZZ G equ= ML^2 / 12 I Z with respect to A M L 2 / 12 + M R G with respect to A squared that is M L^2 / 12 + m l 2 this is L over2 to RGA half the length if I put a right at the end so I'm doing this simple rod putting a right here g right in the middle so this is l over two m l 2 over 2^2 4 you add those two together you get m l 2 over3 equ= m kappa a squared. So kappa squar a is l^2 over 3 and q = l2 over 3 / l / 2. So you get 2/3 l 2/3 of the length put you out here or half the length. So here's L over two. Here's P at 2 L over3. So anytime you run into this radius, these center of percussion problems, tennis racket, baseball bats, whatever, the right place to hit it is away from the point of rotation. Now do you think this is now? How good is this model? You know, is it you start thinking about well, what are the things, you know, does the bat handle's really moving? Uh, it's still actually remarkably good. It's remarkably good. In fact, you know, the fact these other things are happening, like you're putting some moment on with your wrists, the fact that you still have some speed down here. All you're doing is kind of maybe changing the point. It's it's rotating around, but you're still having to exert forces with your hands at that point where you're holding it and you just want those forces to go to zero. The all of these other complications, you're still going to find out to make that force go to zero. It's approximately that pretty good. It's really a pretty good answer. All right. Ah, let's go back and and we had we we have another piece of information that we developed in this problem that we haven't used. We had another equation. We had the acceleration in the I direction and it's just equal to RX. m the RX force is M * the acceleration in the I direction and that's minus R g with respect to A theta dot squared. That's our old centrial force term, right? Centrifugal force, centripal acceleration. And here's centrial acceleration times the mass is the force to make that to make the bat go in a circle. You have to provide that force. Okay. So, I want to finish up by t a loose end that many people have continue to have a little trouble with because I get questions on muddy cards about this and it was on this last homework. I don't know how that wheel with the little bit missing. If you all got that sorted out, if that if you're all perfectly clear in your mind about that, then I don't need to say what I'm going to talk about for a second. But I thought I would tidy just tie that up the last little bit here. This problem is a nice lead to it. This last force that I computed is the force required to swing this thing in a circle. And I'm putting that force right here. And I'm I'm saying it's actually the point of rotation is right here. And that force is a mass times the acceleration of that point. And that point is a distance from my point of rotation to the center of mass. No accident. You're accelerating the center of mass. That times the the uh rotation rate squared is the acceleration. The centrial acceleration. This is the force. So the anytime you have an object, maybe it's a wheel. And maybe it has stuck on it a little extra mass. You don't know about a rock stuck in your tire. This is the center of rotation. Your axle and your wheel doesn't move. Tire doesn't move relative to the axle. You got this little bit of mass. Missing or added, doesn't much matter. The center of mass of this system is no longer at the center of rotation. So I'll call the center of rotation here a. That's what it's rotating about. this addition or loss of a piece of mass makes the center of mass of the system move a little bit. So if an act of an extra little bit of mass out here, the new actual center of gravity of the system is out here is a little distance away and I'll get call that distance Eccentricity. So now I have a system whose center of mass is not at the center of rotation and its distance RGA is I'm calling is the eccentricity and as this rotates now put a coordinate system on here I XY rotating with the system The force that's going to appear here on this axle, it's going to have a force that I'll call RX. rx equals the mass times the acceleration of the center of gravity of the system. And the center acceleration of the center of gravity in this system is minus e theta dot squared and it's inward in the ihat direction. Therefore the minus sign. So the force this is the c this is the centrial acceleration times mass. The force required to make it do that is an inward force minus m e theta dot^ squar ihat. Okay, I drew rx in a positive direction. The answer comes out minus. It says it's going the other way. So this is always the case. If you have a system that for some reason is does not rotate about its true center of mass but in fact the center of mass is off a little bit or a lot you will have to provide a force that's inwardly directed as that thing spins. Okay. Now the I a subtle a subtlety I want you to know to really go away with is that we've talked quite a lot about unbalance due to these masses that aren't at the concentrated at the center these these unbalanced masses. There are two kinds of unbalanced that engineers have chosen to describe the world with two kinds. One is static imbalance and the other is dynamic imbalance. A statically imbalanced system is one in which you can if you this I'm looking uh a side view of um an edge view of this thing as it's spinning. Maybe like this. and the center of rotation is here and the G is here. That force is inward on it. But I've it it's really it's perfectly symmetric. So this is this force that I'm having to provide to keep this thing from flying off is perfectly inward directed. Does it generate any moments about this point? None. This is called static imbalance. And that is here's an example of static imbalance. This is my rotor. I'm going to put it on its side. Gravity says I want this to hang down because where's the center of mass of this system? Up here along here. It's down here somewhere. Right? That center of mass, you do a statics calculation. Mg sin theta, you know it's going to hang down. So that's why they call it static imbalance. And the way you can correct a statically imbalanced system is just do the test. Put the thing, hang the thing on an axle. And do I have a handy axle here today? Put it on an axle and see if it rotates. And if it rots rotates to some point hanging down, you know this thing's statically in balance. And Look at my kit of parts here. Let's maybe do this. I don't know if this heavy enough to do the job, but now I've put a little bit of mass on here. And I presume that if I do this with it, okay, it goes down. The system is statically imbalanced. This system now is also dynamically imbalanced. Why? It kind of depends on where I do the calculation. But if I do my if I say that I want to know this one, I've put a force a mass off center here. And if I compute moments about a point that's perfectly lined up with it, this system will create no moments about that point. This system perfectly balanced. Now, the mass that I've stuck on here is there. This system is perfectly balanced. It generates no moments as it spins, no matter where you calculate this point. But this extra little bit if I put my if I compute this is a if I compute h with respect to a here and do the derivatives of it I get no torqus except in the z direction. But as soon as I move away from there and there is a distance here and I compute moments about that do I get some static moments not in the direction of spin? Yes. So when you do that this system if I'm if this is my point A let's call it is over here this this system is it statically imbalanced? Yep. Is it dynamically imbalanced? Yeah. So how would you balance it? Final question of the term for me. How would you balance put this system into balance? All right. So, if I put another mass here, will that statically balance it? Statically balance, meaning if I let go, it'll rotate. Will will it have to rotate around and find a low point? Is there any low point? If I put it one equal and opposite equal distance away, opposite side, would it be statically balanced? Yeah, because gravity pulls down on this one equal and opposite down on this one. So it would be statically balanced. Would it be dynamically balanced? The system as you spin will try to twist like this. So it's not dynamically balanced. What if I move it over to here? Is it statically balanced? Yes. Is it dynamically balanced? compute the torqus. You know, you put let's put a right in the center. Compute the angular momentum. Take its time derivative. And you will find that this one as it spins tries to create a moment like that. And this one as it spins tries to create a moment like that. And they're exactly equal and opposite. This is this is dynamically balanced. and statically balanced. Was it dynamically balanced about a this is not dynamic? If you put a right in the usual center, the original center of gravity, we'll call a of this wheel. This system is not dynamically balanced with respect to an A that's right on the axle and on the center because it has this little offset. Okay.