All right. Well, let's just talk about games a little bit. Um, so your learning journal assignment was, uh, what are the, um, what are the learning games that you all played in your in your youth or your contemporary times? We heard Omar has talked with us a couple of times about his passion for typing games um and the importance of them in his middle school experience, but what other kinds of games um are memorable to folks in their growing up for learning or otherwise? Yeah, Emily. I think like there was this game like game 24 or something. It was like you'll have math 24. Oh, math 24. Man. Yeah. You have like four numbers on a card and then you're supposed to add, subtract, multiply, divide, however you want to get to the number 24. Did you do it online or in the cards? No, in the cards. Yeah, I was in elementary school. All right. Cool. This is it? No, we don't know. I don't know. I used the Yeah, those cards card game version. Oh, all right. Spinning these things around. Cool. Other And where did this show up in elementary class? Yeah, it was like they put it in like the indoor recess spot. That's great. That's great. Um, what else? What other kinds of games did people play? Sabrina, what was your None of these counts as like like really really educational, but um I used to play a lot of cool math games as a kid. They kind of are. At first they were and god is straight up just I teach you time management with all my they teach you ALT tab on your computer once a teacher walks behind your monitor is is Fruit Ninja a math game. Oh my god. They also teach you like teamwork. Um, yeah, there is a pretty funny just naming convention of like, let's call it cool math games and then like maybe parents won't notice. I mean, there's definitely a first glance of like, oh, you're playing cool math games. That's probably fine. They're like, no, those are not math games. Categories at the top. Yeah, categories. Numbers. Yeah, platformer. Um, block removal. Yeah, it's a it's I don't know. There definitely some darts. Test your aim in an online multiplier. Okay. Idle breakout. Maybe there used to be like those multiplication like penguin race games and you have to like answer the multiplication questions as fast as you could. Yep. Um definitely definitely a uh Oh, Math Playground. Yeah, that is another one that I've seen. Um no, this this I think is a direct descendant of Math Blaster. Um, uh, play now. Play now. Playing against Luke and Shamar. Are Luke and Shamar real? We don't know. Let's just see how close this is to math. Yeah, this is this is exactly Math Blaster. Um, and we'll play a little Math Blaster later. Good. Yeah, good job everyone. nice strong strong singledigit multiplication skills in the MIT students. I'm very proud of you. Other other things I was saying um like in my other class, my learning class, we're like really pushing the boundary of what's considered like a learning game. Um and like one I grew up playing a lot of board games with my family. Um and one that like I'm right now doing a project on that like makes me really realize all the skills that I learned was a board game called The Resistance. You never heard of it? Um and like was just thinking about like skills that I've learned from that of like not like how to keep a poker face, but like how to formulate an argument to like back up the claims that I've made. Um, and like how to just like have constructive arguments about with between people. So like a lot of communication skills and just like life skills that I use to this day that were still just like developed in some of those like almost like roleplaying communication games. Have any of you ever played Mafia or Werewolf? That's a derivation of Mafia or Werewolf. Um, the guy who invented rare where there is a guy who invented mafia. Um, it's not just like an like a sort of cultural it's not it's not like a century old game. It's a guy who now I think lives in Newton or Welsley. He applied for a job in my lab once. He's a Russian immigrant. Um, he grew up in Russia and then came here. But I'm like he was like, "Yeah, I invented Mafia." And I was like, "I played that at camp when I was a kid." Like, nope. We, you know, it came from a particular moment and things like that. It's kind of cool. Um uh that's definitely a topic I want us to talk about uh today and is featured in the book this idea of transfer. Um what is it that you learned playing the resistance that we might plausibly think you would you would actually be able to deploy in other non-similar contexts and what does research tell us about uh about that and which which ends up being a sort of crucial question that the utility and value of learning games hinges around. Um, if you can get better at lots of things by playing Minecraft, if you can get better at critical thinking, if you can get better at teamwork, if you can get better at socialization, then like, oh, Minecraft sounds pretty cool. If actually playing a lot of Minecraft just makes you better at Minecraft, um, then the then the social utility of Minecraft playing in, you know, in schools or for learning experience goes down quite a bit. Um, what other games have people played or other things? What was yours, Khalil? Uh, so I generalize both. So there's a lot of games that rely on coordinate systems as an integral part of the game and a lot of these like you could easily draw the parallels of it towards like massification with regarding to that. The game that the most closely resemble that I remember is game over golfer to just like a car zombie like uh plant versus zombie like game. Uhhuh. Uh but it relies on you placing like it tells you hey place this at this coordinate and you have to figure out that quickly. So it have to like internalize the idea of the coordinate system beyond just like a search slow search because that would just get you so far. Uhhuh. How quickly will you will see the basics of this? No plot. No plot. Oh, I see. All right. Cool. Um, the coordinate. Oh, and now I turn the sound off on that. The Let's see if this Let's see if we can find his Apple trick. Um, uh, Apple Trek. Yeah. Originally released in 1971. Um, also had, uh, I was just going to let us get into it. Um, this was the game that I played when I was a kid that had a sort of coordinate system in it. Um, where, uh, you just had to shoot photon torpedoes at uh, bad guys. You could press F. F will Thank you. Um, yeah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. So, you have to sort of fly through, you're sort of flying through the universe and eventually if you want to shoot the photon torpedo, you have to um, you know, figure out what the angle is and um, you know, you know, fire it at 90 degrees or 70 degrees or um, other kinds of things like that. Wasn't very good gameplay video, but uh, but it's but it's an example of a game with a coordinate system from 1971. So, that certainly seems like a feature that that shows up repeatedly. Could you look up Odell Fish? That was AI think a descendant of that Odell fish game. Yeah. Um but yeah, it was No, there was an older version. There was one from the 198 1986 that it pretty much was just a fish and you had to not get eaten by the otter. So all you had to do was like move up and down and it was riveting for third graders in mid 90s. So what's it? Yes. I'm not quite getting down a little bit. It's not Yeah, it's not letting me. Uh there. This is the upto-date graphics, too, guys. That was good. All right. Um, are you all too old to How many of you had Cahoot as sort of a central part of your middle school or high school? All right. Even we won't. How what what's your what year did you graduate high school, Jiren? 2019. 2019. It's still It was used it a lot in high school though. Like like 2015 like a lot pretty pretty substantial. How how did it get integrated into um classroom experience? I think like eventually my school had a program of like we had like Chromebooks and so then that like just sort of naturally led to okay like we already all have our Chromebooks like we're like do some sort of quiz or whatever and it you know it gets real intense in the classroom obviously. Do do people are nodding? You generally like think of cahoot fondly like that was a good sort of I mean I I built similar things in my class when I was a teacher in 2003. I don't know somehow I had I had AI had a Jeopardy setup um that was with like a PowerPoint thing where I just deleted little like blocks to show the questions and then people guessed answers and stuff like that. So the sort of quiz show format. I mean it's not you know it's it really is not that is a classic example of sort of gamification or chocolate covered broccoli like there's no uh there's there's no intrinsic game mechanic that's in there. This is like like competition over you know review questions or knowledge or things like that. But it ends up being pretty I mean it's not you know um widely enjoyed by learners from lots of different backgrounds and things like that. I feel like it stems from like just being fed broccoli your whole life. chocolate broccoli. Like, man, this is great. It's so Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's right. It's like, man, this is so much better than just doing a review. This is so much better than whatever the like typical routine of class is. Um, name Oh, great. It's like you get to write your own custom name. Yeah. Yeah. You know, there are a bunch there's those identity components. There's a sort of surprise components. It's also like outside of Jeopardy being like a group thing like everyone gets to give an answer. Every everybody gets to give an answer. Yeah. It does some good mechanics. Um doesn't Cahoot have things where on your own display it like there's a classwide leaderboard, but there's sort of your own personal leaderboard. So like you're like even if like even if you're getting demolished in class, like it just shows you competing against the people who are nearest to you. So that there's far away five points behind this other player. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's giving you relative uh some some I mean like uh like Pelaton and other kinds of things do that right like I don't know I don't have a Pelaton but I you know I think as these sort of leaderboard systems you know across distributing computing environments are developed they're like oh you don't have to compete against you know if you if you have people compete against everyone and only one person can win. If you have like everybody competing against a small subset which is not necessarily overlapping with anybody else's subset then like you know everybody but one can beat somebody in some kind of way. Um you know and then you make up some other people and they can beat the rest of them. um good other games have people played that were um I guess like related to like expanding what a learning game is like um I most of my youth I guess I was uh in Iran so like didn't really have like the internet bandage for like the like online learning games or anything and learning games in general were like not a thing that I was really aware of until I got to the US but I guess Like some stuff that I thought about was like um uh one specific one is like my parents got me a toy sewing machine that was like functional. Um and I learned how to sew with that and then generally just like uh it was like gamification of arts and crafts a lot of time. My mom would give me a bunch of like stuff be like go make something with this and and like my sister and I are very much like perfectionists. So like we would always be like, "Oh, like I want it to be like this." And then my mom would be like, "Okay, well if you want that like here's some like exploration of like how you want to be able to do that." And I think like a lot of that was like one like obviously like the skill itself of like I learned how to sew with a sewing machine and stuff like that, but also like a lot of practice of like um um uh what do you call it like spatial understanding and like how do you write letters on a poster so that they're not like all bunch stuff at one end and just like how to like plan like a certain space effectively. and things like that. Yeah. What what makes that what makes that a game to you as opposed to like a playful apprenticehip or um I guess some of it might be just like the stakes. I was just like and then like I guess it is um um I mean maybe it was also just a little bit influenced by like how it was presented I guess of like it was just like like if it has like some pretend aspect or of like oh like if it's a competition with my sister or things like that I guess. Yeah. Famously you know there are philosophers who've tried to pin down the word game and some of them have concluded it's not possible. I think Whit Wickenstein was one of the ones who uh who said that there that there really is no um there's no way to to accept to create a definition of game that correctly includes all the things that people think should be included and excludes all the things that people think should be excluded. It's quite difficult to figure out um what what gameness is, you know, and how it relates to sports or play or other, you know, the real life other kinds of activities. Um, but that's great that those things sort of felt uh felt gameful to you. Um, they certain they certainly have a bunch of what what you describe immediately evokes sort of situated learning kinds of things of like, oh, you know, my like my mom does this thing and so she gave me a little version of this thing and then we did some of that stuff and she gave us some tasks and we played around with them. Um, and it is funny how, you know, across cultures, across history, um, young people really like playing at what adults do. Um, I have a great photograph from Messiah, um, with this little, uh, three-year-old Messiah dude dude who's got a long stick, um, and a set of rocks in the sand, and he's sort of whacking the the rocks in the sand because Messiah are all herders. Um, and so he just watched his older brothers grow up hurting goats. And he knew that he was gonna end up hurting goats. And it's, you know, like there's like a lot of goat hurting going on. But a thing that's fun for him is to grab a couple rocks, pretend they're goats, and start hurting them around in the sand. And I think it's funny because it's relatable, you know, um to to whatever whatever culture you're in. Um, playing at being older is a big part of youth. Um, good. Other other games that people played? Yeah, Omar. Um, this one might unlock a couple memories, but Starfall was a big part of my childhood. No. What's that? It's uh I primarily played it during uh kindergarten and preschool and first grade. Um, yes, that first link. Um, but I they added a whole new section that I don't even remember like I don't ever recall seeing that. So, they significantly updated the website, but that was where I really did a lot of um sort of like uh reading, intro to reading. Uhhuh. Um, and I mean for me it got pretty old pretty fast, but like it's very nostalgic nowadays. So, um, that was one of them. And then also like Leaf Frog Toys. So, we had like a computer lab and we'd all go there and we'd like watch these and it was like really cool. Um, especially cuz like we didn't have like a um a lot of like computing technology when I like grew up at that time. So, it was really cool to see this kind of a kind of a a special highlight for the day to be able to do these kind of things, you know, and and and I hope that as you think about these kinds of things, think about Cahoot and stuff like that that your mind drifts back to what you read in Larry Cuban and his description of kind of the material concerns of teachers, the schedule concerns of teachers of things like, oh, it's pretty handy to be able to have a bunch of like digital books that people find extremely compelling to shove six-year-olds in front of for an hour during the day so you can like finish your lunch or do some grading or do a little PR planning and prep for other times of the day. Um I don't know if this is well studied but I bet uh you know Larry Cuban's finding that that uh television and film strips were more likely to be used at the end of the day in elementary schools probably parallels findings that you might have today about when cahoot games or other things like this get used uh in the in the rhythm of the day and so forth. Um so uh yeah different different technologies but we can apply some of the similar sorts of uh analytic tools and frameworks to them. Good. Um what are some things that I wanted to let me let me talk let me talk for you a little bit and then I'll give you a little bit of chance to play some games. Um and then uh and then we can talk a little bit about transfer. Um, one thing that I just wanted to draw your attention to that's in the syllabus is uh for failure disrupt in the rabbit hole readings that you're not required to do. One of those links for every chapter is a podcast episode. Um, and uh I was thinking about them because some people who are missing class this week because of Sloan SIP week. I was going to recommend those to them as sort of supplementary kind of things. But for the um uh this chapter in particular, Scott Auststerhile who developed the logical journey of the Zubinis is one of the guests and then Constant Steiner who actually had a job for a while in the US Department of Education thinking about um the role of games in education systems is there. Probably one of the most fun things about the podcast episodes um is that I really encouraged the people who came to disagree with me. Um and so um you in in most episodes there there are uh you know claims made about where the book is wrong by very well-informed people um on those topics. So so Constant Steiner does not agree with me in this episode about uh the relationship between games and learning and transfer and it's fun to to listen to that. Um, I think uh Mitch and Natalie had some disagreements with me in in uh about uh what the what the learning goals of Scratch are um in practice. So, those can be kind of fun. So, I don't know you're going for a run or something like that. You need some light podcast listening to these can be fun episodes. If you're if you're not getting enough education technology in your three hours a week with me, um there's more to be had. Um so the way that this chapter is structured is I call it sort of testing this theory of the genres of learning at scale. um which is um what you should be you know the the reason part a big reason for organizing um the the the idea of three genres of learning at scale is I want people to be able to take new technologies and say oh that is kind of like this and if we can say oh that's kind of like this then we can say all right so we probably know something about its technology we probably know something about the sort of pedagogical underpinnings we can make some guess about research like a big thing that I would want someone who reads failure to disrupt to be able to do is to like look at new AI tools and be like, okay, you know, we did not have generative pre-trained transformers that were pretty useful until November of 2022, but like the things that we're trying to do with them are going to be similar to other kind of stuff that we've done in the past, and we should be able to slot the things that we're going to do to them into different kinds of categories. Um, games struck me as a good testing place for this because it's it's not the case that I think games fit neatly into one of these three categories of instructorguided learning at scale or algorithm guided learning at scale or peer guided learning at scale. But I do think that any given game probably fits into one of those categories pretty nicely or has some sort of like recognizable hybridity across those categories. Um, so something like Math Blaster, um, you know, is is is kind of an example of, you know, you could decide whether or not it's sort of instructorg guided learning at scale or something like that. Doesn't really have a lot of item response theory to it. Um, you know, but it's but it's basically just an autograder. Um, you know, you go you go in, you're given a type of problem, you practice that problem over and over again. Maybe the difficulty goes up and you practice sort of another type of problem. Um, had any of you ever heard of Vanished before? Maybe some of you in the other in the games for learning classes you read about Vanished. Um, so Vanished, which I write about a little bit in the book, was this really cool project that the MIT uh uh education arcade did with the Smithsonian Museum? It was any watch the television show Lost? Um, okay. So, a couple nods there. I don't Have any of you ever participated? I I mean, it actually d I don't know. Like are you all aware what's going on with Kate Middleton right now where people are like trying to figure out like why she's not showing up in public and sort of all these conspiracies theories show up about it and people do these detective work. There's a bunch of things like that or like I don't know um when the Malaysian airline flight crashed and nobody really knew. I don't know there there's something that human beings have that's like let's all kind of solve the mystery together and it gets kind of woven into conspiratorial thinking. It overlaps nicely with fiction with things like Lost or um sort of other television shows that do that. But but Vanished was basically like an alternate reality game that was sort of played out on the web um where there were codes to break. There were secret messages spread across websites. There were sort of scientific claims that were happening. Other sorts of thing. There are messages from the future being beamed back into the past. um and students signed up um to like either as classes or individuals to sort of like get the kind of messages that went along. I think the game ran for a couple months or something like that. Um but very much a sort of peerguided learning at scale kind of example like you know just like a series of puzzles put out there that you collaboratively tried to solve. you had to interact with other people um to kind of find um a big you know the these two kinds of games um illustrate uh some of the basic principles that we were just talking a about a little bit. Um Math Blaster. So what you did in Math Blaster is you like took that little character and you ran it back and forth to get the get the correct answer. Actually, what was the what was the penguin game that we just played? What was that called? Penguin Race Off or something? Yes, I think so. Yeah. So, so penguin penguin raceoff um is uh is an example of what sometimes gets called gamification, which is how do we take a mathematic how do we take an intellectual exercise that we think is useful for people and put game elements on it to inspire people to do that activity? Um, uh, what what other kinds of software have you played with that takes like basically a worksheet activity and add sort of game elements on top of it? It's kind of like thinking about the what the slide you presented earlier like Dolingo kind of Yep. Dolingo has a ton of gamification built into it like in you know I don't know how many of you how many of you use Dolingo or have used it. Oh just a couple. Okay. So maybe more people play around with it. Um but you know they have millions of people who are doing little language activities but a big part of why they're doing like the little language activities are not that inherently fun. Um but what are the features in Dualingo that try to like get people hooked to to do it and keep doing it? Streaks. Streaks are a big one. Yeah. you know, which is just like a number that you try to increment every day. That's kind of a game. Visual design. What kind of elements? Uh colorful design, interactive design, all of these like bubbly like feelings to everything in it. Yep. Yep. So, yeah, it like creating it and turning into a playful space. Some of the most important visual elements are when you get something right. Um there's usually like a little flash you for sound, a little ding. Um, Edex had these big green check marks for a while when you got answers correct. I think another thing that's been like a recent development has been their PR. Um, recently like at least on Tik Tok like Duolingo's like gone unhinged. Um, and like the birds like everywhere and it like comments on weird things and like every time it comments somewhere like there's like a million like like replies to it. Um, and I think like wanting to be like a part of that community or like say I've done that is also like a big thing in society today. Yeah. Good. Um, Mari who's not here wrote in like to me um uh uh Dolingo when I think about it is sort of a classic example of kind of gamification. Um, you know, sort of very instructionist kind of inspired like let's just put some game elements on stuff. And Mario wrote an essay was like, "No, actually this thing is like super motivated by situated learning." Um, the way that it makes you like things like that are like, "Oh, like the duo bird is out there and I can have a parasocial relationship with the duo bird and it will comment on my TikTok feeds and I can respond to it and things like that." Um, got me thinking a little bit differently about it. Maybe we keep talking about that. Um, yeah, the the the the term of art for this uh kind of approach is chocolatecovered broccoli. um that basically like this is super boring math to do, but we're just gonna like pour chocolate on it to get you to try to do more of it. And of course, like the joke of chocolate covered broccoli is that like chocolate covered broccoli does actually not taste that good. Um and Math Blaster is actually not that fun. Like it's fun for a little while and then you're like, "Oh, I'm just doing division." um whereas Vanished um and other kinds of games like it there's not a there's not an as well accepted name, but my my colleagues at the education arcade um refer to these games as resonant games. Um and a key feature of resonant games is that instead of trying to add game elements on top of some kind of intellectual exercise, you're trying to find the playfulness in the intellectual exercise. like what it's not it's not um how do we how do we add game mechanics to math. It's what is already fun and playful and interesting in math and then how do we have that fun and playfulness kind of surface and emerge so that you so that we get learners to engage with that first. um in in vanished like how do we teach scientific thinking, scientific practices by having those practices emerge kind of naturally in this sort of conspiratorial mystery kind of story um that happens. Um, oh, good. These, this is a great example of what Khalil was just talking about of, uh, um, uh, yeah, the very the very sort of playful environment that like we'll give you some experience points. We'll tell you about your time. We'll call you amazing. We'll give you these funny little sticker. I mean, like this is this is I don't know if any of you do did your elementary teachers like put stickers on successful assignments and stuff like that. Can you think of like gold stars and stuff like that? Yeah, this is just like a digital version of that. is the same kind of thing. Let's give you some kind of visual reward reminder to get you to keep playing and doing these things. Um, uh, this is one that I talk about in the book, uh, Lumosity, which maybe we'll talk about a little bit later when we talk about, uh, transfer and things like that. Um, all right. So, I would like to invite you to play two of these games, and you can find these links in the syllabus, but why don't we take 15 minutes or so and let you pull out some computers. Um, I'm going to give you I'm going to give you maybe before you pull them out, let me just explain these four things and then you can do whatever you want with them. Um, the first one is Math Blaster. Um, I could I don't think I successfully found the 1983 version. I think I found a 1996 one. Um, but you should play a few rounds of Math Blaster and see what all the hype is about. Um, the second game is the logical journey of the of the Zoominis. Um, which was a key part of Erin's childhood. And so now she'll get to go back to that. It has a really long kind of intro story and stuff like that. You if that's what you're into, you can do that. But if you want to play the game, you'll have to like skip a bunch of introductory stuff to get into some interesting sort of combinatorics kinds of things. Um, one thing which is not a game, but if any of you are big Minecraft fans, um, I gave you a link to what is essentially the Minecraft website for teachers. Um, you won't be able to unless you have got Minecraft on your computer, you won't be able to jump in there and play with things. But a thing that you can do is go to like their lesson plan finder. Um, and uh, that's probably the most useful probably the thing you'd find most interesting is go to explore lessons and pick a topic you're interested in and you know see whether or not you think the you know good going back to the coordinate system like how do you uh um, you know, how to how would how would you use Minecraft to teach the coordinate system and they've got all kinds of guiding activities and student activities and you won't be able to see the world that's associated with them but each one of these lessons has a kind of Minecraft space that's been built, you can at least get some screenshots from it. And then if anybody hasn't played Dualingo, it it it's not it you could probably pretty quickly start creating an account um and doing some things like that. Um if you want to do it with a person next to you, you should feel free to do that. Um the easiest place to find all of these links, you could just Google them, but they are on the syllabus, um bit.lym LMT syllabus and then uh um on the on the day for learning games I've put uh four of these links there. Um so it's 1:35. Why don't we take until about 1:50 and just let you uh and feel free to do it with a partner or something like that. And if they've got sound, you turn on the sound quietly and stuff like that so you can hear it without bothering people next to you. But they're but they're pretty fun things to mess around with. Sound good? Ready? Go. All right. So, having having who who played around with Zooinis? Looked like we had a lot of Zoominis player. What are what are your reactions having spent some time with Zooinis? It's cute. It takes so long. I I just I want like go hurry up. Then you get to see them walk up and bounce up. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So the more you know the more I it actually you know most of you were playing with sound off which might be a mistake because I think part of the part of the stakes of Zoominis are set like there's a narrator in the back who tells you about how the Zoominis were oppressed and you're saving them and things like that and have like um you know having you having you develop a kind of affinity for them is is in a sort of storytelling world is part of the game having them be cute I think is important that you develop some care for them um and want to engage with them and things like that sort of the more in fact the more you peel away those elements and ju the the kind of narrative elements the social elements the artistic elements and just get down to the math the more like that that could that could risk some of the fun of the engagement I'd rather play Sudoku rather play okay good yeah which is just like a straight immersion into like yeah and and those kinds of personal preferences raise some real challenges for teachers right like for like you Imagine having, you know, if you were to take time in a math class to have people play the logical journey of the Zubinis, there'd be some kids who are like, "This is the best day of class ever." And there'd be other kids who are like, "H, can we just go back to doing whatever we were doing before?" Um, and uh it's like an expensive investment of time and other kinds of things to to have a third-year class be like, "Ah, this game's not that fun." Emily, did it did it sell you eventually or? Yeah, I I would say I I kind of like it. Good. I think it's just um I don't know. It It could be like that tendency like you said of like create like having an affinity for that or like, oh, it's like these like cute little creatures like going across your screen and like um how much you enjoy that or how much you might care for that. And I'm I'm very much down for a fun little game with little cute characters and identities and things like that. But I feel like it might just be because like now I'm so used to like things having to happen like very quickly cuz like even like lectures I tend to watch them like in two times speed instead of like the normal way like the normal time. So then it's like watching playing these games are so slow that I'm just like you've lost my attention. I don't want to play it anymore. Good. Yeah. There's there's a little kind of gap in there. Wait, I have a question. Did you guys like skip the like transitions or were you sitting through them? I clicked out of skip them. Yeah. Okay. Cuz the the the transitions are like I see what you mean, but like the transitions are like Okay. Like you're slowly highlighting the next place I'm going in the map for like a minute and it's like, okay, I I've seen enough. It was fun to like figure out what the sort of traits were that they were selecting for, but then like you kind of inst I felt like I instantly found the traits and then I was just like, "Oh, okay. I'll just like there I didn't really have to like completely, you know, do like a crazy search for the traits or whatever." Like I was just like, "Oh, okay. Well, maybe this hair is good." And then all that hair turned out to be fine. I'm like, "Oh, okay. Great." I mean, it might have been harder if you were 10, but Well, actually, to build those two together, I'm like try I don't remember like when I was going through this game as a young person if I recognized or was even looking for the traits. Like I think maybe I I might have been more pulled to like the affinity to the characters and like, oh no, they got bounced back. That's not good. And just like doing I would do it with my sisters and we just like drop them all over the place and see if they go in. that I cannot remember if I like noticed that there were conditions and I just we cared we were okay with the slowness because we cared more about just getting them through it didn't matter like and I can't remember and that's killing me a little bit. Yeah. Um how many of you clicked the the question mark hint button that has an explanation and how many didn't discover the um it's kind of an interesting design feature um to be able to say that uh um you you can you can play you can play the game without any instructions about how to play the game. you're just like put in the world, start clicking things around, start moving things around. If you had to put the logical um journeys of the Zoominis as instructor guided learning at scale, algorithm guided learning at scale, or um peer guided learning at scale, what would you call it? I feel like instructor guided learning. Um, it's not like if I was able to solve all of the like or get all of the Zenis through on like one or two errors that it would automatically jump to like level five. Yep. Um, like there's very much like a sequence that you're supposed to follow. Um, and I when I would place one and then it would try and go up and felt like an autograder of like it's like this is either pass or fail. H yeah, the autograder is a lot more fun because like a thing crosses a bridge or gets kicked back or somebody eats a pizza but doesn't eat a pizza, but it's not really any different from a green check or a red check or other kinds of things like that. Um no, the way the way that I argued that Zoominis fit is that it's instructor learning at scale with an autograder. However, almost every MOO is inspired by more um instructivist kinds of approaches. And this is very much more inspired by kind of a situated learning apprenticeship kind of approach where it's almost trying to trying to hide the autograder, trying to hide the instructor. Um it's I mean it's very much trying to hide the instructions. You know, it says just like go into this world, immerse yourself into this world, play around, see what happens. There's sort of winning and losing, but like it's actually, you know, it's actually fine to fail a level. Well, it's fine to have all your Zoominis kick back. You can try again and rescue some other Zoominis, other sorts of things. Um, you know, there's there's no point in the game where it stops and is like, "Okay, kids, like actually, we're teaching you combinotaurics." Um, or, you know, or probability or whatever else you think is the mathematics of the game. It just lets that be a kind of, you know, natural learning that that happens throughout. um you know there are there are other you know so this is this is an exercise that I think is the kind of thing that might be helpful if you were um you know a department head a teacher trying to figure out whether or not you should adopt this technology in your classroom um which is sort of for any new technology three good questions to ask or who drives and control the pace and path of learning what are the technologies here what are the pedagogies and then sort of what can I predict will happen in my educational system given a consequence of this design. So like Math Blaster is pretty pretty instructor guided. It's got an autograder. I mean they're just worksheet problems. There's no difference between um that and a worksheet problem except like maybe I will slightly motivate some of my students to do more worksheet problems because like there's aliens and it's kind of fun and things like that. But maybe not. Maybe there's some people who are like ah I really don't want to have to like I just give me the math problems to answer. Um I I had often thought of do How many of you played around with Duolingo for the first time as you're clicking around here? Any sort of new Dolingo people? Um you know it certainly is algorithm guided as it's trying to you know there's some there's a lot of good writing um the the the developers of Dualingo keep blogs and other kinds of things where they talk about um you know for instance they they have a um have you ever heard of the concept of the zone of proximal development? This is sort of a classic educational concept that basically you want to try to as you're teaching people have there be a difficulty level where you feel sort of competent but also sort of stretched and you know if you're if things are too easy it's boring. If things are too hard it's boring. There's a zone of proximal sort of ideal development. Um for the they measure that zone of proximal development by saying like you you know we're trying to aim for people to have a certain kind of error rate. I don't know exactly what it is but it might be like we want you to get about 20% of the things you're hitting wrong. Um, if you're getting more than 20% wrong, then we're probably making it too hard, otherwise too easy. Um, but what are the I don't know what we talked a little bit, but what are some of the situated learning elements that you saw? If you were to say that there was not so instructionist, but it was more um inspired by kind of constructionism, situated learning. What kinds of things like that are in Dolingo? I like I found out Dolinda has a music thing now which is really cool because I've always wanted to learn music. I like play around with that but I don't understand it. Like I can't read notes or anything. I just like think and then play piano. But it's more interesting to see like they had this they had this stupid simulation of playing hot cross buns and I swear I could play that if I tried. But doing it with their little app, it was like you had to paste it and you had to recognize the notes. And I went back to that like 10 times and it's like simulating playing the piano. It's really simple for like a computer game, but that was pretty engaging. So, so it sort of immersed you in the feeling of playing a piano even though you're kind of on your phone. That seems like a good quality of a situated apprenticeship kind of thing. Um, now you you had played Hot Cross Buns before. Um, I feel like I could just play it like sitting in a piano without like if I looked for the notes soundwise. Like I can't read piano notes, but like I can figure out songs if you tell me what they like if I hear them. Yeah. So, playing by ear. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. So, yeah. Um, and and so you feel like this could be a pathway to doing I mean I I'm sort of increasingly convinced now that Dolingo um Dolingo came out of Carnegie Melon University and they have some of the best sort of learning scientists, learning engineers in the world and one of the things I like about them is that they're they're sort of methodological pluralists. They're like what are all the good ideas and how do we shove them all in there? Um so in some sense Dolingo like is very much instructionist. It's like taking big complex things and breaking it down into small pieces. It'll show you examples, then give you part tax practice and all those kinds of things. But it also has this way of like, well, let's give you an identity in this environment. Let's have you build a parasocial relationship with an owl. Let's feel like you're sitting down with a piano. Let's reward you. Let's help you go on a journey from being a newcomer to an old-timer by having badges and streaks and these other sorts of things with it. Kind of a nice blend um of uh of those things. Um, you know, um, we've talked a bunch in this class about how one of the signature challenges of self-paced online learning is that people are typically bad at it. Like people typically quit. Um, Duolingo has probably been as successful, maybe more successful than any other education technology company in building a product um, that's just super sticky for people. Um they they really have put a lot of effort into trying to break down the challenges of self-paced learning. Um and some you know through these gamifications through streaks through making it playful through having it feel like it'd be fun through I don't have have any of you quit tried to quit Dualingo like they send you heranging emails when you're not doing it enough and things like that. They've got all kinds of ways of trying to sort of continuously pull them in there. They're super scientific about all this stuff too. So, all like I'm sure all of those emails that you've ever gotten have been AB tested a zillion times. Um, all different kinds of timing and language they use and other things like that to sort of rope you back in. Um, good. How many of you looked around on the Minecraft um website? What did you find there, Khalil? Uh, I played like a game where like they're trying to like teach kids good game like stuff and it's still very like uh like there's not much to do just like go there do that should you feed the dog you probably should feed the dog. So it it feel it felt like a little bit forced in terms of the path that you could take. But after like oh doing these chores it it tells you hey you have to write this like good game guide book book and like oh what's the you should write like a certain instruction. Do you want an example? Oh what you did today was chores. You should do your chores before playing games. And then you get to write whatever you want, which case they don't really check what you write in there. But after that, you get to play like a little game where you shoot balloons, I guess. And then you're back into a new day. So it felt a lot of like uh a lot of like let's simulate life in Minecraft. You have like even you have parents in the game because they named them trusted adults. Uh but yeah, it felt it felt like a little bit too much like constrained in terms of what activity you could be doing and it felt uh like very like very much like clearly instructivist. I mean, I'm very much like an adult, so it's not like you're not the target audience for this, but I I hypothesize a kid would like recognize. Yeah. They are telling me to do my chores before playing games, but they're just doing it in Minecraft. Yeah. Yeah. I I think that's I mean to me how many of you are Minecraft players just like in your regular lives or were at some point in your you know to me the sort of joy of Minecraft the thing that they discovered was was the you know the the the joy of the boundlessness of just people inventing their own um missions and structure and things like that like there's a little bit of the overworld of the game but you know I mean for me it was always like all right I'm in a new world I will need a wizards tower like you know I had like a sort of construct in my mind of what I should live in um and it was a wizard's tower um And uh um you know that just cuts off it's very difficult to conduct educational activities which are like everyone go do whatever you want. I mean usually when you have some instructional activity you're like let's all do X you know. Um and so to some extent the kind of let's all do go do X is like directly against the fabric of one of the main things that makes Minecraft so special um is this open world where you can kind of do anything you want. Um, so there's a sort of um those those kinds of tensions show up all the time in you know I think you know could I think m Minecraft is incredibly sticky to young people. It is incredibly compelling and so you go oh maybe we could take this really sticky compelling world and have people do learning in it. But as soon as you add this dimension of okay you all have to do X inside my Minecraft world. Um it's uh it's often much much less compelling for people. you're sort of pull you're sort of taking away one of the key features that made it sticky um in the first place. Um but even if you want to do that, I think one of the central questions that games pose is um if you spend a lot of time in Minecraft, are there things that are that you're learning that are useful for other things or are you just learning how to play Minecraft? Um and that is a very old educational question. It is an educational question that actually somebody we've talked about a bunch. Um Edward Thorndikeke was one of the very earliest researchers in um and it relates to a problem that's called transfer. Um to what extent when you learn something can you take that learning and apply it into some other different kind of context. That is one of the most important questions we could ask in education. Um the more you believe that things learned in one context will help you do other kinds of things. Um, in some ways it sort of simplifies the education system. Like let's just get you to be really good thinkers in one domain and then you'll be good at all kinds of stuff. The more that you believe that things don't transfer very well, that people are really only good at doing the things that they're taught how to do, the more difficult and complex education become. In Thornikeke's time, um, the the the sort of thorny challenge that he was faced with, um, was that people were still big fans of sort of classical curriculum, um, teaching people Latin and Greek. Um, and the argument that was out there, um, was that if people got really good at learning Latin and Greek, they would learn sort of generically how to think well. They would learn how to think well, how to communicate well. I don't You all are giggling at this. Why are you giggling at this? What seems silly about that argument? I mean, learning Latin Greek is first of all, it seems like kind of elitist and hilarious for that reason, but also it's like any language or I guess any singular task. It's a lot of like pattern matching. I imagine I'm not a great language learner, but I can't imagine how you could apply the same underlying like if I just learned a lot of Polish, I would be really good at lots of other kinds of things. It doesn't doesn't stick quite well. Good. Um what are what are things in our current educational system that we tell people if you will if you learn this thing you'll be good at lots of other kinds of things? Math especially higher level stuff. Okay good. So there's there can people think of other kinds of things that have claims that are similar to that? Feel like just reading in general people claim like oh like if you can read then you can read anything and then you can learn it. Ah good. Okay. So that that there's domain independent reading skills. That's a thing that comes out there that that we can ask some more about. I could argue that uh like many academic stuff when not relating to academic stuff gets that claim like if you do this good academic like achieve whatever like learning you will do good at nonacademic certain task whether that be like you know normal dayto-day getting a job or something like that. Yep. Yep. Yeah. schools help you with other things. Um, chess gets this a lot. You know, learn to play chess, you get strategic thinking. Uh, if you take classes, you will be good at the job that they're teaching you. Yeah. You know, my my wife works on the faculty here um and uh in material science and she had somebody from who did material science in a in an engineering company once come and came to a faculty meeting and and basically was telling the faculty like how little she thought of the training that they got in in lab. She was like, "Well, I guess it's okay if you do a Europe. It's like better than doing lifeguarding for a summer or something like that, but it's really not very helpful." Which was funny at the time. But the point being that like yeah the thing like the things that people do in companies to like actually build products are quite different than the things that happen in academic research labs to imagine these kinds of things. Um all right here's here are a couple of sort of striking examples. Oh um I and I'll point out this later. I think computer programming gets this. Have any of you ever heard the phrase computational thinking? Um, so computational thinking is like roughly the claim that if you teach people how to program computers, they will have a bunch of skills that are useful in other kinds of domains. Like you'll learn how to break problems down into smaller problems. You'll learn how to think through things with algorithms and stuff like that. It is actually that line of argument is very similar to the argument a century plus ago or a couple centuries ago um that if you learn Latin and Greek you will have these domain independent thinking skills that are good for reasoning and other kinds of domains. Um uh here's a remarkable study that a colleague of mine did recently that sort of illustrates this. He was trying to figure out like how good are people at um differentiating at at sorting truth from fiction online. Um so he shows them two websites. One of them is the American Academy of Pediatrics. The other is the American College of Pediatricians. Those sound pretty similar. The websites actually look pretty similar. Um the American Academy of Pediatrics is a 40,000 member organization that represents pediatricians across the United States. Um the American College of Pediatricians is like a four, five, 600 person splinter group um that split off from the American Academy of Pediatricians um in opposition to same-sex adoption. Um so like one is a very mainstream group, one is sort of a splinter group. Um professional fact checkers who work in newspapers and magazines and stuff like that um could identify this the difference between these websites and organizations 100% of the time. Um how well do you think historians did at this professional trained historians did at this who spend their entire lives studying how to evaluate information and how well do you think Stanford freshmen do at this task? like saying this group is not the same as this other group. Uh yeah, I mean it was slightly more detailed than I was like which which which which of these would have like you know better better substantiated claims but even sort of recognizing the difference between them. Um like even identifying that the American College of Pediatricians is like not the same thing as the American Academy of Pediatricians. Um they do shockingly shockingly poorly. Um so 50% of trained award-winning tenured historians um either wasn't sure I I think the question they ask is which of these is sort of like a more reliable source of information and the fact checkers were like yeah the academy with all the people in the mainstream group and historians about half of them did that and actually about 20% of Stanford freshmen you know people who um got into a university with a 3% acceptance rate or something like that um are fact checkers smarter than historians tenure historians or Stanford students like it like it doesn't stand to reason that they would have better um generic like domain independent thinking skills or critical thinking skills or problem solving something like that. Um a better a better way to think about it is like they must be doing something different. Um and and it turned out that when you observe them, they were um that when historians and Stanford freshmen go to a website to evaluate the website, they scroll up and down and they look on the website for markers of credibility. Um uh you know, does this like is it formatted correctly? Does it seem to be from a reputable organization? Is it aorg.com? Does it have citations? Stuff like that. The American College of Pediatricians has all of those markers of credibility. Like the like all the bad guys have lists of how to make a credible looking website. Um the fact checkers do something totally different. As soon as they go to a website, they leave it. Um so they would go to the American College of Pediatricians and they immediately just Google American College of Pediatricians in which you very quickly learn, you know, that the 600 person uh splinter group and and those sorts of things. Um and so the idea you know people would like even you know the thing which is so striking here actually the reason why this research group picked this tenure group of historians is they were hoping that they would be examples of experts. It would be like they would be like these people have trained their entire lives to study information and to sort truth from fiction in historical documents. And it turns out spending your entire life learning how to sort truth from fiction in the archives doesn't help you very much. Learning how to sort truth from fiction to the internet. Um so this is one of the sort of key ideas of transfer that if you learn how to do something in one domain even changing the context of that domain not that much going from searching sorting truth for fiction in the archives is sufficiently different from sorting truth from fiction online um that there's not like a generic set of critical thinking skills that helps you bridge that. Um if you want to get if you want to get good at sorting truth from fiction online you have to learn a specific set of skills that are related to learning to sort truth from fiction online. Um here's another one of uh those examples. Um this is a classic experiment that gets replicated in various kinds of ways. In one experiment, third graders, some identified by a reading test as good readers, some as poor, were asked to read a passage about soccer. The poor readers who knew a lot about soccer were three times as likely to make accurate inferences about the passage as the good readers who didn't know much about the game. Current education practices show that reading comprehension is misunderstood. It's treated like a general skill that can be applied with equal success to all texts. Rather, comprehension is intimately intertwined with knowledge. So, we we think, you know, there's ways of measuring like are you a good reader or a bad reader. But it actually sort of sets aside the fact that like if you know a bunch of stuff about soccer, you're a good soccer reader. And if you don't know a lot of stuff about soccer, you're a bad soccer reader. Um, this is terrible for reading instruction, right? It would be much better for the world if we could just make you a good reader. But actually the way to be good at reading in a domain is to teach you a bunch of facts and knowledge and information in that specific domain. Um that in fact like the skill of reading doesn't transfer that well from reading about soccer to reading about softball. Um it's not that it doesn't transfer at all. Um but you know and also being able to read well about soccer is sort of more like being able to read well about soft well you know softball and less likely you know sort of less related to being able to read well about restaurants or something like that. Um uh this this is my way of making fun of the claim that computer science taught me to break down problems into pieces. This is sort of a classic kind of computational thinking argument that if you if you teach if you teach someone computer science they'll be able to break down problems into pieces. um you know like so here's an AP literature question like before using computer science I answered this with one long sentence but now I use paragraphs to break up my arguments into pieces no of course like from the very beginning of you learning how to write you were taught to break down problems into pieces like that's what writing is you break big ideas into paragraphs you break paragraphs into sentences you make sentences into phrases you've been taught forever how to break ideas down into pieces but turning you know written words into breaking them down into pieces doesn't really help you at all in taking computer programming problems and breaking them down into pieces. Um, you know, before studying computer science, I wrote one equation to solve all these problems, but now I break problems down into pieces. Um yeah, I could speak like a little on that and from like firsthand experience like I've done like computer science like problem solving very much since like middle school and in terms of domain knowledge like I don't when I'm encounter with a different domain I don't know where to even cut the pieces for the problem there are sure I want to do that but where I don't know what where to cut it into smaller pieces this is something I have to acquire just like anyone else. Yeah, that is the domain specific knowledge that you need to acquire in that particular domain to know what break I mean it it is probably slightly useful to have the intuition um hey bigger problems can be broken down into smaller problems like that's probably a little bit helpful in a lot of cases but I like the way that you phrase that if you don't know anything about the domain you don't know what the sort of relevant division points for breaking something into pieces are um uh that one of the first people to study this was uh Edward Thorndikeke I was just rereading meeting today one of the studies that he did which was um to uh have people be really good at estimating the size of rectangles. So he would cut rectangles on pieces of paper and have people look at rectangles, estimate their area, give them some feedback and you can actually get you know there was a hundred different rectangles of different sizes and you found pretty quickly you can get people better at estimating rectangles. Um then he would give them piles of circles and triangles and rhombuses and things like that and they're no better at estimating the size of circles and triangles having studied how to estimate um rectangles. Again, um there are all kinds of studies that are done like this. A lot a sort of wave recently being uh um you know, studies that disprove that there's any relationship between chess knowledge and academic outcomes between or chess proficiency and academic outcomes between music knowledge and academic outcomes. Um these things are sort of much more separate than we might have hoped. Uh about the reading comprehension thing. Yeah. Do the standardized tests like ACT or ACT take that into an account or they don't? It's a it's a hu it's a huge problem. Um so I mean in a sense they here's how they try to take it into account is they try to indicate to educators what are the domains of knowledge that will be sampled by the SAT um and have people read things that are related to those domains of knowledge. Um, one of the one of the knocks about particularly early standardized tests. I think standardized testing companies have done better about these kinds of things. Um, is you know there would be there would be all kinds of questions that are about like or you know where where the examples take place in a country club or something like that. Um, you know, and in 75 years or whatever, maybe it would have been pretty likely that just about everybody who's applying to college knows what a country club is. Um, but there are tons of Americans who have no idea what a country club is. Um, and so you know, if you if you treat reading as a domain independent entity where everybody should be able to like recognize the words country club and then process the rest of the sentence, then that seems fair. But it is the more you realize like no, knowing something about a country club gives you an advantage on questions that are about country clubs. Um, then you know, and I think we could all agree that like knowing about country clubs is not something that's particularly important to going to college or advancing higher education or other things like that. then you're like, "Oh, that is kind of unfair." Um, so I think there's more recognition of those things over time. Of course, you have the opposite problem, which is that the more you tell people exactly what the domains are that might be tested, um, the more you have people like just studying and practicing those domains. And that's not like exactly the point of these testing systems either. Um, ideally, ideally, they would sort of give us some kind of indication of people's proficiency like in a wide range of things that might help them be good at college, but it's a it's a real problem. I've heard that like SAT kind of changed their argument a little bit or like the way they phrase it into like it's not that the test matters at all. They like the argument now like is more leaning towards like their performance on the test indicates the students ability to prepare for the test. Even though the test is meaningless, the ability to prepare for the test is what's being tested. And that's correlated well with other kind of things which is not like completely outrageous to say like like I give you like a completely stupid subject no one heard of and tell you to prepare for it. The people who better prepare for it are probably better studyers who will perform better at college where you will also do kind of that study but it's not perfect and it will lead to like disproportionate outcomes when like these people who do not fit into the ne like nice like line where the like standard fats go. I I think that's right. I think the I think an early early rhetoric of testing would have been something along the lines of like intelligence is uh is a is a universal human quality. We can design tests that's not culturally specific. We can design tests that measure intelligence and using these accurate tests that me measure intelligence, we can find the most intelligent people um and then we can send them into college. As soon as you recognize that some degree of intelligence tests are culturally biased because of all these sort of transfer problems that we've just been talking about um that uh you know um if you if you have a bunch of questions you know about ranching um then you then you benefit uh you know young people who are in rural states where there's a lot of ranching going on but like you know what does that have you know that's sort of the equivalent of the country club kind of thing. Um and then the you know the other argument for them is that uh they are pretty good. You know there are correlations between people's success on these tests and their later success in college. It's not a perfect correlation. Um but it is one indicator that you you know if someone is struggling to do well on these tests. There's good there's reasonable reasons to believe that they might struggle to do well in college settings and so forth. Um anyway, you can imagine t you know um unraveling this kind of question has huge implications for how valuable it is for kids to spend zillions of hours on Minecraft. So when kids play when kids play zillions of hours on Minecraft, they learn a ton. Um you know, they learn um uh how to collaborate with other people. They learn how to find information on the internet. You know, the the Minecraft, a little bit like the logical journey of the Zooinis, has no instructions on the screen. Um, you have to go to wikis, you have to watch playthrough videos, you have to do other kinds of exercises to like figure out how to engage in Minecraft. And some of those things seem like domain independent sorts of skills, you know, how to find information from other places, how to set goals, how to pursue those goals, um, other kinds of things like that. Um but a but an enormous question about the value of playing games like that is something like well um like if you know how to do all that in Minecraft, does it help you do that somewhere else? Um there's a lot of educational psychology research that suggests that transfer is really hard um that when you learn things in one domain, people are not that good um at uh at passing it to another domain. Um to me there are sort of two contrary arguments to that. Um, this is sort of a joking way of putting it, but like I think one of the best arguments against humans ability, one of the best arguments in favor of humans ability to transfer learning is civilization. Um, like it's pretty hard to imagine how you would develop civilization if pretty people weren't pretty good at like learning some things and then applying them to new kinds of tasks. Um, uh, so so a sort of a theme of counterargument is that basically like educational researchers are not good at detecting and observing transfer. We're not good at at conducting studies that measure people's abilities to take things from one domain um and put them to another domain. If you listen to that podcast episode with Constance Steiner, who's a huge advocate of uh the benefits of games for learning, you'll hear her make an argument sort of along those lines, which is like, come on, Justin, like if you get really good at doing cool stuff in Minecraft, like that will help you with other things that you're doing in life. Not that different from what Dana said at the beginning of the class about the things you learn playing in the resistance, you know? Like I can learn how, you know, I learned how to keep a poker face there and now I can keep a poker face in other kinds of places. Um, so unanswered questions to be sure. Good. Um, 2:25, you all should have a wonderful spring break. Um, you should come, there's a little bit of reading that you have to do, but mostly you should come with a draft. Um, the strongest draft that you can put together for paper two on Monday. Um, a week from Monday, and we'll have a chance to do some peer editing in that class. Um, and we're going to sort of shift from genres of learning at scale to the as yet intractable dilemmas in the second half of failure to disrupt.