The following content is provided under a creative common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hello and welcome. Today we're starting the second half of the class. In the second half of the class, we'll focus on methods that will generally be be described as forier methods. And those methods are revolve around thinking about signals as being uh sums of sine waves. So we've previously thought about how you can think about a system by thinking about how it responds to sine waves. So this is closely related. Now instead of thinking about a system as how by how it uh processes sound by how it processes sine waves rather we'll think about signals as being composed of sine waves. So that's sort of the idea and today we'll do the very simplest kind of representation which is a 4A series. Um the importance of that's going to be our first encounter with how you can think about complicated signals as sums of signs and cosiness but also we'll get a new representation for a system that will be generally useful called a filter. So that's the two agenda items for today roughly. The first half is on the um for a uh series representations for a signal. The second half is on thinking about systems as filters which is a direct consequence of the first. So the first idea is just how why should we even think that you can think about signals in terms of sine waves. Well, there's very simple examples of that. Some signals are just very naturally described that way. One class of those are the ones whose entire frequency content are harmonics. Just a bit of jargon. We'll think about harmonics of omega kn harmonics of some frequency say 1 khertz then we'll have the first harmonic that's another name for the fundamental that's 1 kHz and for example second harmonic would be some component at twice the frequency third harmonic three times the frequency zero harmonic for the completely obliv so the so for no good reason at all we'll call the zero earth harmonic the DC term meaning direct current which is neither direct nor has anything to do with current but we will use that jargon because everybody else does so that's just jargon what I want to think about though at a deeper level is what what kinds of signals should we expect have a good representation in terms of sums of signs and cosiness and one very easy kind of uh signal that you can think about is mu signals that we associate with musical instruments So, think about the sounds that these instruments generate. And I'll play some audio. And while I'm playing it, what you're supposed to be doing is thinking about what's the cues that this sounds like a sum of harmonics. So the idea so using the things that we we'll go over today in lecture I can use I can write a Python program which I did to analyze each of those sounds to expose its harmonic structure. And here's the results. So for k= 0 DC 1 the fundamental two the second harmonic third harmonic fourth harmonic the lengths of the bars represent the magnitudes how much energy well roughly energy how much signal is present at those harmonic frequencies as a function of harmonic number k for each of the different instruments. And just like uh the time waveforms have a signature, there was a characteristic shape. In fact, if I go on, here's the characteristic shape. That's an actual waveform taken from the audio clip that I played. That's a clip from the piano. This is a clip of the same time duration from the violin. Uh a clip of the same time duration from the bassoon. And here are the harmonic structures for those different sounds. And you can see the harmonic structures look very different, right? So, uh, not much DC, a fair amount of fundamental, a lot of second, uh, a lot of fundamental, not much not much fundamental. That's kind of interesting. The bassoon is special in this class because there's not much fundamental, but there's a lot of second. So now think about comparing these two and listen to them again. So what what I want you to try to think about and it's kind of hard. Think about how it is that the harmonic structure is playing a role in determining the the tamber of the sound that you're hearing. Okay, so that's kind of the motivation. Um, another motivation is that thinking about signals in terms of their harmonic structure can provide important insights into the signals. And so for example in music the harmonic structure is what determines uh um consonants and dissonance dissonance. So uh I'm going to play two tone two u two different notes that are related by an octave shift by a fifth shift and uh adjacent notes in in the semmitone scale. And below it, I've illustrated the harmonic structure for the uh D and for D prime. Okay, so an octave above means that the first harmonic, the fundamental of this guy corresponds to the second harmonic of this guy. The second to the fourth, etc. There's some relationship for the fifths illustrated here. And there's a different illust there's a different relationship here. So what I want you to do is hear the difference between those six sounds and again think about uh not only the time waveform but also how their harmonics relate. So, um, dissonance has something to do, well, consonants has something to do with the overlap of the harmonic structure and dissonance has something to do with the lack of overlap of the harmonic content. So the point just being that you we can we can get some mileage out of thinking about signals according to their harmonic decomposition. So that's kind of the uh introduction. How should we think about that? What kinds of signals ought to be representable by their harmonic structure? Okay. Well, if you just draw a picture in the time domain and think about a fundamental, what would it look like in the time domain? What would the signal look like? What would the second harmonic look like? Well, that's a that's a signal whose frequency is twice as big. If the frequency is twice as big, the period is half as big. So, there's now two periods of the blue guy in the same time interval as one period of the red guy. Okay. So the relationship of frequencies in the harmonics has a relationship in time and it's proportion or it's inversely proportional. Okay. So if you think about uh fundamental second third fourth fifth fundamental second third fourth fifth there's a relationship between in time of the periods. And one thing that should be clear is that the these harmonics are all periodic in the period of the fundamental. So one thing that you can think about by thinking about the time representation of what harmonic signals ought to look like, periodic signals are sort of our only candidates. All of the harmonics of a fundamental have the same are are periodic in capital T the period of the fundamental. So it's going to be hard to generate a signal by a sum of harmonics that doesn't have that periodicity. Right? So we should be expecting a relationship between signals that can be represented by a sum of harmonics and periodic signals. So we would not expect an aperiodic signal to be represented this way. The the counter question is should we be expecting that all periodic signals can be represented this way or some periodic signals or some very special class? Is it a big class or a small class? How do we think about that? And historically that's been a hard question. And by the end of the hour I I hope that you all understand why it was a hard question. uh people like Furier, you might imagine, advocated the notion that you can make a meaningful harmonic uh representation for a very wide class of signals. Forier claimed basically everything anything that was periodic could be represented in terms of a sum of harmonics. Other people thought that was preposterous. uh in a widely reported public rebuke of uh furier lrange said this is ridiculous because every harmonic is a continuous function of time and you can easily manufacture a periodic signal that's a discontinuous so for example a square wave how on earth argued lrange how on earth would you represent a discontinuous function by a sum of continuous functions. That makes no sense, right? So, um what what we will want to do in the course of the hour is think about does that or doesn't that make sense and it'll turn out the answer is kind of complicated and so we can sort of forgive both sides for having sort of u argued with each other because the answer is not completely obvious. For the time being, I'm going to just assume that the answer is yes. that it makes sense to try to make a harmonic representation of a signal that might even be discontinuous. I'm going to assume periodic. Let's try and the question will be does that make any sense? So there's a there's a little bit of math there's a mathematical foundation that makes understanding these forier series very easy. The idea is uh has two parts. First off, if you have a sinosoidally varying signal here at frequency k omega kn, the kith harmonic, if you were to multiply the kith harmonic times the elf harmonic, a signal of frequency k omega times a signal of frequency l omega, you get a new harmonic, the k plus one. That's a simple property of the way the product of two exponents you you add the exponents when you take the product of of two exponentials. Okay. So that makes it very easy to think about harmonic structure because there's a simple relationship for for generating one harmonic signal in time from another harmonic signal in time. The second thing that makes uh harmonics easy to uh think about mathematically is that if you integrate over a period, we'll do this so often that we'll abbreviate it this way because if you have a signal that's periodic, it really doesn't matter which period you choose to do the integral over. If you had a a signal that was periodic in say capital T and integrated it between zero and T, and if it's periodic, you should be able to shift that window anywhere you like and you should get the same thing. So we'll not worry about whether it goes from zero to capital t or from 1 to capital t + one. We won't worry about that. We'll just say integrate over the period t. If you integrate over the period t any harmonic signal then there's only two possible answers. So if you integrate e to the j k omega t over u one period of omega kn there will be k periods in there. So if k is a number other than zero you'll have complete periods of a sine wave. So the answer of the integral the average value over that period is zero. The only time you'll ever get something that's non zero is if k were zero. If k were zero. If it were DC, then e to the 0 is one. The integral of one over a period, regardless of what period you pick up, the integral of one over a period is capital t. So it becomes so two things. It's easy to figure out the product of two harmonic signals. It's just a different harmonic. And uh integrals over a period are easy with that basis. Then it's easy to say how let's imagine that some arbitrary periodic signal which we can always write this way x of t if it's periodic could also be written x of t plus capital t if x if x of t is periodic in capital t. Let's assume that that can be written as a sum of harmonics. So a sum k= minus infinity to infinity of some amount of e to the j omega kt. Why do I have the minus k's in there? Okay, I've asked this question about six times. Why do I have a minus case in there? Yeah. Precisely. We like Oilers's equation. We like complex numbers. We don't like cosiness and signs. And we can convert SS and cosiness into complex exponentials using Oilers's formula. And any everything's very easy, right? So we use minus K for the same reason that we use minus omega in previous representations. So imagine that we can write x of t some generic periodic signal as a sum of Then let's use those principles that we talked about before. If that can be represented as a sum, I can sift out the one of interest by multiplying x of t times e to the minus j l omega. We'll see in a minute what I mean by sift out and why I'm using minus instead of plus. If you were to run this integral over a period and imagine for the moment that all the sums are well behaved so nothing explodes and so all the convergence issues are are trivial. If I if the convergence issues were trivial then I could swap the sum in the integral. If I did that, then I would end up with a sum of a bunch of different ks. But for each one, I'd be taking some harmonic times the minus l har harmonic. And that's going to give me zero when I integrate over a period except when k equals l. If k equals l, then I'm going to get capital t. So the net effect of doing this is to to generate T A L. It sifts out one of those coefficients. Well, that's nice. That means that if I assume I can write the signal this way, then I can sift out the kith coefficient by integrating against minus the kith and divide by t because of the normalization because if you integrate one over a period, you get capital t. And that tells me then that if this were true, this is how you'd find the coefficient. So that leads to what we call a set of uh analysis and synthesis equations. So that if X can be represented this way, if we can synthesize a periodic signal X by adding together a bunch of harmonic components with a suitable waiting factor. The waiting factor a subk certainly has a different magnitude just like those musical tones that I played at the beginning, those musical notes. All the different ks had different amplitudes. They also have different phases. A subk can be a complex number. We like complex numbers. Complex numbers are easy. So uh if we can represent x by a sum of harmonics complex complex valued s uh so weighted by a complex number then we can sift out what those weight factors were by running the analysis equation. we can analyze the signal to figure out how much of the case component is there. So the strategy then is assume that all works. That is to say let's take an ugly signal of the type that caused controversy back in the mid 1800s. Let's take a controversial signal like a square wave. Assume it all works and figure out what the AKs would have had to be. and then we'll figure out whether that made any sense. So, uh if this thing were to be represented by a forier series by a a sum of harmonic components, how many of these statements would be true about those harmonic amplitudes? So, as you start to write, look toward your neighbor and say hi. Then write and figure out the answer. Okay. So, how many of those statements are true? Raise your hand with a number of fingers between zero and five would seem good limits. How many statements are true? Okay, we got about 40% correct. So, that's a little under half. What do I do first? If I want to figure this out, what would I do to try to figure out? So, statement one, a subk is zero if k is even. Should that be true or false? How do I think about that? Yeah. Square wave is odd. Okay, that sounds good. So, what's how's that help me? So, I might want to have only uh odd terms. How do I tell how many terms in the forier decomposition are odd and even? What is the forier decomposition? So let's start by just writing some definition, right? So I want to say that x of t is let's see I have a period of one. That's the same as x of t + one, right? And I want to write this as some sort of a forier thing. So what do I write next? Right? I want to say I want to say that this signal can be represented by some sum of something. Right? And I'm going to have to put some weights in. And I'm going to want something like e to the minus j 2 pi kt by t something like that. And I'm going to need a whole bunch of these. Where does even and odd show up? So if I were to rewrite this as ss and cosiness, right? So I could rewrite this in terms of some signs and some cosiness, then then the decomposition into even and odd is easier. That's correct. How do I So let's get back to this one. How do I think about this one now? Uh so I want k to be even. What does K even correspond to? Okay, let's assume I don't know what K even How do I do this if I don't know anything? How do I just uh grunt through it? Yeah, just do the integral. Exactly. So, what I'd like to do is say that uh a subk is one of So, assuming everything works, right? Assuming everything works, then a subk should be the integral over t weighted by 1 / t x of t e to the minus j 2 pi kt over t. I put AI should have put a plus there. Um I want the minus sign in one of the formulas and not in the other one. Okay. And if you just think about that that uh integral, it's not very hard. So I want this kind of thing. Capital T is one, right? So I get two pieces. The piece that corresponds to the minus a half and plus a half. And when I integrate them, I get something that's a little bit Well, no, it's pretty straightforward, right? So you integrate this thing, the one over minus, so the minus J2 pi K flips into the bottom. Uh the half turns it into J 4 pi K blah blah blah. You get four pieces. two pieces. The these two pieces correspond to one. They sum to two. So you get that. The point is that it's a pretty simple it's a pretty simple transformation to think about the square wave turning into a sequence of amplitudes. So if you choose um let's see. So if you choose uh k to be even then I've got uh an integer multiple of 2 pi right if k were even then I would have uh an integer multiple of 2 pi e to the integer multiple of 2 pi flips around to one as does the minus one that kills this stuff. Okay, so that's where the K even and K odd comes from. So the point is that there's a simple way to to just crank through it and we get a a simple representation. So we get that AK is um 1 over J pi K uh K odd zero otherwise. Okay. And then we can just sort of t run down through the list. We'll see in a minute why this particular list of properties is interesting. So a a subk is zero if k is even. Yep. Right. Ak is real. Nope. There's a j in it. Uh a k magnitude decreases with k square. Nope. Decreases with k. Uh there's an infinite number of nonzero terms. Yep. Right. K goes to infinity. All of the above obvious. Okay. The point is it's simple to do and you end up representing the the uh time waveform by just a sequence of numbers. How big is the fundamental? How big is the second harmonic? How big is the third harmonic? Etc. There's some more math that makes things even easier. There are ways of thinking about operations in time as equivalent operations in harmonics. That makes the idea even more powerful because what we are developing is an alternative representation for signals. So same as we had multiple representations for systems, differential equations, block diagrams, h of t, h of s, h of r, bod plots, all those different representations of signal of systems. This represents an alternative representation of a signal. We think about it being represented in time or we will we think about it being represented in harmonics or eventually we'll call that frequency. So we'll think about signals being represented in time or frequency. And you can think about operations in time having a corresponding operation in frequency. So illustrated here, if a signal is differentiated in time, the 4A coefficients are multiplied by J 2 pi over T K. Okay. Well, that's easy. If we assume for the moment that we can represent X as this kind of a sum, differentiation is linear. The derivative of a sum is a sum of the derivatives. the derivative of sine waves easy and we end up with with the idea that if you knew the a subks then you can easily formulate the the u series representation for the harmonic structure by just multiplying each of the aks by the power of the exponent. Okay, so that gives us a way of thinking about signals in time as being represented in frequency. So here's an illustration of that. Imagine that we have a a triangle wave rather than a square wave. Answer the same questions and be aware that it's a trick. By trick I mean you could use the obvious approach which is one we just did or you could use some insight from the last slide and do it in one step. So, how many of these statements are true? Everybody raise your hand. raise a number of fingers equal to the U number of correct statements. We've got complete switch of who's right and still 40% correct. That's phenomenal. So, uh we could just go through the list. What's the trick? So close. So integral. Exactly. Right. This signal is the integral of the previous signal. Right. So that means that we ought to be able to there's some kind of a simple relationship between this series and the series that represents that one. What should I do to this one to make it look like that one? Divide by J2 K precisely. So um I can think about the bks being the aks but then I have to worry about the representation for differentiation or here integration in the frequency domain. In the frequency domain integration corresponds to dividing by uh J2 pi k. So now uh if I think about the list of questions uh is b zero for k even? Yeah, it was before. It is now because all we're doing is changing the the weights. And if the weights started out zero and we're multiplying by something, we can't get it to be different from zero. Uh, is it real valued? Well, now it is because I had a J time J. So now they are real real valued. Uh, does it decrease with K square? Now it does because I got one of the K's from the differentiation operator and the other K from over here. uh infinite number. Of course, the old one did too. All of the above. Yes. Okay. So, that was just supposed to be a simple exercise in in how to run the formulas, how to do this stuff um from a purely mechanical point of view. Now, I want to think about the bigger question. Does any of this make any sense? And the answers were concocted to help me make sense of that. The questions, the check yourselves were concocted so that if we think about the answer that came out, we'll have some insight into why we think it works and why it was controversial 150 years ago. So let's do the simple case first. Even Lrange wouldn't have any trouble with this way. Well, maybe he would have had a little trouble. I guess he would have had a little trouble. So, Lrange had the problem with Forier that Forier was making these outrageous claims that any periodic function should have a Forier decomposition and if you have uh discontinuous function and if all the basis functions are continuous, how could that make any sense, right? This doesn't have any discontinuities, but it does have slope discontinuities. That's sort of the same thing, right? If you have a slope discontinuity and you're trying to make u you're trying to represent the signal by a sum of signals none of whom have slope discontinuities that's kind of the same kind of problem. One way we can think about it is to think about how the approximation gets better or fails to get better as we add terms. So this is the base function. This is how the signal that we would like to represent harmonically. If we just think about the first nonzero term, the first nonzero term is the fundamental. It actually is not bad, right? If we were willing to accept errors about this big, it would be okay. Okay. Well, but somehow it doesn't capture much trianguliness, right? it sort of doesn't look much like even though so the one term sort of catches a lot of the deviation but it doesn't capture the the triangle aspect if you add another term the next nonzero term is the third one so if you write the sum of the first term the k equals 1 term and the k= 3 term you get this waveform notice that the effect of that was to creep it toward the underlying signal if you add another term Five, seven, nine. It's getting closer, closer, closer. 19 because I got bored making the figures, right? So, I skipped a bunch. 29 because I skipped a bunch. 39. You can see that what's happening is that we as we add more and more of those terms, by the time we've got up to number 39, it's pretty good. So, that probably from your seat, it's not altogether apparent that they're different. They're still different, right? But you can see that there's a sense in which the approximation is converging toward the underlying signal. That's good. So that's a sense in which there's a convergence between the signal and its forier representation. A different kind of thing happens here. Now let's do the square wave. If we put in the first term of the forier representation, which is the fundamental, we get a sine wave approximation, which is a little worse perhaps for a square wave than it was for a triangle wave. put in the third, fifth, 7th, 9th, 19th. So that's the So I threw in five again. 29, 39. It's not doing as well. What's not doing as well? Right. So we go one one term partial sum two three four five 20 uh 10 15 20 yeah really quick transitions not able to handle the really quick transition it's kind of like Lrange said right how are you going to make a discontinuous function out of a sum of continuous ones right it's In fact, um this is called Gibbs phenomena after the guy who sort of formulated the mathematics of this. There's even in the limit, no matter how many terms you put into the sum, the worstcase deviation is about 9%. You can't get rid of it. So in some sense, Lrange is right. Right. You can't put enough terms in there so that it converges everywhere. Okay. So the problem then becomes that we can't really think about convergence in the familiar ways we like to think about convergence. Convergence at a point is not a good way to think about it because there's always a point that deviates a lot. And in fact in signal processing we have lots of other ways we think about convergence if you think about so in addition to being 9% overshoot the Gibbs phenomenon what else do you see as the trend as you increase the number of terms in the partial sum in addition to converging and staying sort of the same height eight. What else happened as I added terms to the partial sum got skinnier. The deviations got crammed toward the transition point. And if I keep adding them, they'll get crammed more and more in there. And it's not like an impulse, right? The height didn't get bigger. The width got smaller. Had the height got bigger, we'd have been in trouble because then we would have said it deviates from the square wave by having an impulse at the transition. It doesn't have an impulse. The height staying the same, the width is smashing towards zero. The energy in that signal is getting smaller and smaller. So we like to think about so a different way to think about convergence is how big is the energy difference between the two signals. In that sense, this converges in 4A's right. As you add terms, the energy difference between the two signals goes to zero. That's the that's the modern way of thinking about the controversy. Right? There is an issue, right? If we choose to think about convergence in terms of uh energy difference, then we can resolve the problem. That's what we'll do. That's the reason in lots of the things that we talk about, we haven't been too worried about single points being off of curves. That's come up in some of the homeworks that we don't really care too much that say you have a function that is one everywhere except one point. There's no energy difference between the signal that differs by one point and the original, right? has a finite height, but there's zero width, so there's no energy difference. So we So that's the reason we haven't been so worried about that because we we use this kind of a definition of equality. They're equal if there's no energy difference between them. Okay? And using that kind of a way of thinking about things, we get to write FRA uh decompositions, harmonic decompositions for a wide range of signals, not all of them, right? for EA exaggerated but for a wide range of signals in fact with the definition we will typically use is signals with finite energy we'll be able to do this so now what I want to do is the last part of this lecture I want to introduce how thinking about a signal in terms of its harmonic structure lets us think about systems differently so here the idea is we previously thought about systems as frequency responses. In a frequency response, we use the igen function property. You put in an igen function, one of these complex exponentials, you get out the same complex exponential if the system is linear time invariant. And the igen value is the value of the system function evaluated the frequency of interest. We've done that before. The neat thing that happens if you think about for series is that you can break down the input into a a sum of discrete parts. the first harmonic, the zero harmonic, the second harmonic, the third harmonic. And now each one of those parts was an igen function. And each one of those parts gets preferentially amplified andor time delayed according to the the um frequency response idea for the system. That lets us think about the effect of a system is to filter the input. So the system u the idea in a filter is that systems do not LTI systems linear time invariant systems the same kind of systems that we've been thinking about all along so far linear time invariant systems cannot create new frequencies. If you put some frequency in that's the frequency that comes out. We've already seen that when we talked about frequency response. They can only scale the magnitude and shift the phase. They can't make new frequencies. All they can do is change the amplitude and the phase. And that's a very interesting way to think about a system. Think about a lowass filter. Think about a system whose input is little VI and whose output is little VO. You all know how to characterize that a gazillion ways. You would know how to write a differential equation for that. Nod your head. Yes. Yes. Yes. You would know how to write that as a differential equation. You'd be able to write a system function. you'll be able to do a frequency response, a bodie plot, all those sorts of things. That's fine. What I want to do is think about it instead as a filter. So imagine the bodie plot, right? Bodie plot's good, right? U so imagine the bodie plot representation for the uh RC lowass filter. You get uh so the RCC low pass filter has a single pole. The pole is at the frequency one over RC minus one over RC. Bodie plot looks like so magnitude has an asmtote at low frequencies that is a constant. At high frequencies it's sloping with minus1 or as we would say minus 20 dB per decade and it has some sort of phase response right low frequencies phase is zero. High frequencies the phase lags by pi over two. But now let's think about exciting it with a square wave. Square wave is what we've been thinking about. Square wave has a harmonic structure that falls with K. So if we represent K= 1 3 5 7 9 on a log scale falling with K is a linear slope. So this linear decrease in amplitude height is the reciprocal over here. It's the idea of a log, right? So we can represent the signal the square wave by this amplitude spectrum. How big are the components at all the different frequencies? Well, there's only a discrete number of them. There's the what? The k= 1 1, the k= 31, the k= 5, 1, etc. each one represented by a straight line. And they all have phase of minus pi over two because of the j. Now if you were to choose the base frequency for the square wave so that 2 pi over capital t omega kn is small compared to the cutff frequency for the lowass filter. What would be the effect on these amplitudes of this filter? Well, the magnitude is one. So if you go to arbitrarily low frequencies, the magnitude is arbitrarily close to one. The phase is arbitrarily close to to pi over two. What would happen? Excuse me. The phase would be arbitrarily close to zero. Sorry, I'm supposed to be going to very low frequencies. If I go to very low frequencies, the phase is zero. If the amplitude is arbitrarily close to one, the the phase is arbitrarily close to zero. And if the input is represented by the red lines, what's the output represented by? Same red lines, right? Each red line is multiplied by one at angle zero. So the output has the same shape as the input. If however I shift the period to be shorter so that omega kn is higher then I can have some of the higher frequencies fall into the region of sloping magnitude. I can have some of the phases fall into the region where the phase is minus pi / 2. The way to think about it is the fundamental is still going through the place with unity gain phase of zero. The basic shape is determined by the fundamental. The basic shape comes through. But now the high frequencies are being altered and their phase relationship is being altered and that's why the shape is different. If you go to still higher frequencies, more of the components are filtered. Each component gets sent through the frequency response and its amplitude and phase are modified appropriately. And if you go to extremely high frequencies, then all of the magnitudes are multiplied by the sloping down line. We turn K convergence, we turn the reciprocal in K into a reciprocal on K squ. Where have we seen that before? That was the decomposition for the triangle wave. So the answer comes out looking like a triangle wave. The point being that in addition to thinking about how the system works in terms of feeding frequencies through it, now we think about how signals work by breaking them up into frequency parts and the whole system then is reduced to how does the system modify that component. So that gives rise to the idea of thinking about the fil the system as a filter. Systems LTI systems do not generate new frequencies. All they do is modify the amplitude and phase of existing frequencies. If you enumerate all the existing frequencies, you can just go through them one by one and figure out how they come out. And that's an equivalent way of thinking about an LTI system. And that's the kind of a focus that we'll use in the remaining part of the course. Okay. Thanks.