The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Well, I what I'd like to do very quickly is give you a kind of a brief account uh much too skeletal and simple and simplified of of this uh conversational drama. uh uh this this this way in which the western film becomes a screen on which American values are projected and on which American values are tested and in which we see American uh values or assumptions undergoing certain kinds of transformation certain kinds of certain kinds of change. I don't expect you to remember these titles or all of these titles although the ones I talk about you might think about uh um but and and this is very far from a a complete list of films. It's just a list of highlights. Uh but I want want to give you a sense first that the fi that that the western film is at the center of movies at every phase of the history of the medium. Uh and as we've noted uh one might argue that one of the very first films, some people have called it the first narrative film, although that's a slight exaggeration, but one of the most fundamental founding documents in the history of movies is of course a western, right? If not its first story uh film, one of the earliest narrative films was was a western. And we might note in fact that that western the great train robbery was also based uh itself not on uh uh although it it is mythologized and and fictionized. The great train robbery is based on a historically um u uh uh on a historical actuality uh on a on on a robbery that that was uh very widely covered in the press that was about which dime novels were written w and which became a site of many films. The first one, The Great Train Robbery, a more recent one that you may have heard of if you haven't actually seen it, Bush Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which tells the same story. Uh, is b it's based on the same gang. It doesn't tell exactly the same story, but it's based on the same gang that was alleged to have or said to have uh committed the great train robbery. Um uh and and that calls our attention to another factor, another aspect of this what we might call this story of the mythological aspect of American cinema and especially of the western because it calls our attention to the fact that the same events may be narrated again and again and again. One of the points about myth about collective stories is they're literally told repeatedly. One way to think about the Western say okay there are variations but basically it's the same story. Of course, that's a tremendous simplification because it's thematic and moral implications can change radically, but basically the same set of characters, the same setting, the same materials told over and over again obsessively. Why would a society do this? Why what is driven what drives us to do this? Well, one answer is there are pleasures in familiarity. One of the deepest lessons of the history of literature is that the romantic and modernist idea of the uh artist as a unique individual creating art abnovo sui generous with no connections to the past is a fantasy and a delusion. Uh a a particular outgrowth of the romantic and modern periods. But that throughout history and throughout most cultures uh art and especially storytelling has been much much more like the u uh activities of these popular formats in which the same kinds of stories are repeated again and again uh uh with with the various with with variations and one one could say uh that one of the profoundest uh uh resemblances between the uh between Shakespeare's time and our own is the dominance of genre forms in a popular theatrical environment. In Shakespeare's day, it was the popular theater that had a similar effect of trying to define in some sense a a notion of national identity. And that's why uh I quoted the uh uh Renaissance scholar this afternoon who who who who called Shakespeare's theater the theater of a nation. He was trying to make the same kind of argument about about uh the importance the centrality of the public theater in Shakespeare's day that I'm making about about the movies about the movies in the 20th in the United States in the 20th century. Uh so the great train robbery is a kind of originating text both for film itself and for the genre of the western Griffith's uh the battle of Elder Bush Gulf was one of the first longer films go uh I think it was a half an hour or 45 minutes long uh was a much longer uh uh creation than earlier films and it was one of the first major examples of of of uh large crowds of people mounted people engaged in battle and that was one of the most aston astonishing things. The way the uh it was a tremendously influential film. It it dramatized battles between cowboys and Indians uh in a way that that uh um showed the power of the medium of film uh at a very early stage. In 1914, the first movie dramatization of that novel by Owen Wister that I mentioned earlier that was one also one of the founding texts in the in the uh western genre uh of of one of and I've mentioned a couple of other films here. one of them, John, one of John Ford's earliest films to demonstrate that I've got two Ford films listed there to try to give you a a sense of his importance in the silent era. Uh, and I I list um the covered wagon as a way of showing you that the genre of the pioneer story was already present in the silent era. Uh, I list the iron horse by Ford as a way of reminding you of how central Ford is, but also a way of reminding you that that story of the inter the the the laying of the railroad uh the intercontinental railroad, one of the central subg genre sub subs stories recurring stories in the western begins in the silent era. And I mentioned the katon partly to show you that the genre had become so widespread that it would now able it was now so full fullyfledged so fully recognizable even in the uh silent era that Keaton was able to make a comic parody of of of westerns called go west. Uh with the advent of sound the first decade of uh of of of the western movie is from an artistic standpoint not very distinguished. Can you guess why? One primary reason is if you look I say singing cowboys right because it was sound the very first thing said oh wow we're so enamored of sound we can the novelty of sound is so remarkable the first thing we'll do is we'll we'll we'll introduce cowboys who sing we and and uh they there were primitive stories that they told but the but the stories were relatively were relatively superficial the uh I mention in old Arizona the first sound western in part because what was amazing about that film uh especially to audiences were literally the sounds, the crackling of the fire, uh the creaking of the saddles, those those those kinds of the noises of the west were were fascinating to people. And so the 30s from an artistic standpoint were not a very uh interesting one in terms of the western's development. nothing be not some some scholars have argued that the silent western was more interesting than the western of the of the uh uh of the 30s but they're worth mentioning because they were very popular and many westerns in the 30s were used were identified as what were called bee films that is to say uh as you may know the uh and I wish I had had time to uh in this course to spend some some uh energy talking about what might be called the movie house culture how incredibly the the whole society uh after about 1930 or 19 in the early 30s was permeated by the movies. How every major city had dozens of ma maybe even more than that major of movie houses showing showing showing uh films at all many levels of films recent films and many older films as well. Uh, and as I think I mentioned uh uh in an earlier class, it was possible uh to to go to third and fourthr run movie houses showing movies that were several years old and to pay something like a quarter in the morning and go in and watch five or six movies. And I did this as a child in the late 40s uh in Brooklyn, New York, where I would go into a theater and come out. I would go in in the bright morning. I would come out, it would be dark. They were lousy movies, but I was a kid. I didn't know any better. And it was a an astonishing kind of kind of culture. Uh I I should also mention I call it the movie house culture because of course I again I haven't had time to develop this but uh if you Google movie houses uh you what you what will immediately appear are a series of magnificent photographs or images of of of movie uh palaces. You could even Google movie palaces and find the same answer uh that now mostly fallen into disuse or destroyed that that were all over the country. Very exotic and remarkable. Even the struct the physical structures of these theaters were exotic and and exciting. Uh these exhibition spaces were themselves meant to excite you and take you into a kind of uh into another world. And partly because of that what they always offered was a really robust ticket of offerings. You didn't just go to the movies and watch one movie. You saw at least a double feature. The second feature was often what was called a B movie, right? A second rate movie. A lower budget. Many of them were westerns. One reason for that was because the accutrants of the western are so are so interchangeable. As I mentioned in an earlier class, one of the things they could do was use stock footage to put these westerns together very quickly. So they could have a stampede that might have been appeared in many different movies but will do the job in this B western and so forth. And they could use the same props, the same town, the same the same horses and the same costumes and so forth. Uh so for a lot of the 30s the the western movie was a kind of backup a kind of a kind of second uh a second banana to the primary to the primary uh uh film. And uh uh in addition there began to develop especially on Saturday in this movie house culture Saturday mornings were especially for children even Saturday afternoons they began to develop what they called matineese which were intentional intentionally devoted toward trying to get younger people children into the into the theaters and they had a series of sort of B or C westerns some of which were serals and would continue from one Saturday to the next. I want to mention my favorite childhood western hero whom I still remember uh and I remember what I I I love this character when I was seven and eight years old and would go to the movies on Saturdays and all and see sometimes the cals would last several weeks. Part of it was to try to get the kids to come back and get their parents to pay for them to come back every Saturday. So they would always end with a cliffhanger with a moment of great tension and you wonder whether whether the hero and herois heroine would survive into the next week. But my favorite and there were a whole series of such films. My favorite such film was a film were a series of of of adventures starring a character named Lash Laroo. Can you guess what Lash Laroo's weapon of choice was? Yes. The whip. A bull a bull whip. He never carried a wh a gun, but he had this long bull whip and he would take this whip and he go like that and it would snake out across and it would flip a gun right out of a person's hand or he could go like this and a little tiny spot of blood would appear on a person's nose, right? It was an unbelievably ridiculous fantasy. Uh and the and the the uh the u uh lash made a tremendous beautiful crack when he brought it back. Uh uh but he he was obviously a a figure of childhood fantasy, but he was a tremendously memorable film and and uh uh again it was it was there was no pretensions towards psychological seriousness or even thematic density in these in these in these westerns but they but they permeated the culture. They were part of the experience of childhood. So children in the society would grow up watching these children's versions of westerns and then they would graduate to the more adult westerns. I don't want to call it a form of brainwashing because that's uh much too negative a way of describing the way in which these story forms shape our understandings or help to shape our understand. And I don't mean that human beings are uh uh uh uh completely programmable creatures. They go and look at a movie and they become robots following what the movie said. But what I am saying is that the way these kinds of stories permeated the society helped to shape America's Americans understanding of their natures of of what the social fabric was like of what masculinity was of what femininity was of what families were of what the relations among the races were of what American history was about what the founding story of America is about what the central organizing values of our culture are. All of those things are dramatized either explicitly or implicitly in movies. And because the movies were so central through the 20th century, they were one of the central ways in which the belief system, the values of American society were promulgated, dramatized, rehearsed and in some ways altered and changed. The classical age of the western film is often said to be the period in of the 1940s. And this is really the moment when the western as an artistic form begins to come into its own. Although it also still carries ideological or thematic baggage we might not want to embrace or celebrate. So remember it's an ambivalent thing here. I'm asking you to respect the artistry of these films, but I'm also asking you to do something mature and grown up, which is be skeptical about the meanings that are embodied in some in in what are sometimes very artful u uh movies. And we call it the classical age in part because a certain kind of much more ambitious uh uh intellectually powerful and artistically organized western begins to appear dominated but not completely by the great director John Ford who's one of whose masterpieces you're going to see in a few minutes. The the age probably begins in 1939 uh the same year that the integrated musical begins with what was the film? We mentioned it last week. The Wizard of Oz, right? The uh in which color is introduced for the first time. Well, here the genre of the western comes into its own really in the in roughly in the same year in a film that stars John Wayne who was uh the one of the iconic stars of of of of of the American western and directed by John Ford, his favorite director, a director who did other things but who was noted especially for the for his remarkable for his remarkable westerns for uh Wayne had had a a career in the movies 10 years before that but in stage coach for the first time he became a major star. The film made him a star. Um, and stage coach is an interesting film because it's it it articulates or formulates one of the great subg genres within the category of the western. And this is I don't know exactly what to call it. It's the sto it's a story in which you have a group of unlike people who are traveling usually by stage coach or in some other sometimes it can be by train who are beset uh without uh unexpectedly by some kind of danger usually an attack by Indians and what and then the the uneasy community that is forced upon them when they have to defend themselves reveals various aspects of human nature and of human society and the the film stage coach is a classic instance of that in which the John Wayne character gets on a stage coach as it's making a making a voy as it's making a journey across a a bleak western landscape through Indian territory and he's a kind of ambiguous figure the way in this film the Wayne character perhaps an outlaw but uh and and the respectable people who are in the stage coach a banker actually a character who's actually embezzling money and is trying to get away although no one knows he hasn't revealed it at the time it comes out in the course of the film and a series of other sort of characters with interesting background grounds that emerge when they're when the when the catastrophe descends upon them. And of course, what happens is the ambiguity of the Wayne character, the fact that he has a kind of connection to the to lawlessness turns out to be one of the great virtues uh that he has because of course he becomes their the primary defender of the group when they are beset by savage Indians. Uh uh and then I' I've listed a again let me remind you again I've just picked these are just highlights. Remember that remember what we said uh as nearly 30% of all films made before the uh during the studio era were were western movies and these are among the highlights and from from the titles you can see the sort of recurring sub subg genres that occur uh Billy the Kid in 1941 the film directed by David Miller this a preoccupation with outlaws there number of films about Billy the kid a number of films about Jesse James and about the and and and about uh the gunfight at the OK Corral. Um the film the 1946 film My Darling Clementine by uh Ford's famous film starring Henry Fonda is one of six movies made about the gunfight at the OK Corral. And think of what that says to us, right? What does a myth do? It tells the same story again and again and again. Each of those six films is in in many ways different from in in significant ways each film is different from another the other film. even though the basic information or at least the basic situation is the same. And in fact, some in some versions of the film uh in some versions of that account of the account of the OK Corral, the Wyatt Herp and the Herp brothers fight against the Clanton brothers. In some versions, the Herps in the classic versions, in the version, My Darling Clementine in 1946 by Ford, the Herps are heroes. And Wyatt Herp is a great American is a noble American hero who who defends a town against anarchy and evil. the Clintons are entirely evil. But in later revisionist versions of the same story, Herp is Herp and his brothers are seen as you as as a as arrogant officials who are trying to control gambling and prostitution in the town of Tombstone and the and the Clantons not seen as noble, but are seen essentially as rivals of the of the uh herpes, not necessarily as inferior evil characters. Uh and such a perspective of course profoundly changes our understanding of what the gunfight at the OK Corral represented. Interesting that that that that uh and and and deeply revealing that so many westerns have been repeated that I mean the same story told again and again. And so so the story the fact that the gunfight at the OK Corral was repeated at least six times in featurelength films. There were also television versions of the OK Corral event adding to the number. uh uh ex is a is a dramatic example of what we might call this mythological function uh that uh uh or this forum function this discourse space function uh uh that that uh uh the that genre forms in general and the western movie in particular have uh I've already mentioned Red River in my earlier discourse about about Howard Hawks and I want to just remind you that that great director of screw ball comedy was also one of the great directors of masculine adventure films including what many people think is one of the great westerns of all time, Red River. And Red River is an interesting subgenre as well. It's a cattle drive western. Many westerns are about cattle drives, right? But this one also adds a complant complexity because there's a kind of edible drama and acted out between a John Wayne, the John Wayne figure, recurring figure in so many westerns, and a younger man played by the great actor Montgomery Clif who plays a kind a surrogate son to the John Wayne character. And of course, conflict develops and uh and and uh the the uh the rivalry between father and son is is a kind of fundamental subplot in in in that remarkable in that remarkable western. One other thing I should say about the 40s period. I call it the classical age primarily for this reason. I sort of didn't name this and forgive me for not mentioning this earlier. Uh again, we're talking about the period just before, during and after the second world war. Right? The United States feels itself to be belleaguered, right? Uh uh the world is belleaguered in a way. It's that that that outer reality also helps to explain why the western of the 1940s would be essentially a kind of celebration of American power, a celebration of American empire, a celebration of American uh knowhow and competence in the wilderness. Because by analogy, the western is a kind of story of American success, of American conquest. uh and this was one one might think of it as a story that America needed to tell itself during a period during the period of so the war the second world war is a great reinforcement to the to the way in which in the classical age of the American western we're telling the the film the western film is basically telling an heroic story is celebrating the conquest of the west and is seeing the white man settlement of the west in relatively unambiguously admirable terms celebrating the the courage and the resilience ience and the uh physical prowess of the pioneers and the and the and the great noble gunfighters who tamed the west for us. But by the 1950s, this uh uh confidence has begun to wne. Part of it is look, the war has been over for a significant time. Uh uh the American society is is is is uh in a in in a peaceime boom uh uh which is going to build through the 50s. uh and it's also a period in which a certain kind of this was of course the period of my childhood right I was 10 years old in 1950 and I remember it vividly in fact saw some of the films that are listed here in the theaters for the first time so I mentioned that to you just to remind you that in fact what we're talking about is not ancient history at all because I actually experienced some of the films on this list in my own actual lifetime when they were originally shown in the theaters and although I am infinitely old compared to you guys I'm still you know, a vigorous functioning human being. So, within my lifetime's memory, many of these films were contemporary. Uh, and it's important to realize how close we are in fact to this to this to the to these times. So, uh, so the but one of the things that began to appear in the 1950s was a kind of skepticism uh about the social arrangements in the society. At first, they were very modest and mild. There was in the 1950s, for example, what came to be called a generation gap in which older and younger in which there was thought to be a kind of dis distance between older and younger people. And uh there was a great concern in the 1950s for for alienated youth and juvenile delinquency, which was a was a was a was a a great catchphrase. And some of the films of the 1950s dramatized that. For example, the film The Left-Handed Gun in 1958, starring Paul Newman, directed by Arthur Penn, is a story really about it's a it's a Billy the Kid story, right? Newman plays a Billy the Kid type character, but he plays a young boy. He plays really a post-adolescent and you can feel that what's partly being dramatized there are are teenage angst. uh um there are and and what also begins you could in 1952 the film High Noon a fragment of which I will show in next week's lecture when we talk about McCabe and Mrs. Miller to do a kind of contrast with a classical western and a and a and a post-class western. Uh that that u um film uh uh introduces certain kinds of contemporary political concerns. Many people see High Noon as a parable about the McCarthy era. Jo Senator Joseph McCarthy and the fear of the paranoia about communism and the anti-communist hysteria of the late 40s and early 1950s when the cold war was just uh getting getting powerfully started. And uh High Noon is a kind of parable about a good man who turns to a sheriff who turn played by Gary Cooper, one of the great iconic heroes of uh masculinity in of the classical Hollywood era along with John Wayne. And uh uh Cooper plays a sheriff who who uh has brought peace to the town. He's been a sheriff for many years. And on the on his wedding day, he's marrying a Quaker uh a Quaker woman. and he's g giving up his gun because Quaker woman played by Grace Kelly, you'll remember her from the Hitchcock film, although here she plays a western heroine. Uh she's a Quaker. She's putting down his gun to join his wife in and on his wedding day, a man that he sent to jail is coming back by the noonday train to to uh take his revenge. So the sheriff spends the early part of the film going around to the town's people, a town that owes its life to this great heroic sheriff, saying, "Help me. I'm going to be attacked by Frank Miller and his gang. No one will help him. He's left on his own. He has to stand by himself because the town is too cowardly. And it's a it's a it's a it's a parable of the cowardice of people who deserted. It's a in some sense a kind of left-wing argument. It's it's a parable about the cowardice of people who wouldn't stand up for folks who were attacked by Senator McCarthy and and and other anti-communists for being disloyal. uh uh so that so the certain kinds of political meanings begin to uh skeptical political meanings begin to creep in and the society that's dramatized in in high noon is hardly an admirable society. The the the the the western culture may have created a town and the town has a church and and they have a meaning in the church in in the film. Uh what he goes to it's a the it's a Sunday and you can hear the church bells and he goes to the church and he asks for help from the congregation and they won't do it. Uh um they're too cowardly. uh and uh uh so it's a so it's a parable about cowardice and about and about uh and about political dysfunction and about communal disloyalty very in also already by the 1950s when before the the uh um uh Hollywood era is is is completely has completely concluded or been obliterated uh Hollywood do Hollywood dominance is still significant uh in the in the 1950s the western has begun to change it's begun to reflect social changes as well as thematic or ideological changes that have to do with the way the society is altering after the second world war. And a number of the uh films that I've listed there do that kind of thing. Um uh and one can also see in this in this listing of so-called adult westerns a greater emphasis on psychological themes on the conflict between individuals. Uh um uh one uh very powerful and interesting instance of that is a film in 1967 directed by Martin Rit starring the great Paul Newman in which Newman plays uh half a half white half his half half Spanish or half Indian character I think he's an Indian a Native American uh and um um uh it's a film it's a parable about racism the Newman character is angry at both the white and uh and the Native American society. He doesn't fit in any place. But it's especially a parable about his exclusion about about the about about the Paul Newman character's exclusion from white society and about and about the power of racism. Uh by the time we get to the end of the uh uh uh uh 1960s, we're beginning to get films that have a kind of violent quotient, a violence quotient that's different and bloodier and more disturbing than the violence we saw during the classical age. And we especially associate this form of violence with the director Sam Peck andpaw whose film in 1969, The Wild Bunch, takes a number of actors who had been stars in classic westerns and brings them back in a western that sort of is much darker and shows these older men as and that first of all, their age is emphasized. They're sort of duttering around. They're my age, right? They're in they're in their late 60s or early 70s and and they they don't seem as vigorous as they should be. For one thing, there's I think there are even scenes in which their nearsightedness of one of the characters is dramatized, right? But but their age and trembliness is only a part of their unheroic dimensions. And and and we can see that the the the film the film although it celebrates the the these heroes in a certain way, the celebration is cankered. It's it's it's it's damaged. It's a damaged kind of celebration. There's a sense that these men are past their prime, that they're sleeping with women who are far too young with them, and that and that there's something kind of disgusting about that. We see that one of the actors uh uh uh uh uh an older an older figure um Robert Ryan a very gifted actor who who who was in many many westerns and other films in the classical age of Hollywood uh uh plays an aged and very power very effective gunfighter. There's a terrible scene in a Bravville where he's she's not a teenager but there's a a woman surely 30 years younger than he who becomes his bedmate. And there's something sour about the scene intended, I think, by the director. I mean, you can feel that it's as if it's as if the western values have begun to congeal and sicken even before we get to the what I'm calling the anti-western. And of course, in the late60s, there also begins to emerge the phenomenon I talked about earlier this afternoon, how the Italians start making westerns, putting them in in in Italian, and they and they find locations in Europe that replicate American deserts. and and so forth. Uh and the the Italian westerns, especially those that are associated with Sergio Leone, uh have a kind of dark existential almost nihilistic flavor. And one of the things that that that Leone did that was very subversive. He took characters act American actors who were associated with great heroic idealistic roles in American westerns of of the 40s and 50s and he put them into westerns in which they played evil villains, murderous uh uh uh criminals who who had no compassion or pity for any of their victims. And there's something shocking about seeing noble Henry Fonda who played young Abe Lincoln in John Ford's movie and played so many wonderful heroic figures including in uh in uh including Wyatt including Wyatt Herp in in uh uh My Darling Clementine uh uh suddenly turned into a to a to a stone killer. Uh and that kind of reversal anticipates what happens in the 1970s. Now um uh and of course what happens in the 70s partly again a consequence of trans transformations in American society. I'll talk a bit about the cultural history of the 70s next week when I talk about film in the 70s in a systematic way. But suffice it to say for now that what goes on there is a a series of westerns begin to appear that are permeated by the anti-establishment values of the counterculture that are permeated by the anti-war movement. Right? because the era right of the Vietnam War of tremendous fissures in American society it's uh I'll talk more about this next week so I don't want to repeat myself so it's a period in which American culture is is conflicted and and divided in a horrific way and the westerns begin to reflect that uh and in fact the old heroic enterprise of of the classic westerns of the 1940s and early 50s is suddenly transformed in a series of anti-westerns or dissenting westerns in 1970, Ralph Nelson makes a film called Soldier Blue, in which the American cavalry, the the the the heroes of so many films, including a trilogy of films by John Ford made in the late 40s called the Cavalry Trilogy, right? in which John Wayne is in one of those films, at least one of those films, uh celebrates the American the the the blue the blue suited cavalry of the of the western era. In Ralph Nelson's film, the the the soldier the the American soldiers are the enemy. They're the they're it's almost they they commit atrocities that some scholars have associated with the mi atrocities in Vietnam. And the so the western has become a screen on which America's anxieties about the Vietnam War have been projected. Why would the Western work so well for this? One answer is what I've been saying all along about the power of genre and the power of repetition. Look, if a thing is repeated again and again and again, it looks familiar. When it's so familiar, what happens? It licenses something disturbing because it's s because the genres it seems on the surface to contain so many familiar reassuring elements. those very elements of reassurance enable the exploration of disturbing or uncertain or or or problematic materials. And that's one of the re and of course because any any no not any one of these films would have nothing like the power they actually have if they existed individually but it's because they're part of this long conversation that goes back to the earliest days of movies that they have the power that they have. In 1971, the film starring Dustin Hoffman, Little Big Man, is another such film in which it's the Indians, the Native Americans who are the heroes. And the Little Big Man of the title is played by Dustin Hoffman. He's a Native American who has survived uh Indian Massacres and lives to tell the story, tell uh uh and of course in 1971, the film you'll see next week that will embody these principles, Robert Alman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller, the Western doesn't disappear. It doesn't completely die, but it falls. It falls away uh as time continues. In part, I think because our increasingly urbanized society after the 1950s became less and less amanable. The western became less and less less and less uh credible or valuable or or it became harder and harder for most Americans to identify with aspects of the western. That's one reason. And and other genres begin to take over, especially the science fiction genre. And one of the things you might think about if you think about the rise of science fiction in from 19 from the 50s and 60s and the and then especially from the 70s and beyond and especially the rise of the science fiction film is you can begin to see a hybridization going on in which many of the features of the western are superimposed on a science fiction format and think I'm sure you can think of many such examples of science fiction films that borrow from and utilize western conventions. So that's one feature that be certain kinds of hybridization in which some of the features of a western begin to appear in other genres. uh but this but of course the western because of the resonance of the form it continues to be a space in which gifted directors are able to make statements about the nature of American society and the exactly again because of the familiarity of it and because of the long history of the discourse we associate the themes and discourses we associate with the western every new western is always implicitly in a conversation with its ancestors and we have in the 1990s a series of interesting films some of you may have seen them. Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven, Kevin Cosner's Dances with Wolves, two more versions of the Wyatt Herp story, uh Tombstone and and uh Wyatt Herp. Uh just a couple of of of titles from more recent times in 2007, 310 to Yuma, a remake of a of a of an earlier film listed that I that that I that I listed earlier, a 1957 film. If you compare those two films, you can see how much more violent, how much more anarctic, how much less idealizing and romanticizing the western has become. Uh, The Assassination of Jesse James by the coward Robert Ford, a wonderful title which replicates exactly the title of one of those dime novels, uh, uh, appeared in 2007. And let me mention two astonishingly rich and interesting examples from television. Television by the by the 80s and 90s is already a rival to the movies has really replaced the movies in many ways in terms of complexity and richness as well as having replaced the movies somewhat earlier as our consensus form as our central form but two films especially one the famous the the well-known uh uh uh miniseries Lonesome Dove made from the Larry Mcmmerry novel one of the best television one of the best westerns ever made a a wonderful multi-part story utilizing the serial nature of television to tell a western with an expansiveness that the movie screen can allow but that the conditions of exhibition in the movies do not allow. Right? You can't go back to the movie. You can't watch a movie for six hours or eight hours. Uh and it's much less convenient to go once a week for for two hours for seven or eight weeks to see the same story. But television's a perfect environment for that. In that sense, uh the small the the reduced visual scale of television is what keeps it keeps the television from being really as powerful a medium for the western as the movies are. But still great film, great westerns are made. And the greatest of all television westerns, one of the great westerns, one of the greatest westerns ever made is the ongoing series, David Milch's great series, Deadwood, that appeared on HBO from 2004 to 2006 was abruptly cut off by the HBO bosses. In my view, it's the equivalent in the history of television to the story of what happened to the last laugh in which the in which the producers damaged a work of art. But even in its damaged form, Deadwood is one of the most remarkable westerns ever made. Uh, and it is deeply deeply deeply anarctic, dissenting, uh, skeptical about human values and about and about motives. It's the opposite of an idealizing western. It sees the West as emerging from and western society as emerging from human greed, from entrepreneuring uh, uh, violence and viciousness, uh, from from fear. uh it it it from a historical and intellectual standpoint it's a far more persuasive understanding of how history evolves I think uh than earlier idealizing forms a deeply disturbing and powerful uh text. So the western remains even in its vestigial condition even though it's now faded it's no longer as central a format for an urbanized and technologized society. Remember the United States before the second world war was mo still mostly a rural society. We only became a suburban and an urban a fully urban society after the second world war. And uh uh the growth of the suburbs is the great event of course after the second world war. what and what so that so that uh uh more and more of the population found rural spaces alien and didn't grow up in big spaces and didn't and and couldn't identify in the same way with the western story and the conditions of experience the conditions of life in the United States underwent a transformation that made the western a more much more of a of a of a traditional a vestigial voice a vestigial form than a central one and we can trace the progress of that of the film 's movement of of the western genres movement from the center to the more marginal or peripheral parts of the society in this history that I've briefly shown you. I have a few things to say about John Ford. Can we put him up? I won't spend a lot of time on this, but I want to u mention uh some things about him. The the this is a this is a list of his of some of his of some of his significant films. Uh not all that I've listed here are westerns, but you can see uh a number of them are. He begins in the silent era. He continues robustly through the sound era. Be one of the great directors of the sound era. And and uh you can see uh you know a film like Young Mr. Lincoln uh uh is is is not quite a western. Drums along the Mohawk half a western. But he made other films that were that were not westerns. But the western was his signature form. He was a very unpretentious man. And when he when he was introduced to people, he often said, "Hello, I'm John Ford. I direct westerns. I make westerns." He didn't say, "I'm a film director." He didn't say, "I'm a saist." He didn't say, "Uh, I'm an artist in the movies." He said, "I I make westerns." And I like the unpretentiousness of that of that of that uh uh quality in him. Uh he was the 13th child of Irish immigrants uh born in Maine. His father was a saloon owner and at the age of 18 in 1913 after high school he followed his brother Jack to Hollywood when he was uh where he where his brother was a writer and a director. He began to work in his brother's films as a prop man and a stuntman and a bit actor. He played a Klux Clansman in the Birth of a Nation. So he's he's he's a man who's right the first what's why is Birth of a Nation important? the first featurelength film in the United States, DW Griffith. Uh um and and um uh u shows Ford's connection to the history, his centrality to the history of the American film. Uh and uh he he he directed his first film in 1917, which was a it was a bank robbery western. And he in in that year he directed his first feature, the film I listed earlier on the list on our on our little history of the western, straight shooting. uh and then a series of films uh through through through the through through his through his career that um uh 30 silent films by 1921 nearly all of which have been lost. So he was a very prolific director in the silent era and uh um finally at the end of his career he had directed more than a hundred films over 60 sound features 14 westerns of which at least five to seven are among the greatest westerns ever made. Uh I I I I won't single out any particular films here except to indicate that by the time we get to the late 50s to the searchers, the man who shot Liberty Valance, Cheyenne Autumn, Seven Women, a new kind of skepticism has entered into the idealizing and heroic tendencies that were characteristic of Ford's work in his earlier westerns. And one of the reasons that the film you're going to see tonight is so central is that it may be Ford's most profoundly ambivalent western. The the western in which his impulse to celebrate the heroic qualities of these pioneers and and and the resilience and uh um uh survival qualities that were required to live in these in to survive in these environments are ve are are very central. But but he's begun to recognize begun to acknowledge what his earlier films had not acknowledged the moral complexities of the idea that the whites should come and take gland away from the Indians that the you know he's become to realize that the settlement of the west is not an unambiguous triumphal story but a more complex and morally ambiguous tale and that moral ambiguity is at the heart of the film you're going to see tonight the searchers. It has a damaged hero, as you'll recognize. It's probably John Wayne's greatest role. John Wayne, he plays a character named Ethan in the film. And it's interesting, maybe Wayne didn't fully understand how how ambivalently the central character is treated because he named his firstborn son Ethan. It's a strange thing because the Ethan that John Wayne plays here is not really an attractive person. He has qualities that we admire and that John Wayne and that John Ford surely admires. uh you know he's he's tremendously good with a gun. He's deeply knowledgeable about how to survive in the West. He knows a tremendous amount about the Native Americans. He he could ride a horse like a like a rodeo rider, right? He's brave beyond belief, but he's also, as we discover, a racist. There's a danger all the way through the film that he may murder the young girl he's trying to find. uh he's searching for a young girl and there's some question all the way through the film of what his motive is whether he wants to find her to kill her or whether he wants to find her to rescue her. Why does he want to kill her? Part of his damage. The implication of the early part of the film is that not just the implication the fact is he come in the early part of the film we discover that he probably f that he fought on the confederate side of the war. So he's coming home a loser. And there's an implication very early as you'll see that he committed various kinds of crime that he rode with outlaws uh uh dur and and and and uh um uh and that some of the loot that he has uh taken from the war may be ill gained, right? That he didn't that that that his that he was a that he's a bitter and unhappy war veteran who feels that his side lost. So he he enters the film bitter as a as an embittered and damaged person. As the film continues, we recognize that in fact this family he's returned to, his brother's family and his brother's wife and his nieces and nephews uh uh that there's a complexity there because of the looks that he exchanges with his brother's wife. You realize not that they've ever had an affair or anything, but that they had loved each other first and that the wife maybe still loves the John Wayne character even though she'll never act on it. Watch how that happens because not a word of dialogue is spoken but Ford dramatizes this almost heavy-handedly. It's not all ambiguous even though the John John Wayne's the character playing John Wayne's brother is completely oblivious to this but the audience knows this. So he's an embittered a damaged a partial figure even from the beginning and then as the as the story goes on we discover other qualities in him that make us nervous. Uh uh I've said for example that he may be a racist and we don't know why whe whether he'll kill or save the person he's after. the person the the the film involves an an Indian attack in which in which uh the John Wayne character's Nate niece is taken by Indians and the most of the film is the John Wayne character and his sidekick attempt to recover the stolen woman right and all his niece right she's stolen as a child but it takes many years before they recover her and by the time they recover she's a young woman and she's been the wife of a of a of an Indian brave a character named Scar who was really ultimately a kind of double of the of the of the hero in certain ways as we as we come to recognize when we when we look when we look closely at the film and and uh he his search for this girl is ambiguous to us because he's he's so against he hates Indians so much it's a form of the remember when the film is taking place during the civil rights era right so that we we can read John Wayne's hatred of Indians as a as a form of the racism uh the anti anti-affrican-American prejudice that is that is being dramatized that is being fought over in in in the civil rights movement in the United States in the 50s and 1960s. So it's a kind of metaphor for what's happening there and we we're not sure whether the John Wayne character is actually going to save her or kill her when he finds her because she's been polluted by her connection to an Indian. It's about miss, you know, he's and and uh this theme it's not it's not hidden because because the the John Wayne character sidekick is is really worried about this and even accuses him of this at some point. So, he's a damaged and ambiguous character. There are things about him we admire, but there are things about him that disturb us. And at the very end of the film in in what is one of the most famous images of in in John Ford's work, we get a shot of John Wayne from the back. He's been excluded from the community in a We see him from the back. He's standing like this. We we see him through an aperture, through a doorway. And he grabs his he makes this kind of a gesture, a gesture of vulnerability in which we and he's standing isolated and alone. There's a sense in which he's still this this this extraordinary hero has been in some sense excluded from the very community that he helped create in part because he has so because he's because he doesn't deserve to be part of it. He's he's damaged. He's imperfect. but but also because of the natural the the natural or the in the the mythic logic of the western in which the savior figure is so tainted by the savagery he saved us from that he can't be included in the community that he's helped to create. So it's a very clear example of this of this western pattern, but it's morally complicated because it comes at such a late stage and because by this time Ford himself has begun to reflect on the implications of the much more simplistic stories he had told earlier in his career. The setting of the film is important to talk about because it is filmed in a place that came to be called John Wayne's own special theater, his own stage set, Monument Valley in Arizona. Other directors have worked in that place, but they always it always feels as if they're plagiarizing John Ford. He made um uh at least nine films in Monument Valley, and you'll see the power of that space. uh the looming rock formations, the sense you have all the way through the film that the human habitations are minimal do minimal structures that could be blown away in a second and that that are dwarfed in compa in comparison to the to the rock formations and the grandeur of the gigantic natural uh u phenomena that we see around us. The human beings seem small and human the human habitation seem marginal and far from permanent in this in this world of grandeur of of what we might call inhuman grandeur. Uh so the setting is important. The plot very important to realize that it embodies two separate important kinds of stories. The first the founding story what I've talked about earlier today the idea that this is the a founding how a culture is founded right uh you create a society against waring elements rescue it from the wilderness from uh and from and from savage not just savage nature but from but from but but but but from savage antagonists the American Indians who don't want to give up their land and who are in until we get to this film in John Ford's films mostly had been figured as anarctic figures of pure evil They hadn't been humanized. They'd been seen as part of nature. Right? Uh in this film, not so. There's a sympathy for the Indians that enters this film that helps to explain its complexity and its richness. The second great story is the captives tale. One of the central and earliest forms of American narrative. The captives tale that is told here is based on a true story. A woman named Cynthia Anne Parker was abducted at the age of nine by Comanches in Texas in 1836. A novel was written about that event by Alan Lame and much after the event and Ford's film is based on the novel. One of the ironies is that the real Cynthia Anne Chase uh uh chose her com Cynthia Anne chose her Comanche husband over her Anglo relatives when she was rescued. She didn't want to leave uh uh unlike the unlike the novel and unlike what happens in in the film. And I I mention this in part to remind you of the sort of romanticizing tendencies of the American western, but still captives tales, stories of of white people, especially white women captured by Indians and raised by Indians were a staple were a were a staple of the popular culture uh uh uh from long before the history of movies. And the move this movie, like other movies, dramatizes a version of that captive's tale. The structure of the film is worth calling attention to in part because it's ambiguous. One way to organize the plot I mean the the structure of the of the of the film is to recognize that there are seven moments in the film that we might think of as like chapters or bookmarks. And if you watch for these moments they're all it's also a structurally significant uh device. Uh if you watch for these moments, you'll be able to follow the you'll recognize that the film is progressing because it's it's uh its time frame is intentionally ambiguous for reasons I'll hint at in a moment. And these seven moments all involve a similar kind of shot. The camera looks through a doorway or an opening out into a rectangle of receding light. The very opening of the film has one such shot. and and at seven different moments in the film, we see a shot from inside an interior space, from a dark interior space, and we look out through a doorway. You might ask yourself why in a film that celebrates and that dramatizes the immense expansiveness of the western environment, Ford would give us images so so such self-conscious obvious images that that first of all refer to each other. So you think about what the when they occur in the film, but why he would so intentionally restrict the visual range of what's available, make you feel confinement. Why does he do that? One possible and I I might leave this for your section. And think about why he does it. One of one effect is surely to make you even more aware of how expansive the outside is because you are in the outside for a lot of the time. By confining your vision in this way, it's a it's a reminder of how how much bigness is out there. But there are other reasons as well that for why the perspective would be restricted to these sort of aperture shots. In any case, there are seven of them through the film and they mark the progress of the film. The reason that the film is so hard to follow is in part that the time frame is weird. Uh um and I'll come to that in a second. There is one turning point in the film that I want to mention to you that you should watch for. It's a moral turning point or a psychologically important turning point because it's a moment in the film where the sympathy of the viewer is shifted is radically transformed. Uh um it it occurs fairly about midway through the film where uh uh the John Wayne character and his sidekick Martin Paulie come riding down uh a a a um not a quite a mountain but a law a promontory through heavy snow and the the weather in the film is interesting and powerful. That's one of the ways you can feel time passing. The winters and summers go by. You can feel the seasons passing. Uh but you're not clear how much time goes by. By the end of the film, you know, many years has gone by at least 10 years because the young girl who was uh stolen away in the beginning is a young woman at the end of the film play p play p play p play p play p play p play p play p play p play p play p p play p play p play p play the old adult played by the actress uh um um Natalie Wood who a very successful and and and and important actress of the of the 50s and 60s um uh and and uh uh so she's a grown woman by the end so we know that a significant ificant amount of time has gone by, but it isn't clear as the story is going on exactly how much time has gone by. And and uh that ambiguity is important. Uh the turning point occurs as they're coming down this hill, the horses are almost up to their shoulders in snow, and they come riding down this hill into a village, an Indian village, a Native American village. And it's a Native American village that's in smoking ruins. It has been decimated by American cavalry. and they go into one of the tepeees and they find dead in the tepee uh an an Native American woman, a named Luke who had been following them and we've gotten to know her. And the Martin Paulie character, the secondary character, the sidekick uh um um says to John to the John Wayne character, why did they have to kill? Look, she didn't do anything. And it's a moment in which the butchery of the white soldiers is dramatized, in which your sympathy turns entirely away from the official uh American government account of the West towards something else. And in the very next scene, something amazing happens. Uh it's easy to miss because it happens so quickly, but it's very important morally to the film. We have a scene in which we see three Indian chieftains standing in uh their captives standing in in in in blankets looking on as another group of Native Americans, Indians are being essentially herded into a into a compound into a hospital type building and and uh we can and and they're being herded as if they're sort of cattle or sheep or you know not fully human. And you can see there's no comment, no no dialogue, but you can see the the the the sadness and the and the and the unhappiness in the regret in the eyes of these of these sturdy chiefs as they look upon it. And what happens in that moment is that the film's perspective has become that of the Native Americans and the audience's perspective has become that as well. and the so so the effect of these moments coupled with many other things in the film some of which I've mentioned some of which I've not about the ambiguity of the John Wayne characters u uh nature uh come together here and this is this is a moment in which something of the complexity of the western story is being acknowledged by the text right no longer are we getting a kind of simple celebration of these western values something much more ambiguous and morally complex is happening here A critique of those values is being embedded in this apparently classic western and it's one of the reasons it's such a remarkable film. I'll conclude now. I apologize for running over. The title itself clarifies some of the ambiguity of the movie. What are they searching for? I said before that the time frame of the film is confusing and it's not just that even the setting of the fil even the setting the monument valley setting comes to seem almost like a lunar landscape before we're finished uh with the film. There's a sense there's a sense that the quest goes on forever, that they begin to lose a sense of why they're doing it. After all, so much time has gone by, she's lived with the Native Americans all this time, what's the point of the rescue, even we might we might think, right? uh um and uh the fact that the that the that the quest has gone on for such a long time, but but but it becomes more and more unclear why the search is going on, what the what the purpose of the search is, there's a kind of ambiguity in it uh that that uh uh is is is deeply is deeply disturbing and deeply troubling. And of course at the the the the uh uh the sense we have at the end of the film that the search it is concluded but almost until the very end we're not sure whether the John Wayne character is going to uh save or murder the object of his quest. And there's also the sense that even after he's done it what has been gained. It's very the the so there's a there's a deep ambiguity at the end at the end of the movie as there is a deep ambiguity surrounding the alleged heroism of the John Wayne character. Uh so what one of the reasons I emphasize these ambiguities and complexities is as a way of uh stressing the fact that even before we get to the era of what I'll call the anti-western or the dissenting western the classic western itself has reached a level of complexity and maturity embodied especially in this film and others that we might cite from the 1960s in which a kind of self-consciousness about the assumptions that lie behind and animate this central American form have already come to the surface and are being confronted by our best directors in our best films. Good night.