The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Next handout, thermodynamics. Yes. Yes. I love thermodynamics. All right. So, what is thermodynamics? So, thermodynamics and kinetics I feel go together, but for kind of weird reasons. We do thermodynamics now and we do kinetics at the very last unit of the semester. Um, part of the reason for this is that kinetics is often a unit that students uh can pick up really fast and so I like doing it at the end when um everything your world is sort of crazy and you have something that you can get a grasp on pretty pretty easily for the last unit. So anyway, I'll tell you a little bit about kinetics now um because we won't get to a lot of it until later. So, thermodynamics deals with energy change and spontaneity of reactions. And thermodynamics brings you three of my favorite things in chemistry, which are delta H, delta S, and delta G. I love these. I live my life around these things. I believe entropy should always be increasing. Um, and I love nothing more than free energy. That's great stuff. Okay, so today we're going to talk about delta H. Next week we have delta S and delta G. What about kinetics? What does kinetics bring us? Well, kinetics brings us the rate or speed of a reaction. It can bring us fast reactions and it can bring us slow I like kinetics, too. I kind of like the fast, to be honest with you. All right, so thermodynamics and kinetics. One, thermodynamics tells us whether something is going to happen spontaneously or not. But kinetics tells us the rate at which it happens. So let's just think of an example for a minute. You may have heard the this commercial happens a lot around Valentine's Day. Diamonds are forever. So actually thermodynamically graphite is favorable to diamonds. It's more stable. So, graphite or or coal, thermodynamically, this is the stuff. Diamonds diamonds not, you know, forever. That's really a kinetic statement. It's it's there for a very long time, but you know, it isn't it isn't inert. So, here's an important question. What is the best ring for one geek to give another geek? the thermodynamically stable one or one that that is uh you know more kinetically uh slow to react more stable more inert inertness reaction what do you you know I should have a clicker question on this and I know what you think but actually the answer is in my opinion neither of these come on There's only really one ring that any geek really wants. Green Lantern's ring has the power of chemistry at your fingertips. You can make who cares if something's inert. If you're the Green Lantern, you can do whatever. So that that's the ring. Anyway, what about the one ring? Oh, one ring. Yeah, I I like the Green Lantern ring, but I guess, you know, next next, you know, maybe we should have we should open a a a blog on this. It's a really important question. All right, so let's think about bonding for a minute. So, thermodynamics is telling us about energy change. It's telling us about spontaneity. And so, we need to think about energy that's going in. So, kinetics is telling us about how fast. Thermodynamics is really telling us about stability. How stable is something? How much does it cost to break it apart? So, we're back to bond dissociation energies. We have the change in uh the dissociation energy e to the little d. It's the energy to break a bond. We've seen this plot before. Now, we have methane. We're breaking off a hydrogen from it, which is actually very hard to do. Scientists would love to uh break apart methane and make methanol, but it's a hard thing to do. Um, up here we have unfavorable reactions. When the atoms are too close, then you have a sweet spot where the positions of the atoms are just right to form a bond. That's when you get methane. And then if you put in energy, you can pull that um pull this off. If they go far apart with radius this way, your bond will dissociate. You always have to put energy in to get it to dissociate. So now we can think about it. We've thought about this in terms of bond dissociation. We've seen this before, but now we can think about it in terms of a new term, which is delta HB or bond enalpy. So bond enalpy is the change in heat accompanying this association of a bond and it's measured at a constant pressure. In fact, if we relate delta H to delta E, um delta H equals delta E um plus whatever change in in uh pressure volume um and often this term is pretty small. So people often really think about reactions in terms of these being pretty similar to each other. So for gases um the difference really is 1 to 2% and if you're talking about um a liquid or a solid solid, it's really a negligible difference. So we often really kind of think about these things in the same way. We think about the energy going into a system to break the bond. Um or we think about the bond enalpies and bond enalpies delta H is often easier to measure. So it's very convenient. All right. So again bond enalpies you always have to put energy in if you're going to break a bond. So it's always going to be positive. It always takes heat. It always takes something to break a bond. And so breaking a bond is endothermic. Heat must be added. Whereas bond formation is exothermic. Heat is being released. And so we can think about this again. When you form a bond, those we saw with MO theory that those bonds those there's more electrons in lower energy in the bonding orbitals than in the antib-bonding orbitals. They're happy. This is a lower energy state. So if you're going to break that bond, breaking up is hard to do. And there's a song that verifies that statement. Breaking up is hard to do. You always have to add heat. But um when you go when you go from that stable state out, when you form those bonds, you know, that's that everyone it's like, you know, become a married couple often get a little boring. They're in a low energy state. It's hard to get them out of the house. Um, and so they release all of their their energy and they form this nice little happy stable couple. So when you do bond formation, that's an exothermic process. All right? So we can talk about um standard bond enalpies. When you see this little uh circle up there, that means it's a value that's at standard conditions where your reactants and products are in their standard states. And so we can think about what are some delta H um or some bond enalpies for different kinds of carbon hydrogen bonds. So here's our friend methane. If you're going to pull off a hydrogen, you have to put energy in to do that. And the bond enalpy for that is 438. Now we can think about some other kinds of carbon bonds. We talked about this one. We have it here um in the classroom. Um so if we pull off um a hydrogen um from that it's plus 410. So similar but not the same. If you now substitute florines um three florines for three of the hydrogens that changes your value a little bit but not much. If you substitute uh chlorine it changes it a lot more. Same with bromine. So it depends the bond enaly depends on what else is around that atom that you're pulling around. So it's it's not always the same value. It's different. It depends on what else is there. Um so often you'll have a table that will report mean bond enalpies and they take all the bond enalpies and they get the mean value and they're usually within 8% of each other. And for a carbon hydrogen bond it's around 412 is the mean bond enalpy. But when you're using mean bond enalpies to calculate something, you have to realize that there can be some, you know, pretty big differences depending on what's around uh that bond that you're going to break. All right, so those are some bond enalpies. Why are they important? Well, they're important because the difference in bond enalpies between a product and a reactant can tell you about the enalpy of that reaction. the enalpy of the reaction of breaking a bonds and forming new bonds or the enalpy of reaction which is delta HR subr and that is in then in the standard state in that case. So let's talk about enalpies of reactions. So we have this symbol again standard bond enalpy for a reaction. So if it's a little b it's a bond enalpy if it's a little r it's a reaction enthalpy. If it's negative value, it means it's an exofothermic reaction. And if it's a positive value, it means that it's an endothermic reaction. So, we'll use these terms a lot and you'll get very familiar with them. So, let's look at some examples of reactions. And here is uh one of my favorites and it is yes it has its own song photoistois. Yes, photosynthesis does not involve a camera or a synthesizer, although that's interesting, too. Photosynthesis is how lights take light from the sun and turn it into energy. It's actually a thing on which most light depends here on the planet Earth. Photosis. Okay, that gives you an idea. Unfortunately, every time you will hear the word photosynthesis, you'll go, "Ah, it happens. I'm sorry about that." Okay, so photosynthesis, amazing reaction. People right now are trying to duplicate it in industry to solve the energy problem. Good luck with that. Um, but I I know I I wish them good luck. That would be awesome. Um, we use the opposite of that reaction um for our energy. So we take sugar and use oxygen to break it down which um is an awesome thing because this has a really negative um uh enalpy of reaction minus kJ per mole. It's huge and we store this in something called ATP. So since this is and I'm going to need uh the help of the TAS for a minute because we're going to do a very quick demo at the end of today's class. Um this uh reaction is is exothermic big time. It's a big negative which raises the question you know if it's that exothermic really big value we have sugar in air why we should feel heat should be released. So I think we should do this demo now and see whether that's true. So, I have a bag of sugar and it is sealed under nitrogen, so there's no oxygen in there. And I forgot my safety glasses, but um you know, I'll try to you know, the Sorry about the front room. I should have had a stellar announcement that you might want to sit back. But I'm going to cut this open and let O2 in. So, there should be a lot of heat coming out. individually wrapped. Oh, you know what? They're individually wrapped. All right. So, this is not going to work. So, I need my the TAs to come down here, please. And you got to help me unwrap them. Has anyone done the experiment yet? Do you feel heat coming out? You do. All right. I better try it up here. Let's see. I'm gonna unwrap mine. It's not working very well. So, it turns out that it's very it's heat should be released, but this is very slow. So, we don't feel the heat when we unwrap our Hershey's kisses. I encourage everyone to try this experiment at least once. Um but the way that we harness this energy in our bodies is that we have catalysts which are enzymes that speed up the reaction and that's how we get the full force of this reaction out. So um that is actually our introduction uh to thermodynamics and uh next time um we're going to talk about um how we're going to calculate these delta H are these heats of reaction. All right. So, we were talking about delta H and so I want to pull out um the handouts from last time and uh we were at the bottom of page two with three different ways to calculate delta H. So, uh or delta H of reaction delta HR the reaction enalpy. So I introduced you to bond enalpies and today we're going to look at how you use bond enalpies um to calculate reaction enalpies. And remember bond enalpies sometimes it has nothing just delta h sometimes it's delta h subb capital b for bond. Um and we're going to look at that. Then we're going to look at how you can calculate delta h for reaction from the standard enalpies of formation. And I'll introduce you to what that means and then also tell you about Hessa's law where you can combine reactions known reactions that have known delta H's to get a new uh equation and calculate a new delta H for that reaction. So three different ways. So we're going to start with way one which is bond enalpies. So here is the equation for calculating bond enalpies. So we have the delta h kn of uh of the reaction equals the sum of all of the reactants um bond enalpies minus the sum of all the product bond enalpies. And so this is bonds broken minus bonds formed. And so let's think about this for a minute and think about what would be true if you had stronger bonds in the products than in the reactants. What would be true? And this is a clicker question. All right, let's just take 10 more seconds. Okay. Yep. So now let's think about why this is true. So it's good good news that most of you know that negative means exothermic and positive means endothermic. Um and let's look at why this is true. So um so let's let's look at both of these. So if we have bonds stronger in the products, you can just think about the equation. So if you have bonds stronger in the products, this is a bigger number and that's a smaller number which is going to give you a negative answer and a negative value is exothermic. Um and you could think about the equation um stronger bonds here, bigger number minus a smaller number, positive or endothermic. But let's think for a minute about why this is the case and rationalize it. because on an exam this is one of the equations that you're not given. So let's uh let's help you remember why this would be true. So um we can think about we can think about this if you're if you're going to break bonds and this isn't in your notes but I'm just people get confused by this so I'm just going to uh write a little bit on the board. So if you're going to break bonds you need to put energy into the system to break bonds. And we talked about this before and since uh we have exam two coming up, we'll just do a little review of some of the things that might be on the exam. So you don't have this in uh in the handout we're doing right now, but you had this in the lecture nine handout and something like this might be on the exam. Um so we should should be thinking about it. So remember if there was no energy that you needed to put in to break a bond, if breaking the bond required no energy, there would be no bond. So when the energy is zero, there's no bonds. These two are not these things are not bonded together. And when you do form a bond, you go down in energy here. So it's at a lower state. It's more stable. That's why it forms a bond. If it was less stable, it wouldn't be forming a bond. But if it's more stable, lower in energy, a larger negative number, then uh then a bond forms. So to break this bond, you have to put energy into the system. So breaking bonds always involves energy in. But forming bonds, so if we're forming bonds, then we're going to have energy out. So we're at a a uh we're at a lower place here. So if we if if we want to break bonds, we have to put energy in. But if we're forming bonds, then we're going to have energy that these guys had that is going to be released somewhere. So energy goes out of the system. And the farther down we have the stronger bonds, the more energy you have to put in to break, but also the more energy that comes out when uh when the bonds form. So energy in to break a bond, but when a bond is forming, it goes to low to a lower state and that energy is released. So now we can think about what happens if you have a reactant uh with weak bonds. So if the reactant then has weak bonds, how much energy do you have to put in if it has weak bonds to break them? Not a lot. So we have just sort of a little bit of energy in little energy in to break those bonds. Now in the products, if we have strong bonds, how much energy goes out? If we're forming strong bonds, a lot. So energy out, we have lots of energy out. So that was the first uh case that we had. So we had something where the bonds were stronger in the product and we said that this was negative. So net here we have um heat or energy out is released and so that's an exothermic system. Oh the boards work today. Um and if we have the other if we have say strong bonds in the pro in the reactants then we have to put a lot of energy in big energy in if we have weak bonds that are being formed we're not getting much energy back. So the net here is that you have heat in or heat absorbed and it's an endothermic reaction. So this is just one way to think about it. Remember whenever you're going to break bond you always have to put energy in to break the bond and when a bond is formed that energy is released. So we're thinking about the net of these pro the the processes and that's why this equation works for us. So keep this in mind. This is one of the points that people get confused on on the exams and sometimes like they say oh thermodynamics I just don't understand it and they're not keeping calm and sciencing on. They're getting all stressed by thermodynamics and all it's only this confusion that's it. So if you work this out then thermodynamics will be your friend and you will love thermodynamics like I do forever. So um this is this is uh it's it's just kind of keep this in mind and uh those diagrams in mind and you'll be all good. All right. So let's do an example now. So we can um we can use these bond enalpies in this equation where we're summing up all our reactants. And sometimes you see sum for of the little I here for I reactants minus J products. So the sum of all of the products um and and it really is a lot here because we're talking about breaking every bond. We're talking about forming every bond. So this is not a huge molecule, but uh let's think about how many bonds we're actually going to be breaking here. So these are all the bonds that are broken. They're not quite as many being formed here. So, bonds broken. We have carbon hydrogen bonds and we have seven of those. So, one, two, three, four, five. Let's see if I count them. One, two, three, four, five, six. Uh, or oh, seven. There it is. I need my my glasses. All right. O bonds. We have these guys up here. One, two, three, four, five. we have CO bond um over oh one double bond over here. Um, so we also are going to have these ones here. One, two, three, four, five. We have the double bond over there. We have five, sorry, five carbon bonds. The one single bond here. And the carbon bonds are one, two, three, four, five. And we have OO bonds. We have six of those. Thank goodness I didn't have to count anymore. It's already labeled. And then the bonds formed. Um, so we're going to have these. So it's six of those. So we have 12 alto together. And we have also 12 over here. So, first you have to count. And counting is not one of my strengths. So, I don't like doing it this way. And I'm going to show you two other ways to calculate the same thing. Um, but we can take this and sum these all up. We can look up the mean bond enthalpies for every single one of these types of bonds. multiply them by the appropriate coefficients and come up with a sum for all the bonds for I number of bonds that you have in the reactants and you can do the same in the products for J number of bonds that you have in the products and come up with these numbers. So if you are told that you have to do it this way, use bond enalpies and you know how to do it or if it's a easier problem you're only say breaking two things and forming two things um this isn't a bad way to do it for big molecules this is definitely a nuisance and um if we sum all of this up together um and so for the total number we have reactants minus products and so if we subtract this we get minus 2740 and the actual value is minus 200 2816. So it's not even the best agreement when you do it this way. And the reason was if you remember last time we were talking about the bonds and mean bond enalpy um is about 8% different. So if you had say CH in a system that has all the all the rest of the atoms on carbon or H, that's a somewhat different value than if all of those other H atoms were substituted with bromine or if all those other H atoms were substituted with carbon. Then the bond enalpy for that CH, it depends on what else is bonded to the C. And so there's about 8% difference usually um in the values. And so overall, you're not going to get much better. you certainly are not going to get better than eight. Um, so agreement at 3% is pretty good, but it's not all that precise because we're using these mean bond enthalpies which don't depend on the actual value in that particular system. So we can do better than this and it can be also easier um and it'll be easier if we use standard heats of formation. So this is delta h subf f for formation. So the delta H subf um KN for a standard value um is equal to the reaction delta H if you're talking about a reaction that involves one mole of compound being derived from its pure elements in their most stable state and in their standard state. So this is standard state one bar and room temperature. All right. So let's calculate the same for the same reaction. Glucose plus oxygen going to CO2 plus water and uh see if we can get a little bit more accurate value that way. So let's think about what's happening in this reaction. So every time we oxidize glucose we're forming water. And so we can think about the re uh heat of formation for liquid water. So again this would be one mole coming from pure elements in their most standard state. So we have to think about where the hydrogen's coming from and where the oxygen's coming from. So hydrogen in its most stable form is H2 gas and oxygen in its most stable form is O2 gas. And uh so that's then the equation balanced uh for one mole of H2O liquid being formed. And we can look up um the the delta delta H for this that delta H of formation for this reaction as written is the delta H of formation and it's minus 285.83 kJ per mole. So now let's consider what else. So we're forming water and we're also forming CO2. So CO2 is derived from carbon in its most stable state which is graphite as we discussed before and also O2 oxygen and O2 oxygen gas is the most stable state there. So for this reaction as written that is the delta H of formation of CO2 gas and it's minus 393.5 kJ per mole. So those are our products. We also have two reactants. One of our reactants is O2. So it's what's doing the oxidation. And uh we're going from O2 gas to O2 gas. This is the most stable state. So what do you think the value is here? Zero. Yes. So if you have an element already in its most stable state, its heat of formation is going to be zero because it's already the most stable state. So the heat of formation is zero. And every year, I think on an exam, someone's trying to see if they can calculate a delta H of a reaction. Um, and they're looking and they're like, "Oh, I want to use heats of formation because I know that's a lot easier." but a value is missing from my table and they're like the value is missing from the table and the TA doesn't know how much information or whatever to give and if you think you should have a value in exam you don't think about is that element already in its most standard state perhaps it's zero and that's why it's not listed on the table so keep this in mind this can be very useful to remember all right one more thing is involved in the equation we have glucose So, we can think about the reaction that forms glucose from elements in its most stable state. And we've actually talked about all of these already. We have O2 that's in its most stable state. Carbon graphite, H2 gas, and so this reaction as written um has a heat of formation of minus 1,260 kJ per mole. So now we can calculate the delta H for the oxidation of glucose, the delta H of the reaction from these delta H's of formation. And here is the equation. Delta H of the reaction is equal to the sum of all of the delta H's of formation of the products minus the sum of the delta H's of formation of the reactants. So this now is one of the sources of confusion because if you're using bond enalpies, it's reactants minus products. If you're using delta H of formation, it's products minus reactants. So that's why I spent a little time over here thinking about what's going on with the bond bond enalpies. So hopefully no one will fall into this delta H pitfall over here. and uh you'll keep the reactions uh the equations straight. Okay, so now we can plug it in. If you remember the equations, this is pretty easy. Um so we have our delta H um of reaction. We have six times the heat of formation oops of our products over here CO2 6 times the first product and then six times the second product which is water minus the first reactant which is our glucose and we have one of those and we have six oxygens. So products minus reactants. Pay attention to the stoometry. You need to multiply the heats of formation by the number of molecules. So then we can put in the values that we just saw. CO2 minus 392 uh for our water minus 285 minus and here we have a minus 1 260 for glucose. And again 6 * 0 because the oxygen is already in its most stable state. And if we do the math correctly, you get minus 2,816 kJ per mole. And that is exactly the experimental value. And it's because the heats of formation are also experimental. So this is very precise number. When you use the heats of formation, you're going to you're going to get a much more a much closer value to experimental. And this was a bit easier than thinking about every bond that would be broken and every bond that would be formed. Okay, one more way that you can do this and this takes advantage of something known uh as Hess's law and the fact that enthalpy is a state function which means that it's independent of path. So if you were climbing a mountain and you wanted to go from point A to point B, you could climb all the way up to the top and go back down or you could just go right from A to B and it wouldn't matter. um your delta H would be the same in both cases u because it's independent of path. So it only matters what uh values are for your reactants and your final products. It doesn't matter how you get from the reactants to the products. Delta H is going to be the same. And because of this you can take different routes. If there are equations um for different parts of your reaction that are already known with values of delta H, you can add those equations together and then add together the delta H's to get a new value. So Hess's law, if there are two or more equations are added to give another chemical equations, then you can add up the delta H for the reactions of each of the individual equations to get the sum for your new equation. So let's do this now again uh for glucose um and oxygen. So if we have these three equations here, this one is showing glucose plus oxygen being broken down to the elements that are in the most stable state. So graphite, H2, and O2 for glucose. And then our six O2s are there on both sides because it's already in the most stable state. We're going to be forming CO2 from the elements in the most stable state and also water. So we can add these together paying attention to the stochometry. So we need to multiply this equation by six and this equation by six and then we should be able to do some cancelling and make sure that we're getting our equation of interest. So we can cancel these uh 62s with these. We can cancel these O2s with these. And we can cancel this H2 with this. And that leaves us with glucose plus six oxygens going to six CO2s and six waters. So this is going to work now. And now since we added this together to get this, we can add our delta H of reactions together to get a new delta H of reaction. Oh, sorry. I cancel I forgot to cancel my graphites. There we go. Now we're good. Um, didn't notice them there. Okay. So, uh our delta H for reaction um we saw before that the formation of CO2 from elements in it most stable state was minus. So now we've just changed the sign because now we're going the opposite direction. So we have a positive value of for that delta H of reaction. Now we have six times the heat of formation of CO2 and six times the heat of formation of water because that's what those equations are. Those are the heat of formation reactions. And if we add this all together, then uh we get the um the number that uh that we saw before. So it doesn't matter what path we take, we're going to get to that same answer. And this one, since we're using information that all has to do with heat of formation, it's not really very different from the one we did before. But you can use Hessa's law for delta H of reactions that are not heats of formation. If one equation if a if equations are available that can be added or summed to get your net reaction then you can add you can add or subtract these values to get a new delta H. Okay don't forget kJ per mole. Okay, so we have our three different ways bond enalpies, heat of formation and Hessa's law.