The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. So uh uh first uh I was say I think you should start thinking about the um project and what uh I'm looking for uh is a u short report paper type report. I want to limit to only five pages. Okay. And uh uh it could be uh anything related to this subject right. So if you happen to be work on something you want to extend and apply the knowledge that you you learn in this subject you're welcome to do so. And in fact uh uh I um wrote a paper u based on term paper uh I was working on when I was a graduate student. I thought that that's that was a good experience. In fact, that turns out to be the first paper on thermal conductivity of quantum wells. Um I was taking a long linear optics course. I spend uh the whole semester and uh at the end I went to professor I don't understand what you talk uh and he want a term paper and I said how about uh um he was talking about double site the fman diagram so I I still don't quite understand what what say the fman diagram but uh so I said how about I worked on a paper on quantum wells thermal connectivity quantum wells said fine that's fine so I wrote the term paper and uh I continued to work on it and uh I eventually actually published a paper on the thermal conductivity of quantum wells and uh uh looking back at there because that was AI was doing pretty much a boardman equation. So completely forgot the quantization. But uh uh um it turns out that most of the stuff were correct. Not that everything was correct. And uh uh so uh what I want to say is I encourage you to think about subject relative research uh uh you can expand it. uh or if you uh uh you're not say you don't have a subject, you can uh do a literature review. Let me say you're interested in a specific topic. Let's say metamaterials or plasmonics or any any of the thing that we mentioned or you read, right? You're going to apply the knowledge. you can do a a literature review and expand on it and maybe you say okay based on that maybe this is a a interesting problem that I can continue working on you can work after this uh semester uh you can always you're always welcome to discuss with me and if you really don't say don't have a a topic come talk to me I think I can always figure something uh we can negotiate and say what you would be interested. Okay. Uh so uh that's on the term paper. Uh my uh uh so now you have uh all turned in. I say your first uh qu first midterm and redo it. Any questions on those first midterm? I think say when I was uh looking at where uh or most mistakes made I think uh uh one of this is the um the depths of the eval way right and uh uh probably uh because unless you go back you written down and it may not be easy to figure out what's the depths but say the kay is you should be able to write down the plane wave expressions, right? And if you have the plane wave expression and you use your snail law and you can find the angle when the angle cosine theta or sin theta is larger than one. So you use your cosine theta one square root of 1 minus that sin theta squared and they plug in the plan wave. you should be able to find out what's the uh penetration depth of the evallescent wave. And there was another question about the uh what's the number of molecules having certain speed right that's a gas molecule and uh so there I would guess uh probably you might be get stuck in what's the total number of you need to start with the total number of molecules all right per unit volume and that's the first that you need to given temperature given pressure you could use the ideal gas four to find out what's local density and and then use a maxwell velocity distribution to say what's the total number what's the number of molecules that have a certain velocity and uh uh then I think it's a matter of time um most of you couldn't finish the last problem uh where uh we're looking at the uh fullon uh say the equivalent of a fullon distribution uh to the black body radiation where is the peak w displacements no right so uh you find out that in many case a low temperature yeah you do have a peak but at high temperature that wavelength peak wavelength too short compared two times the lattice constant so you actually never reach that peak it will be uh you you should uh uh continue to try that out and for many years um I haven't done that myself until this time I said I have to make a problem out of it uh this is the optical absorption right that's the second long l long longer problem uh what's the optical absorption for a direct gap semiconductor and it's a matter of joint dens of states so uh if I have right so I have a semiconductor dispersion and I have a photon this is the nift electron uh from from the valance band to conduction band and then you need to say this is my photon energy h omega mu and how is it related to k so you you need to f first write down because you know this parabola this parabola and the difference of these two energy gives you the photon energy Right. So once you have photon energy or frequency versus K and you can use the um normal way we do dens of states because the absorption depends on how many states you have and this is in fact called the joint dens of states between the balance band and conduction band. And then it turns out it's same as your bulk material that's the square root of E months is the bank gap right. So uh the absorption of the uh light u for uh um typical semiconductor this is uh this curve of absorption is a reflection of the joint densel states and of course you have the population right we didn't say okay you have to say how many electrons here how many amplitates here if I do it I really need to say this is a f And here f for the number of electron here here is empty. So so that's a one month f and that's a different f because there if you chemical potential is here and you say the uh say fmy dro is say energy minus mu and here is the balance band energy minus mu there right. So uh basically uh if you force yourself going through those problems many times you can understand uh a lot of the basics that you say and I let I did not do this before and uh uh uh I this time I said okay I give you problems I have first do it myself. Any questions? Okay. Uh so if not let's come back and uh uh if we think what we're talking the last time we talk about this whip to particle transition and from that I say from now on I'm going to neglect the phase of the energy carriers uh the plan wave. I'm not no longer carrying the face. I'm just look at the the trajectory and treat them as billables right so um look at the trajectory and uh for that we say we discuss briefly the novel equation which is a n particle distribution function and that I say uh it's of course that n is huge the number of particle in my system and we say okay from this no equation there are generally two approach one is the borsman equation that's the uh say long developed and the other is the linear response theory uh which I hope I have will have time at the end to cover some if you do molecular dynamics you should really dive into linear response theory that's the analysis I I comment a lot of people in fact say any undergraduate student come in can conceptually understand equal ma f equal ma do a simulation. But the K is you have to really understand that the the basis for that and uh so we move on and say okay from f to n and to f of one that's a one particle distribution function that's a boardsman equation and uh uh the fn is just the multiplication of f1 for n particles and uh uh we uh uh the because of the one particle now this particle will interact with the rest of the particle in the system. So uh the borsman equation uh which you roughly can show from no equation the left hand side is dfdt. The first derivative because here is still a function in phase space right f is the distribution function still a function in phase space. So the first derivative is gradient is with respect to space. The second gradient is with respect to the momentum right and uh uh it's actually interesting to comment the f it looks like it's a function of xyz vx wy vz looks like it has direction vx vy vz if a particle is going certain direction I have different f right so but uh uh Say uh the question is is a vector or scalar? What do you think? It's a scalar in high dimensional space. Right? And if you just think about any point in space and particle going specific direction have specific distribution. So that looks like it has direction properties but that direction property is really the way coordinate the higher dimensional coordinate space say face space coordinate okay and also uh there are different ways to write this force term dpdt is the uh if you look at think about the len's law dpdt gives you the f the force and the force you can write f say because p is the ma m so I can put them m out and f uh say d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dive with respect to V or P is a function of H K right so by I can use different variables rather than using P I can use V I can use K and a different way of writing this term and that's uh most of time I say when you deal with electrons you have to keep this term. That's the uh important driving force for the electron motion. But when we deal photon or fon we do not need uh this term or even say the molecules there's no direct force on them. uh but the complication is really on this left hand side right hand side where I say the now the particle interact with the rest of the particle and that's the collision term so uh let's move on and try to write down this collision term because so far it looks all pretty simple on the uh right hand left hand side you can say it's a first order derivative Right. And uh so let's look at the collision term df dt. This is not a derivative just a symbol how we can uh express it and uh uh normally I can start just consider the two particle coalition and uh so if I have two particles interact with each other and this initially this particle has a energy and momentum of a vector right hk is momentum and this other particle has a E1 K1 and uh when they get close to the interaction range what is close to interaction range it means if you think about two gas say atoms it's the electron when the electrostatic potential can interact with each other right so uh you have uh electrons you have nuclei so you have that that's where they start to interact so if you think about The gas molecules in this room we see the average mean free pass about 100 nanometer right and the the atomic size is a few unstron so there is actually a very large space in between them most time they do not interact they will just travel freely and when they're getting really close to each other you got this collision right so uh due to the collision you'll have the energy change maybe right and you change the direction. So that's the final state for this first first particle and you have the energy change of second particle and momentum change of the second particle right and uh in a typical problem what do you want to say okay what's the first what's the rate of what's the probability what's the rate right and the way uh uh to do this is a approximate method. So if you have originally if you solve a m metal for example if I have photon comes in and getting absorbed by the uh materials getting absorbed by material right so originally the material has a certain energy and that's a quantum mechanable energy levels that's what we did in the second chapter right so we original problem this system before interaction action has energy and correspondingly we can write the uh shinger equation. Uh essentially we can write the hamiltonian which is the kinetic energy. So uh h bar squar uh 2m k so is the operator that's the first term in the shinger equation right and plus u0 right so when we show solve the shroinger equation we say this one equals mass i h bar ih bar deep side dt we solve for the energy states Right. So now uh what I have so this is we did a steady state problem now during uh uh photon comes in what it does is to create a perturbation you treat as a small perturbation to the original homatian h. So uh let's say this is your h0 and the small perturbation let's say uh the now the interaction uh hamiltonian h is h0 plus a small perturbation which could be a function r and t right this is the interaction term this is the original unperturbed where I already have suppose You already have the short equation solution. You know the energy level. You know the wave function the state quantum states of the original system. Right? And due to this perturbation you go back to the short equation. You solve using perturbation method. We're not going to do it. And with that you can find the rate of perturbing due to this perturbation. The system changing from one state to the other. And this rate is a transition rate. This is a farmer initial state to a final state. Right? And this is a 2 pi hbar. And uh uh we have the integration of the final state wave function complex conjugate the perturbation. So this is the the unperturbed system the wave function let's suppose you start with a certain initial state wave function and the final state wave function that's suppose you already had solving the original problem and now given this perturbation hamiltonian and I have the initial state wave function and I interact integrate over the volume of that interaction and there's a square and then a delta function either the energy conservation delta function is zero when uh the ei does not equal ef right so only when ei equals ef this is non zero So essentially what this gives us is the energy conservation of the uh system. And if you do this, if you say when you do the uh wave function for plan wave, you have wave vector, right? For each quantum state, you have wave vector. And if you do your integration of this, you'll also find a corresponding conservation in w vector. That's your momentum conservation. So uh what do you have uh essentially you'll get the momentum energy conservation from this transition rate and uh so the uh you you have for example the initial energy so this is the two particle interacting so this is initially E is function K and the incoming one E1 K1 equals E uh prime K prime it goes scatter into another uh state and E1 prime K1 U prime and so that's the energy conservation this is the delta function the initial of the two system two two particles and the final of the two particles and uh uh the corresponding uh energy conservation is K + K1 prime equals K prime that's the final plus K1 prime final and uh let's see just wait hold on this and because hk hk that gives me momentum and later on I'll make a say a modification to this form here you can see this is a simple momentum conservation But later on we'll add say in crystal you add reciprocal latice G and that's soal clan process but basically those transition rate also give you I say uh in the doing the math also you actually get the energy and momentum conservation and uh uh most of the time you can say uh people do not like to write those integr That's why the direct if you read the quantum mechanics book they will write direct notation and uh uh the direct notation for this is your initial state interacting that's the like a wave function here interaction with perturbed honia and goes to final state so that represent this integral and you have this integration okay and uh you also Write this as a matrix form fi squar. So there are three different ways to do quantum mechanics. One is a matrix due to Heisenberg drotation dac and shinger is the shroinger equation. Okay they are all equivalent. Okay so this is the famous firmy golden rule. Next time you you heard from me golden rule, you now at least you have said. So that gives you the uh transition rate from the initial initial to final this uh uh given the uh uh interaction hamiltonian. This is by solving the time dependent shorting equation using the perturbation method. Okay, so that's the first step, right? We say we're dealing with the collision and uh now coming back to the BMAN equation. I'm looking at one particle and this particle can collide with many particles in the system. Right. So I have to count all that possibilities and so the now I can start write the df uh dt this collision term df dt this collision first if this particle is collide to other states then I have a loss right you go if from original E K states to E prime K prime states then this F because F is representing the uh one particle at a specific state so I lose a particle in that state so my first term is going out that's a loss so I have a negative sign so it's going out right and uh of First that depends on say the rate really depend say first I have the rate here collision rate uh of uh two quantum states but then I need to say each quantum states how many particles I have right so I need to say um uh f really the initial t r okay k and if we collide either with the other one T R uh uh at the same location K1 right so say how many in K how many in K1 and what's the rate of going from K K1 to K prime K1 K1 prime so this is where the forming golden rule tells me Those are how many to start with. Okay. So this is the loss. And now because I'm counting one specific so I need to really say sum up all other possibility. So I need to sum up K1. I need to sum up K prime. I need to sum up K1 prime. That summation is actually because each K is a V vector is vector right is actually each of this K is three summation. So I have really uh uh nine summation K1 is a vector K prime is a vector and K one prime is a vector. This is a loss. And then there's a gain that's going from uh uh uh the reverse. See how many k prime k1 prime they scatter and scatter back into the current state of k. So the gain is from uh t uh r. So here this is where the borman equation where the molecular chaos uh assumption we we used before right so it's only interacting at r point so I'm not writing at different r mentioned that there are modification people try to consider final size of the atom or molecule like ansk equation in that case you have to add two different r point that becomes a lot more complicated So uh here I have k prime that's the from uh the uh initial state k prime and t r same and k1 prime right and they will interact and going from k prime k1 prime going to k1. But what I care is really just this one specific quantum state in K. So I need to sum again all those uh other states. So this is a k1 k prime k1 prime. So this is summation index is same. So this is out this is in. It's I'm doing the number balance and you put in that summation into left hand side a right hand side of the boardsman equation you get the full boardsman equation. Okay. Now you can say this was just a a starter. The real thing is the complication is on the right hand side. And uh most time we do not write this as a summation. You can use what you learn how to change a summation into integration. Right? K is a sum in the quantum states. Now you need to convert that summation into integration. As long as all the assumption we made say apply here. So if you convert this summation into integration, what do you have in terms of number of integrations? Line. Each of this is a vector, right? So you have a line listed the integrals and of course so when you convert state you you do 2 L say uh the distance is 2 pi / so you you have that distance you have all this constant from converting summation into integration and you have a lineless integral and this line less integr is dk1 vector. So I can write the three. This is DK1 X, DK1 Y, DK1 Z, right? And D K prime and DK1 prime. So this is a from converting summation to integration. The second comment is uh this W. Uh it turns out one could argue that this W equals this W. That's a detail balance and the equilibrium in everything say is the same scatter out equals scatter in otherwise you have this one state either will be depleted completed or it goes to blow to infinite. Right? That's the detail balance. So because of that you have the equality. So rather than writing two terms you can split write into combine into one term. So at the end what I can write this scattering term df dt say equals I put a negative sign the first term in the front. I have then W and F TR K and F T R K1. So this is the first term minus let me write this here. The second term is say f so minus f t r k prime and f t r k1 prime let me just made uh another comment and uh here I'm writing two fixed particles when you do a real problem whether for example when your electron interact with the folon at the end the electron the fon may be absorbed right so you don't have a fullon coming out so for each of this specific case you need to carefully write down this f here I'm just writing a generic way of if I have two particle comes in collide with each other I have two particle goes up. But say when you actually like you have photon getting absorbed, photon disappeared, right? So you need to do each of this case just using the same idea do your detail expression and so you read different papers different problem this will be different expressions. Okay. So now go to solve this. Yes, never mind. Um I was just wondering what's the point of having an integral representation of this when we're probably going to be doing this numerically and then because this also has to have the assumption that these functions are slowly varying right for like every infant decimal step. Uh yeah so so so integral equ uh uh uh that's true say um you can do a go back to summation but in the uh remember in the past right before computer was very powerful people always try to say whether I can solve it numeric say analytically right but say uh so so that's the um and and in fact I say most of time this function doesn't change that rapidly. So that's a valid approximation. The it's not as bad as say the line integral. The reason is that you see when you have coalition you have this delta functions, right? So it's those delta function in energy conservation and the the delta in momentum conservation. This is also delta function, right? will significantly constrain what are the possible values you have to consider. Okay. So that's the see that will allow you to simplify and uh make this still uh uh say trackable. But I have to say that solving full BSman equation now I'm not going to write combine the left hand side to the right hand side right uh left hand side to right hand side what you really have is a differential on the left integral equation on the right so even so even though you are solving one specific state with K you have to consider all the other K in your system, all the quantum state in your system to solve this distribution functions and uh in transport of course if your temperature is changing you say as a function R. So every point you consider all the K and you swap you you so the the the way that people some people try to swap there for each of this field there are not many twice it's pretty complicated problem right and say you typically do a iterative solution because say this one is for specific K but this integration involves all other states right your solution has to meet those all those requirements okay so it's a integral differential equation and the integration is in k space the differentiation in both uh say uh real space r and p k space Okay. But this is very hard and uh uh this equation the boardsman equation is used by electrical engineer. It's the foundation you can derive all the electrical the equation electrical engineer use and uh it's used lot of the past literature is on gas dynamics rarified gas dynamics lot of studies in rarified gas dynamics do you know the reason why there are so many study in gas dynamics this is due to Apollo project. Why? Because say uh uh when you try to send the spaceship through the atmosphere, when you go outside the say go to outer atmosphere, the pressure is very low. The molecule mean free pass is very long. So it's in the rarified gas flow regime. So a lot of study in rarified gas and in 1960 uh region let's say time time scale lot of study in neutron you go to look at the neutron transport right there a lot of work they're just solving neutron boards my equation so you got the neutron boards my equation you got the gas boards my equation you got the electron boards my equation right you can do electron and a phong and photon I teach another course radiation transfer at the end we solve this equation for the photons that's when you completely ignore the phase of the particles of those waves so this is a uh uh that's why really there are not many equations if you start from here you can derive all the equations every field or most field use in in this transport regime, right? But it's a molecular chaos assumption. So this is only valid when the particles are dilute. That's why so far I've been doing electron full on photon molecules more on a parallel path. I can't deal you can't use words equation for liquid. That's not right. Okay. Now moving on. This is a hard equation to solve. So there's a creative way to make it simple. And uh that creative way now we have Borsman equation right. So we do relaxation time approximation I say I can't deal with this nasty in integers. So what I'm going to write is you will be happy. Forget about that line integral. Okay. And this is the relaxation time. And now you will feel that we can probably do something. And this relaxation time approximation uh again there are different field has a different name. You put in this relaxation time on the right hand side of Borsma equation. You go to verify gas dynamic or gas dynamic book. You will not be called Borsman equation. it'll be called a crook equation right so in the gas dynamic that will be crook equation and in other field people don't call the crook equation so I remember once I was given a seminar and uh say uh uh uh a question was ah you're not so boring equation you're solving crook equation because I I need I know who is crook okay what is a crook equation Okay. So uh uh the uh why it's a relaxation time and uh if you put in the right hand side and let's forget the spatial dependence then what I have is df dt equals so if your system is uniformly disturbed from equilibrium f0 is the equilibrium distribution okay then you can say here if If you solve this system will return f uh uh to equilibrium f0= c exponential t over to top. So you can say this uh exponentially relax back to equilibrium. That's why toao is called the relaxation time. Right? And uh uh typically we call this Borisma equation under relaxation time approximation. Uh um sometimes people also call the linearized Borisma equation but there some uh uh confusion there I think. So now let's go to discuss what's the relaxation time right? What's this scatter? And uh let's look at a different relaxation times different process scattering in general when I think about the uh uh scattering and uh relaxation process. Of course we can say we we mentioned before photon absorption right so if I have uh before we say okay this is my the problem you worked on right this is my semiconductor with a bank gap with vector so you know it's a 3D and uh if I have photon comes in excite from here to here and the photon momentum is very small. So when I do my energy conservation, this is the electron initial energy and this is the final energy and final initial energy you also have the photon energy right it's a two particle so initial have electron at e uh certain energy and initially my photon has energy h new right and finally the electron has energy EF so uh I have my energy conservation is E F mass EI. This is the initial electron energy that equals H bar omega or H new that's a photon energy and the momentum is KF uh equals KI. So the final momentum of the electron plus the photon h bar k of the photon right and of course the photon wavelength is micron typically right if one micron is 1.1 about one electron volt the band gap is typically electron volt few electron volts or 0.1 electron volt Right? So you can say that the wavelength lambda is of the order one micron and here the zoom boundary is pi / a. A a is latis constant right lattice constant is armstrong. So you can see that say lambda is really doesn't shift this the photon momentum does not shift the k much. It's just a very little change. So it's essentially a vertical transition in this case and that's the homework problem you did. uh no the the midterm problem you did right and of course you can extend this if you do a indirect gap semiconductor like silicon and uh say silicon I have a valance band here conduction band is not a minimum is somewhere here right this is a silicon uh or indirect gap in general And uh now when the energy of the photon is right at the gap you can say there's no enough momentum right the photon cannot lift the electron from here to here alone because the momentum K is not enough. So what it does is you will interact you actually have three particle right electron interact with the photon and interact with the fon very small energy mini eay to tens of mill and uh the wave vector on the other hand the momentum is large so you can write your uh in that case you say okay my uh uh the uh say indirect gap. If this transition happen, you will involve say both electron photon and photon and ef= ei plus h bar omega photon and it could be plus minus h bar omega of folon. So what that plus minus means if it's a plus it absorb a fon get in if it's a minus a fullon emitted right so that's your energy conservation now you have three particles involved and uh uh kf uh equals ki plus h bar k photon which you can neglect Okay. And in the case of Fon this energy is still you you should carry it if in your analysis but this one is pretty small and plus minus H baron. So uh now if you can do this problem you should be able to do this problem using the joint densor. Try to write down this joint of states joint density of states and say if you have an indirect gap semiconductor how the absorption would change near the band gap right so those are the things now you can apply and uh of course uh what I say the what the general behavior is for direct gap this is your energy gap eg G and you have a very sharp rise in the absorption by the indirect gap it could be lower full on right absorption or higher but the rate will be much smaller okay and uh that's the we mentioned before this is a problem of silicon when you try to use as a solar cell Because this absorption is not very strong which purely means you can have to use very thick material to absorb the photon to capture it and uh that is the cost of the materials. Yes. You actually have that three body interaction. Oh yeah. Or is it typical that you absorb first and the photon has to provide the vertical gap and then it'll dissipate some of that energy? Oh, that's a this is a very good question. Uh it's a rate problem. It's a rate, right? So whether it happen if you have absorb and uh uh uh uh I think say you probably can have some mismatch due to the uncertainty principle. But I do not uh say so you sometimes you can say you raise that to virtual state and then you need the other send to come in but say that's very short. So you you almost instantaneous you have to have that. So that that's a lot of reason why this one is smaller right the scatter matrix will be weaker and uh the that's in this region is smaller. Yes. If you were to provide a lattice vibration for like indirect semiconductor right could you theoretically convert it from indirect to direct how uh oh see could you what's the question again you basically providing the phone well uh you you don't have see this is you can't shift this one there are some idea how to shift it the idea to shift it is using quantum size Okay, that's the uh first problem uh uh I give say in the quiz the short problem. Now when you use very small so what happens is this one will rise right the next the first level will become here rather than at the bottom and if it's small enough this one rise here and be lower than that depends on the effective mass it's if this is a sharp this is a very very see the the flat means a large effective mass that means you need a much smaller diameter to raise it so you have to look at the effective mass of each band and uh of course when you make small this will also going down and the some of the you say this is the first problem is you have to consider what's going up for the conduction band what's goes down you multiply when the effective mass is same you multiply by a factor of two that's how you enlarge the band gap okay so uh this is a photon Maybe I can make one more comment related to Wy question, right? Some people say, okay, let me develop a intermediate band gap solar shell, right? What does that mean? This is a band gap, right? And some of the infrared photon is not absorbed because there's not enough energy. So the idea is okay let me develop a energy level in the gap by putting out other atoms or quantum dots in the region right and then the infrared photon now can go from here to here the first photon and then the second photon go from here to here it's a nice idea but it's hard to do why this is a matter of the time residual time Right? You leave the electron to here and it has a tendency to get lost. The competition this is all red. Right? If it relax back or interact with the phong and become heat, then you lost. So you have say the uh say if you can stay there long enough wait for the next photon to come to lift it. You can go to calculate roughly back of envelope. If I have certain photon density coming in, how long it takes for the lex photon to come in with that certain energy, right? So, and the other way is say uh uh there are also the so-called two photon absorption. What happens is is two photon comes in at same time and same place and then you get that transition. But you can see in that case what they need it's a very high flux right because they need to come at the same time same location so you need a lot of them so long linear optics this two photon absorption they require very high intensity you use lasers to do that and uh uh in fact many times you need a very high fre uh intensity lasers to get a nonlinear regime. So it's all related to the rate the time when you think about what's possible right there's a concept there you this rate concept is very important right how fast is the process and uh you can dream for example uh I have say uh some electron comes photon comes in right I can lift the electron say sometimes I can have absorption from here to here free carrier absorption and I say okay uh or I have a high energy photon comes in right because the solar spectrum have a lot of photon like that you raise electron here isn't it good if you take this electron energy out rather than go back to here most solar cell this electron will go here then you take it out from here to here is about pec okay time scale. So you look at how long it takes how one picoscond how much electron will travel you'll say that's very hard right so it's this rate process those are the uh very important getting this order right so this is a we say okay energy transport energy conversion what is it this is energy conversion you say Right? The energy is going from photon to electron and there are of course many competing process if you do a device and the other process you electron full once you get the electron and full on fullon. So uh let's look at solon so far when we talk about full on we did dispersion we did the sprint mass springs right that's the idea harmonic oscillator and they do not interact if I just have harmonic oscillator photon is a harmonic oscillator photon do not interact. Okay, so it's the unharmonic term that will cause that interaction and for photon folong in fact it's hard to get a photon talk to each other interact with each other like I say nonlinear objects you need a very large flux to get them together right but with a phong which is in the sol in solid the lattice say this is the potential we draw before and the harmonic approximation is approxim made this point up by parabola, right? So here is the potential, here is the distance and uh but say if you write down the higher order term, right? This is the minimum and the first order is gone 12 k x - x0 squar. So that's a harmonic term, right? And then you have unharmonic. The next term is unharmonic. So you expand your potential using tailor expansion is dx² uh say uh x0 and x - x0 cubic right zer first order g second order third order you can write fourth order now you do your spring constant your force is df du dx Right? Of course, you get your spring term, harmonica spring term. That's what we use when do the full on dispersion. But if you go to your next term, your higher order term, you'll get the x - x0 squar, right? That's the third order term. So that gives you not a sprint linear sprint along linear sprint. Right? Now if you have two phonons each one has one specific frequency you do there's product of the two for right omega 1 sin omega 1* omega t1 t * sin omega 2 2t what do you get you got plus minus right that's a long linear term so you start to have the two sine waves interact with each If you have those nonlinear term otherwise it's just a linear ship position they will never change frequency. So this is the source of full on full on interaction and uh the unharmonic force term gives you the part because of this you can say if I have omega 1 comes in omega 2 comes in it can go omega 3 that's a sum so what it means is two fullon becomes one or you can have one fon split into two, right? So you have the uh omega 1 omega 2 omega 3 and then in the process you have energy and momentum conservation. This is h omega 1 plus h omega 2 = h omega 3. That's for the this one is the uh say absorption process. And in follow language we don't call that absorption. We say that uh anhilation I don't I okay I say maybe I should not pronounce the h right. Annulation, right? Annelation, you agree? And here is a creation, right? One becomes two. So this is a creation process. So uh create uh say for this you can write the corresponding energy conservation. Now momentum conservation is interesting and normally I would write h bar k1 plus h bar k2 equals h bar k3. This is a law more and in fact this is called normal process. Okay. But normal process that scattering actually do not create a resistance for heat flow. Why is that? Let's think about the vector uh format we just did. Right. So what I have if I draw that as a momentum conservation. So this is a uh h bar k1 h har k k2 and this is when they combine they form h bar k3. Right? That's a long process. Now originally I have h bar k1 is carrying a heat h bar omega 1 and h bar k2 is carrying heat h bar omega 2. Now if it's a normal process this final one is carrying a energy of omega 1 plus omega 2 that's the same as the original right and also the direction is the sum of the two. So essentially the lat effect is if I have heat flow this create a lat heat flow in this direction. This final one is still carrying that same heat mount of heat flow in the same direction. Right? So this normal process actually do not create a resistance and what happens is if I think about the uh dispersion So full on dispersion right transverse non shunior and uh so you have to consider phone on from each different branches whether they can satisfy the energy conservation right this is a k and a specific direction omega and sometimes say when this one go beyond h k1 Let's see. Uh here is K2. K1 K2 go beyond the brino zone get a much larger K and in that case the crystal symmetry the reciprocal lice here this point the G right it could be another direction G I'm just drawing on the same branch but it could be completely different branch two phonons interact right and the uh uh if you do the wave analysis. So what's another allowable process is h bar k1 plus h bar k2 each of course h bar k3 plus h bar g. This is g is the reciprocal lattice vector. Right? In chapter uh four we talked about the fial transform of crystal latice point into fial space. This fer space has a corresponding lice constant g and that g is that g. Okay. And this process by adding another ve uh vector g it could go completely different random directions. That's not the original heat flow direction. So it's this process. It still has the energy conservation but the direction change due to the crystal say momentum here. This create a resistance and this is called the clamp process. It's a German word I think. I'm not see but this explanation come from Paris. Paris uh uh see was um Paris I think is he's he's a British guy. So I don't know why where this is clamp. Okay. But see I remember when I was a student I actually heard a talk seminar given by Paris. He was in the ' 90s at Berkeley and he told an interesting story and he say he know uh Landal and uh uh I'm not sure say the Nishious Land book that's if you read through that book uh you understand everything uh uh say Nandal he say Nandal was timing people he say he's a ser say he he he considered consider himself as a third rate scientist. Okay. And uh uh so uh people ask him who is the first rate? He say Einstein's first rate. Who is the second rate? Heisenberg or Dag those are first second rate. So he's third rate. Okay. Now I'm trying to read myself. Okay. Um so this incline process create resistant for the heat flow. Okay. And uh there are diff uh different so people have used those kind of uh so use the uh uh firm golden rule and derive some expressions but those for example for incl process the relaxation time uh is uh one expression that's used is uh the by temperature and KT KBT that's in the exponent G cubic omega square. Okay, but I want to caution you this were actually uh uh done in the 50s. A lot of approximation made in those derivation and uh one for example common approximation is the B model which is a linear approximation to the dispersion right you know it's not going to be valid when you go to high frequency highway vectors and uh uh so there there are different former process their expression clamp process their approximation and also there are unknown constants And this constants is the scattering matrix. And if you don't know, so typically people use this as a fading parameter. And that's uh full on fullon scattering. Now there are say for what other scatter fullon are the impurities, right? You have say uh harmonica oscillator, you have silicon and then you dope it. You do boron, you dope phosphor, right? those has a different mass and uh uh the uh when so when there are waves comes in say a different mass they'll be scattered and this scattering is typically so impurity scattered and remember last time I say full on full-on scattering is a is you can tra the complete face randomizing because pop up here pop up you can't fix the position, right? But when you have impur scatter, those impur atoms are fixed. It's just you can't you normally don't know where they are, right? And the impur scattering form is typically written as a fourth power inverse. Here you can say I write humorous. Okay. So in fact this is a result not derived it's a result from light and if you look at the sky it's a blue sky and that's because the light is scattered by the density fluctuation of the gas or small particles and uh so when you have small atoms or small particles you can say the higher frequency uh this tile towel is the this is a towel right towel itself is smaller the left at the relaxation time that means is scatter more often right so that's why the sky is blue right that's the relay scatter this is relay scatter acoustical wave waves and uh say optical waves they all have those characteristics but say it's not completely sure what in what regime this is applicable for acoustic for atomic waves and this is still uh uh some debate there right and finally this is a boundary there's also boundary if the there's no scattering hits boundary there's boundary scattering and that's the one that will actually solve borsman equation using this as a boundary condition of bourgeman equation. We we can trade more rigorously. But typically in the past people would do is when you have different relaxation time you patch them together right particularly if they are all randomly distribute in the volume and you do this uh total to equals the different process inverse. So it's a more resistive one the more frequently scatter one that will be dominant right because this is all inverse and this is the mathem rule. Okay. So that's you put all this different process together. One final comment. So here is a fullon fullon scatter and then you have electron fullon scatter. Right? We have electron has certain energy interact with the folon get into a different energy E prime and also in the process you have the energy momentum conservation and this scattering of course you deal with electron transport that's very important right electrical engineer always try to improve their mobility try to make a faster device you want to reduce the full-on scatter and uh um so the uh the uh one thing I want to comment here is of course the energy change process if the there's energy change is elastic right the energy is not conserved say the the particle energy change during this scatter and the impurity scattering like The relay scatter we typically these are the elastic scatter elastic scatter frequency doesn't change and in fact rigorously speaking rigorously speaking for all inelastic scattering process where the energy change that approximation the relaxation time approximation is not valid. We do it all the time but this actual regression not valid. So you go once we go to chapter eight we have one more step let's suppose you split this say into two terms rather than just relaxation term. So that's when we deal with the electron fall for long and the line equilibrium between electron fall. Okay. So uh I think uh uh I will stop on this topic and now I think uh we come to the stage. I would say you should pick up the as I said at the beginning any journal and uh you should not be say you were say that you should not be afraid of reading right I'm I'm sure that you can't understand everything but what I'm hoping is uh uh uh there are always things that help you to to get some idea of of those different uh many many u papers So, um, let's take a quick look. So say all the I think I have covered most of the basic concepts and uh uh the rest is if you read paper of course say the concept need time to digest and uh I was I was quickly look at uh let's say nano letter now you can look at all I would say you should look at all the nano journals uh this is a two Okay. So, uh uh silicon l wire this is more the uh uh device related right. Uh I thought uh we can look at the current issue. Where is the current issue? More materials. So rel make how to make a material. So that that's relatively easy, right? Um uh okay for example if you go to next one this paper by David Smith uh he was a guy first who did the negative refraction experiment and the surface plasmas right if you look at the title lowquality tone surface plasma resonance you heard the surface plasma you can read and see what what it means what's it doing and um if I look at this one right uh I didn't open but you can go to check whether I guessed it right uh so if I look at this uh electric breakdown on off state electric sustainable graphin junction uh probably there okay breakdown Of course they they uh it can um create the gaps but there also could be tunnel phenomena if you have very small gaps right electron tunnel I don't know whether the paper will deal with those issues right and uh it's where I stopped water. you have to wait when we do the linear more Einstein treatment linear response theory and uh uh when you look at battery one concept I'll go into not directly on battery but you have to understand what is electrochemical potential okay and uh uh conducting graphin uh nano nano cubes so I I I guess say my message to you is now you go to this uh journal and try to say read through the title and guess what is doing uh you uh and and you pull out a few papers and you try to read through uh uh the the the content not of your say concern does this help you pass the call and say the call is asking to read papers Right. And you sit there, we'll ask you questions. So that's I think uh it should help but uh not guarantee. Okay.