down. Hey Hi, in this lecture I'd like to continue with describing function analysis that we introduced last time. And for the first example, I'd like to consider a system where we can actually get an exact answer by just tracing through the operation of the system even though it is a nonlinear system. Consequently, we really wouldn't use describing function analysis for this particular system since we can we can get an exact answer by actually what amounts to a far simpler technique. Uh however, I think it's a good example of how well the describing function analysis supports the exact answer even in a situation where at least one of the assumptions used to used in describing function analysis is rather compromised. There's a fairly popular circuit that's used for function generators, the sorts of of equipment that one uses as signal sources in a laboratory very frequently. And that system or that technique is shown in the first viewraph. What we do is take a Schmidt trigger here. I've shown one that's normalized uh and combine it in a negative feedback loop, the inversion indicated here with an integrator. The Schmidt trigger uh has rather interesting nonlinear characteristics. And of course the way it works is suppose we started for example at this point uh if we made the signal VA the input to the Schmidt trigger negative we could continue going negative as far as we wish to uh the output of the Schmidt trigger would remain minus1. Now as we make VA change in a positive direction when we get to a trigger point in this case at plus one the output would abruptly switch to + one further increases in the voltage VA positive changes in the voltage VA don't change the state of the Schmidt trigger and what we have to do is go back go past the original switching point and in fact change VA to minus one before the Schmidt trigger once again changes state, it then flips down and so forth. Uh again, once we've reached the state with the output at minus one, further negative changes in VA don't change the state. We have to get back up to a level of plus one for the input voltage before the circuit once again changes state. The operation then of the oscillator is fairly easily seen. This is a circuit that has really two modes of energy storage, if you will. We have the integrator, but we also have the Schmidt trigger which has memory. And so we really have two initial conditions to specify. One being the initial voltage out of the integrator at some time and the second one being the state of the Schmidt trigger. Let's suppose for example we're at a at this point on the Schmidt trigger characteristics. the voltage VA which is the voltage out of the integrator equal to zero and the output of the Schmidt trigger at minus one. There's of course two possible values that the output of the Schmidt trigger VB can take on. Uh let's assume it's in the state where the output is minus1. Uh if that's the case, what we would find out is that we apply a negative signal to the integrator. Uh we have a minus one volt applied to the integrator. Consequently, since the integrator includes an inversion, why the output of the integrator would change in a positive direction. So we walk along the characteristics starting at this point with the output of the integrator zero its input minus1 volt we'd integrate the minus1 volt or actually integrate the negative of that walk along the characteristics to this point. At this point the circuit would switch. We'd now have plus one volt applied to the integrator. Uh as a consequence the output of the integrator would be a negative ramp. plus one volt. The inversion provided by the integrator, the output of the integrator would be a negative ramp. VA would start to change in a negative direction. We'd walk back along the characteristics in this direction. Once again, when we get to this point, switch and the circuit then follows this trajectory in the VAB plane associated with the the Schmidt trigger. We can get an exact solution in that case. Of course, let's look at the waveforms. Remember that VA is the output from the integrator. Uh VB is the output from the Schmidt trigger. And we've started at the initial condition that I mentioned earlier. In particular, uh the voltage VB being minus1 volt, the voltage VA being zero. Uh we integrate the minus1 volt or actually the negative of that. uh the slope associated with VA therefore is 1 volt per second. At time t = 1 second the output of the integrator reaches + one volt. At that instant the schmidt trigger switches its output becomes + one volt. Uh we integrate that or the negative of that. The output of the integrator is now a negative ramp. uh that time lasts for a total of 2 seconds from t = 1 to t = 3. Since the slope or the magnitude of the slope at the output of the integrator is two is 1 volt per second, we have to undergo a total change of 2 volts before the circuit switches once again and then the operation continues. So here, as I say, we're we're able to get an exact solution for this particular system. The reason for the popularity of this technique as a function generator is that it's quite an easy circuit to implement. The Schmidt trigger can be done with a comparator of of some sort and the integrator uh of course uses an operational ampl amplifier with a capacitor in the feedback path and a resistor as the input element to mechanize the integration. The nice part about it is that the frequency of this configuration can be changed by adjusting a single component. Uh typically what's done is a potentiometer is used to adjust scale factor on the integrator. It'll be at least part of the input resistor to the integrator will consist of a potentiometer and in that way we can change the scale factor associated with the integrator in a smooth fashion and that changes the overall operating frequency of the system. uh the large changes in frequency are typically accomplished by decade switching or or in some other sequence switching the feedback capacitor associated with the operational amplifier. So this particular oscillator has the advantage that you can tune it by changing a single element. That's in contrast to most syosoidal oscillators where typically at least two elements have to be changed simultaneously to tune a syosoidal oscillator. Furthermore, the topology gives us both a triangle wave and a square wave. The square wave, of course, coming out of the Schmidt trigger, the triangle wave coming off the integrator. And those are two of the waveforms that one frequently wants in a function generator. Uh we're also relatively easily able to get a fairly good approximation to a sine wave. What's typically done in in this sort of a circuit is to take the triangle wave and go through a nonlinear network that approximates a a sine wave as a series of straight lines. I talk about that sort of approximation in chapter 12 and go through an example of how one might design a nonlinear network that converts a triangle wave to an approximate sine wave. So by incorporating one of those circuits in addition to the basic function generator or oscillator loop, we're able to build a function generator that provides the three most frequently wanted waveforms for test purposes. I have one of these circuits running. Um what we have here again is the same power supply we've been using throughout. We have a storebought function generator that actually uses this technique. Uh this is one built by Cronheight that that uses basically the kind of a technique that I've described. It's a three function three waveform function generator. It generates a triangle wave, a square wave, and a sine wave by shaping the triangle wave. It also has a few more frills that allow you to adjust symmetry of the square wave and and so forth and get pulse type waveforms. And it has an ability to to voltage control the oscillator. But the the basic loop is that that I've described, the integrator plus the Schmidt trigger. This is actually used only as a test signal source to display the characteristics of the Schmidt trigger in our own function generator. Uh here is the our homebuilt function generator. We actually use an integrated circuit comparator to provide the Schmidt trigger function. Here's an operational amplifier. uh this is the amplifier that is mechani that mechanizes the integration. This is the capacitor used for the integration and and this is the resistor or at least part of the resistor. We also have a potentiometer that allows us to change the total input resistance to the integrator and that's what we use to change the frequency of operation and then of course various output signals are displayed on the oscilloscope. Uh what we are showing now are simply the characteristics associated with the Schmidt trigger. And here in order to do this we apply a triangular sweep to the input of the Schmidt trigger from the function generator. Uh we use that same sweep on the horizontal axis of the oscilloscope. Uh we also then look at the output of the Schmidt trigger on the vertical axis of the oscilloscope and we see on the oscillos oscilloscope screen the Schmidt trigger characteristics. Uh presumably the there's a very rapid transition here in a positive direction, a very rapid negative transition here. We don't actually see those, but we do see the flat portion of the characteristics. Here's the input signal going positive, then reversing, going negative. The Schmidt trigger flips. So, we're tracing out the characteristics that we expect from the Schmidt trigger. Uh, I can convince you that it's actually going around uh in the correct direction by simply slowing down the sweep. Uh, let's see. There we begin to see it. And let's go even a little bit slower. And then we can follow the dot. And here we very clearly see the pattern being traced out by the the Schmidt trigger. the positive going input now it's going negative switches once again passes the original transition point before it switches to the positive state so that's simply the characteristics from the Schmidt trigger and as I say that's mechanized using a commercially available integrated circuit comparator now let's complete the the loop and look at some of the signals uh first I'll disable the function generator the external one that we were driving the system with. And I'll apply that signal to a second axis on the uh oscilloscope. This is actually now the input signal to the Schmidt trigger or equivalently the output of the integrator. Once we close the loop, this switch simply closes the loop with the switch in the position shown is it disables the loop so that we're able to easily plot the Schmidt trigger characteristics when we close the loop. Why the circuit oscillates and we can look at it uh on a time base. Uh and here now uh is the square wave coming out of our function generator. Uh let's look at it uh on that time scale possibly and let me lower the amplitude of that a little bit so that we can duplicate the picture that we had earlier in the view graph. Uh we'll now switch the second trace onto the oscilloscope screen so that we can simultaneously see the triangle wave and the square wave that our our function generator is is making. And we notice the basically the picture I showed before. If we change phase, we can get very nearly the picture that we showed before. Something like that. Notice the the phasing when the square wave into the integrator is negative. This is the signal out of the Schmidt trigger. Uh the integrator is integrating in a positive direction. There's an aversion inversion associated with the integrator. Uh we then get to the positive peak. The Schmidt trigger now switches uh applies a positive voltage to the integrator. Uh the integrator now integrates in the negative direction and so forth. And as I mentioned, one of the advantages of this configuration is that we're able to very easily change the frequency of oscillation by simply changing a potentiometer. And all this is doing is changing the value of an input resistor or the input resistor associated with the integrator. And here we see uh we can run uh from something like we're at at 50 microsconds per division now. So that's something like 4 kilhertz. And here we've increased by just about a decade. We're at five microsconds per division. So that's running at about 40 kHz. So we're able to get very easily that sort of change in frequency by adjusting a single component and an easily adjustable component. potentiometer as opposed to an energy storage element that has to be tuned. And as I mentioned, then the typically the capacitor will be switched in possibly decade steps in order to change the basic frequency of operation. Something like this where there are a series of decade steps available on the commercial function generator. Well, as I mentioned, this is a circuit where we can very easily get an exact solution to its behavior. And so, it'd be a little bit silly to actually use this is to actually use describing functions to analyze this circuit since describing functions are of course an approximation. But let's go ahead anyway just by by way of illustration. the let's look at the behavior of an element that has hysteresis. Here I've assumed uh general characteristics with an an output amplitude of e subn or minus e subn and uh an input amplitude switching points of plus and minus e subn. And as we normally do in describing function analysis, we assume that the input signal to our nonlinearity uh the voltage applied as its input uh is a sinosoid of peak amplitude E. And what we note of course is that the output of the signal is of output of the Schmidt trigger or the element with hysteresis is a square wave. uh the peak amplitude of the square wave is e subn or minus e subn in the other state uh and the switching point occurs when the input saw gets up to a level of e subm. Notice that this is an example of an element whose characteristics are frequency independent. We nowhere in in this development how to specify the frequency of operation of the schmidt trigger. uh so its characteristics are frequency independent yet it provides a phase shift. So here we have a slightly more complicated nonlinearity than we we saw in the past. The phase shift sort of reflects the fact that the element has memory. Uh in this case the phase shift though in contrast to most of our our linear elements that have energy storage where the phase shift is a function of operating frequency. In this case it's a function of driving amplitude. We can see that because the switching point occurs um when the input syosoid reaches a level of plus or minus E subm that tells us that if the input signal is very very large if E is a very large number so that the signal is is nearly vertical on this scale uh we go to a level E subm very shortly after time T equals Z and under those conditions, the output square wave would have zero crossings very nearly synchronized with those of the input signal. Conversely, as we get a smaller value for E, the output signal lags behind the input signal and eventually reaches a a maximum negative phase shift of 90 degrees when E is exactly equal to E subm. When E is equal to E subm, switching occurs right at the peak and at the minimum of the sine wave. And in that case, the output square wave is phase shifted by 90° relative to the input sinosoid. If we keep track of the trigonometry involved, the amount of negative phase shift, this angle uh alpha, the amount of negative phase shift is simply equal to the arc sign of E subm over E. Of course, the characteristics of the Schmidt trigger are cyclical only uh if E subm exceeds E. If if the or if E exceeds E subm, I'm sorry. If the value of E is smaller than E subm, the Schmidt trigger will remain trapped in one of these two states and and we really don't know without further information about its initial conditions which state it's in. Uh so for normal operation uh the magnitude of the test sin you saw has to be at least as large as E subm. The describing function associated with that element G subd of E is once again the output amplitude or the amplitude of the fundamental component of the output signal which is of course 4 over pi * E subn. The output's a square wave. The fundamental component is 4 over pi * the peak value. So that'S4 over pi * e subn. We then divide by the magnitude of the input signal to get the gain in a describing function sense of the element. So this is the magnitude portion of the describing function. The angle as we mentioned in connection with the view graph is the is minus the arc sign of e subm over e. And that expression is of course only valid for the input test amplitude exceeding the switching magnitude. uh let's to keep so that we don't have to keep track of all the factors of e subm and e sub e subn and so forth. Let's go ahead and and simply normalize and assume that e subm and e subn are both equal to one. Uh our describing function then of course is simply 4 over pi e the same one as we had with the infinite gain limiter. As a matter of fact, uh, of course, this is valid only for E greater than one, but the same expression because the output signal is the same in magnitude as that of the infinite gain limiter once E is larger than one. And the angle under these conditions is simply minus the arc sign of 1 over E. Well, we can then calculate the reciprocal or minus the reciprocal of 1 / GD of E, which is of course what we need for our construction uh our our describing function analysis. The reciprocal of the magnitude is simply pi E / 4. Then we have to get the angle. We have a minus sign. So that gives us minus 180°. is the inversion associated with a minus sign gives us the minus 180°. Uh we since we're taking 1 / gd of e and the angle associated with gd of e is minus the ark sign of 1 over e when we take the reciprocal of that we simply change the sign and we get the si gn and we get plus the ark sign of 1 / e. So the total angle associated with minus 1 / GD of E is minus 180° plus the ark sign of 1 over E. We can use that information as part of our describing function construction. Here we have minus1 over GD of E. We're showing this of course as we always do in a gain phase plane. the angle running from minus 45 degrees in this case to minus 180 degrees. Uh here's our minus one over GD of E for very large values of E. We said that the phase shift associated with uh the describe with the element with hysteresis was very nearly 0 degrees. Consequently, minus one over GD of E would approach minus 180 degrees for very large values of E. Uh, as E drops down, we remember that the angle from our earlier development is minus 180° plus the arc sign of 1 over E. as as the amplitude E gets smaller as we reduce the magnitude of our test signal, why uh we eventually get a net plus 90° from the uh minus or from the 1 / GD of E that added to the - 180° uh gives us a net - 90°. So the minus one over GD of E curve goes like so. This is the direction of increasing E. And here we have the transfer function in gain phase form for the linear element. This is an integrator whose value is normalized once again or whose time constant is normalized to unity. Uh so we simply have one over S or one over J omega for syosoidal exitation. That's simply a vertical line here. Uh and The phase shift associated with that is always - 90 degrees. This is the direction of increasing omega. We notice that there is an intersection. It's not as clean an intersection as we had uh uh in our other example of of this sort of thing. When we when we looked at the phase shift oscillator with the infinite gain limiter, we found a very very clean intersection. And in that case the curve that represented the linear portion of the system crossed the minus1 over GD of E curve went through it. Uh there was they they were nearly perpendicular at the crossing point or at least made an appreciable angle with respect to each other and we could very easily determine the frequency of oscillation and the amplitude. There seem to be little ambiguity here. The curves are are perpendicular but there's a little question. The curve uh never really crosses. they intersect but but the two curves never really cross. Uh we might expect there was something a little bit funny about that. We'll see that there is uh some significant error in the analysis in this case. Uh but let's let's proceed anyway. We notice that the curves intersect for a value of e equal to one and we can use that information to determine the frequency at the intersection. Notice that at E= 1 or 4 E= 1, the magnitude of 1 / GD of E is simply pi over 4. But since there's an oscillation or an intersection with the transfer function associated with the linear elements why we conclude that one over omega is the magnitude of of the uh transfer function of the linear portion of the system the integrator uh we conclude that at the intersection the value of 1 / g d of e pi over4 is equal to 1 over the frequency of oscillation. And we'd of course determine the frequency of oscillation from the linear elements curve. And that tells us that omega oscillation is 4 over pi. Uh if we convert that to from radians/s to hertz, uh we divide by 2 pi and using a pretty good engineering approximation that pi^ 2 is just about equal to 10. uh we end up with about 1/5if of a hertz for the frequency of of oscillation as predicted by our describing function analysis. Now we know from our exact analysis that the exact frequency of oscillation is about a quarter or is exactly a quarter of a hertz. So that gives us an indication of the error associated with the analysis. In this case we uh can also look at the amplitude. We recognize of course that the actual signal at the input to the nonlinear element which is of course where our describing function analysis tells us uh amplitude the actual signal at that point is a triangular wave with a peak value of of one for our normalized system. Our analysis tells us that E should be equal to one. We notice that the intersection occurs for a value of E equal to one. However, that E in that analysis uh is predicting the value of the fundamental component of the signal. For a triangle wave, the fundamental component is actually about 8/10 of its peak value. So again, uh depending on how we interpret the magnitude part of the analysis, there's a roughly 20% error. the uh describing function analysis predicts an amplitude of 08 for the fundamental uh or of one for the fundamental component of the signal into the nonlinearity. The actual fundamental component is about 08. The reason is that there are at least one of the difficulties with the analysis aside from the fact that there's not a a good clean crossing kind of intersection in the gain phase plane is that the there's considerably more harmonic distortion in this case than there was in our earlier example. Uh the signal of course into the nonlinearity in this case is a triangle wave. The harmonic or the forier series for a triangle wave includes only odd harmonics and they drop off as the square of the order of the harmonic. So the uh third harmonic the magnitude of the third harmonic is about 1 nth or 11% of the magnitude of the fundamental. The fifth harmonic is about 4% of the magnitude of the fundamental and so forth. So there's significant harmonic distortion in this case. uh we have a triangle wave rather than an approximate syosoid at the input to the nonlinearity and again that leads to some errors but I think in in spite of the very large uh amount of harmonic distortion in this case the linear elements are low pass but only single order uh we still get a reasonable approximation if we didn't have a better way of solving this system I think we'd probably be be very happy to settle for 20% kinds of errors I'd like to consider uh another aspect of nonlinear system behavior that again we can uh begin to interpret in terms of describing functions. Let's consider a loop of the following form. Uh we have an input and an output some linear elements and then reflecting uh one of the harsh realities of the real world. We have saturation somewhere in the loop. uh we simply have an element that's maybe the output of an amplifier or the uh maximum capability of a motor or or anything else that that has a a finite dynamic range sort of a thing where uh again we've normalized things we get a a slope of one in this region the input and the output of the nonlinearity are equal but when the input exceeds one or is more negative than minus one we assume that the element saturates and and its output is bounded at plus or minus one. Well, we'll actually calculate the describing function for this element exactly next time. But I we can estimate important features of it as follows. Uh G subd of E is simply one at an angle of zero uh when E is less than one. For E less than one, we don't encounter saturation. Uh and and so the input and the output are identical. G subd of E approaches uh 4 over pi E for very very large values of E. When we get when we put in a very large value of of test signal to the nonlinear element uh the nonlinear the output of the nonlinear element is basically a square wave. It spends very a very short period of time in the transition region. And so when we have a very large value for our test signal, we get essentially a square wave out. The magnitude of the fundamental component of that square wave is 4 over pi. Uh we divide by by e and we get the magnitude of our describing function as 4 over pi e. If we plot that it it looks something as follows. Uh we have a a magnitude of one for amplitudes smaller than one. uh for very large values of test signal amplitude the characteristics become hyperbolic inversely proportional to E uh and the transition occurs at an amplitude of one. As soon as we get up to an amplitude of one, we begin to get some clipping out of the saturating element and so the gain of our nonlinear nonlinear element begins to drop off. Well, a potential difficulty exists if we combine that sort of a nonlinearity and virtually all physical systems include saturation for appropriately large signal levels. Of course, uh with a particular kind of of dynamics associated with the linear portions of the loop. Let's consider an a of j omega that might have the form shown here. uh possibly a constant value at DC. Then a long region where the gain versus frequency characteristic the bodie plot associated with a of j omega falls off more rapidly than 1 / s uh possibly 1 over s squared in this region. Uh we then might break back in the vicinity of crossover. If this is uh the unity gain point in the vicinity of crossover, we might break back to a one overs slope and then usually at higher frequencies something else happens. We get additional modes of energy storage become important and the characteristics once again fall off rapidly. The angle associated with that sort of transfer function is something in this case would start at 0 degrees. If there was a very long 1 over s^2 region, the angle somewhere in that 1 over s^2 region would drop down very very close to minus 180°. We'd then come back up reflecting the zero and the 1 / s slope again depending on the duration of the 1 over s slope we might approach - 90° in here and then conceivably the the angle gets progressively more negative at higher frequencies. We've seen these general sorts of characteristics before in in at least two two examples that we've looked at. One was lag compensation where we ended up with a 1 over s squared region in the loop transmission of our system. And again, you recall that there was a dip in the phase. It wasn't quite this pronounced, but it did dip down and then recover somewhat in the vicinity of crossover because we had taken the precaution of locating the zero associated with the lag network back fairly far from crossover. Another case where we didn't actually draw the bodie plot in great detail, but we spoke about it was our operational amplifier example when we use two- pole compensation. And again we get a a curve for the openloop gain of the operational amplifier that's very much like this when we use two- pole compensation. We have the DC gain of the amplifier. Uh we then get into a long 1 over s^ squ region. In the case of of our operational amplifier that 1 overs squared region might uh last for a factor of 100 in frequency or something like that. And then we had a zero uh so that we went through unity gain or unity loop transmission magnitude with a slope of 1 overs in that example. But again we'd anticipate that the phase curve might look something like this. It particularly if there was a 100 to1 ratio between these frequencies we would get down quite close to minus 180° over some range of frequencies. Now, we feel that the system should be perfectly well behaved because we note that as we've arranged things, here's the crossover frequency and we have plenty of phase margin. There's there's no problem as I've drawn things. And in fact, that's what we hope for when we use lag compensation or possibly two- pole compensation. They're really variations on the same theme. Uh we hope that the system crosses over in a region where the slope is minus one over s or one over frequency. uh and in that region we certainly hope that we have adequate phase margin. The difficulty comes uh or a potential difficulty exists if there is a saturating element included in the loop because consider the loop transmission in a describing function sense or the magnitude of the loop transmission for the normalized saturating element that we showed in this example. uh for small signals the magnitude of the gain associated with a nonlinear element the magnitude of the describing function is one and that's fine for small signals this is the sort of of loop transmission plot in a describing function sense that we have and we have a perfectly well- behaved system it's stability is determined by by what happens out here the and we can certainly arrange things to have acceptable phase margin in that region but now let's put a big signal into the system uh such that we get the signal at this point larger than one to have a peak value larger than one. The element saturates its gain and the describing function sense begins to drop and now the effect of the gain dropping is to push down our describing function loop transmission. uh maybe something like that for large signals. And now we begin to cross over in a region that has very very limited phase margin. And if we assume that we drove the system some way such that the signal at this point were even larger uh we might be able to cross over it at this very unfortunate point. Uh now this sort of an analysis is is very very difficult to make exact and and what do we what do we really mean by a large signal and what do we really mean by by saturation or hard saturation and so forth. But we get the feeling that if we excited this sort of a system with large signals drove the system into saturation it certainly might be possible that the stability would deteriorate as a result of that. Well, we have an example of that here. Once again, we have the test vehicle that we have have used so often. Uh we have our operational amplifier. In this case, we have the ability to compensate this operational amplifier uh either with 1 overs single pole or with two- pole compensation. Uh we have a buffer amplifier. If you recall, we used the same configuration before when we were looking at 1 overs compensation. Uh, and we we are actually using an inverting configuration. There's another buffer amplifier here that allows us to look at the error signal, the input signal to the amplifier, although we won't really use that in this demonstration. And again we have the familiar generator that allows us to apply test inputs the power supply and an oscilloscope to observe the step response or uh other responses of our system. And what we're looking at now is the small signal step response. This is in the linear region. We have a signal level uh of of something on the order of 50 or 100 millolts. We're at 20 millolts per division. So we have quite a small amplitude signal applied to our system and right now we're running with one overs compensation and we notice quite a well- behaved transient response. Uh 10 to 90% rise time of several hundred nconds. We're at 200 nconds per vertical division. A very well- behaved kind of transient response. If we go to 1 over s^ squ compensation, we get very much the same kind of of picture. Uh we notice uh we mentioned this I think in connection with 1 over s^2 compensation before. Here we're at 1 / s. Here we're at 1 over s^ squ. Uh you recall that the zero uh associated with 1 over s^2 compensation uh introduces a a long tail to the transient response. If you do a root locus plot for this sort of an amplifier, you find out that it includes a relatively low frequency pole zero doulet. The zero being the zero associated uh with the two- pole compensation and the pole being one of the system poles that in a root locus analysis moves close to that zero for large values of a not fnot. Uh that pole zero dlet gives us a a tail with quite a long settling time compared to the basic dynamics of the system. We see that prolonged settling time here. But that really isn't a stability problem. The percentage overshoot, at least if we measure it from sort of the initial value of this tail, the kind of of overshoot that we or the percent overshoot we get is very much the same in the 1 / s case and in the the 1 / s squared case. But now let's look at what happens if we look at the large signal behavior of the amplifier. Uh what I'm going to do now is simply up the amplitude of the input square wave that we're driving this with. Let me get to a more convenient scale. Uh the amplifier at its output saturates at voltage levels a little bit in excess of plus or minus 10 volts. Let me apply a signal uh which actually never exceeds plus and minus 10 volts. We now have 1 overs compensation. Uh, let me slow down things just a little bit. We're looking at the response to a square wave applied to our inverter and see if we can center things. All right. Now we have uh a full scale basically full scale at the output signal applied to our inverting amplifier. What we notice is that we get a trapezoidal sort of a waveform. Uh the reason for that is really a a process known as slooh rate limiting associated with the operational amplifier. We notice that these lines look very very nearly uh constant slope lines on the oscilloscope face. And I I talk about that I believe in chapter nine and in chapter 13 of the text. Uh the process really is the uh first stage input current going into the capacitor that's used for minor loop compensation. And basically the slooh rate is determined by the ratio of that capacitor to the current that the first stage can either apply or absorb from the compensating capacitor. And if you go through that calculation with the compensating elements that we're using, you find a very good match between the ratio of of the compensating capacitor size to that current and the slope that we actually observe. So that's the basic mechanism. It's not a an output amplitude limiting. For example, we never get to uh the plus or minus 12 volts roughly that the amplifier can supply. So, it's not a a basic uh output voltage level saturation problem, but rather some kind of an internal saturation mechanism that that has to do with with uh limited current driving basically charging a capacitor. If we examine what happens as the amplifier comes out of saturation, we put in a a full amplitude step. It takes quite a while to slo. We're five microsconds per division. So, these transitions are are taking uh 10 microsconds. It's sloowing at a couple of volts per microscond. We're going through a total 20 volt excursion in in 10 uh 10 microsconds. So the amplifier is sloowing at a couple of volts per microscond right in here and right here we get out of of uh limiting with the the amplifier enters its linear region. I mean the transition is of course not not abrupt but uh the amplifier re-enters its linear region in these places and we can get a little feeling for the trans for the nature of that recovery. Uh if I I can't quite get it all on the on the screen but you see just a little bit of overshoot. Of course we're still at one volt per division. So we have a a little bit of overshoot. The amplifier enters its linear region somewhere right in here and just a little tiny bit of overshoot. Uh we see the same general kind of a thing on the negative wave form. Again the amplifier enters its linear region and just a a little bit of overshoot fast recovery at least compared to the five microcond per division time scale that we have here. Now this is the situation with one overs compensation. There is a slooh rate problem but the amplifier is certainly very well behaved in terms of stability. There's a little bit of overshoot as it comes into the linear region, but very nicely behaved. Now, let's look at at what happens to the waveform if we uh use 1 / s^ squ compensation. We notice things get quite dramatically worse. Uh here again, we don't have quite straight line sloowing or quite constant velocity sloowing. Uh again, if you chase through the analysis, that's reasonable. at least should be partially parabolic and uh uh there's a little bit of that. Um but now what happens is here the amplifier should be entering its linear region but it doesn't. We or or it it whips right through the linear region. You get a massive overshoot. The output gets up uh about 3 or 4 volts above final value. This point is 10 volts. We hit a peak of 13 or 14 volts here. similar in the other direction. We bang very close to the negative supply. Uh so a very tortured kind of a kind of a recovery. Uh and finally we reach final value. Uh but but it's a a very tortured sort of a recovery. Uh the same kind of thing happens uh even for syosoidal uh behavior. Let's go to a a somewhat lower frequency and rather than use a a square wave which of course forces us into slooh rate limiting on the transitions. Let's look at the syosoidal behavior. Let me just lower the amplitude a little bit. And here we're running at a frequency that's low enough uh that's uh let's see we're at 50 micros per division. So that's a couple of kilhertz. That's low enough so that we're not slooh rate limiting. But now let's increase the operating frequency. Uh we're now up to about 20 kHz. Let's continue. We have to go up one more notch on the function generator. Okay. Now we begin to get some noticeable distortion. Uh here we have a pretty good sine wave. Here we begin to see some distortion. Let's look at that again. Here we're going up in frequency. And notice a rather abrupt change in characteristics. I haven't increased the frequency any further. I increased them until there was this sort of a jump. Now I'll back down. Notice a completely different behavior. the amplitude gets bigger and bigger and now all of a sudden pops back to the original linear case. Let's go through the cycle one more time. I'll increase frequency. Uh we're at about uh 60 kHz right now. Things get distorted and all of a sudden pop. Uh that occurs in this particular amplifier at about 75 kHz. Uh that transition to a new state. I'll now lower the frequency. We get a state that never existed on the way up and now it pops and that transition occurs at about 55 kHz. So there's a hysteresus in the frequency characteristics. The width of the hysteresus is about 20 kHz. Uh that phenomenon is is called jump resonance. I've I had read about it. I I'd never observed it until I started playing with this particular configuration and then I found it in other 1 over s^ squ kinds of systems. I originally thought it was just an academic exercise. You can make up virtually impossible problems in describing function analysis that that deal with jump resonance. But here's an example of a of a jump resonance that that actually does exist. there's a possibility of of having even more severe problems with this sort of a of an amplifier or this sort of a system. Uh suppose we had a rolloff that was even greater than 1 / s^ squ. Here we have a 1 over s^ squ roll off the angle gets down close to minus 180°. If this rolloff included a portion that were more rapid than 1 over s^ squ, it's conceivable that over some portion or for some frequencies the angle would actually drop down below minus 180° something like so. Uh now again we could hope to have the characteristics arranged so that there was perfectly adequate phase margin at crossover in the absence of saturation. But if the system saturated uh and the curve in the in a describing function sense moved down because of lowered gain as I've shown things we'd actually cross over in a region of negative phase margin and that sounds uh as though there's certainly the potential for very bad performance in that situation. uh we can look at the same thing in a gain phase plane do our conventional describing function analysis a the same kind of curves this sort of a magnitude curve and combined with this kind of a phase curve in gain phase coordinates of course starts out uh the the magnitude is always decreasing the phase goes down more negative than minus 180° over a range of frequencies omega is a parameter along the curve eventually recovers the value is more positive than minus 180°. Hopefully that occurs in the vicinity of the unity gain frequency so that we have a system that has positive phase margin. If we then construct minus1 over GD of E for this particular nonlinearity the saturation uh we get a curve remember GD of E has a magnitude of one for amplitudes less than one applied to the nonlinearity the magnitude of GD of E goes down as E increases uh so one over GD of E goes up so we get a construction like this this being the direction of increasing E, we see that there's two intersections with the curve that corresponds to the linear portion of the system. Uh there's a a question what does this mean? Does this system oscillate? Uh there's two intersections. If it oscillates, how do we determine the parameters of the oscillation? Which of those intersections are which intersection controls the oscillation? Which dominates the characteristics of the oscillation? This sort of a system is called a conditionally stable one. And next time we're going to go through the analysis of this sort of a system and illustrate it with an example. Thank you.