The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Good evening people. I want to uh continue our discussion of the end of the studio era. The advent of the kind of much freer, more independent, more politically and even morally liberated movies that appear after the Hollywood dispensation has subsided. uh but remember that I've also been suggesting to you that even though there is there's a certain sense in which a kind of artistic freedom was now granted to directors and to and to American films and on balance I think most view mo most uh uh folks look most scholars and and film buffs looking at the 1970s would certainly share my sense that it's a very remarkable decade but I think they might also share my sense that the films had given up more than they realized certainly more than they were conscious of that the shift in the in the in the what we might call the media ecology of the society which enabled this level of freedom for movies also carried with it a tremendous cost and remember how decisive the numbers are I've mentioned them a few times in this course at the height of the studio era twothirds of the country is going to the movies every week it's an habitual experience for most Americans both adults and children really by the time this system comes to an end after in this uh by the time the movies have been as I've suggested several times in the course supplanted by television as the new central storytelling system of the society by the time that occurs at the end of the 60s most Americans are going to the movies only once a once a year and it's only particular subcultures teenagers for example who make a regular habit of going to the movies and a good deal of the triviality and superficiality of movies of the of many of the box office successes of the 80s and 90s from the American film industry is a direct function of the fact that the audience had dwindled from the whole society to particular subsets of the society. uh and the consequences the consequences for the uh nature of the the movie's sense of its connection to the society are powerful are profound. Well, we're going to explore aspects finally our final exploration of aspects of this topic comes in tonight's lecture and especially in the exemplary early 1970s film McCabe and Mrs. Miller that we're going to uh screen for you after my lecture. I want to begin by talking a little bit about Robert Alman's career. And uh I'll actually look at certain specific films and say a few things about them in a minute. But first, let me talk about what I take to be some of his not only the only ones, but some of his defining qualities as a director, signature features of his work. The first and most obvious to me is what we might call his moral skepticism. He really is in some respects temperamentally an outsider. And it's interesting to speculate, I think, about what might have happened to Robert Alman, a immensely gifted uh natural filmmaker, had he been born a generation earlier and had to actually to struggle with the requirements and responsibilities, the confinements of the studio system. But he luckily for Alman he emerges in a time when the tyranny of the studios and also the creative input of the studios has long has has has disappeared has gone away. Um and and and in that sense in that sense he represents a new kind of independent spirit uh in film making and and he resembles some of the other directors who come of age uh at roughly the same time. directors, some of whom I mentioned this afternoon like Scorsesei or Copala or Alan Pecula. Um, a second so, so one of his defining qualities is a kind of moral skepticism, a kind of sympathy we might call it, which is connected to his what we might call his sympathy for the marginal. Over and over again in Altman's films, we focus on either marginal figures in a who are part of a who are reluctantly or inadequately part of a larger community. uh or we focus on a community that itself is so dubious as a community, so damaged as a community, so infeebled and unlike the traditional communities that it's as if the community he treats itself, the societies or groupings that he finds interesting are full of are also in some deep way non-traditional communities. Uh and in fact in McCabe and Mrs. Miller uh most of the supporting cast were were literally members of a commune. they were members of a count of the counterculture. uh the ballad that is sung by the by by the great ballader and American singer Leonard Conn in the beginning of the film would have struck knowledgeable viewers as a deeply subversive gesture because think how often the western begins with a wi-i with a with a ballad with someone singing about as if you know the stories of the west have become so mythological that they're part of our song tradition our musical tradition which is true as well as our narrative tradition uh and many many uh classic westerns begin with a with a with a ballot of some kind. Uh, The Searchers has such a ballot, in fact, uh, as I as I as I hope you notice. Well, McCabe and Mrs. Miller begins with a ballot, as you'll see, but it's a subversive ballot. It's sung by a man, Leonard Conn, who's deeply associated with marijuana, with the with the counterculture, with striking out against authority, with writing anti-war songs. uh and uh there's a kind of of countercultural ambiencece, a kind of countercultural skepticism and sympathy for the margins in nearly all of Robert Alman's work. Uh a third quality. So, so his moral skepticism then uh could be said to have at least two dimensions. One is a what we might call an aesthetic dimension in which he is skeptical about the inherited strategies, belief systems, and even structures of earlier movies. And he actually we is in that sense aesthetically subversive, although very subtly so as I hope you'll see in tonight's film. He'll very often give you a film that seems on the surface to sustain and to recreate all the classic conventions of the genre in which he's working. And it's only when you look a little bit more closely that you realize that although the structural elements are there, they have been perverted or inverted so that so that they have in some sense enacted some a kind of moral uh migration uh and stand for virtually alternative beliefs, assumptions or values from what they might have what from what they normally are taken to stand for in the classic genre films on which Alman is borrowing or against which he is engaged in in a kind of in a kind of mockery or or at least uh hostile action of some kind. And I I think that McCabe and Mrs. Miller demonstrates this very dramatically although most of Alman's films have these qualities in some degree. The second quality of his moral skepticism is uh uh would be not now related to his tr to his aesthetic principles to his filmmaking practice but uh would be more broadly associated with his with his with his politics with his general ideological view of the world and even there especially there maybe Alman styled himself a rebel uh even when he was successful in Hollywood in his early in his early career when he was so mash was a box off of success in the the period of the the decade of 1970 through 80 is probably the richest decade of Alman's of Alman's career uh and and and in that time um um even though Alman was very successful and later he fell into disfavor with the Hollywood bosses and he spent some period of his career certain underground in a way not either not making movies at all directing plays in various places or making documentary films other or private films that were not released commercially. Uh then he makes he has a resurgence later before his before the end of his life. The last 10 or 15 years of his life are are are again successes involve successes at the box office. Um so so the the second aspect of his moral skepticism might be a kind of political skepticism and a skepticism a political skepticism both against the Hollywood system and then against the larger political structures of the society. Now remember his his subver his political subversiveness comes at a time when many honorable and normal people including your professor were subversive in some sense because it was a time when the country was at war in a war that many people in the country thought was uh unreasonable and wrong. Many people went to jail or or or or protested uh the the war and Alman was on the side of the anti-war forces. He was on the he was on the morally skeptical side about uh wars in about wars of choice in foreign in in in foreign environments. So he was both politically and uh um culturally a skeptic and aesthetically a skeptic and both qualities show up in his films in all kinds of remarkable ways. uh uh I've talked about how that leads to a kind of sympathy for marginality for the condition of marginality and for characters who belong on the margins of the society who live on the margins and he loved to make films often about about certain kinds of uh uh human communities subsets about human small versions of human society comprised entirely of misfits and marginal characters. He had a great and so and and he he even has a sympathy for what we might think of as unconventional appearance. So that you know many of the actors and especially the secondary background actors in his films might actually be in uh uh in ads for grotescery. He loves the grotesque uh and he often and and and at least his background characters often have a sort of grotesque element in them. There's a there's a there's a uh a a love of the non of the of of the of the weird and the strange in Altman that you can feel in his in in in in his films in his casting and in his subject matter. Another aspect of another thing that I would identify as a kind of defining quality for Robert Alman is the u relation in his films especially his mature films between plot and character. There's a tendency in it's an aspect of his skepticism. He doesn't like structures that control him. And from one angle, if you think about storytelling or narrative, uh the uh plot is a kind of controlling feature. It it it it it especially if you allow the plot to take to take take the foreground of the to to assume a position in the foreground of the text, the the plot can become a kind of iron hand controlling the choices the director make makes controlling what can happen to the characters. uh and certain forms of action adventure. What happens next? The sequence of events and the visual excitement of watching those events is virtually the only interest you have in such in in in film. Those totally ploted films uh tend to have stereotyped or flat characters in them. But Alman, even when he embraces certain genre principles that require what looks like a conventional linear plot, is often tries to subvert the linearity of his plot. There's a kind of digressive or or or dissenting uh nonlinear tendency in Altman's work. You can sense it in McCabe and Mrs. Miller, although it doesn't emerge really totally fully until later in his career, especially a little bit later in his career. The fullest embodiment of this non-plot principle of this preference for character over plot I think is probably the film Nashville 1975 uh in which you see an in which Alman displays an immense range of characters to us and skips from one character to another to another. There are certain centers of interest. They seem to have no connection to each other. And you sit there in the film, when the film first came out, it actually elicited a number of negative reviews from reviewers who were angry about the fact that it that the film took virtually its whole length to make clear that in fact there was a connection between these characters. The complaint against the film was it was plotless. Well, that wasn't exactly true. It wasn't plotless. In fact, all the lines of the plot do come together toward the end of the film. But the truth is that Alman is at least as interested in digression as he is as he is in linear in linear progression. And there is a sense in which his films like to pause and savor what's going on around them. And if you as you're watching McCabe and Mrs. Miller, one of the things you might ask yourself at at a certain level is what's the what's the throughine of the story? I mean, and in fact, it feels when you're watching McCabe and Mrs. Miller as if it doesn't have at least a conventional western plot. As the film goes on, you begin to realize, yes, there is the story here is about the growth of this town. It's really the it's really in that sense the film the the film really is a a founding myth, an ironic mocking founding myth. But there's a long while you're watching the film, you're interested in McCabe and you're interested in some of the other minor characters in the town, but it's hard to identify what the actual subject of the film is at first. Well, Alman likes to leave his audiences uh in a little bit of confusion of that sort. In other words, he doesn't like to he doesn't like to satisfy the narrow desire to have a clear linear plot. Uh he he prefers some principles of digression. And one of the reasons that he does apart from the fact that he wants to savor the experience of the world and he he's uh attentive to so many aspects of experience that he wants to often bring all of them into the film he's very interested in sound for example in this in the in the way sound operates in the world. Uh and he does odd things with his soundtrack as you'll see in McCabe and Mrs. Miller. I'll come back to this in a minute. Uh so he he he his his his preoccupation then is with trying to create a situation in which character unfolds and he'll always sacrifice what might what what a what a more actionoriented director might think was the most important thing in order to explore character more fully. Now, one one can say that one one very broad way of dividing narratives, as I may have suggested earlier in the semester to you is is a distinction between plot- driven and character-driven stories. And one of the things one can see happening in Altman's film, again, it's another marker of the fact that Altman is operating in a in a uh cinematic environment that no longer has the conservative aesthetic constraints that are placed upon a consensus system. So he's he can explore these kinds of possibilities more fully than than uh or or can explore them at all. In fact, in some cases, he couldn't have even have looked down these territories, look looked down these pathways if he'd been a conventional um uh studio director. Um so so uh a distinctive feature then of the way he works is this tension between plot and character and the and the emphasis that that Alman will almost always put on character. the way he'll even subvert your interest in what is going to happen next sometime in the film. And as you're watching McCabe, you might sort of think about that what's you don't ever feel that the film is flagging. You always are interested in what happens, but after a while, you suddenly realize that you're not being carried along by the momentum of story itself in the way you are in a normal film or in what you would think of as a conventional film. And McCabe is only a minor version of this. As I say, Nashville is a much more dramatic is a much more dramatic instance of this. Um, finally, another distinctive, not unique, but distinctive feature of Alman's work, and this occurs especially uh powerfully as his career uh continues. It's part it's really a kind of you can sense it earlier, but it actually becomes a dominant topic later in his career after he's very successful. He has great confidence in him. by the end of his last decade of his life he's conceived of I think as a kind of master movie maker and he finds it very easy to get people to appear in his films and uh that's where this principle comes in most fully he's interested in the in blurring the distinction between fiction and reality and there and and in fact in some of his films I think Nashville is the first one in which this happens and then he he returns to this this trick or this strategy much later in his career in a whole series films in Nashville. There are some performers who are playing themselves. They're not fictional characters. Uh some of some of them are famous singers and so forth. And they they they appear as themselves. Nashville is about the American music scene and also about the turmoil of American society in the 1970s. Uh and so many of the people who many of the people who appear in the film uh are playing musicians, singers and so or uh songwriters, performers. Uh but there are actually some real performers who are recognized by the audience because they're relatively famous who play themselves. Well, this mingling of this or this blurring of the distinction of the difference between fiction and reality. This this um uh mingling of fictional with real characters becomes a very distinctive feature of Altman's work later in his career. And very quickly then, what I'd like to do is show you a list of some of his films. You can put that up now, Greg. Um and I want to say not something about all of them. This is not a list a full list of his films and you can see there's a long interregnum of almost a decade where he makes some films. I just haven't bothered to list them. This is not a complete listing of his films although I think it is a complete listing of his films made in the 1970s. And I did that partly because I wanted you to see what a prolific and productive decade this was for Alman. But also because I thought you might be interested in seeing how many titles register with you. Even if you've not seen the films, you probably have heard of some of these films because they're among the most innovative and important films of the second American films of the second half of the 20th century. I want to say a couple of things about some of these films. Um, you you've already seen the ending of The Long Goodbye and you know what a deeply subversive version of the detective genre that film is. Uh, I want to say a word about California Split because in some ways it's a film that most fully embodies this principle of being interested in the marginal. Uh, California Split is a gamblers movie and u Elliot Ghoul that sort of shooken and jiven uh figure of anti-heroic irony that you saw at the end of of uh the long goodbye is the star of California Split as well. And almost the entire film, a large part of the film actually takes place at the racetrack and in gambling environments. The the the climax of the film is a trip to Las Vegas where our our uh hero has a tremendous run of luck near nearly breaks the bank. Um and and uh um California Split follows the fortunes of these two gamblers. Uh it's hard even fully to follow the the chronology of the film. Sometimes you lose sense of how many how much time has passed. Uh there are many things about the characters that are vague and and unclear. It's also a film parathetically show you a kind of this is a trivial detail but it's always struck me as a mark of of of Altman's perversity. Every woman in the film is named Barbara. I I I especially noticed this because my wife is named Barbara. But um it's all and I think the perversity had to do with Alman's idea that uh u he I'm creating a kind of slice of life movie. Thieves Like us uh is is a particularly characteristic Alman film not only because it has a kind of plotless amorphousness to it when you first look at it even though it it has great excitement in it and a great emphasis on character and a great emphasis on marginal weird people who sort of are not solid citizens in any way. But it also uh carries another signature feature of Alman's uh work which I did not list on the on my outline and that is he was very prone to allow his actors to improvise when they got in front of the camera or not literally when he was shooting but they would improvise work something out he didn't work from a set script or he would allow departures from his script very that's one of very s easily and quickly one of the reasons he loved to work with with Elliot Gould was Elliot Gould was a particularly gifted improvisational actor and and there's a kind of authenticity in the performances in most of Altman's films that partly come from the fact that he was deeply interested in trying to create an illusion of authenticity that was much more intense and much more compelling than what the traditional Hollywood movie offers. He really wasn't interested in the in the u uh fancy lighting and the ver and and and the very elaborate patterning uh of the Hollywood film. There was something he he he liked grit and dirt and and uh imperfection and you can feel these elements in uh in his work and you can especially feel it in the often in the performances of his of his actors who loved working the the ones who liked working with him really loved it because it gave them a significant creative a part uh in the film itself. So th Thieves Like Us is a relatively minor Altman film in certain ways, but it shows his interest in character, his lack of interest in plot, and his love of the marginal and of and of course of improvisational uh performance. I've mentioned Nashville already. Maybe I should say a little bit more about it simply because it really was an unbelievably influential film. This film seemed to desert conventional plot uh and and uh almost in an arbitrary way for its first half simply to look at various characters who had musical ambitions and were bound for Nashville. That was sort of the only through line in the film. Everyone's going to Nashville. But and and you really wondered as you were watching the film, what could these characters possibly have to do with each other? Will they ever come together? Uh should they come together? And it's a very artful film in part because of the way it plays with the reader's frustration about a about a linear plot. And and in fact the re one of the things one of the things the movie does is it makes you aware as a viewer of the of the extent to which uh a linear plot is a kind of crutch you lean on when you're watching a movie. It helps you sort of get through the film. If you're confused about other stuff, you always have that sort of through line to grasp onto. And when Alman takes that away from you or seems to take it away from you, he immerses you in the in the moral texture of his movie, in the psychological and political meanings of his movies in a way that would not be true if you were fixated on what happens next, what happens next, what happens next. Um, I want to say a couple of words. I I've mentioned Buffalo Bill and the Indians to you earlier, and it's it's one of his most subversive westerns. It's interesting that he went back to the western genre uh in this very creative period of his career and I think one of the reasons was he understood that there were aspects of the genre he hadn't made made enough fun of. There are aspects of he hadn't quite destroyed all he hadn't quite ruined all the sacred truths to you use a phrase that I'm going to refer to later when we that I have on my outline for McCabe and Mrs. Miller. So he wanted to return again. And that of course is the film that has uh uh that of course is the story uh about those Wild West shows I spoke about last week. And it uh the episode he uh dramatizes actually involves a comical and also very disturbing confrontation or interaction between great chief Sitting Bull and a drunken Buffalo Bill and an an absolutely corrupt drunken morally muddled uh uh uh uh Indian hero. uh the played by incidentally played by Paul Newman who had played you know upright upright heroes uh frequently before um and uh let me jump down a little bit and say one word the films I've listed from 88 on are are are more recent films all of them relative successes uh my view is that his greatest work is in the 70s but these later films I've listed are interesting but I wanted to say a word about Tanner and Tanner on Tanner because they show how imaginative and experimental. He remained even in his later years as a director. As some of you may know, Tanner is not a movie. It was a television series. And it was a very interesting television series in which we could see Robert Alman further developing this interest he had in this confusion between reality and fiction. He uh uh he see I think he was he was right about this in some ways. He felt that I mean partly I think he felt that uh that because we live in such a media saturated culture the difference and because of the power that celebrity seems to exercise in our culture. This celebrity was always one of often one of Robert Alman's subplots. It's a key uh subject in in in uh in Nashville and he returns to it uh in a in in a number of his later films as well. Um, the trick of Tanner is that it purports to be a documentary following a presidential a Democratic presidential candidate in the Democratic primaries of what 1988 and the and he got an actor, one of his favorite actors. He actually has a the actor, this actor, I think his name is Michael Murphy. He has a role in McCabe and Mrs. Miller. is one of the he's the younger company representative who comes near the end of the film to negotiate with McCabe about selling his interest in the town and uh he's a wonderful actor this guy Michael Murphy and and like many of the actors who appear in Alman's films you have a sense if you've watched Alman's films over your over the whole of his career that there was a repatory company that kept coming back to work with him again and again Elliot Gould must be in six or seven of his movies. Michael Murphy in at least three or four. Uh he he has favorite actresses too who love to work with them. I think Julie Christie is one uh the star of tonight's film. Uh Warren Batty is another of his favorite actors although Batty was such a big star that could generate his own films he didn't need Alman as much as some of these others actors did. Uh in any case, what what the trick of Tanner, the strategy of Tanner, the really memorable thing about Tanner, it was I think a very significant television event uh is that is that the fictional Tanner played by this guy Michael Murphy u um who and treated with complete seriousness. I mostly saw him through the eyes of his press managers, his press handlers. So there was a great cynicism about the political process uh and the gossip of the journalists about the presidential candidate. But the real genius of Tanner was that we saw Tanner on the stump with the real presidential candidates and they cooperated. The real presidential candidates cooperated in the making of the film and there were actually scenes in which the fictional Tanner gets into a conversation with Michael Dukakus who's who's also running to be president there. and and then there's an interview with Michael Dukakus in which Michael Dukakus assesses the danger that that Tanner represents to his candidacy. So what what what and when when he returned to Tanner on Tanner in 2004, he elaborated this theory. Now Tanner is a retired politician and he's helping his daughter who's a documentary filmmaker do a new political film, but now it's about the contemporary the the the it was about the the last election about the the the last or the nomination the the the the nomination just I guess it was the the the first Bush election was what it was about. And it's very interesting he brings back many of the characters. Well, both of these texts, like some of his other films, are really preoccupied with the question of this of the blurred boundaries between what we between the fictional worlds we live in and the actual worlds we eat and breathe in. Uh, and the extent to which our media saturated culture has created a kind of virtual reality that we watch on television and now of course we watch on our computer screens that competes with the actual reality we live every day. Well, uh uh Alman loved playing games with that question, raising questions about it and and and uh the first Tanner series is among other things a powerful meditation on the macity and the stupidity of the political process in our country. It showed people trying to raise money, candidates scrabbling to get five minutes in front of the uh in front of the news cameras just just at the moment when the evening news is going to break, that sort of thing. very wonderfully uh accurate, cynical account of American politics. And it might be worth mentioning that the writer of this episode uh the writer of this series who returned also to help on Tanner on Tanner is the famous comic strip genius Gary Trudeau. Um uh and Trudeau's collaboration with um this director uh he has sometimes said was a a a uh an enlarging experience for him and I mean it was it wasn't too long I think after this that Trudeau Trudeau stopped his regular work I mean as if I mean and and in fact I think that Trudeau began himself to have larger ambitions in in part because of his collaboration with with Robert Alman. Okay. So, uh Altman is a distinctive and interesting uh director and his films are interesting throughout the range of his career. Uh even though most people would say his most energetic and powerful films come come earlier. Well, let me turn now to McCabe and Mrs. Miller and try to concretize some of what I've been saying with specific reference to this remarkable film. Um, ruin the sacred truths, a line that I that I have plagiarized from the uh, Yale literary critic and scholar Harold Bloom, who uses it to describe the enterprise of certain romantic poets who are said to aim to whose aim was said in Bloom's terms uh, to be to ruin the inherited truths of the society, to attack them, to assault them. And in a certain sense, one could say that that's Altman's ambition as well, to ruin, to expose, to undermine, to to uh uh drench in irony uh the sacred truths that have come down to us from cinematic tradition and maybe from our political and moral culture as well. Uh and we can see this in many different aspects of uh of Altman's of Altman's movie of of uh of many of his films. We feel these pre these elements but especially powerfully and especially clearly I think in McCabe and Mrs. Miller. One might say in fact that the whole energy of McCabe and Mrs. Miller. Uh the whole energy of the film resides in a kind of tension or clash between the conventional expectations that we have about westerns and even the conventional expectations as they have been complicated by the serious and enlarging and already ironic westerns of the late 50s and early 60s. a kind of tension or class between the expectations we have about traditional westerns, no matter how ironic they might have been, and the gritty, comical, uglified, and humanized reality that Altman actually presents us with. And almost every element of the film has this kind of shock of recognition in it. Let's take the question, watch, for example, how the film um how the film treats uh both the soundtrack and what you visually see. Um what one of the thing when the film first came out some reviewers complained that they had trouble making out the dialogue and they weren't lying about this. It's because when Alman takes his uh camera inside in in inside the dingy saloon in which some of the action early in the film begins and to which it returns periodically as the film goes on. Uh Alman does not tamp down the ambient noise in the bar. You hear the conversation of other people. You hear bodies moving. You hear various kinds of noise. And sometimes if the if the people who are in the foreground of the frame are talking in very low voices, their voices are blotted out by the sounds around them. And in fact, Alman's treatment of sound all the way through the film has an has a an energetic realism in it. And it's a it's a strange and ultimately I think very satisfying aspect of the film. the way in which Alman seems to try to create a a grittier, more accurate account of the way sound operates in our world. I mean, the fact is when when uh when we're in in actuality and we address someone in a crowded room, it's not quiet. the only thing you you can hear a lot of other Alman wants to sort of recreate that and sometimes it almost seems as if that tendency that that digressive tendency that I've said is characteristic of Alman's imagination uh may even be expressing itself in the way he uses the soundtrack because it's almost as if he the soundtrack may sometimes be more interested in the words or sounds coming from the margins of the frame rather than from the center of the frame. So there are these elements of potential distraction that you always have to contend with when you're watching Altman's film uh Altman's films. Uh the same thing in a from another angle could also be said to be true in some degree of the way uh the images work in the film. Watch especially for the for the color palette that Alman uses. He plays around with light and dark with certain kinds of with with a certain kind of uh cold uh uh uh dark damp feeling. And he contrasts that uh with a a kind of lighting that that suggests not not incredibly bright sunlight but a kind of nostalgic golden sunset kind of imagery. Uh and and if you watch uh if you watch the film in the very beginning of the film, one of the things that happens is that sometimes this golden sort of light appears indoors and the outdoors seems gloomy and dank and dark. And then later in the film, this this this uh uh division between light and dark uh under goes an alteration. And you might ask yourself why. In one of the most dramatic moments toward the end of the film, there is a a a group of murderers, assassins, sort of a ride into the town and they ride in accompanied by this kind of with its sun behind them, accompanied by this sort of golden haze that Alman has ironically associated with with comfort and and uh and and pleasure earlier earlier in the film. So u both in terms of the sound and the image we we we we're we're engaged in something new here and maybe I also in considering the word image I should also mention Altman's montage Alman's habits of editing. Uh he's capable of the most fluid and and uh um uh undistracted editing if he wants to do it. But he is actually fonder of forms of editing that are abrupt uh that are disconcerting that are mildly disorienting. And that style is part I don't mean he does this at all moments of the film but that style I think is part or sometimes he'll use abrupt cuts uh that style is part of his uh of his art I think but it's also part of this sort of desire not to have things too smooth not to have things too neat. his love of the his love of the im of the apparently imperfect is part of what's is part of what's operating there. Um a and even a third element of what I'm calling his special or his new realism uh might have to do even with the way he treats not just the physical spaces that you see but even the weather. Watch how lousy the weather is in this film and how much damage it does to people. What an unpleasant thing the weather actually is. Snow really matters in this film. Bad weather really matters in this film. It affects the outcome of the plot in certain ways as you'll see. So it so so this this uh this messy realism I'm talking about even extends to the way in which the film treats the weather as you'll a as you'll as you'll see as the film as the film proceeds. um the central features of the traditional western, the hero savior figure, the protagonist figure, uh the gal from the east who is often a a school momm who falls in love with the hero. Uh and the idea that the western as a as a text, as I've said many times already, is always a kind of founding story about the creation of a community. All of those conventional structures remain in McCabe and Mrs. Miller, but they're inverted. They're weird. Let's take for let me just a quick example the the character played by Warren Batty. He's a he's he he really is in some sense the founder of the town. Uh there's a miserable mining not even a it's a mining camp. It just has a saloon in it uh when the film opens and McCabe arrives. He's the great gambler. He's actually a visionary entrepreneur in a certain way. Although in a very ironic sense and the story is an ironic entrepreneur story, a Horatio Algeria story. This this gambler McCabe comes to town, looks the place over, gambles for a while with these poor with these poor schlubs who are suffering on the very margins of civilization and then goes away. And when he comes back, he's bringing prostitutes with him. This town is not built by noble intentions. It's built by a whoremonger who brings a bunch of uh of prostitutes into the town and sets up the town's first house of prostitution. And in fact, McKay becomes the biggest land owner and the richest man in town. Not be not because he has the entrepreneurial vision of an Andrew Carnegie, although actually if we look closely at Andrew Carnegiey's life, we might find he more resembles Mabe than his biographers have acknowledged. Right? But in other words, it's as if what m what what Alman is doing is he's telling a kind of ironic or mocking or anti-heroic Horatio Algeria story, right? And a and as the story unfolds, something certain lovely things begin to happen. One thing that begins to happen is we begin to see a soft or a or a or a vulnerable side to m to the McCabe character. And when the schoolm from the east figure arrives, she's really from the east. She's not even from the east of the United States. She has an English accent, right? It's Julie Christie, but she's not a school momm. She's a retired who was now a who was now a manager of She's a she she's a she's a mistress, an expert in running And in fact, as soon as she arrives in town and partners with McCabe, McCabe really begins to make money. And what we begin to realize is McCabe really doesn't know what he's doing. McCabe had a kind of vision, but he doesn't really even know. And there's a wonderful scene over a over a over a meal in which the Julie Christie character who wolfs down her food like some John Wayne character while the Mabe characters looks very a scance at her. There's a scene in which the Julie Christine in effect explains to McCabe how little he knows about how to take care how to manage women. And then what develops is a kind of love affair between Mabe and this and this um uh prostitute. Uh and and what one begins to realize is first of all the woman is much smarter than the man and you can see her despair being generated as the story unfolds and McCabe is manipulated by other people. She knows the powerful forces that Mabe will be up against by the end of the film. And she tries to discourage him and help him but he's too caught up in his sort of macho idea of what a man is to allow himself to see the wisdom of what she's saying. and he's actually sometimes embarrassed by the fact that she seems to know more than she more than he does. Uh uh well, the relation between McCabe and Mrs. Miller inverts the normal love affair relationship. It shows us a woman who's stronger and smarter, although also much more cynical and desparing than her man. But McCabe's optimism and sense of self-confidence, which he loses pretty quickly, uh is shown in the film to be a to be a function of his ignorance and his innocence. Uh so so the treatment of the love story and the treatment of the hero savior figure in the film is deeply humanizing and deeply ironic. They're actually more credible psychologically complex characters, these two, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, most of their predecessors in earlier westerns, but they're also deeply ironic embodiment of their much nobler ancestors. And the same thing is that I've just been saying about about the hero and the heroine uh about the love story and the savior story is also true of the founding myth itself. The name of this town is Presbyterian Church. Very good name, isn't it? And it takes its name from the steeple of an unfinished church. And I think the illusion to unfinished churches in earlier traditional westerns is certainly intentional. uh it takes his name from the unfinished from the from the unfinished church in the in in the town. And in fact, as you will see, the church is never finished. You might watch how in the plot that works out and why it works out and what role the church and especially the minister who is hanging out at the church plays in the outcome of the story. Does the church does implicitly therefore does religion play a constructive or a destructive role in the film? I'm not giving too much away to tell you it's obvious. It's obvious which answer is appropriate. It plays a destructive role. Just as it's hostile to certain political myths about the founding of the west, the film is also hostile to our pieties and complacencies about the role of religious institutions in our and especially in the founding of our society. So uh watch how it works itself out and how the uh uh and how that traditional icon of the of of the conventional western uh has its meanings and its significance inverted uh and subverted uh in in this in this film. Um there's one crucial film conventional western to which this film directly alludes I think or at least implicitly directly alludes uh one of it alludes to other films as well but there's one especially um and and I want to show you a show you a clip from it because it has its own distinction uh and it reminds you about the not only about the sort of ballad dimensions of of the western, but the but how stylized and and uh heroic in a certain way the conventional western is. And it'll give it it'll be a it'll be a nice contrast with the anti-heroic uh qualities of McCabe and Mrs. Miller. Uh and this is a a scene from from the very beginning of a film made in the early 50s called High Noon, starring the traditional the most icon the the first or second most iconic of Western heroes. If John Wayne was the first, then Gary Cooper was the second. And this stars Gary Cooper. But the main reason I want you to see the film, see this opening of the film, is because it's very important to McCabe and Mrs. Miller. And there's no doubt that Altman expects his audience not only to be thinking about many prior westerns to contrast with what happens in this western, but he certainly expects his audience to remember specifically the beginning of Highoon and the way Highoon plays itself out the and and perhaps per perhaps also uh um certain other uh uh westerns play maybe as significant almost as significant a role in the film, but it's But but high noon especially and the main reason that Highoon is so important to McCabe and Mrs. Miller is that it's also a a drama that takes place in the physical spaces of the town. High Noon is a begins brilliantly uh with bad guys riding into town and in the and in we hardly see the hero until the final images of the sequence I'm going to show you the Gary Cooper figure bad guy a man a man's been released from prison who's going to take vengeance on the town marshall it's the day of the town marshall's wedding right when the bad guys are coming into town to take their revenge the film itself incidentally is a parable of the McCarthy era of the early 1950s uh it's even like many westerns, and we've talked about this, like many westerns, it's a disguised form of social and political commentary on the present. Uh, and in this case, the the marshall's endangered. A lot of bad guys are coming after him. He goes around the town asking for help to set up a posi to help him defend the town. Nobody wants to help him. He's left on his own, and he has to fight against these guys on his own. Right? And that's so and the the drama of the film has to do with this where it's and as you'll see, McCabe and Mrs. Miller ends on a similar note in which McCabe is up against a force of men far larger than he he and also professional killers. Right? And in that sense, the end of McCabe in which McCabe has to the lost the whole last section of McCabe, which involves McCabe defending himself against assassins who have been dispatched by a corporation that has tried to buy McCabe out and when he's refused to sell, they've said, "Okay, we'll take another route. We we'll eliminate him." Right? This so Altman's telling the story of of capitalism at its most at its most aggressively evil. Right? instead of the kind of fairy tales that were told about how the west was made by by uh certain mythological uh u optimistically mythological westerns. Um so so um when when mabe defends himself at the very end against these larger forces, one of the things that gives him an advantage and one of the most interesting moments in the passages in the film occurs here has to do with his knowledge of the town. He helped build the town. So, he knows every nook and cranny of the town. And he's able in part to hold his own against four other men who are actually much better with with violence than he is because of his knowledge of the town. Something of that same kind of thing happens at the end of Highoon. The beginning of High Noon is exciting because what it shows is the film is exploring the territory that it will later return to. So, so, uh, I'm showing it to you because I think in part it's interesting. It's a nice contrast. There's no question that Alman expects us to have this film in our minds when we're watching McCabe. Okay, great. Any of you recognize this actor? His name is Lee Ben Cle. He played bad guys for most of his career and then when the spaghetti westerns came in, he started to he was reversed and he began to play less evil characters. But he he's an actor who was associated with evil roles in a series of westerns. The singer is is is text Ritter. And I must face the deadly killer. All I am a cow in my grave. I lose my hand. I'm not afraid of I also wanted you to see this beginning so you could hear this ballad and contrast it with Leonard Conn's stoned area. Leonard Conn sounds like he's singing out of the counterculture and What? Watch the different subject matter. Although you can't you wait long only someone who had never seen a movie would fail to recognize that these are bad guys. Now, how do you know they're bad guys? They're unshaven. They have black hats, right? There's a kind of implicit symbolism that the conventional western, even subtle ones like this one, which is a grown-up western. It's an adult western, still make use of. Alman will throw all those kinds of markers out. He thinks they're foolish. Another church Think that's heavy-handed? So, you see how what's happening here is a kind of visit through the town. It isn't until later in the film that you realize that every space you go by should have registered with you because the later action of the film will take place on these streets, in these in these barns, on these balconies. Come on, open up. We're going to have a big in a hurry. Yeah, I sure am. You're a fool. Come on. Now watch this shot. All right. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin. And there's Gary Cooper, the bride and groom step forward, who will be our hero. And in fact, he's marrying Grace Kelly, who in this film is a Quaker. And guess what? One of the climactic events in the film invi is the Quaker lady fires a gun to save her beloved, violates her moral principles, and kills someone to save her man. Okay. Now, I I don't want I I don't want you to think that my Can we have the lights again, Greg? I don't want you to think that I'm suggesting that High Noon is not a remarkable movie. It is. It's It's one of the very very good westerns there. It it has great uh uh subtlety and power in its own way. Uh but I think that Alman definitely wanted us to think about the radical differences between the universe imagined in McCabe and Mrs. Miller and the world as it's uh uh imagined in even even subtle adult 50s westerns. So uh many of these things are crystallized for us in the remarkable conclusion of the film. Um, and I hope that you'll pay a lot of attention to that. It's an extended sequence and it's it's a it it operates according to a principle of parallel action. The church I mentioned earlier catches fire. Watch why it catches fire. It's connected to the plot. Uh, and while the church is burning, most of the town gets together in a kind of comic bucket brigade to put this to put the fire out. Uh, they are partly aided by a new fire engine, a mark of the town's growth, right? that arrives at a certain point uh in the history of the town. The fire engine, I believe, arrives at the same time that Mrs. Miller arrives in town. They're both equally important historical events for the town's future. Uh but the arrival of the engine suggests of the coming of civilization, right? And there's a certain sense in which the act the the the fighting of the of the fire, it's actually almost treated like a slapstick event. Uh, real film buffs would actually recognize visual illusions or references to the Keystone Cops era. Uh, I I don't want to exaggerate this, but you'll see it. I mean, there actually is someone carrying a bucket that has a hole in it, water's falling out, that kind of thing. And they're incredibly ineffectual in their trying to put out the fire. I don't think they succeed very well. The church essentially is destroyed, or at least the steeple is destroyed. But what happens nonetheless is the town has come together and it's actually a moment in which you actually feel that the town's identity is being forged as these disperate people, the and the barbers and the respectable people and the saloonkeeper all get together to try to put the fire out. So it is a moment in which the town is really a burning right while that is happening. McCabe is being stalked by the assassins. the creator of the town, the founder of the town is in a in a fight for his life while they're while this slapstick firefighting is going on. Watch how that works itself out. Watch how and then pay a special attention to the profound disturbing ambiguities of the ending. One of the reasons I admire McCabe and Mrs. Miller so much is that it seems in many ways to satisfy the desires one has the desire one has for the trappings of a conventional western. They're all all of the elements that you think of should that you think should belong to a serious western are present but they're present in such ironized such damage such inverted form that they make you rethink not only those particular conventions but the larger mythological and ideological uh work that western that the western mythology has performed in American society up to this time. So it makes McCabe and Mrs. Miller not just a wonderfully entertaining film. full of comic moments and brilliant performances. It is in its own right an a great work of imaginative uh intelligence. But it is an even larger thing it seems to me because of the intelligence with which it engages in this systematic conversation with its aesthetic and moral ancestry in the great founding story of the western which I suppose must be identified as America's most distinctive and in some ways most disturbingly revealing story about itself. See you next week.