The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Um what we have to do today is uh study a very important example of a two-state system that will be u the ammonia molecule and will lead us to understand how mers work. Um, mers are what? For microwaves, the same thing as lasers are for light. It's just a different frequency. Messers is microwaves and lasers for light. It's the same thing. So, uh, it's a very nice application of two-state systems. And then we'll discuss over the last part of the lecture some aspects of nuclear magnetic resonance. I don't think I'll get to the end of it because it's uh quite a bit of material, but we'll try to see what we can do. So, let me remind you of the last thing we were doing last time that is going to be in the backdrop of what we do today. We spoke about Hamiltonians for a two-state system that were the most general 2x two hermission matrix specified by four real numbers G0 and the three components of the vector G multiplied by the pi matrices. This is her mission. This can be written in this way in which we've identified um Hamiltonians uh for spins in the sense that g do sigma really sigma is proportional to s. So this is equal to omega dot s where omega lore is 2g / h bar. And uh we explained last time that if you have a term omegaal do s spins will rotate with angular velocity omegaal vector which means they rotate around the axis defined by the vector omegaal with an angular velocity equal to the magnitude of the vector omega l. So that's lore precession. Um this lour precession in the case of a magnetic field u is given by minus lambda time the magnetic field gamma times the magnetic field where gamma is that constant that relates the magnetic moment of the particle to the spin angular momentum of the particle. Then we got uh moreover that the energy levels of this Hamiltonian this is a two state system. So it's a two-dimensional vector space. There can be at most two energy iggon states. That's the simple thing about two-state systems. These two energy states have energies equal to g + minus g. And the plus corresponds to the spin state n plus and the minus corresponds to the spin state n minus. And you don't have to talk spin states when we you write the this spin state over here. The plus you usually think of spin in the plus z direction. But the thing that we call plus is the first basis vector and the thing that we call minus is the second basis vector of the state space. Therefore, if you've given a matrix Hamiltonian has nothing to do with spins, you still have the notion that the first basis vector, whatever it is, an ion moving in this direction, is the mathematical analog of a spin up. And the second basis vector, whatever else it may be, is the analog of the spin down. So this will be um important for what we do now as we begin the study of the ammonia molecule and its state. So having reviewed the key ideas from the last part of last lecture are there any questions? So let me begin with this ammonia molecule. Uh ammonia double M N O N I A is NH3. It's used as a fertilizer. It's a gas. has strong otter, no color, fertilizers, cleaning products, pharmaceuticals, all kinds of things. Uh, it has the shape of a flattened tetrahedrin with a nitrogen atom at one corner say, and the base the three hydrogen atoms. If it would not be a flattened tetrahedrin, u this angle over here, if it would be an equilateral regular tetrahedrin, this angle over there would be 60° because every face would be at um equilateral triangle. But if it's a flattened tetrahedron, if it would be totally flat, if it the n would be at the base, the angle in between these two edges would be 120° because they had to add up to 360. Well, this has 108°. So, it's pretty flat, this tetrahedrin. And you can imagine actually this is a two-state system because uh just as the nitrogen can be like this can be up with respect to the base of the hydrogens it could also be down and you say can imagine this molecule rotating and suddenly the up nitrogen goes down and this keeps rotating a possible transition. ition of the system in which uh well I don't know if I'm drawing it well I don't think so but um roughly it could be like this uh the nitrogen is down and this uh in principle would be like two possible configurations of this system there's a barrier like if This is an equilibrium. So if you try to push it, it's not easy. But if you did manage to push it, it would be stable in the other direction. It is as if you had a potential for the nitrogen, a V of Z. The direction is Z in which it can be here up or down and it's stable in either one. But uh there's a big barrier in between. So that's the story of this nitrogen atom. And uh we're going to try to describe this as a two-state system. So I have I need some notation. Well, I'm going to have the first basis state to be called up for N up and the second basis state is going to be called down for nitrogen down. And now u I'm going to try to write a Hamiltonian for this system. Well, if u you know what sort of happens here, your intuition in quantum mechanics with wave functions should be similar. Look, this is not a two-state system because there may be many energy states, but you know that the ground state looks like a wave function that is like this ground state and the excite first excited state could look like a wave function that is like oops this pretty much the same thing but you flip one and if the barrier is sufficiently high these two energy levels are not that different. So the question is how do we model this? there may be an energy um E0 for the system, a ground state energy maybe and a little bit of a higher energy. So we're going to write a Hamiltonian and I'm going to put E not E not for the moment and my first basis state is one and up. Uh this would be the one zero and here would be the 01 the second basis state and this is saying that one zero the n up is an energy state of energy e not and n down is an energy iggon state of energy e not as well but that can't be the story there cannot be two degenerate energy iggon states your intuition tells you that this is impossible. A one-dimensional potential wouldn't say that. So there must be something else happening. This cannot be the whole Hamiltonian that describes the physics of the problem. So what we're going to do is try to tinker with this Hamiltonian. A simple tinkering that is going to give us the physics that we expect. So I'm going to put a constant delta here. This should be her mission. So I should put a delta as well. Another constant there. Um for convenience however I'd rather put a minus sign there. I will define delta to be positive for definitess and for convenience however I will put here minus delta. Now you could say look uh you say that but uh maybe it's not for convenience maybe it changes the physics. Well it cannot change the physics because these things are the matrix elements of the Hamiltonian the one two and the 21 matrix elements. And I could decide to change what I call the first basis vector to call it minus the first basis vector. This would change the sign of this change the sign of that without changing those signs. So this sign is a matter of a basis. So I certainly have not made any assumption by putting that to be a minus sign over there. Now once you have this Hamiltonian this delta is going to be some energy and that's going to be what mimics the physics here because these states are not going to be any more energy iggon states. The matrix is not diagonal anymore. So the one zero vector and the 01 vector are not anymore energy states. So um moreover it's interesting to try to figure out what it has to do with our previous uh system. So this is EN * 1 - delta * sigma 1 and that's a good thing to know. Um so in this case comparing to this G is the vector in the X direction because it's G multiplying by sigma 1 and it has magnitude of delta. So we notice and and we're going to make a picture later is that g in this case so far is equal to delta time u the unit vector in the x direction minus delta time the unit vector in the x direction unit vector in the x direction. So g is equal to delta So okay, we've written those. Let's then figure out what are the ground states and the um excited states. Now this is a 2x2 matrix and a simple one at that. So you could just do it or better to figure out what we're doing. We'll use our uh formulas before. Yes, Jordan. Um so why is it that we mandate that belt has to be real? Like I mean why don't that's not the most general form. That's right. It's not the most general form. So at this moment u we're trying to do what any reasonable physicist does without delta. It doesn't match the physics. So let's try the simplest thing that can work and a delta real. We'll see if it works. And if it works, we'll worry later about different things. U so we'll put the simplest thing at this moment. But indeed, we could put more complicated things. U so given this in fact we know what um the energy states should be or we more or less can guess what the energy states should be. Let me tell you the energies are g + minus g. So you're going to get um E not + delta plus delta and E not minus delta as the energies E excited and E ground and the gap between these two energies the but um gap between these two energy levels is two delta gap is two delta. So there we go. We've already produced something good. Uh we have two energy state. There should be a small energy difference and that gap is to delta. Now what are those states? Well, it's not too hard to see that the igen state that has this energy is uh the excited state is 1 / 2 1 - one. If you act with this matrix on this, that's the energy state. And the energy state for this one is 1 / 2 1 1. Let's write them. This is these are the iggon vectors. Let's write them as 1 / square of 2 nitrogen up minus nitrogen down and 1 / 2 nitrogen up plus nitrogen down. So I want to uh even though it's not complicated to do this u and we have called these states that way so it's all clear I want you to see how that comes from our spin way of thinking. So you know there's this molecule and for this molecule only one direction matters. We could have called it X if we wanted. In fact maybe X would have been a better name. On the other hand for spin states there are three dimensions X Y and Z. So we have to think in an abstract way. Um so where is this vector G? We said g is minus delta e x. So this is the x axis. This is the y axis. This is the z axis. G is here. The vector g goes back over here is minus delta xhat vector. Maybe I'll write this xhat. Now what if you have G in that way you know that the excited state is um is one of these states over here. Let's see uh this N plus is the excited state and N minus is the lower state. So the excited state should point in the direction of G vector because N corresponds to the direction of the G vector. G is positive here. This little G is positive. So G is in there. N is in there as well. because G and N are parallel and the excited state should correspond to N a vector in the plus N direction. So the excited state should be here is a spin state in that direction. That's what that formula says. And the ground state should be a spin state in the minus n direction. So this must be the ground state. So this I call the excited state and this the ground state. And indeed remember now that what is your translation one and two the one and two states are like the plus and minus of spins. So in terms of spin language in spin language this excited state is the plus minus the minus and this is the plus plus the minus because the up is plus the minus is the down is minus. So indeed this state you probably remember it. This is a spin along the x direction. So the ground state must be like a spin along the x direction is here. The excited state is a spin the orthogonal one in the minus x direction. So it must be a state orthogonal to this one as it is and it points in the other direction. So um those are our spins and we had that the gap delta u the gap is 2 omega it's an energy so it's what we called h kn h omega kn for a photon a transition energy I could give this energy in es but actually don't have it I have the the wave wavelength at the frequency of the associated photon. So this corresponds to a frequency new of 23.87 ghertz and a lambda of about 1.26 cm more or less half an inch. So that is the transition difference between these two levels. So this is something people knew. There's two levels about the of of this molecule and they correspond to the result of this perturbation that splits them. So in a sense we've got a nice model perfectly reasonable model without introducing much complexity of what this um thing is doing. So let's do a little exercise. Um let's see how does the n up state evolve in time. does n uh up evolving time. So we have pi at time equals zero being the state up. What is it later? Well, there are many ways to do it. Many many ways to do it. The quickest in principle is to think about spins even if it's just a little painful. But um let's think about spins. Omega L is uh is going to be around the direction of G. So think of the state of this spin. The n up state, the up state is here and then it's going to precess with angular frequency vector in the direction of G. So it's going to precess in the direction of G. So you can imagine now this vector precessing and it's going to go since it's essentially the minus x direction precession in time is going to flip it to the y ais and then make it rotate in the zy axis. That's all what it's going to do. So you have a picture of what it's going to do. um we might as well calculate a little although the picture is complete and the frequency is known and everything but what you do here of course uh is you try to write it in terms of energy states and uh the up state is the one over square root um times the sum of e plus G and you know the energies of those two states. So you know how they evolve in time. Um it will be in the notes. You can do this. Uh after you now evolve with e to the minus i ht over h bar, you then go back from e to g e and g to up and down because that's sort of the intuition that we want to have. So it's not of difficult. None of these steps are difficult. E and G are written in terms of up and down. So what does one get? One gets pi of t is equal e to the minus i e t / h bar time cosine of t delta / h bar times the state up plus i sin of t delta over h bar state Now um this is the time evolution. So the probabilities for example to be up probability to be up is the square of this one cossine^ 2 of t delta over h bar and the probability to be down is sin squared of the same thing. So, this poor nitrogen molecule, if it happens to have the nitrogen up, is going to start rotating like crazy. Even if you don't do anything, it's just sitting there and it's rotating up and down and with a speed doing this thing 23 billion times a second. molecules up and down because it's not in a stationary engon state. Um now here actually you may think that something has been um has is a little funny because you would say well the frequency of rotation is like delta over h bar but the lmer frequency is supposed to be 2 g over h bar. So it would correspond to l or frequency of 2 delta over h bar which is exactly the frequency of the photons. But there's no contradiction here. This is in fact rotating at that speed at twice that speed because if you remember for a spin state this was like cosine of theta over two. Therefore as it changes that's the way theta / two is changing but theta which is the angle that is physical rotation changes twice as fast. So it's again those 1 halfves of spin states that are very confusing sometimes but uh there's no contradiction the sort of lore frequency of the equivalent spin problem is exactly the same as the frequency of the original problem. So now we want to make this uh into something more um practical and for that what we explore is the fact that this molecule has an electric dipole moment. So the molecule as we pictured it there as it happens the electrons of the hydrogen sort of cluster near the nitrogen. So this up region is kind of negative the bottom region is kind of positive and there is a electric dipole moment pointing down. So this is a pretty important property of this molecule this dipole moment and electric diples we usually call P but for some reason maybe I should change the notes at some stage or maybe this is discussed very nicely in Fineman's lectures in physics he uses mu for this like for magnetic dipole so I will actually use mu as Well, now so um this thing has an electric dipole and therefore the energy energy is the electric dipole dotted with the electric field and that electric field is an external electric field. You have this little dipole which is this molecule and you put it inside an electric field and there's a contribution to the energy just because the dipole is sitting on an electric field and that means our Hamiltonian has is now changed. So I will consider the case in which we have an electric field in the Z direction a positive electric field in the Z direction. So that um E is equal to E * Z and mu would be equal to minus mu * Z because it points down. assume the um the dipole is down and the dipole is down for the case of um spin in the Z direction. So um so look what we get here. This energy contribution this energy contribution is essentially mu e and it's the energy that is acquired by the state in which the nitrogen is up. This is for nitrogen up. So what we've discovered if we want to model this in the Hamiltonian is that we can take the Hamiltonian that we had E not minus delta E not minus delta and the energy of the state up with nitrogen up is this one mu. So we add mu E and the one with the spin down will be the opposite. So it will be minus mu E. And this is our reasonable expectation for the Hamiltonian of this particle of this molecule inside an electric field. So this is the N H3 in E field. So again we can wonder what kind of thing happens here and the best thing is to first say this is e not one minus delta sigma 1 and then you see oh it's mu e sigma 3. So getting to diagonalize this is a little more painful than the other one. And we don't have to do it because we've solved the general problem. And the energies this time are going to be E of the excited one and E of the lower one. Ground state. It's going to be E 0 plus G. and g was the magnitude of the vector g. So it's the magnitude of the vector g that now has components minus delta 0 and mu e. So here we get plus square t of delta^ 2 + mu e^ 2 and here is 0 - square of delta^ 2 + um yeah plus mu e^ 2. So there we go. We we know how the energies behave even if we have some electric field and typically delta is such that and mu is such that uh for most electric fields that you ever have in in the lab this is very small compared to that. the dipole moment is sufficiently small that the energies that you get from here are pale compared to the difference of energies over there. So you can approximate this is E not plus delta plus 12 mu E² over delta this is for mu E small and here E is 0 minus delta - 12 mu E over delta squared and this is when mue UE is much smaller than delta. Now the only reason I point this out is because it does provide a technological opportunity to separate a beam of particles into excited and ground state levels. Sort of like stern gerlac experiment. You put now this beam that has this um ammonia molecules and you put them inside an electric field that has a gradient in a gradient. This state is going to try to go to minimize its energy. So it's going to go to the regions of the electric field when the electric field is small. This particle minimizes its energy when it goes to the regions of the electric field when the electric field is big. So it's like putting it in a stern girl experiment. You have your beam and you separate them. You have your beam and you manage to separate the things that can be in the excited state and the things that are in the ground state. And now what you do is insert this excited states into a resonant cavity. Have a little hole here and a little hole here. And E comes in and something comes out. So, we're getting now to the design of the maser. U the idea that we're trying to to do is that we're going to we try to make a cavity tuned to 23.7 GHz. the frequency associated with the gap and uh we just insert those E over there these excited states over there and hope that by the time they go out they become a G because if they go from E. You see there was an electric field here to separate them and then E is over here. This is the excited state. There's no more electric fields over here. It just comes into the cavity as an excited state. The excited state has energy E not plus delta. And then if we if it manages to go out of the cavity as the ground state then it would have energy E not minus delta. It must have lost energy to delta that can go nicely into the electromagnetic field and become one photon a one photon state in the cavity of the right frequency because the cavity is tuned to that. The only difficulty with this assumption is that E is an energy state. So energy states are lazier stationary states. They don't like to change. So there's no reason why it should go out as G. It's excited state. It's perfectly happy to remain excited forever. So what must happen somehow is that there's an electric field here in the cavity and that stimulates this thing to make the transition because once there's an electric field the E is not anymore an energy state the E of the original system is not anymore an energy state and nor is this so then it's going to change in time. So the problem is a delicate one in which we want to somehow have an electric field here that is self-consistent with the idea that this excited state goes out as the ground state. And that's why it's a microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation because you're going to amplify a signal here. It's a microwave. 1 cm wavelength. That's a microwave. And the stimulation is the fact that this wouldn't do it unless there's an electric field already. So you could say, well, so how does it get started? There's no electric field to begin with. Well, you know quantum mechanics and you know that in general there are little fluctuations and there's energies small photons one or two photon that suddenly appear because of anything any motion of charges in here produces an electromagnetic wave. So at the beginning, yes, there's no many photons here, but somehow by res having it resonate at that frequency, it's very easy to get those photons. And a few appear and a few molecules start to turn in and very soon this is full with energy in which there's a consistent configuration of some electric field oscillating and producing precisely the right transitions here. So I want to use the next 15 minutes to describe that math. Um how do we do this? Um because it just shows really the the sort of hard part of the problem. Uh how do you get consistently a field and and the radiation going on? So um you know maybe I should call this E prime and G prime. They shouldn't be confused. E and G are these states that we had before and E prime and G prime we never wrote those states but uh they are deformed states due to an electric field. Okay. So what do we have to do? Well here is E and G and we had a Hamiltonian. They're going to be an electric field here. So this Hamiltonian is the relevant one. The only problem with this Hamiltonian is that this is going to be a timed dependent field. Something that we're a little scared of. Hamiltonians with time dependence for good reason because they're hard. So but anyway, let's try to see. Today is all about Hamiltonians with time dependence. So there's going to be a time dependent. That's going to be the wave here. So that's the relevant Hamiltonian, but it's the Hamiltonian in the one two bases in the up nitrogen down nitrogen basis. I want that Hamiltonian in the EG basis. It's better. It's more useful. So um let's try to see how that looks. Hamiltonian in the EG basis. H prime in E equ= 1 G equ= 2 primes maybe put bases. So of here is the Hamiltonian in this basis in the one two basis I have to pass to the other basis the eg basis. So it's not complicated. Uh it takes a little work but it's it's nothing um all that difficult. For example, in the one prime H one prime which would be the one one element of this matrix. I'm supposed to put here one prime is e h e. And now I'm supposed to say okay what is this? Well, E is 1 / 2. Um, E was 1 / of 2. 1 - 1. H is the original H. So, it's EN plus mu E minus delta minus delta EN minus mue. and e is one one minus one again and there's al also square root of two so at the end this is a 1/2 so this is the kind of thing you have to do to pass to these bases u I think I do I'll do that in the notes and uh this calculation is simple in this case it gives e not plus delta And uh you know in retrospect that sort of uh is pretty reasonable this is e not plus delta and this is e not minus delta and if you didn't have an electric field indeed in this basis the first state is the excited state and has this energy the second state is the ground state and has this energy and that makes sense if there's no mue E. Well, the muee still shows up and it shows up here. So that is the new Hamiltonian in this basis and the general state in this basis is the amplitude to be excited and the amplitude to be in the ground state. This is the general pi of t. So you're shreddinger equation in this new basis in not new basis in the eg basis. You see it's eg basis is a basis of energy states if you don't have electric field but once you have electric field uh it's not anymore energy states and much worse if you have a time dependent electric field. So um so the shreddinger equation is I h bar ddt of c e cg is equal to this new matrix. Uh and now e not is totally irrelevant for everything. It's a constant times the unit matrix. Let's put e not to zero. There's no need to keep it. E not equals zero. So we have delta mu e mu e minus delta time c e cg i ddt of pi h pi sharing our equation. Now the real difficulty that we have is that e is a function of time. So this is not all that um trivial. So what you do to solve this is a simplified equation by saying what would the solution be if you didn't have a function of time then you would have uh if you didn't have e cg of time would be e to the minus i h t. So this would be I deltat T. The energy of this if there's no electric field the Hamiltonian will be delta minus delta. So here you have minus I H T over H bar. And for the lower state you would have E to the plus I deltat T over H bar as solutions. If you didn't have this, these would be the solutions. But we want now better. So what we're gonna say is well that's the solution if I neglect this. So this cannot be the real solution. So I'll put here a beta sub e of t and a beta subg of t. And sure if no electric field betas are one. They're not necessary. But if there is an electric field, the betas are going to be complicated. So we need them there. So this is like an answer. Now you can plug this back and calculate what you get. And it should not be too surprising that you're going to get in here um something in which these deltas are going to disappear because this thing takes care of that. So there's a little bit of algebra here maybe two three lines of algebra and let me give you what you get. I har ddt of beta e beta g. Now the equation is really for this quantities and it's zero e to the i omega 0 t * mu e to the - i omega 0 t * mu e 0 beta e beta g where omega 0 is the lmer frequency or 2 delta over h bar. So some calculation involved but I hope you don't lose track of the physics here. The physics is that the amplitude to be in E and the amplitudes to be in G have now been replaced by beta and beta G which are expected to be simpler things to calculate. And in fact since the probability to be in E is the norm of this thing squared beta is as good as C to know how likely is the particle to be in E or how likely is the particle to be in the ground state you can use beta because they differ by a phase. So betas have still the physical significance of the amplitude to being E or G. And we're still having an electric field that is time dependent here. So it's time to put the time dependent. Um and uh what are we going to do? Well, we're going to find a sort of self-consistent operation of this device in which we'll have an electromagnetic field E I'm sorry E of T will be two E letter E that now it's going to be a constant with an E0 cosine omega 0t again the alarm frequency or the photon frequency that is emitted by the possible transition. So we will consider the case when the cavity has already that electric field that is going precisely at the right um speed to do things well. So this ET with the two conveniently put here is equal to E not E to the I omega T plus E to the - I omega T. So when you multiply these things what do you get? Um let me do one of them for you to see. You get this I The top one h I'm going to put to the other side. Beta E is going to be beta E dot is going to coupled with this to beta G. So that thing is going to be this electric field times mu. So mu e kn the h bar from the left hand side and you have e to the i omega t multiplying this. So it's 1 + e to the 2 i omega t time beta g. So that's the first equation. Not all that easy for sure. Um second equation I beta G dot is equal to mu EN over H bar 1 + E to the - 2 I omega T beta E of T And now you have to think maybe a little like engineers or physicists, I don't know, or mathematicians, whatever you prefer. But you want to convince yourself that what you want to do is true. And what do you want to do? I like to forget about these terms. Basically, that's that's what we want to do. Why would that be true? Um, well, here is the reason why it's true. This is a number that sort of goes between one and minus one with some face. Mu not however over h bar is a very small number. Mui kn we're thinking of we're saying compared to the natural scales of the problem um this energy mui kn is much smaller than delta and delta is the thing that is related to omega kn in which h bar omega kn um is equal to 2 delta. So essentially mu e not is very very slow. It's an energy which is very very slow compared to h omega kn. Now being very small whatever this is this time derivative is going to be very small. So beta E and beta G are going to be very small time derivatives going to move slowly. If they move slowly over the time that this oscillates this hasn't changed a lot and therefore the average of this function over that time is zero and it doesn't contribute to the differential equation. It's actually a good argument even if you don't believe it. Um, you can try to convince yourself or maybe I'll try better in some way or something. But, uh, it is right. I've tried it actually out with computers and with Mathematica and things like that. And it's it's really absolutely true that if you think of differential equations as integrals that you integrate what is in the right hand side you can see that if this really the time derivative is controlled by this that corresponds to a frequency much smaller than omega KN these ones don't matter. So it's still interesting and uh still you know it's not trivial but um this is a case where we end up uh ignoring part of the thing. So what do we get then? I bet E dot is equal mu E not over H bar beta G. And uh the second equation I bet G do dot equal mu E not kn over H bar beta E. Therefore, if you multiply by another I here and differentiate I I beta double dot of E is equal mu EN over H bar the I extra that we borrowed the dot here. You can use the second equation. So you get mu e kn over h bar squared um beta e. Therefore beta e double dot is equal to minus mu e kn over h bar beta e. And you see you are rotating with a frequency. um put the h bar here and the h bar here with a frequency that is much smaller than omega kn. So this as a frequency is this is like omega kn. So indeed the rate of change of this thing goes with a frequency is much smaller and it's it's all right actually. So we've had that and then we can write the solution finally. So what is it? uh beta e of t is cosine mu e t over h bar and uh the probability to be in the e state is the square of that amplitude. So the probability to be in the E state at time t is the square of that. So it's cos² mu e not t over h bar. Uh again I'm sorry this beta is here and the probability to be in the excited state is the square of ce but the square of ce is the square of beta e. So I just square this. So there you go. Um we have this uh this thing. Um and uh we now have an understanding of how this goes as time goes by. In fact, as mu e not t over h bar goes by, this starts as a cosine squ and it then goes like this. And this is the place when this is equal to pi / 2. So um what do we need? uh we need that the place where this happens that we can call the time t be such that mu e not t over h bar be equal to pi / 2 or 3 pi / 2 or for those values of time the probability to be excited is zero and therefore you must be in the ground state these two probabilities squared uh squared added go to one so you're either E or G so if you have zero probability to be in E you will be in the state G. So the whole issue is basically at this moment that you must give the right speed or for a given speed of the molecules there will be a time that it takes to traverse that time is related to the steady state value of this um energy of this electric field by this relation. So you need the right velocity. The molecules have to be at the right temperature that then they'll have a velocity so that they travel in such a way that is consistent with this. As they do that, each of these particles that goes from E to Gives out one photon, one quantum of the electromagnetic field and helps build the time dependent electric field that we started at the beginning. Now if you at at some point for some speed of the molecules you saturate this and you build some electric field and then you have your cavity operating at the nominal way and then of course you want to use this for something. So you shine let it go out and shine those microwaves or do something. And if you want to recharge it you keep adding nitrogen molecules. Um now this was a great discovery actually Charles Towns Gordon and Zigger built this ammonia masoner in 1953 they got the Nobel prize uh Nobel prize Charles Towns uh got it in 1964 and he emphasized that these basers do the most perfect amplification consistent with the uncertainty principle. This is a coherent state of light that is built here and it's much better than any vacuum amplifier or anything like that because the thing that is giving out those photons is a molecule that is uncharged. So it doesn't disturb the electromagnetic field in the cavity as it goes through. Many times you use an electron for example to give out some energy but the electron itself is charged so it produces additional electromagnetic fields. Shot noise all kinds of noise. This is absolutely quiet device in which this molecule turns from one state to another smoothly stimulated by the electric field because if there was no electric field it would be an energy state and then it gives out photon after photon u. So the uncertainties actually as um in this novel lecture which is fun to read. In fact uh you remember delta n delta phi supposed to be greater than 1/2. Well for coherent states as we more or less discussed this thing is saturated. And what do you have now? So you have a coherent state of light. You may remember that the expectation value of n in a coherent state alpha was alpha squared. And uh you call this the number n of photons and the uncertainty in n was in fact alpha. So it's square root of n. So for this thing we have um the situation in which we are working with a coherent state that saturates this. So delta n times deltafi is about 12 and delta n is square root of the number of photons. So delta phi is about 1 / 2 square root of the number of photons. And you can imagine a cavity easily can have 10^ the 12 photons, 10^ the 15 photons, something fairly big. And you get an uncertainty in phase. The thing is coherent. the this all the pieces of that electromagnetic wave the faces are very coherent up to incredibly great accuracy. So um so it's a great um discovery and the beginning of many things that were done here in fact by professor Klepner and others in the 60s with other type of lasers and mers and this whole thing. So, uh, that's pretty much what I wanted to say about ammonia and these things. And, uh, we're going to use the last 15 minutes to begin something else, NMR. And, um, so are there any questions at this point? Yes. I mentioned this like traveling through the through the sort of changing between states. I sort of imagine a photon being absorbed like what exactly is happening? because it's somehow being emitted and absorbed. I just happen to catch it at the right moment. Well, in this case, it's basically emitted all the time because each molecule is we've tuned the cavity in such a way that if it comes as E goes out as G. So the whole process by the time that it entered and it went out, it has to have emitted one photon. But how does it in in the midst of the process? How does it get it back somehow? Because it's sort of oscillating between states. It doesn't get it back if the cavity would be badly desiring in such a way that it may be twice as long. It would out still come from as e. So it would make one transition and then absorb another thing. It would just not generate anything. Yeah. And u and you know a a more complete discussion of this of course if you really want to do everything uh you would have to treat the photon states here we treated this as a wave coupled to the quantum system of the molecule. uh you could treat the photons themselves as quanta and do quantum mechanics of the photon field and that and that would be a way in which you could calculate things more completely but this is not what we do now any other question yes so physically are the nitrogen molecules all fixed in the same orientation going into this device how does that happen are the what are the molecules all fixed in the same orientation yeah essentially It's it's not quite like an orientation. It's an energy state. So uh so basically what you have to do is have this beam of ammonia molecules and do this beam splitter that we talked about with the electric field and you split the beam into some that are all excited and some that are ground and and that's it. you need that everything that enters here is excited state. Okay. So um another time dependent problem that we're going to discuss today and continue next time is the NMR problem and nuclear magnetic resonance. Um so this is a pretty interesting problem. uh our nuclear magnetic resonance and it all begins by having a magnetic field that has a big component here B not I think oh it's a good name for it B not Z indeed and then you're going to have some magnetic field that is going to be rotating here in time in the xy plane. We'll assume at time equals zero it's here and then it's rotating with some angular frequency omega. So the total magnetic field is B K Z hat plus um some number B1 and I'll write it here plus B1 cosine omega t * xhat minus sin omega t * yhat. So indeed in the xy plane seen like this you have it here and it's rotating with angular frequency omega this way clockwise. All right. So, we have this magnetic field and of course we're going to try to figure out what spins do in it and the magnetic field is time dependent. So, we're in risk of getting a time dependent Hamiltonian. So, what is the Hamiltonian? This possibly time dependent is supposed to be minus gamma B times the spin. So what is that is minus gamma b sz z does the x component matches with the I'm sorry the z component matches with the z component of the spin plus b1 um sx cosine omega t minus sy sin omega T and uh well it's as bad as you could imagine uh pretty much this Hamiltonian is time dependent and there was some good news if the even if it's time dependent they commute at different times the time evolution is easy but no they don't commute at different times at time equal uh zero For example, you have SZ and SX, but at a later time you would have SZ and S Y and uh they just don't commute. So, we have no cookbook recipe to solve this problem. We have to figure it out. Um and uh there's several ways to figure it out. uh I had a way to figure it out that I explained u previous years but today I suddenly thought I could explain it in a different way that is maybe a little harder conceptually but explains more of what's going on. So this is what I want to try to do now. And uh basically what we're going to try to do is get the main intuition going for this problem. Um I have a shreddinger equation for this problem that is very complicated with a time dependent Hamiltonian. So you know if you have a wave function and now I'm going to be little rough for a little while. A H bar DT H SI and it oops what is it? Um let's see which lights general. Okay. So uh if you have a a problem like this, you might say, well uh I would like to do something non-trivial to this. So I want to maybe change the Hamiltonian and do the same physical problem. Now that's not easy because uh if it's the same physical problem, how can you change the Hamiltonian all that much? So one thing you could do is you could try to change the the states by doing a unitary transformation and then hope that the unitary transformation acts on this Hamiltonian. So this will be the new states and you would hope that this unitary transformation would somehow working with these new states would simplify the Hamiltonian. But unitary transformations in general is just like a change of basis that is not going to do all that much. Um unless the unitary transformation has time dependence in which case it doesn't just rotate the Hamiltonian but messes up this term. But this is really your only possibility of fixing things is to try to do a timed dependent unitary transformation that somehow you started with a spin Hamiltonian and you're going to do a unitary transformation and perhaps is going to be a timeindependent one but this u is going to depend on time and uh and this is not the whole Hamilton Miltonian because there's a problem with this part. So the idea is sort of vague but uh you're getting a little of the gist of what we try to do. So the first thing I try to do is I'll try to do is something maybe intuitive about uh this system. I could say that um that suppose I have a system here and the Hamiltonian is zero. Nothing nothing happens in that system. Now the thing that is curious about this that this that this magnetic field is rotating. So let's try to imagine how would physics look if you have the xy axis and you have the xy axis rotating with angular velocity omega. So the xy in the plane is rotating with angular velocity omega. What would happen? So there is an HS that is originally zero that you say it's zero and then any spin state stays there's no time evolution h is equal to zero nevertheless if you jump into this rotating frame all the spin states that were static for you they're are rotating and in fact for you they're precessing around the z-axis if you're in the rotating frame Therefore in the rotating frame you must have some Hamiltonian even though there's no Hamiltonian in the static frame because in the rotating frame you see things spinning. So in the rotating frame if there's a static spin along the x direction you now see it spinning around the zaxis with frequency omega in fact going in the plus z direction. So in the rotating frame you can ask what is the new Hamiltonian in the rotating frame and in the rotating frame the Hamiltonian should be such that it rotates the spins with angular velocity omega around the z-axis. You may recall that this is done by the unititary operator e to the minus i omega t s z hat over h bar. This is the operator that rotates spins in with omega t around the z direction which is precisely what you want this hamiltonian to do. So the Hamiltonian must be e to the minus i h t. So this rotating Hamiltonian must be omega s z hat. So the hamiltonian in the new frame is that because that hamiltonian produces the rotation of states that you see because your friend that is not rotating is telling you that no state is moving. H is zero. So the intuition is that you've passed from the original to this one. You had to add this. But what we'll see now is that you have to add a little you have to do other things a little if this is not equal to zero. So here is what we want to do. Now there's also a couple of ways of doing this but let me try a little calculation of way to do this second part. So we're going to take therefore to have for example a pir a rotating wave function that is going to be given by a unitary operator times the physical wave function you want to solve. This is what you want and this is what you hope has a simpler dynamics p. So let's try to figure out what is the shreddinger equation for pi r if you know the shreddinger equation for pi. So I dt i h bar dt pi is equal to h si. Let's see what is the shreddering equation satisfied by this one. So I h bar dt of ps r is i h bar dt of ui. So let's differentiate this. This is I h bar dt of u and I will have the pi but I will put then a u dagger and another u acting on s so that it gives me pi r. So the first derivative is acting just on the u. I acted and then I put u dagger u and recreated the pi r. The other term is in which it acts on pi. So I get plus i h bar. The u goes away and now I get dt of pi which is i h bar dt of pi is h s ump. So I must delete this. So the second term when I acted here I act with the whole thing. I ddt i h bar ddt on pi. The u is out and I put hs pi. And here I can of course put a u dagger u and put back the pi r. So I will do that as well. U dagger pi r. So actually you have now a new shreddinger equation which is of the form I h bar dt of ps is equal to u h s u dagger plus i h bar dt of u u dagger time pi R. Now that's it. This is the new Hamiltonian. This is the rotating Hamiltonian essentially that we're trying to figure out. That is going to be simpler, we hope. And uh there we go. Here we have this similarity transformation of the Hamiltonian and we have this extra term. Now this x suppose the original Hamiltonian had been zero. We want the new Hamiltonian given our argument to be this for the rotating system. So I will say that this u is such that you get I h bar dtu u dagger being precisely omega sz and for that the u is nothing else but e to the minus i omega t S z over h bar which is in fact that thing that we had there. So that's what u is and in that way this whole term becomes just omega s z hat. So we're almost uh in a sense done with this thing because uh we have uh made some good progress except that we still don't know if everything has worked out or not. I'll continue here and uh just one minute to close up the discussion by saying what has happened. So what has happened is that we have found that there's a new Hamiltonian HR equal UHS U plus I H bar DTU U dagger and then U is given by E to the minus I omega T S zhat over H R and pi as we said pi um of t s of t is equal to e to the i omega t sz z hat over h bar pi r of t. So this came because we said um that pir was going to be u pi and therefore I took u and the inverse and you get this. So look what the problem what the problem has turned into. It has turned into a problem for pir with a shreddinger equation that has a Hamiltonian HR in which this piece is very simple is omega s hat. And now the crucial point is whether here I have you dagger whether this thing is time independent and this should be time independent if we got our physics right and that's exactly where we will take on next time and u prove that it's time independent and then we can solve the complete problem. All right, there will be notes posted on this uh soon. Uh good luck finishing your homework and um I think Monday is a holiday, right? So, no class Monday. We'll see you on Wednesday.