The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, let's start. So we are back to calculating partition functions for ising models. So again some in general hyper cubic latis where you have variables zigma i being minus + one at each side with a tendency to be parallel. And our task is to calculate a partition function which for n sides amounts to summing over 2 to the n binary configurations of a weight that favors near neighbors to be in the same state with a strength k. Okay. So the procedure that we are going to follow is this high temperature expansion that is writing this as hyperbolic cosine of K 1 + T standing for tangent K zigma I zigma J and then as we discussed actually this I would have to write as a product over all bonds then essentially to each bond on this latice I would have to either assign one or t sigma i sigma j binary choice now move to bonds and then we saw that in order to make sure that following the summation over sigma these factors survive. We have to make sure that we construct graphs where out of each side go out an even number of bonds and we rewrote the whole thing as 2 to the n k to the number of bonds which for a hyper cubic latis is dn. And then we had a sum over graphs where we had an even number of bonds per site and the contribution of the graph was basically t to the power of the number of bonds. So I'm going to call this sum over here s after all the interesting part of the problem is captured in this factor s these 2 to the n cos k to the power of dn are perfectly well behaved analytical functions we are looking for something that is singular so this s I can either pick one from all of the factors. So to the lowest order in t I would have to put 2 one and then we saw that the next order correction would be something like a square would be this t to the 4th and then objects that are more complicated versions and I can write all of those as a sum over kind of graphs that I can draw on the latice by going around than making a loop. But then I will have graphs that will be composed of two loops for example that are disconnected. Since this can be translated all over the place, this would have a factor of n for a latis that is large for getting side effects and edge effects. This would have a contribution once I slide these two with respect to each other that is of the order of n squ and then I would have things that were would be three loops and so forth. Now based on what we have seen before, it is very tempting to somehow exponentiate this sum and write it as exponential of the sum over objects that have a single loop. And I will call this new sum actually s prime for reasons to become apparent because if I start to expand this exponential what do I get? I will certainly start to get one. Then I will have the sum over single loop graphs plus 12 whatever is in the numerator or in the exponent over here squared 1 / 3 factorial whatever is in the exponent which is this sum cubed and so forth. And if I were to expand this thing that is something squared, I will certainly get terms in it that would correspond to two of the terms in the sum. Here I would get things that would correspond to three of the terms in the sum and the combinatorial factors would certainly work out to get rid of the two and the six etc. depending on let's say I have loop a b or c I could pick a from the first uh uh sum here b from the second c from the third or any permutation thereof that would amount to c I would have a factor of c ab c but s definitely is not equal to s prime because immediately we see that once I square this term a + b squared in addition to a squ a b I will also get a squ and b square which corresponds to objects such as this 1/2 of the same graph repeated twice right it is the a² term that is appearing in this s and this clearly has no analog Here in my sum s I emphasize that in the sum s each bond can occur either zero or one time. Whereas if I exponentiate this you can see that s prime certainly contains things that potentially are repeated twice. As I go further I could have multiple times. Also when I square this term I could potentially get one factor from one another factor which is also a loop from the second terms the second term in this product of two brackets which once I multiply them happen to overlap and share something. Okay. All right. So very roughly and handwavingly the thing is that S has loops that avoid each other don't intersect whereas S prime has loops that intersect. So very naively s is sum over if you like a gas of non-intersecting loops. Whereas s prime is a sum over gas of what I could call phantom loops. They're kind of like ghosts. they can go through each other. Okay. All right. that's one of a number of problems. Now in this lecture we are going to ignore this difference between S and S prime and calculate S prime which therefore we will not be doing the right job. And this is one example of where I'm not doing a right job. And as I go through the calculation, you may want to figure out also other places where I don't correctly reproduce the sum s in order to ultimately be able to make a calculation and see what it comes to. Now, next lecture we will try to correct all of those errors. So you better keep track of all of those errors. Make sure that I am doing everything right. I think seems good. So, let's go and take a look at this S prime. So s prime actually log of s prime is a sum over graphs that I can draw on the latice and since I could exponentiate that there was no problem in the exponentiation involved over here. Essentially I have to for calculating the log just calculate this singly connected loops and you can see that that will work out fine as far as extensivity is concerned because I could translate each one of these figures of the loops over the latis and get the factor of n. So this is clearly something that is uh okay. Now since I'm already making this mistake of forgetting about the intersections between loops, I'm going to make another assumption that is in this sum of single loops I already include things where the uh single loop is allowed to intersect itself. For example, I'm going to allow as a single loop entity something that is like this where this particular bond will give a factor of t ^2. Clearly, I should not include this in the correct sum. But since I'm ignoring intersections among the different loops and I'm making it phantom, let's make it also phantom with respect to itself. Allow it to intersect itself also. It's in the same spirit of the mistake that we are going to do. Okay. So now what do we have? We can write that log of S prime is this sum over loops of length L and then multiply it by T to the L right so basically I say that I can draw loops let's say of size four loops of light size six etc each one of them I have to multip multiply by T the L. Uh, of course I have to multiply with the number of loops of length L. And this I'm going to write slightly differently. So I'm going to say that log of s prime is sum over this length of the loop. All loops of length l are going to contribute a factor of t to the l. And I'm going to count the loops of length l that start and end at the origin. And I'll give that a symbol WL0 0. Actually very soon I will introduce a generalization of this. So let me write the definition. I define a matrix that is indexed by two sides of the latice and counts the number of walks that I can have from one to the other from I to J in L steps. So this is number of walks of length L from I to J. Okay. So what am I doing here? Since I'm looking at single loop objects, I want to sum over let's say all terms that contribute in this case t to the 4. It's obvious because it's really just one shape. It's a square. But this square I could have started at anywhere on the latice. And this slight factor which captures the extensivity I'll take outside because I expect this log of s to be extensive. It should be proportional to n. So one part of it is essentially where I start to draw this loop. So I say that I always start with the loops that I uh have at point zero. then I want to come back to it to to myself. So I indicate that the end point should also be zero. And if I want to get a term here, this is a term that is t to the 4th. I need to know how many of such blocks I have? Yes. Um are you allowing the loop to intersect itself in this case or not? In this case, yes. I will also when I'm calculating anything to do with S prime I allow intersection. So if you're asking whether I'm allowing something like this the answer is yes. Okay. Yeah. And are we assuming infinitely large system so that yes that's right. So that the edge effects you don't have to worry about. Or alternatively you can imagine that you have periodic boundary conditions and with periodic boundary condition you can still slide it all over the place. Okay. But clearly then the maximal size of these loops etc will be determined potentially by the size of the letter. Now this is not entirely correct because there is an overounting this one square that I have drawn over here. I could have started from this point this point this point and essentially for something that has length L I would have had L possible starting point. So in order to avoid the overounting I have to divide by L. And in fact I could have started walking along this direction or alternatively I could have gone in the clockwise direction. So there's two orientations to the walk that will take me from the origin back to the origin in L steps. And not to do the over counting I have to divide by 2 L. Yes. Um if we allow um walking over ourselves, yes, is it always a degeneracy of 2L in a sense? You can you can go and do the calculation etc to convince yourself that even for something as convoluted as that you can it is true. Okay. So this is what we want to to calculate. uh well it turns out that this entity actually shows up somewhere else also. So let me tell you why I wanted to write a more general thing. Another quantity that I can try to calculate is the spin spin correlation. I can pick spin zero here and say spin r here some other location and I want to calculate what is the correlation between these two spins. Okay. So how do I have to do that for the model? I have to essentially sum over all configurations with an additional factor of zigma 0 sigma r of this weight e to the k sum over i j s zigma i zigma j appropriately normalized of course by the partition function and I can make the same transformation that I have on the first line of these exponential factors to write this as a sum over zigma i. I have zigma 0 s zigma r and then product over all bonds of these factors of 1 + t sigma i sigma j. the factors of 2 to the n k will cancel out between the numerator and the denominator and basically I will get the same thing. Now of course the denominator is the partition function. It is the sum s that we are after. But we can also and we've seen this already how to do this express the sum in the numerator graphically. And the difference between the numerator and the denominator is that I have an additional zigma sitting here and additional zigma sitting there that if left by themselves will average out to zero. So I need to connect them by paths that are composed of factors of t sigma sigma originating on one and ending on the other. Right? So in the same sense that what is appearing in the denominator is a sum that involves these loops. The first term that appears in the numerator is a path that connects zero to r through some combination of these factors of t. And then I have to sum over all possible ways of doing that. But then I could certainly have graphs that involves the same thing and a loop. There is nothing that is against that or the same thing and two loops and so forth. And you can see that as long as and only as long as I treat these as phantom objects that can pass through each other, I can factor out this term and the rest of 1 + 1 loop + 2 loop etc. is exactly what I have in the denominator. So we see that under the assumption of phantomness if phantom then this becomes really just the sum over all paths that go from 0 to r. And of course the contribution of each path is how many factors of t I have right. So I have to have a sum over the length of this path L. Paths of length L will contribute a factor of T to the L. But there are potentially multiple ways to go from I to R in L steps. How many ways? That's precisely what I call this zero w of lr. Yes. Why does it graph that goes from zero to r in three different ways? Does that can have okay? So you want to have to go from zero to R, you want to have a single path and then you want that path to do something like this. Yeah, that's that doesn't very difficult. That's fine. If I ignore the phantomness condition, this is the same as this multiplied by this, which is a term that appears in the denominator and cancels out. But you're assuming that you have the factor condition. So this is completely normal. Doesn't matter. I'm not sure I understand your question. You say that even without the phantom condition, this graph exists. The phantom condition, yes, this graph is perfectly normal. Even without the random phantom condition, this is an acceptable graph. Yeah. Right. So okay. Um yeah. So what does what does phantomness mean? Like why why then we can simplify to only uh consider pass? Okay. Because uh let's say I were to take this as a check and multiply it by the denominator. The question is would I generate the series that is in the numerator. Okay. So if I take this object that I have said is the answer, I have to multiply it by this object and make sure that it introduces correctly the numerator. The question is when does it I mean certainly when I multiply this by this I will get the possibility of having a graph such as this and from here I can have a loop such as this and the two of them would share a bond such as that. So in the realizing model that is not allowed. So that's the phantomness condition that allows me to factor these things. Okay. All right. So we see that if I have this quantity that I have written in red then I can calculate both correlation functions as well as the free energy log of the partition function within this phantomness uh assumption. So the question is can I calculate that and the answer is that calculating number of random walks is one of the most basic things that one does in statistical physics and easily accomplished uh as follows. Basically I say that okay let's say that I start from zero actually does yeah let's do it zero and r and let's say that I have looked at all possible paths that have ls and end up over here. So this is step one, step two, step number three. And the last one, step L, I have purposely drawn as a dotted line. Maybe I will pull this point further down to emphasize that this is the last one. This is L minus one is the previous one. So I can certainly state that the number of walks from zero to R in L steps. Well, any walk that got to R in L steps at the L minus one step had to be somewhere. Okay. So what I do is I do a number of walks from 0 to R prime. I'll call this point R prime in L minus one steps. and then times number of ways or number R prime to R in one step. So before I reach my destination in the previous step I had to have been somewhere I sum over all possible B places where that somewhere has to be and then I have to make sure that I can reach from that somewhere in one step to my destination. That's all that sums. Okay. Now I can convert that to mathematics. This quantity is start from zero, take L steps, arrive at R. By definition, that's the number. And what it says is that this should be a sum over R prime. Start from zero, take L minus one steps, arrive at R prime. Start from R prime. Take one step. Arrive at your destination R. Sum over R prime. Now these are N byN matrices that are labeled by L. Right? So these being N byN matrices. This summation over R prime is clearly a matrix multiplication. Right? So what that says is that summing over R prime tells you that that is W 1 W of L minus one Z and that is true for any pair of elements starting and final point. So basically quite generically we see that W the matrix that corresponds to the count for L steps is obtained from the matrix that corresponds to the count for one step multiplying that of L minus one steps and clearly I can keep going WLUS1 I can write as W1 W of LUS2 two and so forth. And ultimately the answer is none other than the entity that corresponds to one step raised to the L power. And just to make things easier on my writing, I will indicate this AST where T stands for this matrix for one set. Okay. This condition over here that I said in words that allows me to write this in D this nice matrix form is uh called the marovian condition. The kind of walks that I have been telling you are marovian in the sense that they only depend on where you came from at the last step. They don't have memory of where you had been before. And that's what enables us to do this. And that's why I had to do the phantom condition because if I really wanted to say that something like this has to be excluded then the walk must keep memory of every place that it had been before right and then it would be non-M marovian and I wouldn't have been able to do this nice calculation that's why I had to do this phantomness assumption so that I forgot the memory of where my walk was previously. Okay. Now, yeah. Question. Nope. So, this matrix uh where you can go in one step is really the matrix of who is connected to whom, right? So this is this tells you the connectivity, right? So for example, if I'm dealing with a 2D square latice, the sides on my latice are labeled by X and Y. And I can ask where can I go in one step if I start from X and Y. And the answer is that either X stays the same and Y shifts by one or Y stays the same and X shifts by one. These are the four nonzero elements of the matrix that allows you to go on the square latice either up, down, right or left and the corresponding things that you would have for the cube or whatever latice. Okay. Now you look at this and you can see that what I have imposed clearly is such that for a latis where every site looks like every equivalent site this is really a function only of the separation between the two points. It's an n² by it's an n byn matrix. It has n squ elements, but the elements really are essentially one column that gets shifted as you go further and further down in a very specific way. And whenever you have a matrix such as this, translational symmetry implies that you can diagonalize it by four uh transformation. And what do I mean by that? That is I can uh define a vector Q such that its various components are things like E to the I Q dot R in whatever dimension. Let's normalize it by square root of N. And I should be sure that that is an igen uh vector. So basically my statement is that if I take the matrix T act on Q then I should get uh some value in the vector back and let's take check that for the case of the 2D system. So for the 2D system if I say that x uh y t qx q y what is it? Well, that is x y t x prime yprime the entity that I have calculated here x prime y prime qx qy and of course I have a sum over x prime and y prime that's the matrix product and so again remember uh this entity is simply e to the i qx x prime + QY Y prime uh divided by square roo of N. And because this is a set of delta functions, what does it do? It basically sets X prime either to X + one or X -1, Y prime either to Y or Y -1, Y - one. You can see that you always get back your e to the i qx x + i q y with a factor of root n. So essentially that by the delta functions just changes the x primes to x at the cost of the different shifts that you have to do over there. Which means that you will get a factor of e to the i qx eus iqx with qy not changing or e to the i q y and e to the minus i qy with the x component not changing. So this is the standard thing that you have seen is none other than 2 cosine of qx plus cosine of qy. And so we can see that quite generally in the D-dimensional hyper cube my T of Q is going to be the sum over all D components of these factors of cosine of Q alpha and that's about it. Okay. So why did I bother to do this diagonalization? The answer is that that now allows me to calculate everything that I want. So for example uh I know that uh this quantity that I'm interested in zigma 0 sigma r is going to be a sum over l t to the l then zero wl is t to the l * Right. Now this small T I can take inside here and do it like this. And if I want I can write this as the zero arch component of a sum over L t raised to the power of L. So it's a new matrix which is essentially sum over L small T * this connectivity matrix to the L power. This is a geometric series. We can immediately do the geometric series. The answer is 0 1 / 1 - tt going all the way to R. Okay. And the reason I did this diagonalization is so that I can calculate this matrix element because I don't really want to invert a whole matrix but I can certainly invert the matrix when it is in the diagonal basis because all I have to do is to invert pure numbers. So what is done is to go to the FIA basis and rotate to the f FIA basis. Calculate this it is diagonal in this basis. I have QR okay and so what is that? These are these exponentials here evaluated at the origin. So it's just 1 / roo n. This is 1 / n. This is e to the i q dot r / roo n. This is just the value that I have calculated over here. So this entity is none other than a sum over q e to the i q dot r / n two factors of square root of n 1 / 1 - t well actually let's write it 2t sum over alpha cosine of q alpha And then of course I'm interested in big systems. I replace the sum over Q with an integral over Q 2 pi to the D density of states. In going from there to there there is a factor of volume. The way that I have set the unit of length in my system, the volume is actually the number of particles that I have. So that factor of n disappears and all I need to do is evaluate this factor of 1 - 2t s alpha cosine of q integrated over q fully trans. Okay. Yes. So I notic that you have a sum over Q but then you also have a sum over alpha of Q alpha. Is there a relationship between the Q and the Q alpha or not? Okay. So that goes back here. So when I had two dimensions I had qx and qy right and so I labeled rather than x and y with q1 and q2. So the index alpha is just the number of spatial dimension. If you like this is also dq1, dq2, dqd. All right. So, we are down here. Uh let's proceed. So what is going to happen? So suppose I'm picking two sides zero and r let's say both along the x direction some particular distance apart let's say 7 8 apart. So in order to evaluate this I would have an integral if this is the x direction of something like e to the i qx * r. Now when I integrate over qx the integral of e to the i qx * r would go go to zero. The only way that it won't go to zero is from the expansion of what is in the denominator. I should bring on enough factors of e to the minus iqx which certainly exist in these cosine factors to get rid of that. So essentially the mathematical procedure that is over here is to bring in sufficient factors of e to the minus i q dot r to eliminate that and the number of ways that you're going to do that is precisely another way of capturing this entity which means that clearly if I'm uh looking at something like this and I mean the limit that t goes to be very very small so that the lowest order in t contributes the lowest order t would be the shortest path that correspond uh that joins these two points so it is like connecting these two points with a string that is very tight so that the what I'm saying is that the limit AST goes to zero of something like zigma 0 s zigma R is going to be proportional to actually is going to be identical to T to the uh minimum distance between zero and R. Actually I should say proportional is in fact more correct because there could be multiple shortest path that go between two points. Okay. Now this makes sense. There's kind of an exponential essentially I start with the high temperature limit where the two things don't know anything about each other. So sigma 0 s zigma r is going to be zero. So anything that is beyond zero has to come from some way in which the information about the state of this site was conveyed all the way over here and it is done through passing one bond at a time and in some sense the fidelity of each one of those transformations is proportional to t. Now, AST becomes larger, you are going to be willing to pay the costs of paths that go from zero to r in slightly more disordered way. So, your string that was tight becomes kind of loose and floppy. And why does that become the case? Because now although these paths are longer and carry more factors of this t that is small they're just so many of them that the entropy the number of these paths starts to dominate. So very roughly you can state the competition between them as follows that the contribution of a path of length L decays like T to the L but the number of paths roughly grows like 2D to the power of L. Since we have this phantomness character, if I'm sitting at a particular site, I can go up, down, right, left. So at each step, I have in two dimensions a choice of four. In three dimensions, a choice of six, in Dimensions, a choice of 2D. Okay. So you can see that this is exponentially small. This is exponentially large. So they kind of balance each other. And the balance is something like E to the minus L over some typical L that will contribute. And clearly the typical L is going to be finite as long as 2DT is less than one. So you can see that something strange has to happen at a value where TC is such that 2DTC is equal to 1. At that point, the cost of making your paths longer is more than made up by the increase in the number of paths that you can have. The entropies starts to win. And you can see that precisely that condition tells me whether or not this integral exists, right? Because one point of this integral where the integrant is largest is when Q goes to zero. And you can see that as Q goes to zero the value in the denominator is 1 minus 2T. So there is precisely a pole when this condition takes place. And if I'm interested in seeing what is happening when I'm in the vicinity of that transition right before these paths become very large what I can do is I can start exploring what is happening in the vicinity of that pole. So 1 - 2D sum over alpha cosine of Q alpha how does it behave each cosine I can start expanding around it q going to zero as 1 - q ^2 / 2 so you can see that this is going to be 1 - 2d and then I would have + t q ^2 because I will have q1 2 + q2 2 ^ 2 + QD. So this Q ^2 is the sum of all the Q's. And then I will have higher order terms order of Q to the 4th and so forth. Okay. So if I'm looking in the vicinity of T going to TC, this is roughly TC Q ^2. This is something that goes to zero. And once I factor out the TC, I can define a length squared in this fashion. Inverse length squared. Okay, you can see that this inverse length squar is going to be uh 1 / tc 1 - 2d which is 1 / tc * t. So you can see that this is none other than tc minus t. And if I'm looking at the vicinity of that point, I find that the correlation between zigma 0 sigma r is approximately the integral ddq 2i to the d for a transform of the denominator that I said is approximately 1 / t cc * q ^2 + cus 2. Okay, we've seen this before, right? we evaluated this fia transform when we were doing uh Land of Ginsburg. So this is something that uh goes when you are looking at distances that are much less than this correlation length as the kulum power law. When you are looking at distances that are much larger than the correlation length, you get the exponential decay with this r -1 / 2 factor. So what we find is that the correlation of these phantom loops is precisely the correlation that we had seen for the Gaussian model. In fact, it has a correlation length that diverges in precisely the same way that we had seen for the Gaussian model with a square root singularity. So this is our usual mu = to 1/2 type of uh behavior that we are seeing and somehow by all of these root we reproduced uh some property of the Gaussian model. In fact, it's a little bit more than that because we can go back and look at what we had here for the free energy. So let's erase the things that pertain to the correlation length and correlations and focus on a calculation that we kind of left in the middle over here. So what do we have? We have that log of s prime the intensive part is a sum over the length of these loops that start and end at the origin. And the contribution of a loop of length L is small T to the L. And since WL is the connectivity matrix to the L power, it's really like looking at the matrix element of this entity. And of course, there is this degeneracy factor of 2 L and I can write this as 12 a sum over L. Well, let's do it this way. the zero zero element of uh one uh oops sum over l tt to the l / l. Okay. And what is this? This is in fact the expansion the series expansion of minus log of 1 minus tt. So I can again go to the FIA basis write this as minus sum / q 0 q uh log of 1 - t the value t of q and then uh q0. Each one of these is just a factor of 1 / square of n. The sum over q goes over to n integral / q. So this simply becomes - 12 uh integral / q 2 pi to the d log of 1 - t this sum / alpha cosine of q alpha e the 2 that we had over here. And again if I go to this limit where I'm close to TC the critical value of this T and focus on the behavior as Q goes to zero this is going to be something that has this Q ^2 + C to the minus2 type of singularity and again this is a kind of integral that we saw in connection with the Gaussian model and we know the kind of singularities it gives. Okay. But why did we end up with the Gaussian model? Okay. Let's work backward. That is typically when we are doing some kind of a partition function of a Gaussian model. Let's say we have some integral over some variables fi. Let's say we put them on the sides of a latis and we have e to the minus 5 i some matrix m i j 5 j over two sum over i and j implicit over there. What was the answer then? And the answer was typically proportional to 1 / the determinant of this matrix to the 1/2 which if I exponentiated it would be exponential of min - one uh logarithm of the determinant of this matrix. So that's the general result and we see that the result for our log of S prime is indeed the form of a 12 - 1/2 the log of something and indeed uh this sum over Q corresponds to summing over the different values and if I were to express M in terms of the product of its igen values it would be precisely that. So you can see that actually what we have calculated by comparison of these two things corresponds to a matrix MIG which is delta J minus T * this uh single step connectivity matrix that I had before. So indeed the partition function that I calculated that I called Zp prime or S prime corresponds to doing the following. Doing an integral over 5 I from the delta J. Essentially for each fi I would have a factor of min - 5 i^2 / 2. So essentially I have to do this and then from here once it exponentiated I will get a factor of e to the sum over uh i j uh this t uh 5 i j. Okay. So you can see that I started calculating ing variables on this lattice. The result that I calculated for these phantom walks is actually identical if I had replaced the icing variables with just quantities that I integrate all over the place provided that I weigh them with this factor. So really the difference between the icing and what I have done here can be captured by putting a weight for the inter integration per site. So if I really want to do izing the weight that I want to do for the icing actually let's do it this way for phi has to have a delta function at minus1 and a delta function at + one right rather than doing that I have calculated a w that corresponds to Gaussian where the weight for each phi is basically a Gaussian weight. And if I really wanted to do the Lando Ginsburg, all I would need to do is to add here a pi to the 4th. Okay, the problem with this Gaussian, the phantom system that I have is the same problem that we had with the Gaussian model. It only gives me one side of the phase transition because you see that I did all of these calculations. All of these calculations were consistent as long as I was dealing with T that was less than TC. Right? Once I go to T that is greater than TC, then this denominator that I had became negative. It just doesn't make sense. correlations negative don't make sense. the log the argument that I have to calculate here if T is below is larger than 2D uh one over 2D then it doesn't make sense and of course the reason the whole theory doesn't make sense is kind of related to the uh instability that we have in the Gaussian model essentially in the Gaussian model also when t becomes large enough this pi squar is not enough to remove the instability that you have for the largest value physically. What that means is that we started with this taut string and as we approached the transition the string became more flexible and in principle what this instability is telling me is that you go below the transition oops t greater than tc and uh the string becomes something that can go over and over itself as many times and gain entry Py further and further. So it will keep going forever. There is nothing to stop it. So the phantomness condition the cost that you pay for it is that once you go beyond the transition you essentially overwhelm yourself. There's just so much that is going on. There is nothing that you can do. So, so that's the story. Now, let's try to finally understand some of the things that we had before like this upper critical dimension of four, where did it come from etc. We are in now in the position to do things and understand things. First thing to note is let's try to understand what uh this exponent uh new = to 12 means. Okay. So we said that if I think about having information about my site at the origin that has to propagate so that further and further neighbors start to know what the information was at site zigma zero that that information can come through these paths. that fluctuate, go different distances and eventually let's say reach a boundary that is at size R. As we said, the contribution of each path decays exponentially, but the number of paths grows exponentially. And so for a particular t that is smaller than the critical value I can roughly say that this falls off like this. So that there is a characteristic length LB bar. This characteristic LB bar is going to be minus 1 / log of 2dt and 2dt I can write as 2dc + t minus tc 2dc is by construction one. So this is -1 / log of 1 + something like 2D which is 1 / t minus tc t minus tc over tc. Okay. Now log of 1 plus a small number. So if I my t goes and approaches tc this log will behave like what I have over here. So you can see that this diverges AST minus t c to the minus one power. I want it I guess to be correct tc minus t because t is less than tc. But the point is that the divergence is linear. As I approach TC, the length of these paths will grow inversely to how close I am. Now, what are these paths? I start from the origin and I randomly take steps. And I've said that the typical steps that I will get will roughly have length LB bar. How far have these paths carried the information? These are random blocks. So the distance over which they have managed to carry the information C is going to be like the square root of the length of these walks. And since the length of the box grows like t minus t c this goes like t c minus t to the minus one/2 power. So the exponent new of 12 that we have been thinking about is none other than the 1/2 that you have for random walks. Once you realize that what is going on is that the length of the paths that carry information essentially diverges linearly on approaching this. Okay. So that's one understanding. Now you would say that okay this is the Gaussian picture. Now I know that when we calculated things to order of epsilon we found that mu was 12 plus something it became larger. So what does that mean? Well if you have these paths and the paths cannot cross each other. It comes here. it has to go further away because they are really non-fantom then they will swell. So the exponent new that you expect to get will be larger than 1/2. So that's what's captured here. Well, how can I really try to capture that uh more mathematically? Well, I say that in the calculations that I did, let's say when I was calculating the correlation function zigma 0 sigma r, in the approximation of phantomness, I included all paths that went from zero to r. Among those there were paths that were crossing themselves. So I really have to subtract from that a path that comes and crosses itself. So I have to subtract that. I also had this condition that I had the numerator and the denominator that I cancelled each other which really means that I have to subtract the possibility of my path intersecting with another loop that is over here. Okay. And we can try to incorporate these as corrections. But we've already done that because if I fa transformed this object, I saw that it is this 1 / q ^2 + k ^2. And then we were calculating this u perturbative corrections and we had diagrams that kind of looked uh like this. Oops. I guess I want to first draw the other diagram. And then we had a diagram that was like this. Remember when we were doing these pi to the 4th calculations, the corrections that we had for the propagator which was related to the point correlation function were precisely these diagrams where we were essentially subtracting factors that were set by u. Of course, the value of U could be anything. And you can see that there is really one to one correspondence. Any of the diagrams that you had before really captures a picture of one of these paths trying to cross itself that you have to subtract and you can sort of put a one to one mathematical correspondence between what is going on here. Yeah. So, why can't we have the path in the first correction you drew? Because it aren't we allowed to have four um bonds that attach to one site when we're doing the original expansion. Okay. So, I told you at the beginning that you should keep track of all of my mistakes and that's a very subtle thing. So what you are asking is in the original Ising model I can draw perfectly okay a graph such as this that has an intersection such as this as we will show next time. So bear with me in calculating things via the phantom condition this is counted three times as much as it should. So I have to subtract that because a walk that comes here can either go forward up or down. There is some degeneracy there that essentially this has done an overounting that is important and I have to correct for when I do things more carefully next time. Yes. Um when we did the Gaussian model we never had to put any sort of requirement on the lattice being a square lattice. No. Did we have didn't we have to do that here when we did these random walks? No, I only use the square condition or hyper cube condition in order to be able to write this in general dimension. I could very well have done triangular FCC or any other latis. The expression here would have been more complicated. Okay. All right. So, so finally we can also ask well we have a field from reormalization group etc that the uh Gaussian exponents like mu= to 1/2 are in fact good provided that you are in sufficiently high dimension if you are above four dimensions where do you see that occurring in this picture. The answer is as follows. So basically I have ignored the possibility of intersections. So let's see when that condition is roughly good. The kind of entities that I have as I get closer and closer to TC in the phantom case are these random walks. And we said that the characteristic of a random walk is that if I have something that carries L steps that the typical size in space that it will grow scales like L to the 12, right? So we can recast this as a dimension. Basically we are used to say linear objects having a uh mass that grows u what do I want to do? Let's say that I have a hyper cube of size L. Okay, let's actually call it size R. Okay, then the mass of this or the number of elements that constitute this object grow like R to the D. Okay. So if I take my random walk and think of it as something in which every step has unit mass, you would say that the L is proportional to mass. So that the radius grows like the number of elements to the 1/2 power or the mass to the 1/2 power. So you would say that the random walk if I want to force it in terms of a relationship between mass and radius that mass goes like radius squared. So in that sense you can say that a random walk has a fractal or housedorf dimension of two. So if you kind of are very very blind you would say that uh this is like a random walk. It's a two-dimensional thing. It's a page. Right? So now the question is if I have two geometrical entities, will they intersect? So if I have a plane and a line in three dimensions, they will barely intersect. In four dimensions, they won't intersect. If I have two surfaces that are two-dimensional, in three dimensions they intersect in a line in four dimensions they would intersect in a point and in five dimensions they won't generically intersect like two lines generically don't intersect in three dimensions. So if you ask how bad is it that I ignored the intersection of objects that are inherently random walky in sufficiently high dimensions. I would say the answer geometrically would be intersection is generic if D is less than 2DF which is four. Okay. So we made a very drastic assumption but as long as we are above four dimension it's okay. I mean there's so much space around that statistically these intersections these non-fantomness is so entropically constraining that it never happens. You can ignore it and the results are okay. But you go to four dimensions and below you can't ignore it because generically these things will intersect with each other. That's why these diagrams are going to blow up on you and give you some important contribution that would swell and give you a value of new that is larger than the 1/2 that we have for random box. Okay, so that's the essence of where the Gaussian model was. Why we get new equals to 1/2, why we get news that are larger than 1/2. what the meaning of these diagrams is, what four dimensions is special, all of it really just comes down to central limit theorem and knowing that the sum of a large number of variables has a square root of n type of variance and fluctuations and it's all captured by that. So, but we wanted to really solve the model exactly. It turns out that we can make the conditions that were very hard to implement in general dimensions to work out correctly in two dimensions. And so next lecture we'll show you what these mistakes are, how to avoid them, and how to get the exact value of this sum in two dimensions.