The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. What I thought I would do is go I'm going to go quickly through the problems that were assigned for practice. There's seven or eight of them and I'm not going to do all of them. I'm going to go through and kind of talk about sort of some of the key issues are with each problem. And so the the uh you know maybe make some points about identifying how you do problems not necessarily specifically focus on the exact question that was asked here. So here was this first this was a quiz from last year and uh you are asked to find an equation of motion for this thing and it's it can be a bit of a puzzling problem. So how many degrees of freedom? What are the constraints? What equation should you use? So first of all I look at a problem like this is it planer motion or not? Okay so maximum three degrees of freedom. What are the what are the constraints though? So g is r over two from the center. So that's true. And so it's what you're really saying is it's fixed in radial motion, right? Then you're right. That's one. So that's one constraint. What's another constraint in this problem? How many do we all how many degrees of freedom do you expect to end up with? How many equ how many equations do you need? How many coordinates? I one, right? So how do we articulate the other constraint? So, it can't move radially. We figured that out. So, this is this is actually kind of an important point in this problem because if you get this down then the problem becomes very simple. So talk to a neighbor. What's how would you describe the other constraints here? I'm going to give you wait give you hold it a second. Pardon? Well, there is gravity. Yes, but gravity is not a constraint. So this is a pendulum actually of sorts, but describing. So talk to a neighbor and what how would you describe the other constraint? Okay. How would you describe it? What's the other what's the other constraint here? So sometimes if you have sometimes if something's pinned, we say, well then it's fixed in X and Y and that's two constraints. It's only left to rotate. But this one doesn't seem to it's kind of hard to understand where this one's pinned. You know this thing is constrained in X and Y because you want to use theta for the coordinate, right? But how do you say that it's constrained in that other thing? Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, he's saying that you can define X and Y in terms of R and theta. And that's that's true. And I'm going to say it slightly differently. So, the way I think about this problem is we've said that it's constrained in the radial direction. So, that's one. It can move in the tangential direction, right? This problem is really exactly the same as a skateboard problem in a bowl. Okay, it just you you shorten that thing a little bit and looks like a skateboard. And we're ignoring the inertia of the wheel. So it's just a stick sliding up and down. So what's the relationship between the tangential motion and theta? Is is it a fixed relationship? So how far does it move in the theta in a if you have a little motion delta theta? How far does it move tangentially? R delta theta, right? Is the uh you know the delta r tangential the distance it's moves. So this this is a way to say the other constraint is is if you know the theta you know how far it's moved in the radial in the tangential direction. So that's a way of saying that other constraint. Okay. Then we can say we completely describe this problem by one one coordinate and that's theta. And the second you can do that this problem then has a center of rotation right right in the center of the circle. And anytime you have a body which rotates around a central point then you know that you can describe the angular momentum of the body as some I with respect to a times and it's planer motion. So then it's just omega z right as long as this is a principle long as you're use just you have the mass moments of inertia in terms of principal axes here and it's nice when you can write it that simply right as soon the second you can identify a fixed point about which something rotates then the angular momentum simplifies to that Okay. And then this problem, of course, the sum of the torqus with respect to the center here, that's got to be d h with respect to a dt plus vao cross. But this is what's the velocity at point a zero. So that you don't have to worry about this term and it is it's just that and you know that the uh the sum of the external torqus in this problem comes from gravity. So you put in the gravity term and compute the torqus about the center. Uh so our object really looks like that. And here's G. And in the problem the way it was posed the theta is drawn from this line. So this is theta. So what's the moment arm? Looks like whatever this distance is which is r / 2. It's given r / 2 cossine theta is the length of this side. So the moment that gravity makes is some mg and that's going to be equal to some i zz about a theta dot. Okay, good. Let's uh take a look at the next problem. And now, so my intention here, I'm going to go kind of quickly one by another and I'm just trying to hit the important concepts. So if you have a question about the concepts, ask. You know, if I've left you wondering this is I'm really want this to be kind of a conversation here. So that's the whole point of giving you the essence of what these pro what makes these problems work. Okay, this one uh we just find a location of the center of mass. You're I think you're pretty good at that sort of thing with respect. Well, remember there's a couple points about center of mass. This one it says find it and you're given the two objects. Important point is that you can pick any coordinate at all with in order to use it to compute the center of mass. So I pick S here, the M1 and some distance down here is where the center of mass is that we're looking for. And so this is the G we're looking for. So M1 plus M2 is the total mass times the position of G of G. I guess it ought to be a capital SG here. Must be equal to the sum of the parts times their positions. m1 sg1 plus m2 sg2 and you can solve for sg and that tells you where you're at. So you can pick any coordinate at all to calculate it and once you find it, you know where it is. Okay, so you just solve here for SG. It's that divided by the total mass obviously. Okay. The um the next question was draw principal axes. So is this does this object have a does have some planes of symmetry? Tell me one slice down through it this way. Okay. And that means you have a principal axis where perpendicular to every plane of symmetry. So you have a principal axis coming out of the board. That's one. And do you have any give me another plane of symmetry? Yep. This one. So that means you got a plane of axis principal axis going that way. And so then the third one has to be perpendicular to that. So you have one this way, this way and this way. Okay. So it asked for so if this is G then principal axes with respect to G one there one coming out of the board and one going up like that. So what is it? Let's remind oursel what it means for to be a principal axis. So if you have if you know the principal axes of an object, if you rotate a and you've chosen them that go through G, do they have to go through G? Do all principal axes have to go through G? No, not at all. The principal axes just have to give you when you work it out a diagonal inertia matrix, right? So, but what does it mean for to have be have body coordinates that we know are principal axes? Well, one of the things we know that if you rotate about G, rotate about a principal axis passing through G, if you rotate about any one of them, is it dynamically balanced? guaranteed. It must rotate about the principal axis though. If you Now I'll ask you a second question. If you rotate about any axis passing through G, is it statically balanced? Right? If you rotate about any axis passing through G, is it dynamically balanced? Maybe. Right? Not necessarily. It might be dynamically balanced. If you pass through G and it is a principal axis, right? Okay. Can you pass through a principle? Can you have a principal axis not going through G and rotate about that axis and have it be dynamically balanced? Yeah. Okay. So, we'll we'll we'll talk about an example in a second. Okay. So I think there the second question here said okay we want to rotate this about this point G2 now G2 is right in the middle of this this body that's where its center of mass and there's a G1 up here that's the center of mass of the upper body and there's a composite center of mass right here which we just computed what it was and that we want which there's going to be an axis passed through axis of rotation passing through G2 and we're rotating this body around it. So first question is this axis coming through G2 is it a principal axis? Yes. If uh we rotate about that axis only do you expect it to be dynamically balanced? Right. Do you expect it to be statically balanced? No. And let's uh So, we're spinning it around this this J2. It's going like that around G2 at some omega Z. We know that this is G2. We know that G for the object is here. That's the center of mass of the whole thing. So there's some distance between those two, which I don't know, but we can figure it out. We'll call it E. So what's the force required at this pin that it's axle is going around? What's the force required to allow this thing to spin around to hold it essentially the force required to hold it in place? And you intuitively have an idea of what it is. Why is there a force to this thing to spin around this central axle? There's a force required to keep that thing from moving away. What is it? I hear centrifugal. Okay. So, you're accelerating the center of mass of that thing. You're making it go in a circle. Mass times acceleration is a force. And you know, that's the tension in the string when you're swinging the ball around. This is no different from swinging the ball on a string. And you're essentially calculating the tension required to keep that thing from going flying off. And we could probably just guess, we can almost guess what it is, you know, minus the total mass times the acceleration, which is inward. That's where the minus comes from. And what is it? Louder. Omega squ. I hear an omega z squ. We need something else. Pardon? Yeah, the R and the R is this little E here. It's called the eccentricity when you have something unbalanced. E omega squar and it's in the R hat direction, we'll call it inwards and the inwards is the minus. So that's the acceleration mass times acceleration is the force. This is also you could compute this by computing d by dt of p of g with respect to o. And you if you that's then m1 plus m_sub_2 * v of g and you have to take the d by dt of it you and that gives you that which is the acceleration. So the forces you get directly from computing dpdt if you need to remember a way to do that. All right. So, conceptually, I'm going to if I don't know what E is, I don't want to have to figure it out. Can I? So, I'm going to describe to you a way in which you could get directly at this answer, which reminds us something about uh angular momentum and these bodies. This object is made up of two objects and we're spinning at about the center of one of them. So let's take them one at a time. How much force is required to keep this spinning about that axle that goes right through its ma center of mass? None. Why? Right? Because there's no r omega squar. There's no acceleration. You're not making the center of mass of this object go in a circle. So this piece of the doesn't enter into the solution. the actual force, the mass, this mass here, is it m2 in the problem? M2 doesn't actually have anything to do with the answer because it's perfectly statically balanced around that point. All of this force making a thing go in a circle is making this piece go in the circle. So, in fact, this force up here is minus m1. And now we need the distance from the axis of rotation to its center of mass. Call that some R. We need to know what that R is. And I think that's basically this was L over two and this was B. So plus B over two. So the distance from this rotation point to that center of mass L /2 + V /2 omega Z^ 2 mass. This is acceleration and it's inwards and that's the total force. Okay. All right. Let's look at the next problem. Jenti, can you pull up the next one? Okay, this problem, this problem and the next are rather similar. This is the elevator problem with a pendulum in the elevator. There's a couple subtleties here. the elevator it's you're told that it's moving upwards at some particular rate of acceleration some y dot that's given. So how many degrees of freedom does this problem have? Yeah. Okay. Two or one? I hear one. I see a two. How many coordinates is it going to take to completely describe the motion? Or how many equations of motion do you think you're going to need? I see ones and two. So there's little not little two. Okay. If we know the acceleration of the thing and we you know start with some initial conditions at time zero, it's sitting on the ground at y equals z and now it takes off from the first floor. We know for all time its position. So that's actually that's actually a given. It's a specified thing and we don't have to write a separate equation of motion for that to that we then will have to solve. Right? So it's actually it's a given. So the actual only dynamic equation of motion we have to write is about the pendulum. Now will it involve y dot? Absolutely. But it's a given number. It's just a number you're given. You don't have to write a separate equation of motion. So this is actually you got just one degree of freedom. Yeah. Okay. So you want to put up put up the next problem? That one. So this problem has how many degrees of freedom? This is definitely two because you don't know is the motion in up and down the of the mass in the slider with a spring on it is unknown. you're gonna have to write an equation of motion that which would have to be solved to get it. So just so a distinction a subtlety that can trip you up when you're spec when the motion is actually specified and you know what it is for all time. You don't need an separate equation for that. So this problem requires two the behavior of the pendulum part is essentially the same in in both when you write the equation. Well, let's talk about how will we go about solving this problem. We need two equations, two coordinates. What would you pick for your coordinates? Theta and then a coordinate. This one I guess it's called y. So y for the square block sliding up and down and a theta for the pendulum. Right? Two equations of motion. And to get the y equation of motion, you would use we're not using lrange here. We're going to do a little review of direct method. What how would you write the equation of motion using up there I kind of wrote the that's the key to everything that we do with the direct method. Some of the forces, some of the torqus. Every rigid body has at max how many degrees of freedom? Six. For rigid body completer motion, this reduces three. But every rigid body in in 3D space has six degrees of freedom. Three positions, three rotations. So you write sum of the forces on the body. That is equal to the mass times acceleration. That gives you three equations, one in each vector component direction. You write the sum of the torqus. That's also a vector equation. You can get as many as three equations out of it if you need it. Then we keep reducing down how many equations we need to get by figuring out the constraints until we get down to the number of actual degrees of freedom. And that's that's the remaining equations, the number of equations you actually need. So this one is requires two. And if you're going to write an equation of motion about the main that mass that slides up and down, what law would you use? Yeah, sum of the forces equal to the mass times the acceleration. Then we need to get another equation. What's the what law would you use for the second one? Torque about where? Torque about a. Okay, so let's look at that. So that's the second equation up there. torque about A is the time derivative of the angular momentum with respect to A plus that VA cross momentum term which gets to be which is a little annoying to work out. So the simpler version is the third equation. It's a pretty quick derivation to go from that second equation to the third. And it it uh it's much less work generally to get that mass times acceleration term. A lot less work actually. And if I've got time, I'll work out I'll go back and we'll work out a problem like this and we'll we'll do that part. But let's go on to the other questions. Okay, this problem. Two rigid bodies. Is it planer motion? Right. How many possible degrees of freedom for each rigid body times two? Six. Now, how many constraints? So, let's take them one rigid body at a time. The big roller. Pardon? No. No, she says. Okay, that's one constraint in it. Two left. Two possible things left. No slip. Ah, so I think this one's no slip. So how is what how does no slip then give you a constraint? So x= r omega right? So r there's an r x= r theta or minus r theta depending on how you define the theta right so there x is not independent of theta and that's a second constraint. So you only need one equation, one generalized coordinate to describe the motion of the wheel. And what would you use? Okay, theta. You could use theta or you could use x. All right. And now the other object, how many constraints does it have? What are they? What are the constraints on the t bar? Can I translate y? Okay, he says that's true. Let me give you a little hint about how how I process this when I'm looking at it. Remember when you're trying to when you're picking generalized coordinates, they need to be independent, right? And independent means if you freeze all but one, that last one can still move. Okay, so we've picked one. You said theta or x. Let's freeze it. What motion is left of that T- bar? It can only it can only rotate, right? And that means it has a pin that point about which it rotates which you have just fixed. So it's constrained that pin constrains it in how many directions? Two. Right off the bat, you have the two constraints right at the pin. But it's not so obvious until you say, let's freeze that other coordinates. And then we see that ah there's only one possible motion left the rotation. Okay. So we have a rotation and a translation or two rotations. That's the way we could write equations of motion. Uh if we did translation of the main disc, what what equation would you use to write the equation of motion for the main disc? Force. Yeah. Newton second law. Right. Sum of the forces in what direction? can only move in horizontal. Yep. So, sum of the forces in the x direction, sum of external forces in the x direction equals mass times acceleration. Now, this though has some problematic external forces, right? Come from what are they? The difficult ones. Well, friction. There's a friction force and and there's also the internal forces at the pin, right? So you got you have to sort out figure how to work your way through that. So you don't want to mess with the external forces at the pin. You have to do some you got to sum rotations at the Yeah. So this this problem is no escaping something messy. So I would say so let's say we're going to do hor the one equation will be the sum of the forces on that main roller in the horizontal direction and that's going to force us to deal with a friction force and an internal uh two reaction forces at the pin. Well, you just write them down. then go and write the uh same expression but sum of the forces on the other object and it'll also show up with those two internal forces. You add those two equations together, those forces cancel. Okay? And that gives you the first equation and it'll involve acceleration of both masses and you'll have to figure out the acceleration of that second mass around its own. But you know how to do that. That's just kinematics. And then you got to do the torque equation. And you'd probably do it about A. And this does this involve what about the velocity of A in this problem? Is it zero? No. And so you may have to deal with that second term. And again, I would go use the third expression because you you need to find the accelerations anyway. And I would use that. Yeah. about some of the talks about then D is the point of contact. Yeah. And you would get at mainly the that would give you a way of getting at I think an equation of motion mostly describes the big roller. I I don't know. I've never in terms of the other one. I'm not something that then talking about the second rigid body I don't think I would do it get it gets a little complicated but it's interesting it might be worth a try okay I'd probably do it about a is the point I would choose and deal with the fact that you need to know the acceleration of a but in this problem that's that's is pretty straightforward what's the acceleration of point A in terms and let's say our horizontal coordinate is is x what's the acceleration of point Okay, next double dot in the I direction. Pretty easy to stick that in this third expression up here. And you know RG with respect to A is just the half is just the length of the the distance down to the center of mass of that T. So that term is pretty easy to figure out. And then lead term is just everything with respect to G. And that's pretty straightforward. Okay, good. Uh how are we doing on time? Not a lot left. And is that the last problem? Yeah. We don't need to worry about uh if it was slipping. Yeah. Is friction ultimately will friction ultimately end up in this in the answer to this one? No. Well, in speaking in lrangee terms, does it do any work? Well, no, but I know, but you know about it now, right? Constraints that do no work if usually don't end up in the in the final answer. Um I don't have a simple way of just explaining why it doesn't but if in the first case instead of doing sum of mats the Newton's law on the first one we had done torqus about d it would have given us an equation of motion for the roller and then you could have done torqus about a a different equation and would have got equation motion largely dealing with P you still have some internal forces and torques that you're going to have to eliminate. So this is not not a simple it's not a simple problem but straightforward if you know what laws to apply. So some of the forces some of the torqus and be careful with the extra term th this if this object were just given an initial deflection you like that tea bar has picked up and let it go and it sits there and it's just done its thing. What can you say about the center of mass of the system? Well, doesn't not it not that it doesn't necessarily move, but it doesn't Well, what if in Well, let's put it this way. What if I gave this thing a push to start with and now it's going to roll along? Huh? Okay. the the center if that in that case you're saying that the center of mass moves with constant velocity and Newton would agree with you why because once it gets rolling is there any friction force so you got to draw the free radioraph gra and decide whether or not there are any forces on the system if there are no external forces on the system Newton says no acceleration no change in momentum them. So once you get it rolling, there's actually no friction force because it isn't trying to either speed up or slow down the rolling. So it goes actually to zero. Is there slip? No, it still isn't slipping, but it just happily rolling along. There are no external forces acting on it. Means the mass times the acceleration of the center of mass of the system is zero. So the center of mass does not accelerate. It means it has constant velocity. Now, if I contrive to have the initial velocity of the center of mass be zero and just cause that thing to swing back and forth, what would you see the center of mass do? Has no net has no linear momentum. And linear momentum of the system is zero. So, it's the center of mass sits still doesn't its velocity now is zero. There's still no acceleration. It just this t bar is rocking back and forth, right? So what must the roller be doing? So the roller has to move to the left when the T bar is going to the right. And so the two things are going like this. And the center mass wherever it is is just sitting still. Okay. All right. Is there a last problem? This is a pretty this is this forces you to go back to the fundamental definition of you know angular momentum. you know it's uh r cross this little summation of each r i cross pi and add them up and you get the angular momentum with respect to the rotational point uh one degree of freedom has a center of mass where is the center of mass of the system can you describe it right somewhere in between the two masses right the two point masses center mass has to be someplace in between so once you figure out where that is then you can concentrate all the mass there and and go from there. Does this have mass moment of inertia? Does can you write is the equation of motion? Is this a pendulum? Can you write I about a theta dot equals minus mg something sin theta. there if you this is a pendulum you restoring torque on it comes from gravity and you and you have to be you'll end up with an expression that looks like some I with respect to the point of rotation so basically you just need to figure out what is I with respect to A and it is they're particles so is each particle has an I with respect to its center of mass it's equal to for a particle concentrated ated point mass. Yeah, but there's no R. So I about AI for a particle about its center of mass is zero is the Okay, so this only has parallel axis theorem components. It has M1 * this distance squared from the center plus M2 * this distance isn't squared from the center and that's the total ICZ. So then you can write it out. Okay, so um I think we're run out of time.