The following content is provided under a Creative Common license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Uh today we're going to dive into cost, price, markets, and support mechanisms. The support mechanisms, otherwise known as subsidies, right? Um so uh this is lecture 18. We're approaching the end of our course. Actually, we have about we have a handful of lectures left and then we um and then we uh go our separate ways. the um this particular lecture will be followed up not this Thursday but the following Thursday. Uh we'll have a guest speaker come in and talk about a cost model that he's developed for PV uh into very high level of detail. So it'll be a lot of fun. Uh and you'll be able to use that cost model to model your own uh PV uh devices, apparatus, and so forth. Um next Tuesday, a week from today, we'll be touring a PV facility. It'll be here on campus to make it easy for everybody. We'll go over to the student center and tour the PB system up on the roof there as well as the balance of system components. So, be able to have a a close-up uh look at at how that works. Um, but today cost, price, markets, and subsidies. We want to talk about those uh items because at the end of the day, PV is a product that is competing against bulk electricity, right? And if we can't compete against the bulk electricity, then uh we're our on-grid applications are going to be rather limited. uh so we want to understand uh how all this works and fits together. Uh so I'll be providing you several snapshots and several pieces of the puzzle uh with a lot of discussion back and forth over the course of today's lecture. So uh first off let's dive into PV cost and price. Um what is the difference between cost and price? They're used interchangeably in in colloquial language but there's a big difference. Jessica, cost might be what it cost to manufacture and price is what it's sold at for the Absolutely. So cost is what it actually costs to make to manufacture and price is what people are willing to pay for it, what the market is uh demanding, right? So sometimes price can be above cost. That's you're hopefully in that situation most of the time. And sometimes price can actually be below cost. What is an example of when price could be below cost? The Amazon Kindle. the Amazon Kindle. Why would why would it be doing that? Uh because they want to get people to adopt the device and then make money on subscriptions to books or a loss leader, right? Something like uh for example, if you buy your razor uh handle and that's really cheap, but then they they gouge you on blades. or uh uh other examples if they include the the cheap items in the front of a store. You walk inside the store and then you're you're bared by all the more expensive ones right inside. So loss leading can be one example of price below cost and other other examples. What if I start making a gizmo and I pocket an enormous profit and all of you start watching me make that gizmo and say, "Hey, I I can do that. It's pretty simple. It's not it doesn't take a rocket scientist to to manufacture that gizmo. I can do it too. And everybody starts manufacturing gizmos. Um pretty soon we overwhelm the demand at least at that given price point and the price is depressed as we enter a price war, right? We enter what is called an over supply condition. That's another example where price can fall below cost. And another reason why price can fall below cost is simply uh the price or the market you're trying to address simply won't buy your product at that cost. And that's the case with substitution economics. If we're competing against fossil fuel-based electricity, let's say, and we want to compete against that, we might uh we might not be able to manufacture solar panels cheap enough to address certain markets. For example, Wyoming, which has 5 cents per kilowatt hour electricity uh due to cheap cheap uh fossil fuel. Um the southeast of the United States as well, where the TVA, the Tennessee Valley Authority, has very low priced nuclear and coal power. Uh so these are examples of where price might be be below cost. We're going to get more into that over the course of today's lecture. Uh because there are some very interesting geopolitical uh debates occurring right now. Uh oftentimes the two sides are very staunch in their positions and there isn't much nuance. There isn't much shade of gray. There is there aren't many rational arguments presented and instead we're going to be diving into some of that uh discussing the nuance over today's lecture. Let's dive into cost. Uh first off, this is a paper that I've presented already in in class. I've also steered some of the project groups toward it. Um this is uh a proceeding back in Whoa, this wasn't 2009. My apologies. This is 2003. Um this was the uh presented at the third world conference of uh photovoltaic energy conversion by Tom Surk. Uh presenting a very simple uh uh cost model, if you will, for PV. Uh more specifically, the impact of efficiency on cost. And by no means was this the first time that something like this had ever been presented, but it was a nice uh summary of of the work to date. Um highlighting several uh would say key lever cost levers. Um efficiency, that's the solar conversion efficiency. Processing costs, that's the materials and and processing costs for the uh u for the module in dollars per meter squared. the manufacturing yield. That means uh out of say a hundred cells that enter your manufacturing line, how many make it through to the other side without breaking? Um and and and or being discarded uh due to due to manufacturing defects. Uh capital equipment cost uh that's depreciated over several years, meaning you buy equipment up front, but then uh due to financial gimmicks, you're allowed to um uh allow that cost to hit your books over an extended period of time, not all at once up front. Um overhead and so forth. overhead being the uh health insurance if it is paid to the workers. Um and and uh of course uh R&D and and um the CEO salary and so forth could be lumped in the uh so this is a very simple way of of of estimating cost. It's it's u a linear equation a direct uh uh relationship. What is I would say the economics uh a more sophisticated way of looking at cost uh other than just saying it's the dollars per watt peak um you would look at it in terms of cents per kilowatt hour right you would look at it in terms of how much do you pay for your electricity coming out of the wall or in this case out of the panels what would factor in to what is called the levelized cost of electricity when you're actually calculating cents per kilowatt hour how would you convert dollars per watt peak. Okay, I know how many dollars it took to manufacture this. I can also uh what would say depreciate my equipment costs over several years to manufacture this. Um, how would I go from dollars per watt peak into cents per kilowatt hour? We all agree that cents per kilowatt hour is the metric of importance, right? That's what we pay on our electricity bills, or at least some of us do. Um, so when we pay our electricity bills, we're paying in cents per kilowatt hour from the grid. And when we manufacture our solar panels, we pay in dollars per watt peak. Let's start simple. Why is dollars per watt peak at all useful? It's so far removed from cents per kilowatt hour that it it almost seems like an artificial metric. Why why again do we use dollars per watt peak? Jesse, because most um coal based or most fossil fuel based electricity is based on a capacity factor which is just kilowatt um bas which is measured in kilowatt. That's that's a good way of looking at it. Um and then the capacity factor of solar would be based on what? on it capacity on on the solar resource locally, right? Um and and that might vary from location to location. Yeah. Okay. So, what dollars per watt peak allows you to do is given a rated name plate capacity, you can calculate based on the solar resource locally, how much energy will be produced over a certain period of time, right? And then from that, you can calculate your cents per kilowatt hour, right? because now we're converting from power uh or rated name plate power into energy which we can use and uh which has economic value. So there there there is a rationale then for uh giving uh name plate capacity in terms of watt peak in other words rating a factory in terms of megawws per year or gigawatts per year produced. Uh that means that each module that goes under the cell tester is rated and there's an estimate uh based on the cumulative module production what the total watt peak output of that factory was. And then depending on where those modules go in the world they might produce different amounts of energy. Uh if you take those same modules install them in Alaska or Arizona you're going to get widely varying energy outputs. Okay. So then how do we transition? We we we have the dollars per watt peak. We have to know the local solar insulation that would allow us to calculate what the cents per kilowatt hour would be assuming a certain cost of capital. We have to buy those panels up front, right? You have to buy from me a huge number of panels which are going to last for 20 25 years. I'll guarantee it. But you have to front that money up front. Which means that you need to loan or lend that money from a bank from a bank or from a financial institution. Uh and then you'll be paying a certain amount of interest every year. And it's the spread. It's the difference between the interest payments and the money saved that's going to turn your profit. And that's what's called the rate of return of your investment. Uh and there's also a payback period or a monetary payback period over which uh you're not going to be making money on on average, but uh after the payback period is finished, then your solar uh array will be a money press. It'll be printing money. And so over the entire lifetime of the investment, you can calculate an average rate of return. Okay? So um given that uh setup um we're going to be talking about some incentive mechanisms and um uh and and today really really simple cost model uh more on Thursday uh when we get back to uh back back to this how we calculate uh cost um in a more sophisticated manner. I I want to introduce this concept very simply at first just because there are some parameters here in the sensitivity analysis that overwhelm all the others and they can be very simply seen in an equation like that right up there and one of them is efficiency. The processing costs also matter quite a bit. Okay. Um inside of processing costs um you also have labor and commodity materials right and those can vary significantly from region to region. So um there there are a number of uh uh assessments out there. I'm I'm going to be uh leading us into the the current big debate which has exploded in Washington DC. Uh the case of Celindra and then Solar World filing uh the um uh would say the the um complaint with the US commerce uh department. Um, I'll be I'll be easing us into this whole question of US and and and uh and and foreign manufacturing, using that more as a hook to get us interested in the overall topics of the day. Um, and then toward the end, hopefully you'll be able to see with more shades of gray uh what exactly is going on and perhaps formulate opinions of your own. So, where where is PV cost actually at? Where where do the current cost numbers currently stand? Um, it is extremely difficult to get at true cost. Price, price is easy, right? You go out there, probe the market, see what people are willing to sell panels at, maybe send a few emails to a few companies saying, "Hey, I want to installund hundred of your panels, how much you're willing to sell them to me." Um, this is what people do. They probe the market, they test it. So price is fairly easy to gauge, but manufacturing cost. If I go up to you and say, "Hey, can you tell me how much it costs to manufacture panels in your factory? Would you be willing to give me that information?" They'd probably say, "No." um probably seeing no definitely to me as a professor. Maybe you as students they might they might show you a little bit more of how it actually works under the hood since many people believe in the educational mission. But by and large people are fairly secretive about this because they realize that their stock price is heavily dependent on market perception. And if I go out there and write an article and say, "Hey, uh your company uh produces panels at twice the cost of yours, uh investors are going to flee your company, especially if it comes out of a university like MIT." And so there's a there are big repercussions associated with divulgation of of cost numbers and that's why it's very hard to get to the bottom of it. What you find most often are aggregators. These are consultancies that work with several companies. Um they may be for example um Photon Consulting across the river uh in in Boston. It might be Green Techch Media uh consulting branch which is located here in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Um there are many consulting companies and several of them based here in uh the Boston area. uh and these consultant companies work with several PV manufacturers and over time begin aggregating data and presenting market trends, generalized market trends, right? Few of them single out specific companies, but most of them just aggregate the data and present general trends. Uh I've presented to you this uh a few articles as of late. Um these are relatively recent um within the last three to four years. And because there has been so much change over the last 3 to four years within the PV market, even an article three years ago is highly outdated, right? So you'll want information that's within the last year if you're going to be using uh cost and price information for your projects, even within the last few months. And if any of you have any doubts in that regard, you can come talk to me. So the fully loaded uh module manufacturing cost uh is is shown here. uh an estimate again an aggregation based on um access to multiple companies data polyilicon this of course being crystal and silicon technology which accounts for about 90 85% of the current market poly silicon in blue depreciation in red what's depreciation is that the discounting of the capital that we we just talked about exactly exactly so what that means is I I borrow a lot of money to manufacture these panels uh to to buy the equipment to buy the factory and set everything up. Um and then I have to pay interest on my loans, right? So and and and I have to pay interest on uh the loans and I I what I do is I I start writing off the equipment as a loss uh to the company. So uh that equipment is going to be useful over a certain period of time and then we can assume that it's outdated and that I'll need to buy the next generation of manufacturing equipment. uh so I can begin writing off the value of that equipment over a certain schedule over a certain period of years five seven depending on the company depending on the way they're um I don't want to say cooking their books but the way they're uh manipulating the numbers in the accounting sector so um the depreciation varies um and it varies because the interest rate at which you acquire the loan and the interest rate or the the the inflation rate of the uh of the particular ular currency in question is different in different regions, right? So when you're calculating depreciation, both of those things matter and that's why those numbers can vary from place to place. Uh materials, materials cost these are the materials used to manufacture the module, typically called commodity materials. You would look at them as the extruded aluminum components, the glass in the front side, um the encapsulate materials and so forth. All the fancy stuff that we saw when we visited Foundhoffer last week. Um let's see what else we have. Labor. Okay, that's pretty straightforward to see. Um, if we're manufacturing in China, we were looking at a labor rate uh could be could be as low base labor without adding um housing and so forth. The base labor rate could be as low as $275 an hour in US dollars. Um, and uh in US dollars in the United States, we could be looking at labor rates of somewhere in the range of $16 an hour, right? Um before you start adding in uh social security and benefits and so forth. And um there might there may be different levels of automation in the two different places which shifts costs from labor into uh capital equipment, right? So if you realize that you have a much higher labor cost, uh you might want to buy more robots to do the manufacturing. Uh and vice versa, if you're in China and you realize, oh my goodness, our labor rates are increasing uh almost exponentially, definitely super linearly with time as as as the country takes off and and there's inflation uh labor wage inflation. Um, a company that is trying to project forward five or seven years might say, "Well, goodness, it doesn't make sense for me to flood my manufacturing line with people right now because that manufacturing line still has to make a profit in five years. And so, I'm going to buy more robots now. Even though I might not need it today, I might need it in five years." And so, there's a bit of risk calculation that gets thrown into this as well, right? Um, utilities and overhead. Okay, that's pretty straightforward. If we're looking at utilities, that means electricity mostly to run uh the lines. uh it could also be uh water which is is used in the manufacturing process. Okay. Um note the caveats in several of these studies especially the the one out of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory um manufacturing cost you can you can do a number of things with that. You can assume that you're buying your polysilicon. You're buying the polysilicon manufacturing cells modules and and systems. Or you can assume that you're buying the cells and the cells are commodity products equal in in price throughout the world and that you're just manufacturing the modules. Right? So you can cut cost in many different ways depending on what assumptions you make. The price of the cell on the international market may be very different than the cost to manufacture that cell in your particular country. And and cost is almost one of those things that you can torture until it tells you the story you want it to tell, right? It's it's one of those things where if if you did these numbers a little bit differently and said, "Okay, we're buying cells um and and just making modules and then adding shipment fees, let's say transport fees from China to the United States, China and US might look almost equal." Whereas if you integrate over the entire supply chain and say okay I'm going to be manufacturing my polysilicon then my wafers then my cells and finally the modules um then you might start seeing some disparity based on these other parameters shown here. Point being um be careful when you see a cost assessment probe their base assumptions and try to understand what their biases and motivations were for presenting uh that particular comparison. um especially nowadays where you have more and more parties with vested interests in presenting one story or another. We'll get to that in a few slides. All right, experience learning curve. Okay, then we're getting into price. Uh we're venturing beyond cost and into the regime of price which is definitely more easily measurable and that's why we have some fairly good data going back um several decades. And uh you can see here uh this is cumulative sales in gigawatt peak. That means the cumulative number of widgets in this case watt peaks produced uh by solar industries worldwide. And this is the global average um module selling price not the system the module right so not the balance of system installation labor and so forth but just the manufacturing of the module. And what we can see here is a general trend over time with a decreasing price. That's good. Sorry. Decreasing price with time. That's that's excellent. Um what is that called? This this uh this curve here plotted in a log log scale where you have a line uh through the cumulative manufacturing production versus versus versus price. What what is that curve called? Experience learning. It's an experience learning curve. And you'll get something similar for any high-tech product. Computers, toasters, as long as the product isn't changing significantly with time. And even sometimes if they are uh as it's the case with a solar panel, solar panels back in the 1960s or 1970s rather look very different than the solar panels today in terms of the materials and the processes used. And yet it all falls along this very interesting experience learning curve. So it's extremely tempting to say oh well what what price do we need to reach to be cost competitive or or competitive let's say with bulk electricity? We need to reach a price of say 50 cents per watt peak. Oh easy. We'll just project forward and we'll see how much cumulative production is needed. um and then we'll subsidize until we get to that cumulative production and and bingo, voila, it'll happen by magic. Well, the reality is that each little bump here along the learning curve was was some if you look closely, you can kind of see these little bumps here. There were many traumatic events within the industry that forced people to uh innovate uh to produce better technology. um whether it's the technology itself, something designed here in the laboratory at MIT or Harvard, or whether it's something u uh innovated on the manufacturing line where they realized, oh, this is a more efficient way of manufacturing the solar panels. It's cheaper. Um this little bump right here, boom. This represents a period in which prices actually went back up year in and year out. What could cause prices to go up? What are what are some of the motivations for that? I mean, scale is increasing. The market's growing. It's not shrinking at all. It's not like the points went back here as they went up. Um, so the market continued to grow. The manufacturing capacity continued to grow, but the price went back up. What what could have caused that? Supply. Demand outpaces supply. Exactly. So, uh, in this specific case, what happened was the polysilicon feed stock, which is the input material into this entire process, was in short supply. uh takes about well in those days it took about 24 to 36 months to get a new plant online long lead time billions of dollars of investment and so the polysilicon suppliers didn't really want to invest unless they knew photovoltaics was for real right and the PV industry had exhausted the uh the elasticity of the supply market in the uh in the polysilicon business and polyilicon suppliers looked at the situation and say well let's let prices go up a little bit it can't hurt us too bad I mean let's let's we we've been we've been starved for several years because of low polysilic feed stock prices. Let's let this um increased demand kind of push prices up a little bit before we really decide what to do. And by the time they decided what to do, um there was a lot of them getting on the market all at once, which had this effect. Boom. Now, um it's not only the polysilicon, but also the uh cell manufacturers, the wafer manufacturers that expanded their capacity during this time between 2007 and 2010. Now, today's today's most recent price point, as I saw it on uh on on one of our our more trusted websites, put us down at around uh A13, $15 per watt peak. So, we're down here. We're well below the historical average trend. We're in an over supply condition right now. Why did the overupp come about? Well, partly because of this uh under supply condition, many people saw an opportunity and said, "Well, we can address that demand. We can grow in this this industry right here." To grow in the industry, you need capital, right? You need uh access to finances to expand. What happened in 2008 in western countries and 2008 was more or less when it really uh the hit the fan if you will um in in in uh United States in particular. What what what happened in the capital markets capital was severely restricted because we're not providing a lot of loans. Exactly. We had the financial crisis here in the US. And so in the United States, there was a a pull back um of lending. Uh the government stepped in shortly thereafter realizing that this was going to be an issue. There was the ARRA. Does anybody know what that is? It's not the American Association of Retired People. This is very different. A AR is the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, right? This was the stimulus act. And this act um actually did inject a lot of money into or a lot of capital into renewable energy projects that began hitting in sometime between 2009, let's say the beginning uh until 2011. And um so in in this period right over here, anybody hear of the word Celindra? Yeah, you've heard about it, right? Um Celindra was one of the companies that received funding under the ARRA, right? or ARA uh under the stimulus act. Um so a lot of interesting things were happening during this brief little period right here. During uh the mid 2000s uh China was getting a lot of bad rap um by environmental groups um and the United States as well for its growing greenhouse gas emissions. there was um a growing concern over greenhouse gases uh culminating in the Copenhagen uh discussions that uh cu uh countries especially developing countries had to do more uh to reduce their greenhouse gas production and uh this of course invited a wonderful uh tugof war between uh developing countries block the the most progressive of the developing countries let's say um normally described as bicko um so Brazil, Russia, India, China and other uh including South Africa um and uh the developed countries and and you can see perspectives uh from both and it's it's wonderful. Uh the uh sophistication of that debate in terms of polyai arguments was just was beautiful to watch. Um on one hand you had the developing countries that said well wait a second you folks in the developed world you used a lot of fossil fuels and the majority of of of the CO2 emissions that have occurred to date were from developing or developed countries today. Um, so it's a bit unfair that you're asking us to reduce our CO2 intensity. Um, because that might hamper our own development. Um, why don't you pay reparations, right, for the the CO2 that you've already emitted and help us decrease our CO2 intensity? And so there's these these beautiful arguments being constructed on both sides of the debate. Um, what China decided to do, so in the international spectrum, not much happened. Um and that's fairly um sadly it's fairly typical of of of of today's um would say the larger the body happens to be whether it's uh the federal government or the world um u institutions it seems that things happen at a much slower pace the larger uh the the entity is but at a smaller entity right for example a state level which we'll see in a few slides in the United States a lot's happening right now um and within China's central government a lot happened in response to some of that criticism they said There's a point um more a point that uh fossil fuel emissions really decreases our quality of life. If you look at some of the pollution in our cities, that's not very becoming um you know, we we can do better. Um and furthermore, we can create jobs for the people who are flooding our cities from the countryside looking for economic opportunity. We can create new jobs in this industry. um and we'll do it by uh making capital available uh to this new nassent industry at a time when it's very difficult to achieve capital or acquire capital in the west in Europe and the United States. And so that began happening really in the in the mid uh 2000s. And um what we'll see in a few slides is the massive growth of the Chinese manufacturing market in response to this uh the availability of capital in those countries. Let me um go back to a slide that I presented. I think it was lecture number one uh where we looked at the cumulative production of PV as a function of year. And if we plot this on a log linear plot, we can read the growth rate uh off of the slope of that curve. Right? So this uh was somewhere around 10% uh 40% maybe upwards to 60% if you uh depending on on on how what what data points you include in those lines. Interestingly back in 1990 if we look at the uh distribution of different technologies multi- crystallin silicon was a third single crystal and silicon about a third and thin film technology namely pushed by amorphous silicon was about a third of all manufacturing production in um as a market evolved. Sorry about this. Um there we go. So again the different technologies just to situate ourselves uh single crystal multi crystallin and thin films as a market evolved uh going into the 2000s we saw this type of breakdown u occur right we have silicon or crystal and silicon comprising around 85 to 90% of the market and thin films um not growing as fast as crystal and silicon it was still growing the market overall is is is going gang busters but crystal and silicon technology was growing faster than the others And in part this was due to the fact that crystal and silicon technology was you know a bit cheaper uh than than than films at the time largely driven by the efficiency parameter that we had just seen in the previous slides and turnkey equipment was available. So if you had capital someplace in the world anywhere in the world and the labor and commodities uh were such that you could compete in the market and the um the shipping costs weren't ex extremely uh prohibitive to to get your product to the most interesting markets in the world. um you could compete because you could buy turnkey equipment. Even if you knew nothing about how to manufacture a solar cell, knew nothing about semiconductors or solid state physics, what we had discussed here in this class, you could still go out and buy a turnkey manufacturing line and get technicians to come in and teach you how to manufacture solar cells, right? That was the beauty of of these equipment companies. And so, uh the equipment companies specialized in crystal and silicon technologies. And as such, many of the turnkey lines that grew up um out of the uh out of green field uh factories in um especially in in in in China uh Taiwan and other places around the world leverage these turnkey manufacturers to a great extent. Okay, sorry about this. We'll go forward. So price, markets, and subsidies, we're going to be looking at um it's a bit of a hodgepodge in the sense that we're addressing cost, price, and manufacturing all together in one big stew. I think that's useful because the three are interrelated, right? A price is difficult to set without a cost. and the manufacturing is part of that that story and can help us tease apart what exactly is going on right now with Celindra with solar world and so forth. Okay, so let's start with customer needs just to acquaint ourselves. If we're talking about price, we can't uh divorce price from a c from our customer. And in terms of what our customer needs are, we have on-grid applications that's represented by for example a solar system on my house on the student center. These are systems that are tied to the grid and using the grid as a battery to store the the excess energy. um off-grid. This represents for example the lighting Africa project here within our our our uh our class. Uh these are folks who don't have access to an electrical grid and who uh need to have that uh electricity there. So while people on the grid are worried about cents per kilowatt hour, people off the grid might be worried about the dollars per hour of light, right? That might be their metric of of merit. So from the customer's perspective, what is their value? What do they get from the solar uh uh PV system on the roof? These parameters under here, underneath each of the pictures, represent the value parameter. And again, it's a it's a very cartoonish way of thinking about it. It's a lot more complex when you start getting into the weeds and figure out what the customer actually wants. Reliability factors in, access to the product, um, repair, uh, reliability and so forth factor in as well. There are many factors that add into value. But what I've done or what we've done here is is emphasize the biggest levers, if you will, and some of the biggest differences between different applications of PV. Um, if you're looking at uh the uh solar panels on top of the Toyota Prius, um you might not really care about the cents per kilowatt hour because you're paying $20,000 for your car. Um so what's a few extra dollars here or there, but you might care about the watts per meter squared, which is really an efficiency parameter. You might want it to satisfy a certain function that it could not do otherwise if the panel was too low efficiency. If you're sending something into outer space, again, you might not care about the manufacturing cost of the panel because the shipment costs, in other words, the putting it onto the rocket and setting up outer space is $10,000 per kilogram, right? You might be more worried about how much does it weigh? What is the specific power of the solar panels? Likewise, if you're installing them on a big box company, for example, Walmart or Kmart, and you have a big flat roof that isn't very strong, isn't well reinforced, you might care about that parameter as well, or the grams per meter squared. Um, sure that factors in somewhere. Actually, it doesn't. So, um, there are many other parameters that that could matter for a particular application. Um, dollars per meter squared per aesthetics for a building integrated system. Um, I've had architects come to me and say, "Can you make a a yellow solar panel? I'd really like a yellow solar panel." And here I am thinking of the solar spectrum and seeing the biggest the peak of the solar spectrum being reflected away from the panel into the the observer's eye and thinking, "Well, I can make it kind of dark yellowish." Okay, how much are you willing to pay? Um, and uh, you know, there there are many different parameters here that matter for the customer. Um, this one right here is a concentrator system. So you have these optics that concentrate the light into a small little spot. Um and they're looking at the watts per millimeter squared, right? A very small device. How much power does it output? Um the cost of the actual device is almost irrelevant. Um it's the power output that matters because uh the majority of the cost is sunk in and all the commodity materials around it. All right. So we're we're getting into this because we're going to focus largely on on-grid applications and I'm going to explain to you why. If you're in the Lighting Africa project, you probably care mostly about that. Um but the on-grid applications currently comprise 95% of the current market. Substitution economics. We're substituting um PV with uh or we're substituting fossil fuel based power. Um on average in the United States somewhere around 600 gram of CO2 per kilowatt hour. Um we're substituting that with PV which is on the order of factor of 5 to 20 lower. Um so what types of grid electricity will PV substitute? uh what does this mean for traditional generation companies also called genkos and what is the fair selling price for PV electricity very interesting question so in terms of markets um this is just a breakdown of off-grid consumer applications and on-grid when I first got into this somewhere around here um it was broken down about 50/50 PV on grid and off-grid today um today much further down uh off-grid applications probably below 10% % I don't know the precise numbers for you but it's it's stayed relatively flat compared to the growth rate of the on-grid. Um and the reasons for this we'll see in a couple of slides. Um these are this is the value of PV electricity uh per a 2008 report. Um if you look at um what is easily monetized easily monetized depending on the policy in a particular case um you have uh the cost of fuel uh the cost of of capital typically for a power plant. Um the CO2 emissions offset this is if you have a price of carbon notice how small it actually is leading a lot of people to conclude that maybe carbon pricing isn't the biggest lever uh for bringing PV onto the grid. That's a whole another discussion. We can have that later. Uh grid losses. These are the transmission and distribution losses. The difference between having the PV mounted or distributed power generation source mounted right on the site of use as opposed to a centralized location that has to distribute it. These are much more difficult to monetize and you can add in here health impacts related to emissions and so forth. Um you're you're looking at uh the security the reduced risk of having a product on uh producing electricity at a certain known price for 20 years. You're also looking at um tax bonuses. These are are tricky because uh tax policy can change. Um you're looking at uncertainty in your raw feed stock material, the fuel. Um and the need for backup uh is is something that reduces the value of PV electricity. Right? If you at some point in the future will need to uh back up PV power with something that is uh more dispatchable and is still an uncertainty in the power grid, uh that's something that is um reducing the value of installing the PV today. Some might argue that that 1 cent negative is actually a drastic underestimation of the risk associated with backup power needs. But this is um this is a a fair look at what uh a value the the so-called true value of PV electricity might be which would lead us into pricing right if we know the value we can uh enter pricing and not many people can argue with this because this is substitution economics right this is just saying okay how much does it cost uh to produce pe uh fossil fuel electricity and let's substitute that um anything over here in the yellow is what people might say well gee if we really look at the true price or the true cost of fossil fuels. This is what it really costs if we take away all of the subsidies and add in all of the externalities. What's an externality? What does an externality mean? An exter that producer is doing. Yeah. So, when the consumer Oh, or let's put it this way. when the true impact price impact is not factored into the selling price. Let's say let's say that um I sell you a miracle drug and it allows you to be five times more productive than you are right now. Um, but then every time you have your your needs, um, down the toilet goes a bunch of chemicals that the power that the water plant now needs to, uh, filter out. And the the water plant begins failing some of its, uh, its standard tests when they measure water quality. So, they add in some more filters into their uh, into their system. They figure out how to get rid of this compound. And now all of the water treatment facilities around the country begin adding in these new filters. And it costs somewhere on the order of a billion dollars. That is an externality, right? That's something that wasn't factored into the price of selling you that miracle drug that allowed you to be five times more productive. It's it's an example of of how everybody pays for uh the acts or the the the purchases of a few, right? And that's the case with uh with energy production as well. Um so it's it's um it's difficult to argue in economic terms or it's difficult to put a a specific price on externalities because these could be things like premature deaths and there are statistitians who will calculate the number of people who die prematurely as a result of exposure to uh mercury or or cadmium or some other emission coming off of a fossil fuel burning plant. But then how do you monetize that? You have to assign a value to a human life and say that a certain economic value was lost uh both in terms of productivity costs but also in terms of the investment due to that person dying and and and they do that in in government. There is a value to a human life and it can vary somewhat from one or from one group to another. Um but it it it's it's very difficult to price in externalities and that's why often times these things in uh yellow here are are neglected are not considered and for the purposes of today's discussion we're just going to factor in mostly these parameters right here because we have a greater hold on them right um so in terms of PV installations worldwide cumulative I I want to compare and contrast where our customers are versus where our manufacturing is and we'll get to some really interesting interesting questions um associated with that. So look at look at that um where would you expect PV to be installed? You'd expect it to be installed in the sunniest places. Why? Because the amount of energy produced is related uh proportional to the amount of uh solar resource that's available in that spot. But from a customer's point of view, solar resource isn't everything. They're also looking at the cost of displacement. how much what is the price of the electricity I'm paying and how much of that can I displace with my PV electricity right so there there there's a more sophisticated uh uh uh concern here and further the price of electricity might not only be dictated by uh the true cost of production of the solar power of of the fossil fuel power plants there may be a few governments out there that say well look at all these externalities we want to begin factoring those in we want to provide an incentive for people to produce PV electricity that's commonly referred to as a subsidy. So if we look at the total installation, EU is really leading the charge here. And we saw in those installation maps, there's not a heck of a lot of sun there in the EU, right? Germany's has has uh solar radiance similar to what we have here in the northeast of the country. And we know that most of the PV installed in the United States is going into the southwest. um Japan, uh rest of world, USA, relatively small fraction up there. And China, tiny tiny little bleep. China's the peach one right up there at the little top. So I would say less than 5% of total installed uh worldwide. Actually, it's this is 1.5%. You can read it off right here. Do the division. Okay. So um we have very interesting perspective here about our customers. Um this is a breakdown again in in terms of customers. Again, a little bit uh better detail. Instead of just seeing EU, we're looking at uh a variety of different um uh of customers. And this is new installations worldwide. So if, for example, this blue bar goes down, that just means we installed less PV this year than we did last year. It doesn't mean that the total amount on the grid went down. It's just new new PV installs. So the blue down here is now Germany. Um, we have these countries that are like flashes in the pan. Italy, for example, right? Uh, sorry, Spain. This one, Spain grew up really quick and then disappeared. Italy grew up really quick and then shrinking. Um, if we extended it out to 2011, it'd be back to a very small amount. Um, we have USA that's consistently growing. That's a nice healthy market. And Germany that's uh growing as well. Um, wow, what a what an interesting dynamic. Why did Spain have this flash in the pan and then shrink suddenly? What did they do differently than Germany did? We'll start asking those questions and answering them in a few slides. Um, if you really want to get detailed information about the US, where PV is installed in the United States, um, one of your MIT colleagues and a bunch of, uh, ENL folks got together, uh, and put up this beautiful, uh, archive, if you will, compendex of all as as many PV installations as they possibly could in the United States. So, that's the website. Unfortunately, I didn't include it in your slides. Um, so you might want to write that down if you're uh, curious about it. Um, wonderful resource. Uh, again, ENL, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory based in Golden, Colorado. And, uh, you can see the install distribution throughout the United States. Again, a bias toward states that have, uh, high electricity prices like New York in Massachusetts and lots of sun, uh, like Arizona. The, uh, price of electricity is rather low in Arizona. It's below 10 cents per kilowatt hour, but, um, the amount of sun available is is very high. whereas California has both. Okay, so we talked about the customer. Now here we're talking about the manufacturers. So we have the customers, the demand, the manufacturers, the supply. This um obviously the the uh manufacturers are growing at the same rate as our customers are installing even faster. Uh mind you, inventory rates are almost somewhere between 25 and 50% nowadays. So um the production has grown faster than the the the demand has um at least at current prices. Um what we've done right here or what what is done right here is is a normalization um by market share just to demonstrate how the market dynamics are changing as the industry grows. So from 2005 to 2009 this doesn't mean that the industry stayed flat. It continued growing at a breakneck pace but uh the um the countries which comprise the manufacturers have changed significantly. So let's look at Europe first off. Europe pretty much you know started really feeling it during the financial crisis. uh they couldn't keep uh expanding um uh in 2008 uh and then when prices really started to drop uh 2009 as we saw they didn't continue expanding um were a bit uncompetitive um US shown here in the uh green again dropping uh India uh I guess sort of uh growing now it's definitely on the upswing Japan decreased considerably considerably During the 1990s um in the early 2000s, Japan had the largest solar company in the world, Sharp, better known for micro electronics that you might find around your house. Um somehow some way did the executives at Sharp saw this coming, saw a huge rise in demand coming from Europe and ramped up capacity in Japan. And when they did that, they were able to address large portions of that. They made a healthy profit for several years and then they just stopped expanding in PV. Part of it might have been they saw the market dynamics changing. They saw um their costs, their manufacturing costs relative to for example China. This is the orange right here. Um and Taiwan uh in the uh above China above the orange and comprised today this is 2009 numbers. If we fast forward to today in 2011, China and Taiwan comprise 55 to 60% of the PV industry worldwide production, manufacturing, production. So what does that mean? Let's explore together some of the uh the interesting um results of that. Um let's let's look at some of the good things. Um what are some of the good things about um production going to uh China and uh Taiwan from say Europe and the United States of solar panels? Let's look at that for a sec. So we'll look at the glass half full perspective. What are some of the good things? Yeah. More likely that these developing countries will use solar panels. More likely the developing countries will use solar panels. Well um was that the case over here? Not really. Right. It's growing. it's going um okay uh I suppose if the technology is available there um maybe the technology quite isn't isn't quite cost competitive with local um electricity yet so there isn't that demand pull locally um maybe the realization is that well goodness we can address this European market they're willing to pay a lot more for the panels than we are um so we might as well export right now but at some point in the future we might be able to satisfy internal demand yeah and there are gigawatt plants PV installs going up in China right now. Um in part uh due to increased electricity demand, in part due to weakening demand elsewhere in the world and a very large manufacturing base in China that has to put their panels out somewhere, right? U so there is um yes adoption. I'll I'll I'll seed that point. Uh yeah, lower cost for the consumer. Lower lower cost for the consumer. Yes. So in uh in the United States, if we look at the price of installing a PV system in the United States, uh the uh price of installing the PV system is around $520 on your roof uh today. The cost of buying the module is around $1.3, $15 from China, right? And so that means that 80% of the profit margin right now is being gobbled up by a US company, right? Um, the price came down. Let's see. When when I installed the panels on my roof, uh, got a little bit of a better deal, but I would say the average uh, price for a PV system in 2007 must have been somewhere around $8, uh, per watt peak. And now the price is down at around 520. That said, in Europe, in Germany, uh, which has 10 times more installed PV than than the US does, um, the price of installing PV system on your roof, uh, could be below €3 per watt peak, right? So, the the price is lower because the profit margin that the installers are getting right now is smaller. So, yes, absolutely lower cost product in US markets. uh that isn't the whole story about what you're going to pay because there's still the installer that's stuck in between the Chinese manufacturer of the module and you right serving as the middle person uh providing you value still but but still um extracting a very large profit right now uh a disproportionately large profit shall I say um what are some of the other good things if uh cost in big markets is reduced that lead to more market penetration then the product is just adopted more and even a price to go up, it might maintain. Yep. And so what what what you're leading to here is is really what the demand curve of PV looks like. And in the past, uh if you look at uh what people are willing to pay for PV, uh let's say let's convert it into dollars per watt peak since that's the universal unit of of PV uh cost. Um and this is the uh let's call it total market size in terms of watt peak um and this being a very very large number what you can do to first order just how how would we construct the demand curve for the United States for PV how would we go about doing that how much are people willing to pay for their PV modules to offset the cost of electricity well to do it right we need a levelized cost of electricity analysis we'd assume We're borrowing money from the bank, do those fancy economics that involve uh you know something to the power of something and and that being the interest rate uh and then we we calculate it through just a first order hand wavy Mickey Mousey we might take into consideration the manufacturing cost of the module sorry back up one step we might take into consideration the cents per kilowatt hour of the electricity that we're uh getting from the grid and the insulation the solar resource that is available at that particular location. So we if we have data granular to the state level of the price of electricity on average throughout the state and the solar resource availability on average throughout the state we can immediately comprise 150 markets in the US residential commercial industrial right for 50 states and then we'll have a demand curve very simple one for how much people are willing to pay for their PV electricity and it looks more or less like this if you start working it out rough sketch rough sketch this is Hawaii. Those poor critters over there, although they have beautiful sun and enjoy a wonderful life, they're paying a lot for their energy because they're on a few rocks out there, they have no natural resource under the ground to speak of, except geothermal, I suppose. Um, but uh they're shipping in a lot of their fuel. That's why if you've ever gone to Hawaii and rented a car, you are surprised at this the sticker shock when you go up to the gas station and try to refuel. Um, their uh price of electricity is above 30 cents per kilowatt hour residential. Um, but it's a very very tiny market. So, you're not going to be able to satisfy much demand. You're not going to be a prod produce too many panels there. You start having interesting thing hap things happen when you start hitting the bigger markets like the tiers four and five of California, Texas, New York. These are big markets that have a lot of people in them and they have larger electricity prices andor large solar resource uh uh available there. And so at some point the demand curve reaches these plateaus where if you decrease the price even a little bit all of a sudden voom the amount of market that you can address right for this amount of of price decrease the amount of market that you can address is huge. And so the slope of this line the slope of the demand curve is indicative of what happens when you reduce your price just a little bit. And so yes, producing cheaper panels when you start hitting these plateaus can result in massive massive demand pull or market pull. So that's another good reason to have cheap panels. Let's look at the flip side. What would be um what would be some of the uh downsides let's say uh to uh module manufacturing going into China. This you can assume anything is on the table um CO2 emissions, jobs, etc. Let's start teasing into some of those questions and and looking at some data. I might flip back and forth during the presentation if we have to address specific uh topics. So bad politics if American tape manufacturers fail then it reflects poorly on the industry and American political scene and decreases support for it. Yep. So um that politics uh in DC uh this is often referred to as the optics of the situation um how people observe or how people perceive something. Um the lititness test is not DC itself. Um I was down there on Thursday and everybody in the solar space was I think it was it was Wednesday and Thursday. Yeah. And everybody in the solar space was freaking out about uh a particular event that was going on in Capitol Hill. I was telling folks, don't worry. It's not going to I mean in in terms of the rest of the country and the perception of the rest of the country, it won't be that significant. And I'm sure Secretary Chu will do a phenomenal job uh up there in in in in front of uh the the congressional panel. He did phenomenal. Um and so people were really really worried about something that didn't have too big of an effect outside. Um granted what people should be worried about is the impact for example that this sequestration of discretionary funds will have on R&D uh once they start kicking in in 2013. Um if you mandate a reduced uh funding level for um uh uh funding agencies uh you will have an impact uh and a long-term one for that matter. Um so let's uh let's the optics of the situation. Uh there has been a slight decrease in public support I believe on the order of 5 to 10% um since the beginning of the whole cylinder affair uh support for for solar renewables uh but the support remains high and still continues to be high among uh Republicans, Democrats alike. Um especially when compared to say congressional approvement uh approval ratings um but let's let's not let's not look look down. Let's compare ourselves to higher. Um what else um what are some of the potential negatives? Let me let me start guiding you. Um because there you hear so much about bad this jobs that whatever. Um let me um let me guide you into some of the questions that you might not have thought of. Um there is a colleague of ours in uh here at MIT Tim Gatowski's group that is looking into matters concerning manufacturing of PV and installation of PV from a CO2 perspective. So if you manufacture your PV in a coalrich country that is spewing out emissions into the air, um you are going to have a greater CO2 intensity per kilowatt hour uh of energy that the panels will produce over their lifetime than if the panels were produced say in a country that uh fu that has a large abundance of hydro power or or uh geothermal or hey even produces solar panels using other solar panels. That'd be nice. Um but in a growth situation where solar is rising or the manufacturing capacity is rising at 60% a year, it's a little bit unfeasible uh to think that solar will power itself forward. It almost violates one of the laws of thermodynamics. Um so we uh we look at the CO2 balance, right? Right? We we think about gee what if um what if we were to be smart about where we manufacture and install PV then it might make more sense to manufacture PV say in Norway which is based on hydropower and install them in China which is largely running on coal right so from the CO2 from the global carbon perspective um again this these are externalities that aren't being priced in okay CO2 and yeah go ahead Please, would they actually be priced in in Norway because they are in the EU emissions trading scheme? I mean, they're not priced in China. Sure. The cost of electricity in Norway doesn't Yeah. So, so point conceded that in in certain countries, uh, some of the externalities are factored in, not perhaps at the levels they should be, but but some are factored in, whereas in other countries they're not at all. Um so we have um what is referred to in some uh in in some terms as as an uneven playing field in the sense that in some places there are regulations in place that increase the price of electricity whereas they aren't present in other places and in some cases they work to your advantage like in Norway for instance or Switzerland big hydro uh countries. Um what are some other potential disadvantages? You hear a lot about jobs, right? Jobs moving overseas. Um let's uh let's start looking at some of the numbers uh next Thursday when when we have uh Doug coming in here and talking about the cost model. Um a good number to keep in mind a good number to keep in mind for the manufacturing of modules. Um so back to oopsie back to this part right over here. Um for the module itself typical numbers would be two to 12 people depending on what region of the world you're in. two to 12 people per megawatt. So if you have a total market of say 10 gigawatts, it's larger than that. We'll do quick math. Um so if it's per megawatt be 20,000 people per gig per 10 gigawatts, somewhere in that range on the low end and on the high end it would be somewhere around 200,000 uh people per gigawatt on the high end of the labor intensity. So the high end of the labor intensity represents a company like Trina Solar in in China that is extremely labor intensive. It's located in in Changhu. It's on the highspeed rail between uh Shanghai and and and Nanqing. Um the low end of that scale would be more representative of say SUNTC which is almost next door in Wooi. um which has adopted a different approach saying we're going to invest in robots because we're uncertain about where the whole labor thing is going to go in China where the prices are going to go or RECC in uh which is a Norwegian company but they opened a factory in Singapore which has very very low uh labor uh rates because they invested a lot of money in capital equipment in robots to move modules around their factories. Um US if you can look at turnkey manufacturing lines are typically around 3 3.5 people per megawatt. Uh those are some good numbers to keep in mind. So when anybody comes to you and says jobs, solar jobs, um with these sorts of numbers, you can begin estimating. Okay, let give me a number. How big is the solar market going to grow to? Um what is the level of automation? What is the labor intensity of manu manufacturing of the modules? And you can make an estimate on the total number of jobs, direct jobs, direct jobs associated with the module manufacturing. Then there are all the indirect jobs as well, right? They're all the people supplying the commodity materials into your manufacturing line. they're all the people um who are working as as administrative assistants and and R&D staff and so forth. So, uh it's not quite as simple as that, but it gives you a number to really start grabbing. Um and that of course doesn't include all the installations, installer jobs, I All right. So, when we're talking about grid tide electricity, um I'd like to move on to our next few um next few topics here. When we're talking about grid tide electricity, um this is in German. Sorry about that. Um this is over a period uh v means day of the week. Um and this is basically the uh the peak um uh power uh in gigawatts uh instantaneous at at any given point. So we have you know morning middle of the day night middle of the day night there's a little bump right here during prime time TV. Um and we have the uh output of PV um going from 5 gawatt peak to 30 gawatt peak. you can see uh beginning to eat into uh the profits essentially the uh peak hours um right so let me let me differentiate between base load and peak base load power would be voom right something uh providing a constant power output uh as a function of time something like a nuclear power plant coal fired power plant peakers would be natural gas fired power plants that receive the calls like Jessica you're in charge of the peaker over there based on my weather report today I'm going to need so many gigawatts tomorrow between the hours of 10 and 12 you think you can turn yourself on then I'll pay you this amount of yep Jessica's going to battle sheet yes I can do that PV on the other hand is coming on if the sun's coming on right and today there isn't a great degree of predictability we can see if that's going to change based on one of our class projects here but there wasn't a great degree of predictability you can see here for example um and here varying amounts of sunlight from one day to the other uh as a result of changing um insulation uh there's of course changing demand as a day of the week goes by on Saturday and Sunday there's less demand for electricity So what PV is doing is eating into some of the highest use periods which is good from the markets perspect from the um uh shall we say the uh person in charge of maintaining grid stabilities perspective because they want uh uh power to be produced then they don't want to run out of generation capacity. NPV is avoiding the situation or at least prolonging the situation a few more years until we run out of power generation capacity on the grid. um as our population grows and our energy intensity grows, we're needing more and more power, but we're not building new power plants at that rate, right? Generally in Germany and the United States. Um and so PV is helping to defay some of that deferred investment in new generation capacity. So that's good. On the bad side, somebody who's invested, let's say, um let's say Mary has invested in a a natural gas generation plant, um she put the money down for Jessica's plant. Jessica's running it. And uh and and now Mary realizes, well, goodness. Um I thought I was going to get a steady rate of return over 20 years for my natural gas firepower plant. That that rate of return was factored into my economic analysis when I borrowed money at a certain rate from a bank. And now you're telling me that this upstart technology, this new PV stuff is coming online and is going to take away some of my profit. That that's that that doesn't work for me. Um, as a matter of fact, um, on peak days in Bavaria, which is the southeastern part of Germany today, uh, PV can comprise as much as 40% of electricity on the grid, uh, during peak hours during the summer. And, and what that does sometimes is force conventional uh, uh, electricity producers to either turn off or going into negative pricing, meaning they shunt the power to ground so that they don't have to pay to put their electricity on the grid. So that's uh an interesting market dynamic that's evolving as more and more PV electricity enters the grid uh in these regions um of high penetration which include uh California, Hawaii uh the island of Lai I believe has um up to 40% as well on on peak days. Um Bavaria and Germany which is the southeastern part of Germany. Um let me um try get to this point right here is predicting where the market will go. We talked about the demand curve for PV and we collapsed um we collapsed both insulation and price of electricity from the grid into this dollars per watt peak figure which is how much people are willing to pay. We can also break it out into annual solar energy yield. This is the solar resource available. Um it's used it's using the uh units of kilowatt hours per kilowatt peak meaning the number of kilowatt hours the amount of energy that a unit of rated power kilowatt peak of the solar panel is going to produce. So, how much energy will a unit of solar panel produce? That's down here. And of course, larger amounts mean more sun, more solar resource. On the uh on the ordinate, we have average power price of household. This is um US dollars. It should be uh average electricity price, US dollars per kilowatt hour. Um so, that's how much people are paying for their electricity, what you're displacing. And you can see that these little bubbles here represent the size of the market. So as the price of PV electricity comes down, we are able to address more and more markets. As the subsidization of PV electricity increases, you move these little bubbles up. And as the subsidiation comes back down, the market pull, not not the manufacturing subsidies, but the uh the uh use or installation subsidies as they come back down, the little bubbles move down um and eventually rest at their their their uh so-called true market price without the externalities factored in. And so you can see how we're beginning to enter uh a regime where PV is starting to look interesting in a lot of places. And as we begin addressing these markets or hitting these markets, you can imagine two Gaussian curves intersecting. one being the price of PV electricity, other being the price of grid electricity. As they oversight and overlap, you expect an exponential growth and that's what we're seeing in the market today. Question, what is the principle for tier four? Yeah. So, California decided to implement um more of a instead of um well, it is uh a little bit um regressive in that sense, but it what they did is they said let's instead of um instead of paying the same price per electricity, everybody um which actually it would be even the opposite way. Um you know how residential we typically pay higher rates in industrial that's because industrial buys in bulk. They buy electricity Costco size. we just buy it, you know, corner store size and so they pay less for the electricity. And in California realized this and said, well, this is a perverse incentive. What this does is it gives an incentive to people to use more electricity because if you buy in Costco size, you pay less per kilowatt hour than if you buy in the corner store. Um, instead what we're going to do is reverse that incentive by penalizing the people who buy more electricity. So your rate is going to be higher than if you just bought a small uh amount. So what they did is the government bureaucrats got together with some of the scholars and decided these are reasonable amounts for a residential house to consume. Um this is the next tier up. This is the next tier up. This is the next tier up and this is completely unreasonable. Um and so uh what they did is they tiered their electricity and you have California tier uh tiers one, two, and three represented by the big bubble and tier four and tier five um as represented at higher pricing. So, if you happen to fall into the tier five category, you could be paying upward of 30 cents per kilowatt hour uh for your your electricity. And it's a way of penalizing you for powering u two swimming pools in your backyard um along with uh I don't know something in the range of of 10 kilowatts of of lighting inside of your house. Um whereas if if you're running on a meager budget, um you might do much better. Do we have a question over here? No. Is it all residential? Um the California's tier one, two, three, and four, and five. That's a great question. Um Joe, would you happen to know if if if commercial and industrial fall into tiers as well or if it's just res? No, because that'd be political suicide. Well, even the residential is political suicide. Yeah. So, the residential system is actually kind of a bad one because if you have like eight people living in a house versus two, it doesn't take that into account. So, it's not a per capita thing. Yeah. So um many many states and countries have tried to adjust uh incentive mechanisms. Uh I'm not sure specifically about the commercial res and industrial. You might want to jot it down and give a quick Google search after. Um Germany growing gang busters uh the market versus time. This is installed capacity annual versus year. And uh we again subsidy support mechanisms, tax breaks, incentives. Um, what we wanted to to emphasize here was that Germany is not one of the sunnier places in the world. Look at this. It has almost half of the modules installed. And yet, um, oopsie, go back one. Uh, it has less insulation than even here in the US northeast. Even the sunniest places in Germany. This is Bavaria. This is the place that hits 40% of electricity on on peak summer days coming from PV. And this is the this is where we are right up there. Same scale, right? So something's going on in Germany and it's not uh it's not sun. Um the uh the German government instituted a number this little D represents Deutseland Germany uh implemented a number of incentive programs to increase the amount of PV uh installed on the grid under the assumption that if they had a demand pull they would have a supply push, meaning they would start up local industries. Um initially didn't quite take off as fast as they hoped. So they began providing direct manufacturing support, direct subsidies to install uh PV manufacturing plants to the point where they were willing to pay uh 50 euro cents in the euro uh for each uh piece of capital equipment that moved in on German soil to produce plants in the mid-200s. Uh so that combination of of of of events left them with booming market upwards of 100,000 jobs I believe in in Germany related to PV manufacturing and a lot of PV installed on their grid um as a result of the market pull. So really when it comes to subsidies and support you have to decouple what is market pull which means we want PV installed on our grid to offset our glo our our country's carbon emissions um versus manufacturing push which is to say you want to set up a factory in my country fine come right in I'll provide you the finances I'll provide you a lower cost of capital on your loan or um help you uh by providing a direct grant or loan um and and this is uh these are two different support mechanisms and that's why you see that dichotomy uh between Germany which installs a lot of PV and has a decent amount of manufacturing, the US which has a lot of installation but not a whole lot of manufacturing uh traditionally although that's changed the support has changed over the last three years and uh China which has a heck of a lot of manufacturing but not a whole lot of local demand. It's because each country has adopted a different approach uh based on optimization of different functions. in terms of where um where a lot has happened on the state level. Um the these are RPS renewable portfolio standard policies with solar and distributed generation provisions uh distributed throughout the United States. And you can see that the states have picked up where the federal government lacked in terms of leadership right in terms of getting PV on the grid. The states really uh pulled hard in specifically New Jersey. Some really oddball states like New Jersey here installing about 5 gawatts of solar. Um, California had uh another uh more more of a market pull mechanism. Um, rebate programs for renewables. This is if you install uh solar panels, you might get a few thousand dollars back uh from the state government. And um it just gives you a sense of of how the states have filled in that void uh where the federal government didn't uh uh uh step in. And this has come in part to our detriment. nice because we can allow the the federalist approach allows individual states to say, "Hey, we prioritize green jobs. All right, let's let's support it. Let's make it happen." And that's certainly Massachusetts take, California, uh Texas, certain other countries throughout the US, uh certain other states throughout the US, um including Mississippi most recently. Um but the downside of that is that you have each state doing its own thing, each municipality, each local uh electric utility grid doing its own thing. And what can happen is uh diversification of support mechanisms and incentives to the point now that if you want to install panels on your roof in the United States, there are over 18,000 ways you could do it within the US alone, 18,000 unique types of paperwork that you have to fill out uh depending on where you are in the United States. In Germany, you have one unified paperwork for the entire country and it's very short. I believe it's two pages. And in the United States, you can fill out a few reams of paper. Um, one of our our friends in California once estimated it takes about a dollar a watt uh to uh fill out paperwork um and to get certifications and so forth. Maybe it was a little bit of an exaggeration, but the price is high. And so recently, the DOE has attempted to address this as well by fostering a race to the top type uh incentive mechanism for states to uh facilitate in installation. But still in in Massachusetts we had remember for the system on my roof we had at least two inspectors come by from different agencies that could have been consolidated into one. Right? So while state independence is good and local utility independence is great from the perspective the federal government is lacking in terms of moving forward. The states can push forward at their comfortable speed. On the flip on the downside, it makes it very difficult for an installer company to reduce its uh costs because it has to address a multitude of local markets uh throughout the US and that uh adds adds to cost. In terms of projections, I really hesitate because in 2006, there were a number of projections of where we'd be in 2010. And um and many of them you can see the range here going from 4 gawatt up to actually I think uh photon consulting had us close to 30 gigawatts back in uh in 2010. Um photon consulting was closer to right than than most of the other groups. Interestingly, um the 4 gawatts was was obviously pretty far off. So projections are very dangerous because you could be easily wrong. Right? This is just to just to show you an example. Um these are projections of where the solar market is going to go. Um from the EPIA, which is the European Photoex Industry Association, um it's one of the better sources that I could find with the various scenarios giving you an indication, a tornado plot, if you will, of where the uh where the um market is is going to head over the future. And the bottom line is that most likely it will continue to grow even though it's going to enter a difficult year, difficult two years as the over supply condition work itself out of the market. Uh we're headed for some pretty massive growth. And just keep those numbers in mind. If if this grows up to be say a 100 gawatt uh industry and there's two people per megawatt, that's 200,000 people employed just in the manufacturing of modules, right? Um not counting all of the other people on top of that. maybe another order of magnitude if we use the car industry as an example. Uh so we could be looking at two million jobs worldwide. Uh right and uh where they are um who works on them. Uh how the value chain is distributed between R&D uh manufacturing. Um this is all all open. The next decade will decide that you'll help decide that. So uh with that message I'd let you go.