We are trying to make our way through these four as yet intractable dilemmas. Um the last time we met we talked about the curse of the familiar, the edtech Matthew effect. Um today we're going to be looking at the trap of routine assessment. Um the anybody want to try to articulate the sort of the the core puzzle that's at the that's at the heart of the trap of routine assessment. What do you got Dana? um kind of along the lines of, you know, teachers are teaching students a subject and they um schools have like such an emphasis on like final exams and what they're preparing for these standardized tests. Um but we're also fighting with the idea of like what a computer can grade. So if you're trying to standardize some sort of way of grading something, you can only really focus on teaching students things that computers can do. But if a computer can already do it, then why why is that the emphasis of what we're teaching students? So, it's kind of the idea that like if you look at the ven diagram, there's like this whole other half of the subject that ultimately we probably should be focusing on. Um, but we are really only talking about that overlapping aspect of what students were saying should learn because we can assess it. Good that that that the technologies we have for assessment sort of constrain what it is that we can assess at any kind of scale. Anybody want to add what what else seems important to Dana's um initial offering there? I think something you brought up in the reading as well is that there's like a connection to the labor markets, right? So schools are supposed to help us prepare us for the labor market, but we're learning these routine things that are being taken over by automation. And how is that actually doing what the school is supposed to function for? Okay, good. So, so, so schools operate in in between a couple of different things. One is like like what do we need kids to do changes over time as we develop new technologies. Um there's some you know like like none of you should teach your stu well I mean you shouldn't teach your students to operate a loom on the basis that will be a source of gainful employment for them. Although there probably are a small number of people who are like very profitable, you know, small business loom operators and particular kind of thing, but like generally speaking, like not a good bet. Um uh and so, you know, it makes sense that as technologies come along, we change the kinds of things that we teach to young people. Um and and computers uh you know over the you know in various ways once a decade over the last 10 years like cause new kinds of problems for us to as as computers capacities expand what we think about teaching people um changes at the same time as computers technologies expand there's maybe new or different kinds of ways that we can use them for assessment. Um and so those two things are kind of interplaying with each other uh all the time. Um any any We got some seats up here. There's plenty plenty of room. Kadus, nice to see you. Um other other introductory things that seem important, Omar. Yeah, that's like that's not to say that and you mentioned this in in the reading. Um like we're not trying to say don't teach like time tables and stuff like that where it's like stuff that's uh yes, computers can assess that, but stuff that students need fundamentally to build on for other more complex tasks that they will learn now more. Good. that makes this even the the whole conversation even more complicated because there's stuff that we need people to be able to do in their lives. We there also might be a class of things that's called like stuff that you need to learn in order to be able to do those complex things like even though computers can do those simpler things there. So there's there's some class there's some class of things that computers can do that we just don't need humans to ever do anymore. Um, I think I joked with you all that one of the first times I talked with my students at MIT about large language models, somebody said, uh, I'm using large language models to do the latte formatting of our of my papers. It's like great. Never think about that again. Like if no student ever thinks about that again for the rest of their lives, we're probably fine as a civilization. Um, but like single different single digit multiplication is not like that. Singledigit multiplication can be trivially done by computers, but it's actually quite important for human beings to learn. So there's sort of some complexity in those kinds of things. Um, anything else that people want to add to just the like the initial framing of the trap of routine assessment? I guess just to add on even more, there is this aspect that our society values these routine assessments. Um, so that like even though you're trying to change this and branch out and expand what we teach students, they're still always constrained by the market itself. Um, and ultimately like teachers have to fight against that and let your own independent wishes. So as much as we think, you know, you can just do it, you can't actually. Good. So, so I mean I think you could go to almost any educator and say something along the lines of like are standardized tests a good mechanism for capturing all of the important things that students should know. And the answer is like clearly not. There's almost no educator in the world who believes that to be the case. Um there's more debate over the question of do standardized tests capture some of the important things that we want students to know. Um how and then and then a sort of follow-on problem that there's then this class of stuff which is like pretty important for students to know but we're not very good at assessing. Um, and it's hard to prioritize those things in education systems because it's hard to reward students and reward educators for teaching things that we don't know how to measure um or don't know how to measure in some kind of systemic way. We don't know how to how to measure with the kind of of of fairness that we would want to use for high stakes assessments for things like graduation exams or college entrance exams or other kinds of things like that. So the so all of these are parts of systems that get wrestled with every day by educators at all different kinds of levels. Um in in in the United States, teachers are are unusually responsible for wrestling with these issues because we don't have something like a national curriculum. We don't even really have something like national entry exams or something like that. Um where you know where like the whole system kind of has to work together to respond to some of these things. Teachers in the United States have sort of unusual discretion. um for for thinking about these kinds of challenges. Uh I thought the place that I would start with you all um is uh a little bit towards what Tai suggested um and and we're probably going back um 20-ish years to the last to one of the last times computers really got educators and labor economists quite upset. Um, so we're in another one of these moments right now with LLMs where people are pretty stressed out like like how is this going to change the labor market? How is this going to change what we expect of our students? How should this change school systems and things like that? And to me it's always helpful to remember like oh we've done this before you know like the introduction of personal computers into most households in the United States that was a big deal. It was a big change in the capac like the introduc introduction of personal computers into workplaces that was a big deal. the introduction of the internet um you know broadband internet connection in these spaces like that was a big deal that that evoked all of these questions in the past. Um and uh one of the best summary pieces to read from for probably what was like the sort of like 2015 summary from this debate is a paper called dancing with robots um by two economists. One who is here Frank Levy um and another who was at Harvard who is actually my adviser Richard Mine. Um, this was based on another book they wrote called The New Division of Labor. Um, and the original research for the new division of labor is like kind of right when personal computers are really starting to widely spread in workplaces and people's homes and things like that. Um, an early bet that economists made was something like e one of the things economists think about all the time is like what do jobs require? And um education economists then start thinking about like okay what do jobs require and how do you teach people the things that the jobs that we actually have require um that you know um computers are going to complement highwage workers and they're going to replace lowwage workers. That was like a pretty early bet that a bunch of economists had had. Um and there was something about that to Frank Levy and Richard Maneine that didn't smell right. They were like h I think it's going to end up being more complicated than that. Um so they thought a lot about the specific kinds of things that people did in jobs and how those jobs were changing. Um how many of you have ever checked in to get on a flight by talking directly to a human being? Okay. So it looks like people how how many of you the majority of times you get on a flight you check in with a machine. Okay. So we so so look this actually surprised I'm surprised that almost everyone in the room who raised their hand said that at least once. Um you know when I first put together this slide like 15 years ago something like that like this was a pretty novel experience. So you know when I when I was in college you would you would not interact with a machine at all to get onto a flight. Um you would have like called the airline or called a travel agent to buy a ticket. You would have like a physical ticket. You would take that physical ticket. You would show it to a human being. Um now the interesting thing about those conversations with human beings was that they were highly standardized. They were highly routine. So post 911 it would be uh you know like who are you? This is my ID. Like where are you going? This is my ticket. Do you have a ticket? Yeah, this is my ticket. Where are you going? This is where I'm going. Um uh do you have any bags with you? Yes. Did you pack your bags yourself? Have they been in your possession the whole time? Yes. Um and then off you go. So the like over, you know, the vast majority of times that a person went to a ticketing agent to have a conversation with them like highly structured, highly routined, we know what kinds of questions we're going to get as passengers, we know what kind of inputs we need, we have the the conversation successfully, we move on. Um, and so as computers, you know, as computing technology becomes more sophisticated, as user interface becomes more sophisticated, as all these things become less expensive, someone's like, "Hey, we can just program those conversations into a machine." Um, and so now overwhelmingly you have that exact same conversation. You just push the buttons to say like, "Yes, I have a ticket. Yes, this is me. Yes, my bags have been in my possession the whole time." Um, however, there, you know, for as long as we've had kiosks, there has always been a number of cases in which the kiosks can't respond to the demands of the moment. Um, so there's something really weird about your ticket. there's some problem that's gone on with your booking that the machine hasn't anticipated or can't understand. Um, or you have some kind of communication issue. Um, for some reason a human being can't communicate with the kiosk. Maybe their glasses are broken that day. Maybe they are like trying to travel, they don't speak the language that the kiosk is in. You know, they're like so angry at the airline for what they've messed up they just go banging on the kiosk. And then, you know, so you got to think a lot like there's one person behind this row of kiosks whose um whose job it is to have all the conversations that the kiosk can't have. Um if you're a labor economist, like that's a pretty interesting question. Like what is that human being doing that we couldn't program into all of those machines? That that was the kind of question that Frank Levy and Richard Main were kind of asking. Like like in a world where there's lots of kind of work that we can put on computers, what is it that humans are still good at? um in economist term like what is it that humans still have a comparative advantage over computers around um here is another funny example of which I think I wrote about in the book about how some of these things change. Um so in something like 1987 my parents bought a cabin in Vermont um which had an old boiler in it um like a hot water heater that was attached to a tank um and my mom passed away. I inherited the house. So sometime around 2007 um about 20 years later this boiler dies and I'm responsible for it. Um the original boiler was inst installed by this guy named Dan Mastersonson who lived on Masterson Lane um in Bethl Vermont. Um and I was like trying to find a plumber to replace this hot water heater and the guy I found was Dan Mastersonson who lived on Mastersonson Lane in uh Bethl Vermont. So a guy had been a plumber for 20 years. Um and we decided that instead of doing an old school hot water boiler we're going to install one of these uh on demand systems. Um, so this is like a very beautiful picture to me. Um, because there's no hot water tank that can freeze. Like it just like heats up the water exactly when you need it. Like you can see how nicely all these pipes are. The last building had pipes all over the place, things like that. Um, so Dan installs this system. Dan, as you can imagine, now is like getting towards the end of his career as a plumber. Um, and I say, "Great, Dan, like show me how to use this system." He's like, "Well, you walk in here and you open this little door. Um, and when you look at the system, it should say good." I was like, "All right, Dan, what do I do if it doesn't say good? You guys can't see this?" Well, he's like, "See this little button that says R? Push that." Um, so that's the reset button. I was like, "All right, I can push the reset button." Like, "Well, what do I do if that doesn't work?" He's like, "You see this electrical outlet up here? Just like unplug it and plug it back in." I was like, "All right, I will recycle the power in my hot water heater if that doesn't work." And I was like, "Okay, so it doesn't say good. I've hit R. I've unplugged it. It's still not working. Then what do I do?" He says, um, there's one guy in the upper river valley of Vermont who has flown to Scandinavia, um, to get the training on how to reprogram these systems. And so, if those two things don't work, go find that guy. Um, and I tried to imagine like Dan Masterson probably in like 1970, 1975, something like that, like going through his plumbing apprenticeship training. Um, and like he learned how to solder pipes together and how to do some basic electrical stuff and things like that. like if you like if he went to the same training now like you have to be an apprentice computer programmer to be a plumber. And not only that, um the systems are designed to solve all of the easy problems. Like if a problem is easy, it'll just like solve it itself on reboot. The things that you have to be able to solve as a computer programming plumber are the the illststructured problems like when the system can't figure out what's wrong with itself and can't correct itself. Um and those kinds of things. So, so not all I mean the reason I'm trying to bring these two cases to your attention is we could say all right um there are some classes of jobs that are going to disappear and be replaced by computers like there used to be I mean the other thing about these people if you're just think about this in a broader social you know there used to be six people behind this desk um and they wore uniforms maybe they had a college degree maybe they had associates degree they probably made a middle class living like you like you could make a decent living as a person who checked people into airlines and most of those jobs are gone Um and even in places where jobs remained they're being transformed by you know what the capacities computer offer in these systems. Um so one of the cool things about the research in uh the new division of labor is that they basically go the department of labor collects all of these uh uh names of jobs and the description of jobs. Um and they do an analysis of those descriptions to see how they're changing over time. Uh and what they find is that you can you can break jobs down into maybe four categories. Um one of those categories would be routine manual jobs. So that involves jobs that are like lifting, moving things around, stuff like that. Routine cognitive work. Um so that would be things like filing and stuff like that. That would be things like having standardized conversations to check people into a airline. Um, two others are what they call illststructured problem solving. So, solving any kind of problem where like you don't know what inputs you need, you don't know what the outputs look like, you don't know what the correct answer with, you're sort of solving that as you're figuring out the problem or complex communication tasks that require um like figuring out like any kind of solving the problem requires talking to people. Some of that could be like marketing and sales kind of thing, figuring out what people want, but other that could be like a home health aid um does a ton of complex communication. Uh and their and their basic thesis was that things that are routine are disappearing from the American labor market. Um this is a huge problem if you want to have a stable society. Um like in the 20th century there were many many people who performed routine labor for a reasonable middle class wage and like had a perfectly suitable life doing it. Um some of the kinds of jobs that are growing are like service jobs that don't really require rout like they're a little bit of routine manual work, a little bit of routine cognitive work and they pay like the absolute minimum wage possible. um that's a little bit less concerning today where you know you can get jobs doing um doing service work that pay you know you can work at some place in McDonald's and make $15 an hour $17 an hour things like that um but when there was a surplus in the labor market 10 years ago 12 years ago like all those people would have been paid $725 or whatever the federal minimum wage was at the time um but the two kinds of jobs that were growing were things that required non-rine analytical skills um and social skills some of this was updated by this guy David Atur who's economist uh who's here now as well. Um so if you're if you're an educator, the thing you got to be thinking is like man um we have a we have a different job in front of us. Like it's not sufficient to prepare people to do jobs that require routine cognitive work or routine um uh uh manual work because those jobs are disappearing as a part of the labor market. And even when the same job title exists, even when like they're still plumbers, but plumbers are increasingly called upon to do ill ststructured problem solving and to do um complex communication. This was an update of this, I guess, from 2012. This is just another like, you know, um here's a 2 by two where jobs that require social skills are here. Jobs that require math skills are here. Um these are the the jobs that are in green are the ones that are growing. The jobs that are in red are the ones that are disappearing. And you can see that they're sort of clustered in the in the things that require social skills are growing and the things that require fewer social skills are disappearing. Um truck drivers is one that that uh people are often particularly at the time people were pretty this was like 2015 2017. You know there 3.5 million truck drivers in the United States. That's about one in every hundred Americans is a truck driver. Um and uh pro probably 10 years ago was was some of the like the headiest time where computer scientists believe that like it was reasonably possible to replace all of those people. Um that you would be able to develop artificially intelligent systems that would be able to drive trucks. So like um Uber went to Carnegie Melon and bought their whole robotics department. They didn't actually pay for the robotics department. You just pay each individual faculty member um to go leave and and join your company. Um and and this didn't you know that like there's still 3.7 million truck drivers in the United States or however many there are because we this turned out to be a much harder problem than we thought. Um but this is the kind of angst that exists in society when these new systems are developed. Like what would it you know what would it be like um if uh you know there's all like what if every kid in school today who's destined to become a truck driver we have to find something else for them to do? Like that's pretty challenging thing to think about. Um uh this was another 2017 example. I don't know. I was glad to go back and revisit this um because you know there's lots of things that are going on today about like man LLMs are going to like replace all this work that people are doing like but for the last two decades we've been building software that replaces the work that people is doing. Like there's all kinds of machine learning based systems that can do what lawyers do and things like that. You don't necessarily need LLMs to do it although maybe it will sort of accelerate uh some of these kinds of things. Um, so when I when I was giving this talk to educators seven or eight years ago or something like that, uh, this would be the point where I would say like, imagine you could go into your school today, imagine going to the any of the Cambridge public schools, Somerville public schools, whatever it is, and grab every homework assignment that had been given out that day. Um, so go to all the classrooms, collect every single assignment that was given out and put them in a big pile and start going through them. um start classifying those homework assignments like how many of them require some kind of ill ststructured problem solving or expert thinking? How many of them require some kind of complex communication? And how many of those homework assignments ask people to do the kinds of routine work that we no longer need human beings to do? Um and my like most educators confronted with that question be like ah I think we're doing a whole lot of the routine stuff. Um and conceivably those you know that's something that we should be uh that we should be revisiting as the world is changing. Um how many of you encountered the idea anywhere in your study of education of 21st century skills? Is that a thing that people still discuss or I Courtney when you were ever working on products did people talk about 21st century skills in your um no I was most in like ELA and medical so yeah you might have had some where where did you encounter so um in the nonprofit space in India for education there's a lot of people that are trying to do 21st century skills it was a buzz word I think a while ago yeah once you're like 25 years into a century the idea of 21st centur skills becomes like it was it was it felt more urgent in 2004 2005 what were you gonna say just stem in general I think came out of that yeah there there was sort of this notion that like okay now that we have computers saturating our workforce there's some new set of skills that we're going to have to teach um young people how to do um and uh it it was kind of interesting because if you like there I don't know there were probably like a dozen different organizations that came up with lists of 21st century skills. Um, for a while there was this thing called the five Cs like uh communication, collaboration, creativity, critical thinking. There was a fifth one, maybe it was the four C's. Maybe I four C's, five C's, some H four the the four C's, something like that. almost it was interesting because actually if almost all of those lists at some point cite me and Levy's work like the only people that did sort of like original empirical analysis were these two economists and then everyone else kind of freestyled on top of that. Um, but there was, you know, I think there was something s significant there. Um, that you could kind of tell by I mean these this I think the new division of labor is 2005 or something like that, but like 20 years ago, you could have a sense that like, man, um, we're going to need uh, you know, we're going to need many, many more people with far more cognitive skills than we've ever needed before to to fill our labor market. like we're just going to need more people who can do expert thinking, ill structured problem solving, complex communication than we've ever needed before in the history of the American education system. Um, and that's a sort of stressful thing to contemplate. So that's like one set of fundamental ideas like like a way of thinking about what do we want people to know? Um a kind of analysis that uh um people will be doing in the labor market, you know, education economists, labor market economists in the next 5 years is something like well okay how do LLMs change this equation? Um how does generative AI change this equation? Does it simply accelerate trends that have already been existing? Is there some kind of like new set of answers to these questions? You know are there like are there further are there different classes of skills? um this uh um David Atur who's one of the people I just mentioned just wrote AI don't know what he I think he wrote AI think he wrote a working paper that was then quoted in the New York Times or something like that. Um he's actually he's he's been a person who for decades has been saying like oh computers are like pretty bad for the middle class. Like a figure like this this is a bad figure for the middle class. Like this is where the middle class existed. Um these people are disappearing. These are like either rich folks getting rich or poor folk the service line is poor folks getting poor. Um but um he just recently came out with something which is like actually um LLMs are going to be good for the middle class. Generative AI is going to be good for the middle class because there's going to be a whole class of jobs that people can do with AI support um that they wouldn't have been able to do without like graduate training or something like that and now they're going to be able to do it with these sort of systems that are helping them. Um and then there's another economist here Darren Asameloo um who was like I don't know David I think in the New York Times article he's like oh that's pretty optimistic I'm not sure that's going to work out. Um but these are the kinds of things that people are wrestling with now. Um the the heart of the trap of the routine assessment um is that the kinds of things that computers are good at assessing it almost exactly overlap with the kinds of things that computers are good at doing. Um and those are the kinds of things that we don't need people to do anymore. um the kinds of things that we can build tools that are good at assessing human performance are almost always very closely overlapping with uh the kinds of things that computers are good at, the kinds of things you don't need them to do anymore. So here are a couple of examples. Um here's a framework um for mathematical modeling. So one of the big changes in the common core state standards that came about 15 years ago or something like that um was that we wanted to teach students not just to do procedural kinds of things in mathematics but to be able to conduct exercises in mathematical modeling and that those exercises in mathematical modeling um you can think of it having kind of five steps like first you have to find some problem in the world um what is an interesting thing to view then you have to set that up as a model you have to you know whether that's an equation or a schematic or a table or whatever it is you have to take a problem and they have to frame it in some kind of way. Then probably once you've developed that model, you have to compute some kind of solution inside that model. Then you have to sort of explain your solution in terms of the real world. So was it 27 board feet or was it 27 kittens or was it you know 27 acres? Um and then you have to be able to sort of explain why your solution makes sense. Like why did you follow a series of reasonable mathematical steps to come up with that solution? Um, of those roughly five steps, um, what what do we have technologies to evaluate? What what have you of of those five things, what have you ever been tested on? I want to say three. Yeah. Computing the solution. The only thing the only thing of those five steps that we can like reliably get computers to do is evaluate whether or not you can compute a solution. If you use mathematics in your profession, which of those five steps will you almost never actually do? Computing the solution. Um, like a computer can't tell you which problems are interesting. A computer can't tell you like, oh, this would be a good problem to think about through this kind of equation or through this kind of formula or through this kind of framing. Um, a computer like is not that good at taking the outputs and being like, okay, this is what it means for the real world. And computers are really not particularly good at explaining to you why what just happened mathematically makes sense. But the one thing that you will assuredly do if you're a professional mathematician is have the computer do the math. Um the computers are like significantly more reliable than you are at those kinds of steps. Um so there's there's if if you go and sit down for any mathematics exam that's given in a standardized way at any level um you will spend the vast majority of your time computing. Um, if you're a mathematician, you'll spend almost not really a mathematician, but if you're a person who uses mathematics in their work, you will spend almost none of your time computing. You will spend almost all of your time doing those other kinds of things. Um, that's a real problem. That's a real problem. Um, a a useful concept to um that uh that people who study, psychometricians, people who study testing, um they have a they have a term for how we misunderstand math tests and it's called or tests in general. It's called the reification fallacy. Um, reification means sort of the naming of something. Um, if you call something a math test, people will think it's a math test. But calling something a math test doesn't make it a math test. Um, so for instance, every time you take a math test, you need to know something about language. You probably need to know something about test taking strategies. Um, there's probably a whole bunch of other like cultural things that you need to know to function at a test. And the test is effectively evaluating all those things. Um, the other thing is a test can like there's no test that can say that you know all of eighth grade algebra. Um, the way we take that would take you forever. Um, instead what we do is we sample out of a domain. We say here's all the stuff that might fit in eighth grade algebra and like we're going to pick some of this stuff and some of this stuff and some of this stuff. Um, a way you could think about this problem is that we over sample computing and we under sample all of these other kinds of things. Um, now what? Um, well, maybe let's do let's do one more that's like this. Um, here's here's one of my very favorite paragraphs that's ever been written about computer programming by Hal Abson, who's here, and some of his colleagues. Um, this is from a a computer science textbook. Um, first we want to establish the idea that computer language is not just a way of getting computer to perform operations, but rather that is a novel formal medium for expressing ideas about methodology. Thus, this is probably the key sentence. Thus, programs must be written for people to read and only incidentally for machines to execute. Second, we believe that the essential material to be addressed by a subject at this level is not the syntax of particular programming language constructs, nor clever algorithms for computing particular functions, nor even the mathematical analysis of algorithms and foundations of computing, but rather the techniques used to control the intellectual complexity of large software systems. Um why would it be important for programs to be written for people to read and only incidentally for machines to run? People are the ones who are maintaining the code. Can't understand it. And how are they going to maintain it? People have to be able to maintain it. What else? What might folks say? Yeah. The way you add new features, the way you collaborate, the way you build large complex systems is that you build a system that people can read and understand what it's doing. um uh when you can't read and can't understand what it's doing. Um now when you when you all take introductory computing classes um and you submit your homework assignments and they're automatically graded, what are the kind of characteristics of your programming that those systems are good at grading sort of the output of whatever occurs? Okay. So, um the the assignment presupposes some kind of engineering test and figures out whether or not you pass that test, like but did your spell check dictionary detect the misspelled words or not? Um uh if it passed a series of randomized test cases from input to output. Okay, good. So, similar kind of thing like we we throw a b we throw a bunch of possible inputs in this system. Does it all come up with the outputs that it's supposed to come up with? Other kinds of engineering tests. Dana just going to say like sometimes they'll implement like a time like does your code does your code run fast enough? Good. So there could be a you know that's one kind of efficiency metric. I think there are other kind of efficiency metrics that maybe have you ever done things where you like you only have a certain number of lines or a certain number of characters or something like that to try to generate some parsimony or something like that. Some classes here do have like these like style checkers. I'm not too sure what they check exactly, but um they check for certain like stylistic choices you made in your coding, but a lot of them also depend on you to have like to have like correct computationally code to then give you the style point. Yeah, good. You know, and I think the style starts getting at the sort of programs must be written for people to read. Now, they probably don't check things like did you name your variables and your functions something sensible that somebody else would be able to to understand later on or other kinds of things like that. Um, but you could think of those style guides as like like initial, you know, like we have pretty good tests for the kind of incidentally for machines to execute. That's kind of our like our efficacy, our efficiency evaluations. um you know in some in some ways like the style checkers you're describing also they might be kind of silly but like another way to think of them is like as a as a reasonable first step towards these kinds of things like what are all the machine readable parts of style um that we can get a computer to evaluate and how over time would we build increasingly sophisticated um style checkers, computer assessors that would just do a better and better job year after year of pull of evaluating more and more features of code that have to do with humans understanding and communicating with each other rather than just machines. What were you going to say? Uh I was just going to add that uh basically I've been a part of a course where they also do like design checks for the code on top. So they're checking like are you writing good efficient loops? are you writing redundant code? But even so, I really feel that within this introductory like programming space, they're mostly checking for how well the students are overfitting to the given problem space already. Like what they want to test for is problem solving, but that's just really hard to do. I think good. So that you that it's very difficult. So a in the solution of any given problem, it's very difficult to detect for something that would be sort of like generalizable problem solving skills. And even worse, it's essentially like so far it's proven more or less impossible to design assessment machines that can detect something like generalized problem solving skills. Like to some extent like anytime we build these things, you know, the our most sophisticated assessment tools sort of like work best on particular problems that you've like fit them to work on and other kinds of things like that and they work less well um on more generalizable kinds of things. Um what are what are some other domains that we could think of that are sort of maybe I'll have you chat with each other for a minute. Um talk about talk about two things. Um what what are what are just other domains that you can think of that are like this where computers can sort of test something in the domain but they may not be able to capture like the most important or like big important classes of things in that domain. Um think about that for a few minutes. That might be like the sort of putting a pessimist's hat on to think about that. Um, and then put on your optimist hat for a minute or two and say like in the next 5 years, where do you think we're most likely to see the most progress um in sort of thwarting the trap of routine assessment? Like where are we most likely to develop um assessment tools that actually evaluate people on things that we really care about and want human beings to be able to do? Um turn to the person uh next to you or a couple people and talk about those two things for three or four minutes. Ready? Go. Let's do let's do the let's do the first one first. Um what are what are some domains that you could think of where it seemed like ah we were like we really are having a hard time using computers to get at the important stuff here like essay writing or short stories or anything to do with like writing in literature. Great. And that's pro like that's probably one of the most studied most examined domains. Um and again it's a place where like we have a like at least the baseline in that field is pretty well understood. Um so some of the very worst assessment like just like the most disappointing kind of assessments we do is people's long form essay writing on standardized tests. Um there's a guy here named Les Pearlman um who used to um joke about the quality of standardized writing assess assessment by noting that that he could pretty reliably score essays from across the room um because you just hold them up and see how long they are. Um and just by glancing them he could be like oh that's two that's a three that's a five. Um he also wrote pretty early on a pretty fun piece of software. um there are all these companies that were creating automated essay graders. And so he got a group of MIT students to make software that generated nonsense text um that did really well on these automated essay scorers. Um which was just it it was pretty fun to read these things which just were like complete hallucinations of madness and then you know some system would be like five. Um but uh um we we we actually have developed software tools. Um so think you know when like the GRE essays are scored or things like that. So humans go and score them. It's incredibly disappointing how they do that. Um they read them all very quickly. They score them holistically. The people who do the scoring are like not particularly well paid, not particularly well trained. As you might imagine, like it's enormously boring to read essays over and over again about like, you know, who is the person in your life that inspired you the most or, you know, I don't whatever other ridiculous questions they ask. Um, and and but anyway, you can train those people to be reasonably uh similar in their scoring to one another. Um, and not only that, but for a given question, like if we ask people over and over again, who is the, you know, person that inspired you the most? you have a bunch of humans evaluate it. You feed all of those essays into some kind of machine learning algorithm. We can build um machines that are roughly as reliable as those humans. Um so um we can we can create automated essay scoring tools that do a reasonably good job that that predict what a human would score an essay about as reliably as two humans would would predict what the other person would score the essay. Like about as reliable as two people are. um it doesn't those systems don't work for shorter answer things. Um so you have to you have to be in the realm of a few hundred words before these systems become reliable. They're also not very useful for novel questions. If you invent a new essay question you want to give someone, you can't take one of these algorithms off the shelf and run it against the system and have it work. you have to like you know have which is which is why like I don't know I don't know how they do it exactly with essays but these standardized test companies like you know some fraction of the test that you take every time you take it um is not scored and it's just used for development for these kinds of things like that you know so you're somehow like we've convinced you to pay $75 to do voluntary work for giant test making companies and things like that um but yeah that's a that's a you know um that is a domain in which pe People will also disagree. Some people will be like, "Man, it's great that we have these systems because if you have tools that can automatically score essays, then you can encourage people to write more essays." Like, if we didn't have these machines that could score essays, like we uh they wouldn't be on standardized tests. And if they wouldn't be on standardized tests, then teachers wouldn't assign them, and then we would teach less writing. And so, like, even as crappy as they, you know, maybe there are some critiques about their concern, maybe there are some concerns about their quality, but they're still good for the system. Um but uh but yeah, clearly not everything that is important about writing is captured in those things. Like sort of closely related is like language learning. You can very easily assess whether someone knows a lot of vocab or verb conjugations or grammar or whatever by by a computer. But like that's not really the point of language learning. Like language learning is a lot of it's about like speaking and listening and and writing and stuff. And like especially like the speaking and listening part like you probably it's probably going to take a long time for computers to do that well. Especially like when you have variability due to like accents and regional stuff like it would be hard to assess whether or not someone really is fluent in a language by simply interacting with good. And you know language learning is such an interesting subject in general uh because it shifts so much in the middle of it. Um there there aren't that many things that like like you know the kinds of things you do when you teach social studies to third graders is not that different from the kinds of things that you do when you teach social studies to 12th graders. I guess it's more complicated but it's along the same lines but the initial learning of a language sort of more like a math or a science and then the later parts of a language is more like a humanities or a social science or something like that which is cool. Um, in the book I write a bunch about um, automated automated pronunciation detectors. Um, which to me I think are a great example of advances in language learning, especially when you think about the classroom contexts in which people learn to pronounce things. So, like take yourself back to your middle school Spanish class or whatever. Um, and there's 26 kids in the room and there's one teacher and the teacher walks up to you and goes, "Hola, kumo estas." And then you respond and and maybe the teacher gives you some feedback about their pronunciation. Maybe they're just whipping around the room, but you're getting at best like 126th of that teacher's attention for that pronunciation evaluation exercise. It's extraordinarily inefficient. Um I als I remember this a lot because I'm both bad at language learning and bad at pronouncing things. Um and you know so teacher like I would say stuff and the teacher would just like nod at me like okay go on to the next word like clearly I'm not learning this. Um but it like you know I can open up a computer that has an automated pronunciation detection and I can just you know mispronounce poor favore over and over and over and over again. And this thing doesn't care. It'll listen to me say it as many times as it want. you know, as they get better, they might be able to find they can at least give me examples of correct pronunciation. They might be able to fine-tune my pronunciation. Like, that seems like, you know, a place where computational assessment might really be a whole lot better um than human assessment, like in a domain that's pretty important. What was your example, Sabrina? I was going to say using computers to analyze art. like it can tell you about the color compositions, time period that it's from, um what makes it objectively appealing to look at, but it doesn't necessarily go into the artist's background or like the emotional message behind it or um why it was created in the way that it was. I think with art there's like it's usually not like the surface level which I think that the computer is like really good at hitting. Um but maybe the overall meaning message is missed entirely. Yeah. I it's it you know I mean there are AP studio art classes and things like that where you can submit a portfolio and I don't I've never I never thought about it before you brought it up. Um, but to my knowledge, there's no application of software in evaluating a student's art portfolio. But it's a kind of fun exercise to start thinking about like what could you assign an AP studio art student that could be graded by a computer that people would generally think is fair. Um, now clearly like abstract painting or something like that, like probably no one will think that's fair. um certain kinds of still life like where the where the task is like like reproduce this bowl of fruit as closely as possible to what the bowl of fruit actually looked like I would imagine I would trust a computer to do that as well or better than a human would you know but I'm not an artist maybe there's something about still lives I don't understand but the only application I can think of and I am very biased because I do a lot of photography is detecting and even then it's difficult detecting if something's been like altered in any sort of after the um like Photoshop and I know Adobee's working on like their own thing to like detect. What would what would what would be a thing that you would want a novice photographer to be able to do pretty well that a computer could tell whether or not they could do it well? Whether or not a photo is I think the most fundamental thing is like whether or not a photo is exposed properly without having to do any digital alterations. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's and again, you know, if you can get a computer that can do that evaluation, then you can then you can have all of the photography students get more formative feedback. Um, maybe you can get them to have more high stakes feedback. Maybe, you know, we could admit students into arts colleges based on their photography portfolio or we can just ask them more questions in their portfolio. We can say like, humans, go see like whether their intimate portraits like evoke the character of the person. Um, and don't waste your time figuring out whether or not they can expose photos correctly because like we got machines that can do that. Um, yeah, that's a that's a neat example. Um, so where were you most optimistic? Where do you feel like there's going to be the most improvement in the next five years and where are those improvements going to come from? Um, I sort of have a followup. Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah. Um, sorry. I was just thinking that if if the photo photos exposure level is detectable by a computer and then so you begin to not have humans evaluate that on admission tests anymore then soon you'd have to drop that right from the test like that portion of the value because students would then have access to these kinds of softwares as well which means they would never submit a photo that was not exposed. That is a great description of the trap of routine assessment. um that if if computers can detect performance, then computers can probably do that performance. Um if we if we can build a machine which tells whether or not a photograph was taken with the correct exposure, then we can just build cameras that will only take photographs with the correct exposure and then we don't need to teach humans how to do correct exposures anymore. And so that is like part of this loop that educators are sort of constantly wrestling with, constantly thinking about. Um, and a and a thing that makes this so hard for educators is it's really hard to predict um when your old high school friends are going to call you. Um, it's it's really hard. I won't say anymore. um uh it's it's really hard to predict um like in what ways these kinds of disciplines will change like like how will photography change over the next five years um is a really hard thing for for photography educators to guess right now. So um I was think I've been thinking about this a lot because we I shared this paper that we published with you um that's called that was generative AI and K12 and MIT perspective. I didn't share with you all. I shared it with my students. Um, and uh, one of the claims that we make in there is like we can be pretty sure that computer programming is going to change and that co-pilots are going to be a really sort of central part of computer programming and so computer science teachers should probably start thinking about how they're going to change their instruction. But I was just at a conference the other day um, where someone from Cornell Tech stood up and was like and the whole premise of the conference was how should what guidance should we give to computer science teachers to change their instruction? And this woman stood up and was like do not do that. you have no idea how computer science you how computer programming is going to change. You have there's no reason to give any new advice to teachers right now because we have no idea what that would be. Um and uh I started thinking more and more like well yeah like in part because I've been hearing from people who teach introduction to computer programming that their early efforts to incorporate co-pilots in instruction were going pretty poorly. um that basically like people like students were using them and then like week four, week five would roll around and they're like these students are totally confused. Like they haven't learned fundamental things they need to learn and that I talked to other software engineers who are saying things like every hour you save programming with a co-pilot will cost you an hour in quality assurance later. Um that the things like like you solve little problems but you end up creating bigger runs for some of the reasons that Hal has on the screen right here. And so then you start saying like, man, maybe we don't know like may like it's pretty it's pretty hard to think about how you should change um you know the like some people might say like why are we assessing computer programming at all anymore like the bots are just going to do it for us and then other people be like I'm not so sure about that like we might actually need people doing this or doing parts of this. Um it's a you know the other thing I think about a lot um is that his like historically educators are not very good at this. Um, so if you read like in the 19th century, the 20th century, like in you know, in the 19th century, there were a whole bunch of people who were like fervent believers in diagramming sentences. Did any of you have to diagram sentences when you're in elementary school? You know, subject, predicate, adverb, all these kind. I mean, there are people who went to their graves believing that like if we didn't teach young people what the pl perfect was, like then, you know, society was going to collapse. And they were totally wrong. They laugh at them today. But there's all kinds of stuff that you and I would sit down with a bunch of curriculum developers and be like, "Man, it's incredibly important that kids in 2024 learn X." And some fraction of those things are absolutely going to be vital in 20, you know, 75. And some of those things that we would like passionately defend right now, people in 2075 would be like, "Can you believe those folks 50 years ago thought that people needed to learn X?" Like what kind of mor, you know, those like the knuckleheads who believed in the Plue perfect in the 19th century or something like that. Um these are they're very difficult things to predict. All right, let's talk about more optimistic things. What are other things, Dana, that um we had a really interesting conversation where we were saying if you go back to what you were talking about earlier in how AI can help teachers inspire or I get AI can inspire teachers um with new homework assignments. Um but then we brought up this weird like edtech Matthew effect where um AI only pulls like specifically like say Chad GBT is only pulling from existing literature on the subject um other than the initial time that it like maybe accidentally puts in a random word and starts going off the walls and makes something crazy. It's really only pulling from what is already out there. So in the idea of bringing up um the middle class and the teachers with new inspiration, you almost have to pull ahead the elites to then produce the literature that is necessary to then inspire AI with new things that will then trickle trickle down to the middle class um for them to use. So it was almost like this interesting idea that AI can be useful, but it needs to have the right like literature to back it up. Um, and there's like this that interesting dilemma of like who is going to create that and how do you inspire people to push them ahead in that sense to help the the little guy? Yeah. What what kind of training data gets used is enormously important. We were talking about this with one of our guests from WPI who was saying that uh maybe whoever was doing that presentation can explain it better than I can, but that uh um uh like as LLMs generate more code and that code has problems with it um then future LLMs will pull in all that buggy code and suggest more bad code like you know like me. Yeah. Do you want do you want to say more about what the what the problem is there? So uh I used it to anyway so it was that LLMs are trained on copilot uh on GitHub code. So they essentially get all of uh the badly written code that copilot generates. So when students are generating that code uh they are essentially going to generate the same bad code and they're not going to fulfill the needs of what is required from the question as in uh when you uh give someone an assignment uh there the ways to test it is to give them uh some test cases but those test cases essentially do not solve the entire problem. Uh so teaching students uh how to build those test cases that covers the entire input space is more important than for them to be able to write code. Good. Yeah. And so um uh that was AI mean who knows if if what Shay just said is true, but that's a great kind of claim about the future. you know, building certain kind of test cases is going to be more important to the future of computer science than um you know, being able to write certain lines of codes or or knowing certain other programming principles or things like that. Like this is exactly what educators are wrestling with every time there's some new technological change. Um you know, do we still teach kids spelling in an age when we have spellch check? Do we still teach kids computation in an age where there are computers? These kinds of things come up over and over again. um or avo um something that maybe could be an optimistic outcome is that like software is a languageoriented I mean discipline and that's kind of why like top language based model is so good at doing it but there are things that aren't like analog circuit design is very visual and right now signal processing like training machine learning models with like images and things is a lot more difficult so for at least a few decades hopefully analog circuit design and other things that are related to hardware will be um good skills probably to teach kids and to build like decent fields to work in. Also, even though there are co-pilot things for things like cadence that does like um layout for like semiconductor chips or whatever, I don't think they're good. I also don't know how they work. So a more strong emphasis on teaching kids kind of like the basics of how the things that they are I guess catering to if tattoo actually work. What I'm trying to say is that I hope that people like have this shift towards understanding how things work from the bottom instead of the top which is good because then you can build things from ground up. Wow. Great. Yeah, I like that. What were you gonna say? I don't know. I'm just I have AI have a disagreement with the analog circuit design, but that's just purely because anything because it's still a visual software that's doing it. So there is some translation that could be considered. It's like probably I do know a couple of analog circuit design softwares that just translate down to XML and you can just stick that XML which is a structured object oriented language into chat GP get new XML back validate that it's correct see it and it'll probably produce a correct circuit in some capacity. But can you like I mean where are you starting when you get like designing the amplifier or something? Um it's it's starting from you have well the same thing when you started now. Not nobody had code when it first started. You would have whatever data set of people has all their amplifier files that are all lined up whatever it is. Then you would ha then you would decide okay let's get the let's get the textual representation of this in some syntactical language which XML was just one that came to my head but it could be anything that can represent the image in text form since that's all the software is doing since it's just the inputs and outputs where you connect from wire a to wire wherever it is and that can usually be limited and then you take that text train the LM on it you run it through it you get some out you then say okay generate me an amplifier and it will generate you an amplifier with that XML, you put it back into the visual software. Now, look, you now have an amplifier. Okay. My new hope is that all of this becomes proprietary and they don't like, you know, and I think what's what to me what from an educator's point of view, what's so sort of challenging about these kinds of questions is like I know nothing about your domain and so both of the cases that you just made seem totally plausible to me. um and that it's really hard pe people seem to be really bad at predicting the kinds of things um that AI are going to be useful for in the future like which of these problems are solvable and which are they not um so you can imagine somewhere out there there are people who like run the you know AET engineering um uh curriculum certification kinds of things or people who are department heads or or people who are writing textbooks or things like that like which of this stuff do we want to keep because human beings we'll still need human beings to So you know for the three categories which of the stuff is like nah like in the future just AI will build the c like it'll just tell the a you know you'll tell some machine learning system AI system the kind of circuit that you want and it'll print it out and so you don't really know that need to know that much about it. B um yeah an AI will probably print out most of these things but it's still useful for humans to be able to understand this thing um because that gives you some kind of insight about how you would build other technology other things like that. Um or no there's no way computers are going to be good at this stuff. We still need human beings kind of primarily to do it. like those are at least three categories of things. Um, and it's really hard to predict sort of which things move into which categories. And it's very difficult to get education systems to be good um at doing new kinds of things, which is why like most of the schools that you went to um you know had very little computer science education and stuff like that, you know, because in the 19th century when we designed high schools, there wasn't computer science and so we didn't put it in the curriculum. Um and uh and we're a lot better at doing the kinds of things we've done before than doing new kinds of things. Um all right good. Were there other observations or thoughts about that? I think it can technology can u bring about change in the legal system. So a lot of people um lawyers spend a lot of time reading stuff and building upon that uh for a specific case. So and that's what determines their career. How big you get and is depends on how much you've read, how much you've experienced. So if all this knowledge is really available to them uh for a specific test case then probably it's going to make their lives much more easier. Yeah. You know I think some of the sort of framework that that Levy and Maine offer also help us think about like what kinds of things will lawyers need to be good at in the future. Like to me it strikes me as very unlikely that computers will have much impact on the part of trial lawyer work. Um which is convincing juries of things. Um like like the people who actually like get in front of juries and try cases and things like that. Um like it's very unlikely that we'll have you know AI machines that generate scripts for them or things like that because that kind of persuasive complex communication seems to be the domain in which human beings are most specialized at. Um we probably like you know expert thinking seems to be the domain in which you know um like I'm sure you know like like are people going to write AI software that detects tax loopholes? Um absolutely like somebody is going to you know um you know come up with all kinds of new ways that you know they're much faster at humans at finding ways to defeat the tax code. Um but there probably still be human beings um who for instance recogni like who who are much better at machines at recognizing like oh well like this part might be like stri slightly strictly illegal but because of the way or like like like un like its legality is not tested but I happen to know because of everything that I know about like the functioning of society that like this is a particularly weak point in the tax code and would be a good place to um you know uh uh shelter or profits and those kinds of things. Um, and then there does seem to be some kind like the more the more a legal task veers into the routine category um the more it's it's uh hey we just need to you know know how many times in these documents these things are said or something like that. Um but it is I mean to me it's useful to recognize that like I mean people were people were stressed about that in in 2017 um you know with the machine learning techn so like like there's still lawyers in the United States there's still law schools like our legal system has not you know profoundly changed from um from what machine learning offered in fact I think like legal education has probably barely changed at all um on the basis of these things except maybe you could like take it I don't know this for sure I have no expertise in this but I assume you could like take an elective in computers in the law or something like that or machine learning and the law now that you wouldn't be able to do before. Do you guys some thoughts? Yeah. Uh in terms of the first in terms of when you initially say back about lawyers and being a and not being able to generate scripts. Yeah, I would very much agree. There was actually um there's actually a case where I think two lawyers got heavily sanctioned. I think it was with the airport where they pretty much just tried to generate an entire script purely through tax. I think it I think it was a filing and I think the filing included uh like fake citations and stuff like that which is really not the best. Yeah, and you could definitely see it where basically if you give it you could basically make a much better search database using if you happen to stick in all these thousands of cases where all the where all the lawyers are where all these lawyers are pretty much having decisions that change and ones and maybe one that benefits your benefits your stance could have been ruled on earlier on earlier on in that year. Maybe it's for the specific county there something different. You can definitely I definitely see that in the future. I don't know even if within that five years. Yeah. Being a being able to like being able to do scans of precedents for a case or something like that. Um maybe one other domain we should talk about before we head out is just um you know one of one of the biggest places in which we will see pushes in the K12 education system with new tools will be in formative feedback for writing. Um there going to be many there are many many people right now who are building systems so that like you assign students to write an essay they turn in the essay to you and or before they turn in the essay to you um you offer a bunch of formative feedback um and I'm very interested in the development of these systems I was talking with the um someone who's building one at UC Irvine and I guess I was reading about some others too. Um it struck me that one of the things that these systems have the capacity of doing um is saying something like here are 10 or 15 or 100 things that I want you to check for every essay. Um does it you know does the does a paragraph start with a topic sentence? Um is there a transition sentence between does the paragraph seem like it has evidence? Does the introduction appear to have a thesis? Um, does the conclusion tie? You know, you can think about all the things that you've been ever been taught to write. Um, a thing that I'm really interested in is that I my hunch is I mean I thought about these a lot because a lot of what I do is grade writing um give feedback on writing is that like some of this sort of seems intuitively helpful to me like oh it would be great if I could just tell students like hey before you turn in your your assignment like go run it through this thing and make sure that the beginning of every paragraph has a topic sentence even better than a topic sentence some kind of mini thesis something that presents the argument of the paragraph. Um, but I was thinking too like probably the most important thing that I do when I give feedback to someone, um, is figure out of the dozens of things I could comment on, which one I will choose to comment on. Like one of the things I've learned about as a writing teacher over the years is like it is really not helpful to tell someone everything they've gotten, you know, they can improve in their essay because that's just too much stuff to work on. I mean, you guys note that like I don't I mean, I I used to have people turn in printed essays and I used to like make marks on them and things like that. Um, but I found over the years like really what I want to do is be like these are the two things that you want to work on. Um, and how do I decide what those two things are? Like I sort of have in my head a model of people's developmental trajectory and some of that model is based on like all MIT students ever. Um, like you know when I see an essay that looks like this, I'm pretty sure the next thing they should work on is blank. And then as soon as I've gotten like two pieces of writing from someone, then I can be like, "Well, the thing you were working on last time was this. Why don't you work on it more? Here's like the next thing after that to work on or something like that." Um, that seems like the kind of discernment. It seems way way easier to me to program a machine that can like find every kind of problem than it is to program a machine that can figure out like what are the next two problems you should be working on as a learner. um based on you know who you are or where I think you're heading or what's important for my class or other things like that. I feel like that opens up the idea of um breaking out of the trap of routine assessment. Um if a computer can do those type of things, then maybe teachers can now focus more on what does revision look like? Um, so like a student, you know, goes through an essay or writes an essay and then puts it through this machine and the machine tells you like, oh, and these introduction sentences like they could be stronger in X, Y, and Z ways and how do you develop those critical thinking skills to take something and feedback and perform it or like change it in some way? Like you were always saying like anything that you published was never your first draft. You said like on day one, one of your good skills was being able to just like get down a first draft, right? CHBT can do the same for you. But how do we teach people in a world where AI can give you that baseline? How do we elevate it to a status that like is like acceptable for like a human? Like I feel like there's like AI can give us a baseline, but humans take that imagination and creativity to that next step. And so you can kind of take the idea of like here's an essay. How would you change it to make it even better? Yeah. I you know for for these writing software developers I I mean a big well when I talk to them I think about like what is the whole system that you're constructing like not every capacity that you build will end up being useful not just because it doesn't work but because like using it is not that helpful you start thinking things like all right what if there is a what if there are these sort of you know formative feedback systems um where I as an instructor can say like okay um you know start this package of uh um machines or something like that or or uh I select in advance that I want the machine to give you know to give to automatically give you formative feedback on these things and then on this other class of things I want you to show me the feedback that you would give to a student but I will pick from those things and then there'll be some way for me to sort of add to it like some of those sort of human machine combinations seem pretty exciting to me good um well why don't we wrap there for the Okay.