The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Okay. Uh let's uh have a recap of last lecture. So uh what we were doing is uh use the boardsman uh equation uh under relaxation time approximation. So that's a relaxation time and uh under this approximation we can write uh and also uh ninerize. So we keep the first order of the left hand side of the BMA equation and replace that f by f0. That's essentially so the distortion due to the transport and the f0 is the equin. So if f is just equal f0 there's no transport and but say when we have a gradient in f0 and in both uh real space and velocity or momentum uh uh space we have the deviation from the equin right uh so this is the uh uh first order solution for the boardsman equation under relaxation time approximation And using this we say from here you can look at the heat flux the momentum flux and the charge flux. So you can do all the flux and get the consider relations. We derive the for law and in this case we take a fullon as example. F0 is the distribution function but in this case the temperature become space dependent. So t is a function of x and then we do not have the momentum dependent. So we took this out and you get the f0 f solution and then from there you calculate the h flux and the flux is always whatever flux we had is f itself times the velocity in that direction right let's say here and uh u uh and then you sum up of all the states and per unit area. So normalized per volume, right? So this is the flux itself. And of course, if you want to calculate momentum, you put a momentum per quantum state or if you calculate the heat, that's a heat carried energy carried per quantum state. And next, what we plan to do is to calculate the charge flux, the current. So we're doing electrons and uh uh just say we're as common in Fal law. So for full on is t is a function of x and then when we did the newton shear stress law we say f0 is we replace with the displaced uh borsman uh maxwell distribution right because the molecule has a long zero average velocity u this is the average velocity vi is the uh phase space velocity the uh v itself cover from mass infant to plus infinite but the u is a function of the space only that's the average over all the momentum space right so uh this case u is a function of r so that's where we took a derivative we again look at the momentum flux we got the len share stress no and uh I might just comment for example if If you want look at this if t is a function of x you have both momentum transport and also say the spatial dependent due to temperature right temperature could also drive the uh um mass flow and this is in fact a couple heat and mass transfer and uh uh we we don't we didn't go into those details and if you want to derive I think one of the homework is actually doing the uh thermal derive thermal conductivity for gas molecules and in that case you actually have to do uh uh say uh say a mass balance and heat balance and this will you will see uh the more clearly in the example we're trading and that's actually for the coupled uh charge and heat transfer when we deal with electrons So uh at the end of last lecture we uh discussed the electron transport and we finally show that this solution will apply to electron is the f0 and then this gradient terms the complication for electron is we not only have spatial gradient due to uh uh the fmy direct distribution here but also we have the force applied to electron and because when I have electrostatic field the field will act act force right under electrostatic field field. So we combine all those and we derive at the end we have three terms df dx ef is the chemical potential and dc dx which is the electrostatic potential. This is a uh um um yeah I'll come common word the reference and dtdx where I have temperature gradient right so I have those three terms and the dfd k e k is the kinetic energy so this is where we spend uh made I made some comments so you have to understand that what's the camera potential what's electrostatic potential and what's the electrochemical potential right so uh uh we said the difference between EC and uh the uh firm level right is the electrochemical potential so is here is if this mu is relative to whatever absolute uh reference flat reference and this mu is made of the electrochemical potential which determine how many particles I have. So how many particle I have in the conduction band? If you look at this is EK. So this is the kinetic energy relative to the bottom of the conduction band. That's EK minus EF. So this EF relative EC is negative. So that's the difference there. EK minus EF right. So this itself determine the number of particles in the conduction band. So that's consistent with the chemical potential deterine is related to number of particles right and E say relative to the absolute level is where the potential energy of the electron the bottom of the electron that's where the potential energy is. So mu which is a combination of EF plus E say relative to absolute is the electrochemical potential is combine the camera potential with electric potential. So when I look at the driving force in fact you can say EF and D the two gradient electrostatic potential gradient and camera potential gradient are equivalent positions. they can both drive the charge flow and then we have a temperature gradient. So with this you can move the to the rest. For example, I want to calculate the charge flux. I'm doing Q, right? For electron Q is negative E. For holes, Q is positive E. So I'm just going to use Q. And uh if I want to look at the X direction, so I have VX, I have Q and I have F. I have say two factor of two to count for the spin and I sum up kx k y kz right. So you can say if I replace Q by mass per charge I guess the mass flux it doesn't matter when I deal with the electron flow but it matters when I deal with the mass diffusion right so all those uh uh is under the same idea really difference is what's the quantity we're interested and what's the uh detail of the f itself and uh starting from here your task is the same as we did for the uh fial law for luden share stress law you're going to convert this summation into integration you choose your own coordinate whether you want to work with energy you want to work with momentum if you recall for fial law we worked with frequency for luden share stress law we actually worked with vx X VY VZ and here uh you can the best is still work with the energy EK in this case because the F itself depends on F0. F0 has EK inside and that will be the easiest way to to deal with. So I'm not going to go through the intermediate step and I'm going to give you the final result. What I have is a capital term L11 - 1 / Q D E F DX plus D E DX plus L12 minus DT DX. So the current flow is coupled to electrochemical potential gradient and temperature gradient. EF plus EC again is d mu. So here is d mu dx minus q and sometimes is also written as the q mu over q. Let's use a capital phi dx and say this is called the emf electromotive force okay it's combination of electrostatic and uh chemical potential uh grad say uh for say so here because see remember these are the energy units when I talk about electrostatic potential I do actually EC divide by Q normalized by charge. So there are different units and even they all called potential some is energy unit and uh the other is energy divide by coolum right. So I have this coefficient the couple transport L11 L12. Let me give you uh say a expression for L11, L12 and L11. After you do all your math integration, you say it's 1/3 uh Q² 0 to infinite and V² and D E K and D F0 D E K and D E K. And if I do have a parabolic band remember the energy EK is 12 MV squar over two right or if I do the uh uh say in quantum term is say 2 m h² k because mv is the momentum h bar k. So uh you can uh convert this way into ek and do your integration. Uh okay. So this is the uh one coefficient and the other coefficient L12 is uh mass q / 3t 0 to infinite v² to e kus ef0 d e k d e Okay. So, uh if I know the density of states, oh, I should have density of states. Density of states d uh ek. Okay. So, if you know the density of states, you know relaxation time, you can calculate those transport coefficient, right? And uh uh uh uh if you recall when we talk about the electron energy levels chronic penny model those are the different ways to calculate the details of the band structure of different materials and from that you can get dens and from density states you dope the material. So based on doping you can determine where is your EF. if can be adjusted by doping. Okay. And this is a harder to calculate how relaxation time we discussed. uh uh in fact I say there are really not good way not many calculation of the relaxation time for electrons and because I say once you go to those scattering process it's always a higher order and more difficult to deal with but say in general the framework is there like you do density function theory you can calculate the uh band structure of different materials and calculate substates ef for this other quantity and uh uh from there you can potentially also calculate this scattering rate using the perturbation method like firmy golden rule. Okay. So those are the uh generic the functional form we have and uh uh let's look a little more into details what the uh solution tells us. Okay, so first let's look at the constant temperature case there's no temperature gradient and uh in the case of constant temperature let's drop the first term uh the second term here right then the uh current flux is related to electrochemical potential gradient I further or distinguish we should uh say metal and in metal the electron density is very high. So effectively there's no change in the electron density and uh if you recall the difference uh say between metal and semiconductor when we discussed before this is the electron energy momentum let's say here is the uh say electron uh band structure the energy we vector relation in case of metal my firm level is deep into the band right this is my EF and the most of this charge below the firm level they don't have because they are not mobile they they are field states so only about the KT near the firm level are the charge that actually moves right so in this case uh if I look at the the term uh EF which is a camera potential the charge uh number density of the charge in the metal doesn't change much so df dx can be dropped out it's really electrostatic potential pretty much that uh uh is driving uh the uh charge flow and if I look at the transport essentially this is ohms law right jk the current flow box is proportional to the electrochar uh the potential gradient and the L11 is the electric conductivity. So I have L11 is the electric conductivity and uh in the case of metal right this differentiation is non zero near the firm level and the other places they are all pretty much zero. So I can approximate this uh integer with 13 to f this is the relaxation time at the firm level and density of states at the firm level e² vf velocity at the firmy level. So this is the uh electric conductivity and which you can further written uh because say you can relate density of states to the electron lumber density in the material. So this is ne² uh say m to power f. Okay. So that's the uh electric conductivity uh in metal is mainly the carrier density doesn't change much is the electrostatic potential uh that's driving uh the current flow. Now if we look at the semiconductor and in semiconductor I have both the carrier density and the electrochemical pot the electrostatic potential gradient. They all could vary in the semiconductor. when you make a ping junction for example there is a large change in the band edge of the semiconductor. So uh both term uh uh is say changing and uh the current density is often written as rather than write into just this term you actually sometimes split this out. one is related to density EFDX that's related to carrot density. This one is related to electrostatic potential. So the uh in semiconductor uh the uh famous equation people swap is q n mu epsilon x that's the electric field okay which is the gradient of negative just say 1 / q d c dx okay and plus a diffusion term dn dx because df ef determine the carrot density. There's a fixed relation between ef and n. So df dx is dn dx and with the uh uh diffusion coefficient a. So here is diffusivity and here is uh the the reason it's written in metal we don't talk about the mu we talk about sigma in semiconductor this n changes a lot so you normalize the sigma this q and mu gives Sigma electric conductivity right? So here is sigma and this mu is the mobility. Okay. So uh sigma equals qn mu. And if you go back to here because sigma is n e² m to power f right. So in general mu is related to uh m um uh n to so no n uh e to uh say e to say the yeah divided by m right so measuring the mobility effectively You see in this you have the effective mass you have the relaxation time. So it's a measure of the relaxation time and will give you information about the effective mass. Okay. And uh uh now you can say in fact both of those terms right have the same coefficient. I'm just writing splitting them up. So this diffusivity and mobility are related to each other and the relation between diffusivity and the mobility a is kb t over e * mu and this is called Einstein relation. Okay, it's a general relation I say between the mobility and diffusivity. Einstein didn't work on this. Okay, what he really worked on is the brownie motion. And in the case of brownie motion, the uh particle diffusivity, let's think about the milk molecules in water, right? The milk molecule diffusivity is related to viscosity of the fluids. So this is a general in fact I say there generalization of this as I said before Einstein started this other direction linear response theory and this is a part of uh uh say uh dissipation fluctuation dissipation theory general very general say this is a diffusion is a a fluctuation process mobility is a dissibation collision process Yes. So that's a fluctuation dissipation theorem. That's a one example of fluctuation dissipation theorem and Einstein relation between the mass diffusion and the viscosity is another example. So there are many example fluctuation dissipation very general. So what the electrical engineer do is solving this equation here is called drift diffusion. So this is the drift diffusion equation. Okay. So if you look at a lot of say in fact uh even nowadays right the camos say uh say uh say moss right you all know is metal oxide fail effect transistors right and even with the gate now shranked to uh t I don't know exactly how many t 20 or 30 nanometers the industry is still using this equation Okay. And they just tweak the parameters. They tweak the mobility parameter, diffusivity parameters just to fit the device characteristics and they know it's not quite valid because the electron mean free pass could be larger but it's building in many softwares. It's amazing that they can still use to design the circuits. Okay. So that's the semiconductor drift diffusion equation. If you design solar cell, this will be the equation you're going to solve most solar cells. Okay. And uh so now let's look at the the first case we discuss is a constant temperature and uh uh let's discuss when temperature is not constant. right? It's a uh function of x. So in this case I have a material I have a temperature gradient right and uh in the x direction I have heat conduction and what happens say first if I open circuit J equals z. So what do you have if you have a open circle J oh not EQ I now E is for electron Q is more general sometimes I switch because there are not enough symbols okay when you deal with heat you like to use a Q and when you deal with charge you like to use E but the E is negative so all this complication but open circuit right if you look at that my flux equation here and what I have is this is zero but I have two terms on the right hand side dt dx is not zero so I will have d5 dx non zero that balance it so what I really have in this case I have my cback coefficient is defined as the negative dy dx this This is uh essentially uh the uh sometimes we use say electric field epsilon x right but say uh I used epsilon x before so I'm just going dy dx and dt dx okay and this one is the cback coefficient and it equals l12 l11 and remember l1 for my sigma. So if I look at this, I substitute the expression for those coefficients. Right? If you say the difference of the two V square to V square to D and D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D F0 D E K the difference is just EKU and of course in the front there are small difference right so what I have here is I will have E over to E T is temperature is the positive charge uh um now sign problem A square towel and E K minus E F D F0 D E K and density of states EK D E K I write it because I want to explain what it means right square to DF0 D K D E K. So you can say that this is the Sback effect coefficient and Sback effect was discovered in 1821. That was about same time electricity was studied. And uh uh so basically when you apply a temperature gradient to material you generate uh uh electrochemical potential gradient. Okay. And what happens now if you look at this is a temperature gradient drive a diffusion right current. So when I have higher temperature the electrons diffuse faster they come to this side there are more on this side when there are more the chemical potential will change electrostatic potential will change they readjusted to resist the diffusion so this term is resist diffusion this is diffusion right driving force so at the end you have a lag open circuit let charge equals zero right let current flow equals zero and you have a voltage developed across the material okay and so that's the uh phenomenological explanation now if I connect this to the band structure so here is my conduction band just look at the conduction band right here is where the chemical potential level firm level is and EK minus EF so is this difference right I said this is E say this is EF itself right EK is here so I have EK minus EF so it's the average energy you can see here this is EK minus EF is a so the rest is just the here you can think about that Each electron at certain energy level has a specific energy dependent spectral contribution to electric conductivity and I'm averaging that to the differential electric conductivity there right so back coefficients is the average of the electron energy relative to the time potential. Okay. And uh this also the electron energy right to chemical potential is the heat. So it's the average energy per charge and you use thermalouple. So next time you can say you're measuring a voltage reading out of thermalouple fundamentally is average is actually the heat per charge carried you measuring and heat per charge carried is also the entropy per charge carried. So the feedback coefficient is really uh entropy uh of the charge. Okay. And uh with that you can also appreciate why metal has a low Cback coefficient. So if I look at the say metal I draw the firm level of metal here right and is the if the electron is above the firm level they have positive heat. If electron below the firm level they have negative heat but in metal you are averaging overall positive negative they cancel each other right so that's why metal has a low cback coefficient and in a semiconductor my hole is here my EF is very close to uh uh the chemical potential uh to the conduction band or very close to the balance band. So normally I want the one type of carrier and do they do not cancel each other but in fact in most uh uh uh thermal electric effect that you actually do it very heavily into the band. Okay. So your chemical getting into the very close to the bottom conduction band but above it and in that case those carriers in the bottom below that chemical potential is actually harmful. They they do cancel right. So uh that's why in some of those structure people want rather than this kind of parabolic dens of states but if you have those kind of density of states sharp features you will be better. Okay, that's the quantum size effect and we uh we can go we'll discuss more size effects in the next chapter. So this is the uh uh seeback effect and that's the so associated with the charge flow I have also uh the heat uh carried by uh the due to the uh drive the charge flow. And now let's look at the other which is the heat carried right heat flow. Okay. And uh what is the heat flow? I already mentioned that the EK mass EF is the heat carried. And in fact uh you could write down the energy equals right the first law tells us the energy equals the heat plus uh EF dn right the chemical potential times the change in the number of particles that's the first law you can also add the electrostatic IC. So basically the energy in the material is say N times the energy per charge right that's my E or here. So you can say DQ per charge is E minus EF. So it's really the heat is here EK minus EF is my heat. So is heat carried per uh uh say quantum states. So with that I can go to calculate what's the total amount of heat when the current al flows in the material. So J Q I think my book use one is J E the other is J small Q but since I've been keeping J Q as for the charge so now I'm doing the capter q okay so J ko then is 2 over kx k y kz right and if you look at here when we do the charge charge per quantum state is Q, right? And here what I have is the heat is EK minus EF and V XF. So again I'm applying my general expression general way how to find the what's the uh flux uh for different quantities and uh you go through the conversion of the summation into integration again and what you find out is I have uh L21 minus D5 again d5 dx because I already have f right and uh plus L22 minus DT dx. So this is the current flux. So I have a set of coupled expression J for the electrical is L11 D5 DX and L12 DTX and for the heat flow I have 21 L22 DTDX right and in fact there is a very fundamental relation between those coefficients. Anytime you see couple the couple the expressions right say the uh charge is coupled to temperature that's a cross term right if you write your cross term into a general entropy so this is a generalized thermodynamics the general thermodynamic the driving force for the uh flux the heat flux and any other flux charge flux is the entropy gradient in there. Okay. And uh for entropy if you recall is dd x1 / t and q right. So that's the so it's t in the denominator. So, so any of this if you write into generalized entropy as a driving force then this cross coefficients are always equal and this is the fundamental say relation. So here we have uh anaga relation and in this case because I'm not writing uh say L21 uh say dtdx in terms of entropy if I use entropy say they should equal but because I'm not using the entropy so I have t L2Y equals T * L12 Okay. So anytime this like I said any coupled process you can always ask where is your answer relation. Next time you go to semula right a guy talk about pzo electric pole electric is the electrical and the pressure there got to be that coupling coefficient from electrical to pressure to force or from force to electrical. their coefficients always obey the answer relation. Okay. And uh uh so that's the uh form and I'm not even going to write down those expressions all in the book. And again let's look at the uh uh the implication right and uh if I first look at the uh uh constant I say temperature case again I flow current through the material right and this term drops out this term drops out but I can replace dy dx by jkl right then I have a relation between the heat current and the electric current so if you do that relation uh in uh say you have uh here you have the heat current will be related to the electric current L21 1 L11 and J E uh JQ right so this is the pier effect so when you fly flow a current through a conductor associated with current there's a heat carried by the charge and this is reversible when you change the current direction so this is the peltier coefficient coefficient and this is the the effect itself is the effect itself actually don't manifest just in a semi in same material and what happens is when you put the two material together one and material two and you pass a current Now at the junction you do your energy balance because because of pelt coefficient difference. So there's more heat flow out or more heat flow in at the junction because of this difference. So you have cooling or heating depends on the current direction which is reversible as you change your current direction. Okay. And of course if you look at this because of seeback effect is L12 L11 and L21 is TL12. So I know this pi the peltic coefficient is actually related to cback just times absolute temperature. So these two are related to each other and this was uh say this is called a Kelvin relation but it's a one special example of the general anse relation I just said right Kelvin is much earlier than an answer lower price also for the ans relation he developed Okay. And uh uh so we have the uh example uh of the uh the Calvin relation is the example of the answer. And uh I think I mentioned this before Calvin is say is Lord Kelvin and it's the same as Thompson. Okay. uh say he if you check he wrote over 500 papers in his lifetime in the 18s 1800s it's not easy even to type it right okay so that's the uh uh one case and second case if I just uh combine These two equation I can always eliminate the electro chemical potential d5 dx d5 dx in term express q heat flux in terms of current flux. So what I have if I enimilate the d5 dx what I have in general j equals pi jq. So that's the PL and then I have the next term is L11 L12 L22 minus L12 L21 divided by L11 and times DT dx uh here in the front dtx. So what it what it means normally you would probably tend to think L22 is your thermal conductivity right that's not the case because you can say when I flow a current through the material the heat flow is one term is the pel heat flow and second term is a temperature gradient driven and so this temperature gradient driven is not just L22 is this all combined together and so here this term is the K is electronic because here I'm modeling electrons right the phonons we already did before full on we did the thermal conductivity expression electronic thermal conductivity is K is this blob there it's a combination of three coefficients okay and Uh so if you uh in metal and you can uh show that say okay K again say all this roughly give you one/3 say we square to and towel is the energy relaxation time and uh uh uh you can look at all those and actually find the relation because eventually what's connecting them. If you look at your solution, F has a towel, right? F itself has a towel has a V. Let's say at the end you have dens of states. So the difference between those different coefficients just whether is averaging the charge, it's averaging the energy. So because of that this uh K and the thermal conductivity and electrical conductivity actually related. If you recall in the last lecture we mentioned for the gas it's the same right the viscosity and thermal conductivity are related. So all this is because you come from the pretty much the same equation except that I'm doing different averaging. So what I have in this is K sigma T and in particular in metal this one is a constant and this is a pi squar over 3 and KB over E² and is 2.45 45 10 the - 8 uh all watt uh Kelvin square and this is Laurens lumber and uh Norren and this is called this called the winman friends Oh, wait a minute. So in metal the electrical conductivity divided by electronic contribution to to thermal conductivity divide by electric conductivity normalized temperature because specific heat of electron is linear proportional to temperature and that ratio gives you a constant. And if you check a lot of material metal in metal the dominant heat carrier is electrons and full on contribute probably less than 10 10% in general and you'll see that indeed the electrical and this is very close to this ratio. Okay. So a simple lazy way if you don't know the electric conduct thermal conductivity which is harder to measure is measure electric conductivity you can give you estimation right and of course say if you do semiconductor that's a little bit different and semi if you do semiconductor you have to uh uh go back to all this expression and turns out that this Norris lumber depends on carrot concentration. Okay, because your EF is changing right different doping will change the firm level and hence say all those coefficient depends on firming level. So but the range so far this range so far has not changed much and the theory I've seen is a probably fact within fact of two difference but say it's a fulillation but the theoretical possibility that I have is how one can design a material so that the electronic thermal conductive is zero right but the electric conductive is not zero And see if you if you go to check when this is zero and but you don't want the L1 one Z you actually say functionally it's possible. Okay. So this is how you actually achieve this in real materials because that's very important uh when you deal with the electrics. Okay. So uh we have started from the distribution function the deviation and we say okay if you write all those coefficients you should be able to show the fundamental this is say the uh uh coupled charge to electrical and temperature gradient and the heat carried by the charge to the electrochemical gradient and temperature gradient. Right? These are the uh ansego type of relations and uh uh in many many say in fact those are there are many very interesting couple process and I mentioned PZO electric recently uh say there are also uh I get interested in this so-called spin so electron spin can also carry heat and the spin see back there that's u becomes called hot topic if you're interested you can tech literature and uh magnetic say uh say we talk about the electron we talk about phong and there are also the so-called megalons the magnetic uh say collective motion of say waves of the magnetic uh field. So all those uh say effects could be coupled and this coupling that probably can lead some very interesting technology or effects and uh so it's uh it's worth looking and if you do heat and mass transfer again those are coupled right and then in the heat and mass transfer there's also fundamental relation between the heat transfer coefficient the coupling coefficient that's again example manifestation of the general uncorization. Okay. So I want to dive in uh and get into more detail of the electric. I look at the my uh progress so far. I found that we're one lecture behind. So uh what I'm doing is trying to combine this into the thermmoelectrics lecture. I have 30 minutes. Okay. You already have this thermmoelectric effect. So it should be not too difficult. And what I want to say tell you is where the ZT come from ZT, right? So given what you have learned I can write the energy balance and if I you can start with differential because uh the equation I've given you are differential equations. So if I think about in general when I have a conductor right I take a a differential element I have both heat and the charge flow in the material. This is a x x + dx. Right here I have the uh jq at the x and uh here I have a jq at x + dx. Right? And uh when I look at the energy balance under a electric field, I also have the change in electrochemical potential. Right? So if I write my energy balance for this problem. So I have J Q at X minus J Q at X + DX. That's the heat carried by charge flow in minus flow out. And I could have also of course uh you can think about that you can have convection or that radiation. I'm neglecting that. But uh because I have electric field I cannot leave like that. So my field is the current how much energy those charge are losing is how much electrochemical potential uh gradient that I lost in this section. Right? So this I def uh uh defy gives me zero. So that's my energy balance. And uh uh if I sometimes I also feel this is not necessary I can just write my uh here is my uh heat equation right heat carried by charge but if I add electrochemical energy by charge together that's the total energy energy flux and that will give me same expressions. So this is say electrochemical heat. And if you uh now substitute what we have here, right? Uh eventually I wrote down a different expression here. Oops. I erase it. Okay. So the the equation we I just written down. So if this is a cross-section A, so what I have is after I put in is dt uh a * dx. This is the heat term. The difference of these two gives me the peltail times the current electric current minus the electronic thermal conductivity dt dx. And in fact I say uh I should erase this electronic. I should just use the total thermal because I also have four lons right. I have the lattice heat conduction. So I combine them all together. dt dx and then dx. So this is the in the difference uh of the two over the section dx plus i dy dx d5 equals zero. But recall that I have to when I look at the d5 dx I have to look at the jq kill and d2dx term right it's coupled right what when I have a d5 dx I have to go back and replace d5 dx in terms of jq and dtx I have another term right so now you put all this together. I'm not going through the math. And what do you have is a k if I assume temperature dep say thermal connectivity is temperature independent. That's the first term dtx k d t d t d t d t d t d t d t d t d t d t dt ddx² that's a typical what I have in a heat conduction equation. But I have a extra term that's what I want to show. This is a j uh j kil t ds dt and dt dx plus uh j² over sigma = z. So this is the jar heating right is AI squar R. This is the heat conduction normal heat conduction. This term is reversible. There's an extra term when I pass a current through a same material and depends on direction of this current relative temperature graded I can have along the material heating and cooling. Okay. And this is a Thompson term. Thompson effect. So that's a L Kelvin and he discovered so Cback and Pelter were all experimentally discovered and he tried to collect them and he said there has to be a third effect and he was honored for this Thompson effect and this one is reversible. when you pass current and say through the material and in fact I say the negative sign because we have here is more heat generation this is a uh cooling uh in the current uh say location there so the uh Thompson effect for this Thompson effect we can also define Thompson coefficient so thermmo electric effect. When we talk thermal electric effects, there are actually three effects. So, Thompson coefficient is the cooling the local cooling uh divide by J E J DT DX and this one is T DS DT and this is a Thompson coefficient. So in fact say all thermal electric coefficient Thompson coefficient here Kelvin relation between peltier and sebback coefficient you see it's all related right and uh uh there was a very interesting guy in thermmoelectrics and it's a Russian and uh uh he has a book on thermo very thermmoelect electric effects it's depends on how you arrange your magnetic field temperature gradient current flow there are probably over 100 effects he has a toy table there okay every time I go to thermmoelectric conference we give a talk you'll see that table some of this might be interesting I really haven't looked into all those details but uh uh so the point is see those couple transport there are many variations and Um so now you can go ahead go to solve this is a differential equation right if you typically your se back coefficient will be indeed temperature dependent so you're going to go to solve it and the most time this coefficient the thompson effect is actually is not very strong so it's you can approximately neglect it so if you neglect it now we go to look at the simple device analysis is right. So the simply this device is just a one leg normally you do you never use one leg because you have to put the leads there. But when you think about analysis, let's say uh if I do a cooling, right? If I pass a current through and uh say the current let's say this is a holes positive charge. So the current flow in this direction the hole flow this direction. They carry energy from this side to the other side. This side cools down this side heats up. Right? So let's say this is a hot this is a cold. that could you could create a pelted cooler that's the current application of thermmoelect electrics mostly is using you for cooling and uh um so if I neglect the Thompson effect you go to solve this equation based on the boundary condition TCT you can find the temperature gradient temperature profile in the material that's easy right uniform heat generation heat conduction you took a heat if you took a heat transfer course you can solve it but if not but you can still solve this it's a second order very easy differential equation okay so uh if you solve it you will find out the heat conduction at the cold surface right you have conduction and this conduction is because you establish by cooling you establish a temperature greater than TH and TC. So you have a reverse heat flow due to heat conduction of the material. So this heat conduction is a K A TH minus TC and this is coming back. This is actually not what you want, right? And but also there's another term because I have a jar heating term. So this jar he hidden again you can prove exact I say mathematically right jar hidden is a uniform distribution lag if you solve that equation you find out one half go back right the other half goes the other direction so what you have is 12 I² I is the current R is the electric resistance so electric resistance is 1 / sigma L / A right L is the length a is the cross-section. So this is the conduction due to the established temperature difference reverse flow and due to the jar heat conduct back at this interface. So this is reverse heat flow back. And now if you make a cooler your electrical current is flow this direction. They carry a heat away from this interface. So the lead cooling Q cooling is the pelia coefficient times current which pelt is ts Thompson times current and then counterbalanced by this reverse K flow which is so let's say R say KTH K this is a conductance right KTH TH minus TC say - 12 I² RE. So this is the left cooling you have. What you really want is this term. But because the material has a finite thermal conductivity, you want a zero. That's good, right? So you have heat reverse back. You have jar heating in the material. So you also uh uh don't like that you want the s is large. So um and but you look at this the cooling py cooling is a linear proportional to current jar hing is I square so there's optimum current you can take that you find the I optimum then you take the gradient equals z derivative equal z then the i optimum is st over re so that's the optimum imum uh current for the cooling and in this case you'll have the maximum cooling okay the maximum cooling uh I'm not going to write it down but when the maximum cooling is zero you see why you do you do that when it's zero you actually create the largest delta t you don't cool anything your maximum delta t you can have right so the maximum delta t I'm going to write it down. So when you have also uh Q cooling equals zero then you get your maximum T hot T cold maximum and it turns out this quadratic equation is 12 Z TC² and this Z is a famous ZT figure of merit of the material. where Z including S² sigma over K. And this is the figure of merit. Okay. So the unit of this is inverse Kelvin. You go to check And most of time it appears as a product of Z with the temperature. So ZT is a long dimensional. Oh, okay. This is cooling. But say for cooling I don't necessarily want I want them what's the most efficient, right? I also care about the efficiency of cooling. If I make a refrigerator and that's a uh say you don't call efficiency when you make a refrigerator. You say what do you pay? Electricity. And what do you gain in cooling? That's coefficient of performance. So coop of cooling is Q of cooling and how much you pay in your electrical bill the power right and uh the cooling already have. So what I have here this one you can say is a function of uh let let me just uh I'm not going to copy it but you can you can put this one there but what's interesting is what's in this case what's the electrical power you have to put in right normally you would say I square R but that's not the case for thermal electrics you will have I squ okay that's the resistance internal resistance but you also produce here a seback voltage is sus TC right so if you think about I'm I'm drawing is a positive C back. So the C back voltage is actually reversed because you have more uh see uh wait. Okay. So you have more charge in this direction uh than this direction. So you you have so you have the uh uh what I want to say is what should be the sometimes I'm getting confused now. So the sign should be because I'm only using one type material but if it's a uh it's basically I need to put in more power the generated seeback voltage resist my current flow. So is S T H minus T * I. So this is additional voltage generate due to the current uh due to the temperature difference exist across the device. Okay. So I'm paying more to overcome that temperature difference. So because of this you can say when I'm optimize coop I have take the derivative of this with respect to current that's different than I take a derivative of Q with respect to current I have a different optimum point for maximum efficiency versus maximum cooling power those are the operation of the device okay so you optimize this what you find out you if you maximize. So this is like when you operate your solar cell, right? There's always a optimum point because you don't want to run say say a solar cell later on you'll learn this is the solar cell typically current voltage and you want to say this is uh your current uh this is a voltage this is a current and you want to optimize so that the current times the voltage is maximum okay so the those kind of solid state device there's always optimal load loading you match the external load to the internal load and then when I do that my optimum say coop is t minus t this is a color factor if you have color engine that's what you get and then uh 1 + ztm minus t h / t and square root 1 + ztmus one. Oh, plus one. Okay, so this is a long ideal factor here. Z TM tm is the average of TH minus TC. So you can say I always get a product of Z * T. That's where the ZT come from. Okay, here is a color factor. Here is a long idea material factor. And you want to improve this material ZT. So increase those, right? And you'll see this is probably about 1/5 in many given ZT equals to one. That's a lot of material current material and that factor non idea factor is 1/5. So depends of course that depends on how large is your TH minus TA just can't reach certain if your TH over TA is too large it's negative you don't make a refrigerator out of it you have maximum delta T that you can achieve okay and uh you can also make a power generator you reverse it you make a power generator and that's the uh um again If you make a power generator, you have a maximum say efficiency and then you need a no matchet. So in the case of power generator your maximum efficiency if you do it is this is again color factor if you operate the heat engine between the TC and TH and the imperfection due to material is 1 ZTM minus one 1 + ZTM plus TC over TH. So this is a everything why in the thermal electrics people always say what's your ZT because uh you can't do much with the color factor of course you can always depending on heat source temperature range you can improve this one higher temperature but it's the material also how much you can reach compared to Ku okay and Few more comments. First if you do a electric material even if you get your best thermal electric material at the hand you may not know it because right the electric material is a three parameter and this three parameter ZT right if we look at ZT electron in the denom numerator thermal conductivity is the electronic thermal conductivity plus full on thermal conductivity you have both right K is K plus K Fon okay so we said that in the electrics this firm level can be controlled by doping right so it turns out the electric conductivity C coefficient all depends on doping and if you do the say very high You get into metal, sebback cancel each other. We comment before, right? Cback in metal is very low. So Cback drop as you increase your car concentration. On the other hand, the electric conductivity if you look at the is mobility times carry concentration times charge. So electric conductivity will increase right sigma s. So you have to optimize s square sigma you need to maximize right and in fact even this maximum point may not be the maximum because your k depends on carrot concentration. Okay. So your K is normally small but this is a K typical FON which is called independent car concentration car can scatter full once you get a lot very high car concentration withman France law will say it's proportional sigma K right so that gives you a typical ZT curve this is your ZT and this is in material is about 10 to the 19. It could be 10 to the 17 to 10 to 21. This is the range. So that's what I say this is a one over cm cubic. So even if you have the best material may not know it because your dopender is not right. You see this one doesn't work. So that's the difficulty with thermal. You have to control, you have to search, you have you change one parameter the other parameter change in uh sometimes people this is a contra properties right say one way the other way the so how you can be how you can f the material how you can fool nature to get a better materials second comment is this ZT z is seems like our analysis temperature independent but It's never temperature independent. It's always temperature dependent. So you go to look at your temperature dependence, right? This is temperature and sebback typically increase with temperature. Why is that? So when I look at a sim a semiconductor I increase the temperature the firming level moves to the center of the band. So EF actually goes to center. I'm changing the average energy of EF and electron. So that energy difference becomes larger. Okay. But they only increase to a certain level then start to drop. Why is that? That's because when I go to very high temperature, this is at the center there are equal number of electron holes. The hole carry negative charge. They cancel the positive charge. So even though they contribute electric conductivity both because you have electron hole the energy they carry is opposite and they cancel each other. So this is a bipolar and the bipolar is really bad. Uh okay. So what happens electrical is typically drop and this they may not get at the same point same temperature but those are different signs of bipolar and also interesting is the is bad is because thermal is also shooting up at the bipolar. That's because when bipolar Harry the electron hole diffuse from one side to the other they actually carry the band gap energy there. So they carry a lot of heat. So thermal conductivity is large which say so the ZT will peak at certain temperature. This is ZT will pick at certain temperature. So for different application you need optimize and find the material for different temperature range. So those are the challenges when you do thermmoelectrics. Okay, I'll stop here.