All right. So today's lecture introduction to neural networks and deep learning. Um so we'll start with a very quick intro to these things. Um and then we'll switch and dive deep into neural networks. All right. So the field of AI originated in 1956. Sadly didn't originate at MIT. It originated at Dartmouth because all these people got together at Dartmouth. I guess it's it's got a nice quad or whatever. They got together. They defined the field. But fortunately for us, MIT was very well represented. So we have Marvin Minsky who founded the MIT AI lab. John McCarthy who invented lisp and then later defected to the west coast and then Claude Shannon who invented information theory right who was a professor at MIT. So MIT was well represented. These folks, you know, founded the field and they were so bright. They thought that AI was going to be substantially solved quote unquote by that fall. Okay. Now, obviously it turned out a bit differently than what they expected. Uh so it's been whatever 67 68 years since its founding. So it's gone through essentially in my opinion three seminal breakthroughs. Um starting with the traditional approach then machine learning, deep learning and generative AI. So let's take a very quick look at each of these breakthroughs and what motivated them. So let's start with the traditional approach to AI. And so what is AI? AI informally is the ability to imbue computers with the the the ability to do things that only humans can typically do. Cognitive tasks, thinking tasks, and things like that. And so the most sort of common sensical way to do that is to say, well, if I want the computer to do something complicated like play chess, I'm just going to sit down with a few chess grand masters, show them a whole bunch of board moves, and ask them how they figure out how to respond, how to play the next move. I'm going to sort of sit down, talk to all these people, and then I'm going to write down a whole bunch of rules. If this is the board position, move this. If this is the board position, move this, and so on and so forth. Or I might sit down with the cardiologist and tell them, okay, how do you actually interpret an ECG? they will give me all similarly a bunch of if then rules I will take all these rules I'll put them into the computer and boom I have a system that can do what a human can do right now this approach even though it's common sensical and kind of makes sense it had success in only a few areas u and so the interesting question is why was it not pervasively successful why was it not pervasively successful it seems like a pretty good idea to me right and the people who came up with these things are smart people they're not dumb people they know what they're doing so why did it not book >> because because it's time in intensive. So it means that you have to run through all the scenarios that can ever exist and still some new scenarios can come up that you didn't cater for in >> Right. So there are two aspects to what you said which is the first aspect is it's time intensive that as it turns out is not a big deal because computers are getting faster and faster [clears throat] right the second thing is actually the key thing which is that it doesn't generalize to new situations very well right the problem is there are an infinite number of things that you're going to see when you deploy these systems in the real world by definition what you're training it on is a small sample of rules so these rules are very brittle but there's actually an even more interesting reason and that reason is that we know more than we can tell. This is called Polani paradox. So the idea is that if I come to you and say, "Hey, uh here's a picture. Is it a dog or a cat?" You will tell me within I believe they've measured it like 20 milliseconds or something, you know, it's a dog if it's a dog or a cat. And then if I ask you to explain to me exactly how you figure that out, you'll come up with a bunch of sort of reasons, right? Alleged reasons. Oh, you know, if it has whiskers, I think it's a cat or whatever. But the problem is that you actually first of all can't really articulate what's going on in your head. how you do these things and number two even if you articulate it often times your articulation has no correspondence with how your brain actually does it so you're incomplete under a liar so this is polanous paradox so if you can't even tell me how you do something how the heck am I supposed to take it and put into a computer doesn't work and second is the fact that we can't write down these rules for all possible situations edge cases corner cases etc and the world is full of edge cases so for these reasons this approach didn't work and so a different approach was developed and this approach was well basically said hey instead of explicitly telling the computer what to do why don't we simply give it lots of examples of inputs and outputs chest positions next move right ECG diagnosis right inputs and outputs and then why don't we just use some statistical techniques to learn a mapping a function that can go from the input to the output okay that was the idea and this idea is machine learning okay so machineing learning is basically just a fancy way of saying learn from input output examples using statistical techniques. Good. All right. So, um, now there are numerous ways to create machine learning models and if you have ever done linear regression, congratulations. You've been doing machine learning. Okay? And only one of those methods happens to be something called neural networks. There are many other methods and in fact you probably have done these other methods if you have done the a course like the analytics edge or something similar. Okay. So, machine learning has got tremendous impact around the world, right? It's like at this point u it's widely accepted. It's a very very successful technology. And in fact, whenever people are actually talking about AI, chances are they're actually talking about machine learning. It's just that AI sounds cooler. The only problem is for machine learning to work really well, the input data has to be structured. Okay? And what I mean by that is data that can essentially be sort of numericalized and stuck into the columns and rows of a spreadsheet. Right? So for example here, let's say I want to put together a data set of you know uh patients, their symptoms and their characteristics and then in the following year after they showed up at the doctor's office whether they had a cardiac event or not, I might create a data set like this with age, smoking status, yes, no, exercise, blah blah blah blah blah. Right? And so either these numbers are numbers, they're numerical. Or if they're not numerical, they're categorical, right? Yes, no. Uh smoking, yes, no, things like that. Which means that if you have categorical variables, you can just numericalize them pretty easily. You folks have done the some machine learning before. So you know things like one hotend coding and stuff like that can be done to make them all numerical. So the point is you can just render the data into the columns and rows of a spreadsheet pretty easily, right? That's what I mean by structured data. So when you but the situation is very different if you have unstructured data. So if you have an image of you know a cute puppy this is my puppy by the way um uh from many years ago sadly he's no more um but his name was Google. So yeah anyway uh uh my DMD alums know Google well. So this is Google right? If you want to take Google uh this picture and figure out how to sort of numericalize it, the first thing you want to need to understand is that if you actually look at how this picture is represented inside uh digitally in the computer, basically every picture like this is represented using three tables of numbers. Okay? And these and we'll get to what these numbers mean later on. But the point I'm making is that each number basically represents the amount of light, right? on a scale of 0 to 255 the amount of light in that location in that pixel. That's all the amount of light. So basically the this table is the amount of um sorry this table is amount of red light, amount of green light, amount of blue light. Okay. Now you will agree with me that if you for example look at something like this and say okay 251 at this location there is a lot of blue light because it's 251 out of a possible 255 right maybe a lot of blue light somewhere here there's a lot of blue here whether that area is blue because of a piece of sky some water or a bunch of blue paint could be anything it's going to say 251. So the underlying reality, the underlying object that's being described has nothing to do with the 251. Right? So that's the whole problem. The raw form of the data has no intrinsic meaning with the underlying thing. So given that there's no connection between the number and what it's describing, how the heck can any algorithm do anything with it? It can't. Right? So what you have to do is something called feature engineering or feature extraction. Right? where you have to manually take all these things and create essentially a spreadsheet from them. So basically, let's say that you have a bunch of birds, right? And you're trying to build a bird classifier to figure out what kind of bird species it is. You might actually have to take this picture and then you have to measure the beak length, the wingspan, the primary color, and so on and so forth. So you're basically structuring the unstructured data manually, right? And this process of structuring unstructured data is basically called we use the word representation. We take the raw data and we represent the data in a different form. And the the reason why I'm sort of focusing on the use of the word representation is because it becomes really really important a bit later on when we get to deep learning. Okay. So we have to represent the data in a different way for it to work. That's the basic idea. All right. So what that means is that u historically researchers would manually develop these representations and once you develop them once you representations you could just use traditional linear regression or logistic regression get the job done. So the whole name of the game is the representations. So in fact people doing PhDs for example in computer revision would spend like four years developing amazing representations for solving one particular little problem. Right? we have a bunch of say cat scans and we need to take the cat scan and figure out whether a particular kind of stroke there is evidence for it in the cat scan right they might actually sit and develop all kinds of representations and test it and so on and then they'll finally declare victory and say yay I'm done with my PhD here is this amazing representation and you can build a classifier with it to predict a particular kind of stroke with high accuracy okay so that was that that's where the world was uh now as you can imagine developing representations because it's so manual Well, is this massive human bottleneck and this sharply limited limited the reach and applicability of machine learning as you would expect to address this problem a different approach came about and that's deep learning. So deep learning sits inside machine learning. Okay. And deep learning can handle unstructured input data without upfront manual processing. Meaning it will automatically learn the right representations from the raw input. Automatically is the key word. Automatically learn representations. Which means that you can give it structured data, you can give it pictures, you can give it text, you can give it anything you want. It'll just learn it. Okay. um it can automatically extract these representations and since it's being automatically extracted you can imagine sort of a pipeline where the raw data comes in you have a bunch of stuff in the middle that's learning these representations automatically without your help and then boom you just attach a little linear regression or logistic regression at the end problem solved that in a nutshell is deep learning input a whole bunch of representations being learned and then piped into a linear or logistic regression model okay you So the amazing thing is this simple idea, this simple idea is just incredibly powerful, right? That idea has led to Chad GPT has led to Alpha Go, Alpha Fold and so on and so forth. And I I kid you not, I'm sort of I I've been doing deep learning for about 10 years now. And every time I look at it, I literally get goosebumps every so often that that something so simple could be so powerful, right? It's really like boggles the mind. I'm like I'm just so lucky to be alive and working during this period. Okay. And you know coming from people who have been in the industry a long time this sort of breathless exclamation is not very rare particularly because I'm not in marketing. Okay. I actually mean it with all your apologies to various marketing folks. So just realized it's being taped. So uh okay. So so this demolished the human bottleneck for using machine learning with unstructured data. uh and so it comes from the confluence of three forces uh new algorithmic ideas a whole a lot of data and then very importantly the fact that we have access to parallel computing hardware in the in the form of these things called GPUs graphics processing units u and these three forces came together and they were applied to an old idea called neural networks and that's basically deep learning and I'll go through it very quickly because obviously we're going to spend half the semester looking into this thing in detail uh so what's the immediate immediate application of the ability to automatically handle unstructured data. What is like the no-brainer application? It's okay if it's obvious. Tell me >> sorry. >> Um, image classification, >> right? So, image classification. Yes. So, you can take an image, a good example of unstructured data, you can do some classification on it. But more generally, more generally, what I'm getting at is that every sensor in the world can be given the ability to detect, recognize, and classify what it's sensing. Every sensor because remember what is a what does a sensor do? A sensor is just a receptacle for unstructured data. A camera is a receptacle for unstructured video or unstructured, you know, still images, microphone, unstructured audio, right? So every sensor you can you can imagine taking a sensor and sticking a little deep learning system behind it and now suddenly the what comes out of this center of the deep learning system you can count you can classify you can detect you can do all kinds of stuff in short you can analyze and you can predict right and this is the way I'm describing it right now you'll be like yeah duh obviously but you know what this obviously thing is actually not at all obvious in terms of whether it'll help you find interesting applications or not. Okay, so here is something I literally saw last week. Okay, actually I have another slide before that but we are coming to that. So for instance, every time you use Face ID unlock your phone, this is the basic principle at work, right? The the camera and the iPhone is the sensor and they stuck a deepline system behind it to do image classification, right? Rama, non-RAM, right? That's what it's classifying. Um and so here right you have a breast cancer this is the breast cancer detection system from a mamogram. Uh by the way this picture is a very interesting picture. So uh there's a professor in WCS uh Regina Barceli who's a very well-known expert in this field and uh she actually has built a breast cancer detection system which is which has been deployed at Mass General Hospital and turns out she's actually a breast cancer survivor and uh she was know she's she's she's good now all good but when um after she built her system I heard that she actually ran that system against the mamograms from many years prior when she went for a mammogram and was told that everything is fine. She ran the system on that mamogram and it came back and said here's a problem. So a very interesting example where a deep learning system picked up something that a radiologist could not right. So these things are can be quite powerful. Um obviously any self-driving system has numerous deep learning algorithms running under the hood. you know, pedestrian detection, you know, stop light detection, zebra crossing detection, so on and so forth. Um, you know, it's being very heavily used in visual inspection manufacturing. Uh, you have various cameras now in which people looking at saying, okay, there's a dent or there's a scratch. They have a little system which is a dent detector, scratch detector and so on. That's that's going on right now. And now I come to the example I saw last week which is um so this is an example of you can create dramatically better products if you really internalize this idea of okay it's almost like you're looking the the world and saying oh there's a sensor can attach a DL thing behind it that's the way you should be looking at the world okay for startup ideas. So, here's an example. Okay, these apparently are the world's first smart binoculars. Okay, this is the binocular 2 weeks ago where you look at the bird. You look at the bird and now it tells you what kind of bird it is right there. It's a simple idea, but imagine, right? Imagine you are the first out of the gate with this feature. You'll have a little bit of an edge till everybody catches up like 3 months later. Let's be very clear. There are no long-term monopoly windows in the world. There are only short-term windows. So the the the hunt is always on for a little monopoly window. So here's an example of that. Right? So I encourage you to always think about the world as you know where are the sensors here and can I attach something behind the sensor to do something useful with it. Okay? All right. Now let's turn our attention to the output. You have been talking about in structured data, unstructured data and how deep learning has sort of unlocked the ability to work with unstructured data. But you've sort of been neglecting the output side of the equation. So traditionally uh we could predict single numbers or a few numbers pretty easily, right? So you've all done the canonical, you know, uh should this person be given a loan application in machine learning, right? So it just predicts the probability that a borrower will repay a loan based on a whole bunch of data or supply chain you predict the demand for a product next week or you can predict a bunch of numbers. So given a given a picture you can say okay does it which which one of the 10 kinds of furniture is it right? You can predict 10 numbers 10 probabilities that add up to one. You can predict a whole bunch of numbers that don't have to add up to one such as the GPS coordinates of a of an Uber ride. So these are all simple unstructur sorry simple structured output just a few numbers right what we could not do very easily was to actually generate pictures like this we could not generate unstructured data we could only consume unstructured data right u you couldn't generate text you can generate pictures and so on audio and so on and so forth so with generative AI that problem is gone so generative AI is the ability to actually create unstructured data right and therefore it sits within deep learning It still runs on deep learning, but it's just one kind of deep learning. Okay, there's plenty of stuff going on in deep learning that's got nothing to do with generative AI. Nowadays, of course, you know, if you're a self-respecting entrepreneur who wants to ride this craze, you'll probably declare whatever you're doing as generative AI, right? Um, and some VCs may actually be ready to fund you. Who knows? But the point is there's plenty of stuff going on in deep learning that's got nothing to do with genative AI. Uh, but this is the overall picture. Now here uh we can produce unstructured outputs like pictures. You can take this thing and then you can actually you know come up with a nice picture description of it. This actually is a very famous picture by the way in uh in the world of computer vision. So we are actually going to be analyzing this picture a little later on in the semester. Uh you can obviously go from a very complicated caption to an image. Uh you can go from text to music. Can people hear it? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So and of course we can go from text to text i.e. chat GPD. Uh and then uh as of a few months ago things have gotten even more interesting where you can actually go you can send text and an image in and you can get text out right and in fact as of a few weeks ago you can send text image text image text image in an arbitrary sequence into into the system and it actually come back to you with text and image. Right? So things are becoming multimodal and I just want to share it with you like a really fun example I saw uh recently. So this person sends this picture. Can folks see this? This is very complicated parking sign apparently in San Francisco. And they're like, "It's Wednesday at 4 p.m. Can I park here? Tell me in one line." Because you really didn't want GPD4 to be giving you a big essay about this. Like you literally want to park. So GPD4 comes back and says, "Yes, you can park here for up to 1 hour starting at 4 p.m." And folks, I double check this thing. It's correct. We all know these things hallucinate, right? Can you imagine getting a parking ticket and telling the judge, "I'm sorry, I didn't realize it was hallucinating." So, so you have to double check it. So, yeah. So, things are getting multimodal very quickly. Uh, and so the picture here is that within Genai, we used to have these separate circles, text to text, text to image, text to music, text to this, text to that, so on and so forth. Those are all beginning to merge now inside Jai because multimodal models are going to become the norm this year, right? We already have really good closed models. We really have, we actually already have very good open source multimodal models. And so my feeling is that by the end of the year the idea of using a texton model is going to be like really you do that still right it's going to become like a quaint oldfashioned thing I think multimodal modality is going to become the norm. So that's where the world is and this is the landscape. So any questions on the landscape before we actually start doing some math. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Um not related to the landscape but it's more related to the breast cancer question. So how did how did she know that it was actually like there is a training that you can do and you there's a testing you can do which is based on the existing breast cancer samples but he or she was taking the mamogs from past 6 weeks past also which is probably a smaller version which was not there right like I mean there's an answer >> you mean the the the evidence of that being a problem would have been smaller >> so how do you know your model is great enough that it can correct it to give you correct answers. So >> yeah, so I think the so the question is that in general how do you train your model so that it gives you right answers given that over the passage of time the amount of evidence in this data could be very highly variable. So in this particular case of um you know the professor I talked about um you everything at that point was going through an expert radiologist. So five years ago this mamogram was seen by a radiologist and that person concluded there is no problem. So that was the training label right the wrong training label. Uh so typically what happens is that training labels could be wrong some small fraction of the time. So you need to have systems that are robust. So your data needs to be complete. It needs to be comprehensive. It needs to be have correct labels. If these ideas are not met your systems are not going to be that good. But as it turns out with neural networks even with some amount of noise in the labels they still do a pretty good job. Right? So that's sort of the general idea. So there has to be some verification. >> The ver the verification comes from the human. So every remember when we look at radiology data the the data we working with is the input is let's say an image like a radio a mamogram or something and then a human radiologist or a set of radiologists have said this has a problem or does not have a problem. So that is called the ground truth. So it is this ground truth image and label this combination that's being used to train these models. Yeah. >> Embodiment. So, so are we are we going to cover embodiment? So, the the the embodiment here refers to the fact that uh if you have robot robots, right? Uh they need to actually operate in the real world. And so, robots are an example of what's called embodied intelligence. So, unfortunately, due to the constraints of time, we're not going to get into robotics at all. But I will say that a lot of the deep learning stuff you're going to talk about, those are all fundamental building blocks in modern robotic systems. All right. So um so in summary, X and Y can be anything and it can be multimodal. Okay, I literally could not have put up this slide maybe two years ago, right? So it's very simple in how it looks, but it's very profound. You can you can learn a mapping from anything to anything at this point very easily as long as you have enough data. Okay. So u now note that all this excitement that we see around us is everything stems from stems from deep learning. Okay. Everything everything depends on deep learning. And so if you understand deep learning a lot of interesting things become possible. So let's get going. All right. So we'll start with the very basics. Uh what's a neural network? Uh now recall logistic regression from back in the day. So what is logistic regression? You send in a bunch of numbers, a vector of numbers and you get usually get a probability out, right? Between zero and one, what is the probability of something or the other? Okay. Uh and so this logistic regression model is also represented in this form if you'll recall. So basically what we do is we take all these numbers, we run it through a linear function, right? We run it through a linear function, you get a number and then we take that thing and run it through 1 / 1 plus e raised to minus that. And that's guaranteed to give you a number between zero and one which can be interpreted as a probability and that's logistic regression. Okay. And the canonical you know uh loan approvals things like that all fall into this sort of convenient bucket. Okay. So this should be super familiar. All right. Now we're going to actually look at this you know simple modest humble little operation using the lens of a network of mathematical operations and the reason why we do it will become clear a bit later so we'll take this very simple example where we have uh let's say two variables GPA and experience right this is the GPA of some graduates uh number of years of work experience and then this is the dependent variable which is either zero or one and zero if they don't get called for an interview, one if they get called for an interview. Okay, it's a two input variable, one output variable problem. Okay, and it's a classification problem because we classifying people into will they get called for an interview, yes or no. Okay, and so that's a setup for this problem. And let's say that we actually run it through any, you know, we actually try to fit a logic regression model to it. So if you're familiar with R for example, you would use something like GLM to fit this model. Um if you use something like stats models in Python, there's a similar function for it. Scikitlearn, there's another function for it. You get the idea, right? This you can use whatever favorite methods you have for logistic regression modeling to get this job done. And if you do that with this little data set, you're going to get these coefficients, right? The point 4 is the intercept 02 is the coefficient of a GPA 0.5 for experience and that is a resulting sigmoid function. Okay. All right. Cool. So now let's actually rewrite this formula as a network in the following way. So first what we'll do is we'll take GP and experience and stick it here on the left side and we'll put little circles next to them and we'll call them the input nodes. Okay. And so imagine that somebody puts writes a GPA into the circle 3.5 or you know years experience 2.0 zero and then it flows through this arrow and as it flows through it gets multiplied by its coefficient 2 the 2 is coming from here similarly experience gets multiplied by.5 it comes in here and this node as the plus indicates is adding everything that's coming into it so it's adding2* GPA.5 time experience plus the intercept which is a green arrow coming from on its own it comes through here and what comes out of this is just a single number and that number goes into this little circle circle and then out pops a probability. Okay, so I've sort of done this ridiculously long way long winded way of writing a simple function. Okay, and the reason we why I'm doing it will become clear in a second. Okay, so this is a little network of operations for the simple function. And so for instance, how you would use it is you to make a prediction, you'll let's say someone has a 3.8 GPA and 1.2 into user experience. You just plug it in here, do the math, you get 76. Same thing here, comes in here, add them all up, you get 1.76. You run 1.76 through the sigmoid, you get 085. And that is the probability that that particular individual may get called for an interview. Okay? At this point, we're just doing logistic regression. Nothing more complicated. Okay. So, um, now if you have many variables, not two variables like X1 through X K, you can the same sort of logic applies. Each one has some coefficient and then there's an intercept. They all get added up here. Run through a sigmoid and out pops this number. Okay. Notice how the data flows from left to right. Okay. All right. Any questions on this? All right. Good. So now terminology. Uh so you will actually you'll discover that the world of neural networks and deep learning has its own terminology. they have their own ways of referring to things that we the rest of the world has been referring using something else for the longest time right it's kind of annoying sometimes but it's the way it is so uh remember in regression we used to call those numbers next to each variable as coefficients and the constant thing as an intercept well guess what in this world these multip those coefficients are actually called weights and the inter are called biases so in in the neural network world these are called weights and biases and sometimes if If you're a little lazy, you may just call the whole thing as weights. Okay, so when you see in the newspaper that you know, oh my god, this amazing model's weights have been leaked on the internet or on Bit Torrent or something, that's what's going on, right? All these coefficients have been leaked because once you know what the coefficients are and what the architecture is, you can just reconstruct the model. All right, so that's what's going on here. Now, why did we do this network business? Why did we write it as a network? Yeah. What is advantage? Any guesses? >> When you have multiple functions, so it's just easier to see it that way, >> right? If you have lots of things going on, it's easier to see it if you actually write it in graphical form. Yes, correct. But so is it only like a usability advantage? The other thing is you want different functions for different layers of >> okay so maybe we want to use different functions in different layers but I think there's actually even a larger sort of a more basic point which is that then when you the moment you write it down you suddenly realize that I could have lots of things in the middle I don't have to go from the input to output directly I could do lots of things in the middle right that's sort of the key idea so what you do is so Remember the notion of learning representations of unstructured data, right? Where you take the picture and say beak length and things like that, right? And remember I said deep learning actually automatically learns these things. Where is that automatic learning coming from? Well, this is where it's coming from. So what we do is we take this thing, right? This just a logistic regression model. inputs get multip added up as a linear function or run through a sigmoid and then we are like hm if we want to learn representations of the raw input we better be doing something in the middle here because the output is the output that that's not going to change you know it's it's either a dog or a cat you don't have any choice as to what it is okay the only agency you have at this point is you can take the raw input and do things in the middle with You can do a lot of stuff in the middle and then run it through something to get the output. Okay. So in any in in any mathematical discipline, if someone comes to you and says here's a bunch of data, I want you to do something with it. What should the what is like the the most basic first thing you should do? Run it through a linear function. The most basic thing in math is a linear function. So given anything, just run it through a linear function. See what happens. So that's exactly what we can do. So the simplest thing we can do here, we can insert a bunch of linear functions. So we do is we take all this input and we just run it. We we do a linear function on it. So think of it this as x1 * 2 plus x3 * 4 and all the way to xk * 9 plus some intercept and boom, it goes out the other end. So this little circle here with a plus in it is just thank you. uh that this is just a linear it's a shortand for a linear function. So whenever you see a circle with a plus it's just a short hand for a linear function. Okay. So you can take this whole thing and run through a linear function and when you do it you'll get some number right there. You'll get some number. So you have taken these k numbers and you have sort of compressed them in some way into one number. Okay. But you don't have to stop at one number. You can do more. So we can have a stack of linear functions in the middle. Right? There's a linear function here. Another one here. Another one here. At this point, the K numbers you have K could be, for example, a thousand, right? It's just the size of your input data. You have taken these K things and you've compressed them into three numbers at this point. Okay? So, okay, maybe three is the right number, maybe 10 is the right number. We don't know. And we'll get to how do we know what the right number is later on. So, we can stack as many linear functions as we want. So, we have transformed this K thing into a threedimensional vector, right? K numbers become three numbers. Um and now we can flow this three these three numbers through some other little function. Okay. And as you will see in a few minutes that function is called an activation function and it's chosen to be a nonlinear function because if you don't choose it to be a nonlinear function all the effort we're doing is going to be a total waste of time. Okay. For now, just take it on faith that you need to have nonlinear functions here. But note that the three numbers here are still three numbers. They are three different numbers, but they're still three numbers. And once we do this, we'll be like, you know what? This was fun. Let's do it again. Okay? So, you can do it again. And you can keep on doing it. You can keep it 100 times if you want. And the key thing is that every time you do it, you're giving this network some ability, some capacity to learn something interesting from the data, to learn an interesting representation. Now, of course, you're thinking, well, how do we know it's interesting? How do we know it's a useful thing? And we'll come to all that later on, right? We're just giving it the capacity, the potential to learn interesting things with the data. Whether it actually lives up to its potential, we don't know yet. Okay? we'll give it the potential because the more transformations of the input data you make, the more opportunity you have to do interesting things with it. If I don't even give you the opportunity to transform it once, you don't have any opportunity, right? If I give you 10 chances to transform things, you have 10 shots at doing something useful. So, you can you can do this repeatedly. And once we are done doing these transformations, we just pipe it through to our good old logistic regression sigmoid here and we are done. Okay, so this is the basic idea. And so just to contrast it, this was good old logistic regression where we take the input, we run it through a linear function and pop out a number, a probability number, but after we do all this stuff, the input stays the same, the output stays the same, but in the middle, we just run it through a whole bunch of these functions, you know, these layersoop boop, and then we get the output. Okay, that's all we have done. And this is a neural network. A neural network is nothing more than repeatedly transformed inputs which are finally fed to a linear or logistic regression model. Any questions? >> Two question. >> Could you use the thing so that everyone can hear? Yeah. >> Yeah. Two questions. Firstly, so maybe say that there is a challenge of explanability. Is it that we don't know which arrow it went through? That's one. Second, uh who's controlling the number of iterations or the number of functions? That's up to us. Or how is that? >> Right. So yeah. So the the first question um explainability we actually know exactly for any given input input uh data data point we know exactly how it flows through the network. So there is no problem there. The problem is in ascribing okay this we we think this person is going to be uh repay the loan because of this particular attribute we don't know that because those attributes all get enshed together and goes to this complicated thing so we know exactly what happens we just can't give credit to any one thing very easily I'm again I'm just standing on the brink of this vast ocean of something called explanability and interpretability uh which I'll get to a bit later on in the semester but that's sort of the quick kind of rightish kind of wrong answer. Okay. Number two um uh we decide the number of layers we decide a whole bunch of things and as we'll see in a few minutes uh that is something that's given to us and something we get to design and I'll make it very clear which is which yeah >> did I say your name right? >> Yeah. So which functions have to be linear and also like why does it have to be linear? >> Yeah. So these functions uh the f ofx here they have to be nonlinear. As to why they have to be nonlinear we'll get to that in a few minutes. Okay so these are called neurons. Okay these things where you basically there's a linear function followed by a little nonlinear function right this is a each one of these things is called a neuron. Um, by the way, you know, this is loosely inspired by the way how, you know, neurons work in humanin mamalian brains. But the connections between neuroscience and deep learning are very heavily argued. So, I'm going to like stay away from it. Okay? Uh, suffice it to say, it's I I just think for for building practical deep learning systems in industry, you're you don't have to worry about this. Okay? All right. Let's move on terminology. Uh this vertical stack of linear functions or neurons, right? This vertical stack is called a layer, right? This a layer, that's a layer. Uh and these little nonlinear functions, which we haven't got into yet, are called activation functions. Uh and we'll get to why they are called that in just a second. And the input is called an input layer. And I have the word layer in double quotes because like it's not really doing anything, right? It's just the input. So, but we call it the input layer. And what the very final thing that produces our output is called the output layer, right? Obviously, and everything in the middle is called a hidden layer. Okay. So, the final piece of terminology is that when you have a layer like this in which say three numbers are coming out and there's another another layer, right? If every neuron in this layer is connected to every neuron in this layer, it's called a fully connected or dense layer. So for instance here this arrow that's whatever the whatever number is coming out. Let's say the number three is coming out of this thing here that number three goes flows on this arrow to this thing flows on this arrow to this neuron and flows on this third arrow to this neuron. That's what I mean. So every neuron its output is being sent to every neuron in the following layer. Okay, that's we call it fully connected or dense. And then if you look at logistic regression, right, this is just logistic regression. You can see basically logistic regression is a neural network with no hidden layers. So in some sense, logistic regression is like almost the simplest possible network you can think of. Like barely a neural network, right? It's got no no hidden layers. That's what makes it logistic regression. And so as you might have guessed by now, deep learning is just neural networks with lots and lots of of what? >> Yes, layers. So here are a few uh and by the way, these are not even considered all that, you know, impressive these days. Okay. Uh but I put them up because this uh this thing here is called RestNet. And it's famous because the restnet neural network was I think the first network to surpass human level performance and image classification. Sort of it's sort of like the Skynet of image classification. Okay, it surpassed human level performance and I'm putting it up here because we'll actually work with RestNet on Wednesday next next Wednesday and we'll actually take restn net we'll fine-tune it and solve a real problem in class. All right. So it's got lots and lots of layers. Uh now let's turn to these activation functions. We've been ignoring these little guys right so far. So the activation function at a node is a first of all it's a function that receives a single number and outputs a single number right it's not very complicated right it receives basically this this is a linear function which receives all these inputs. It could be 10 inputs, a thousand inputs, runs it through a linear function, outputs a number, and that single number, a scalar, goes in here, and it comes out as another single number. Just just just remember that. And so these are some of the most common activation functions. In fact, the sigmoid we saw, which is actually be used for the output, is actually a kind of activation function where a single number comes in and it gets mapped into this curve because of this thing. So the single number that comes in is a and it and it gets transformed as 1 / 1 plus e to minus a and you get a shape like this and it's called the sigmoid activation function and and as you can see here for very small values for very negative values it's going to be pretty close to zero meaning it won't get activated and for very very large values it's going to be pretty close to one. All the action happens in the middle. When your when your when your values are somewhere in this range, there's a dramatic increases in what comes out. Okay? So that little thing in the middle is a sweet spot for these functions. Uh and this, you know, I'm also embarrassed to call it an activation function because it's literally not doing anything. It's sort of getting a nice label for free. Um right, you basically it says you just get a number, you just pass it straight along. It's a linear activation function, but just for completeness, I want to put it here. And then we come to the hero of deep learning which is the rectified linear unit right rectified linear unit it's called relu uh and relu is going to become part of your vocabulary very very quickly uh and so relu is actually a very interesting function so you write it as maximum of whatever number and zero which is another way of saying if the number is positive just send it along unchanged if the number is negative send a zero instead squash it to zero. So which means if the number is negative nothing happens. If the number is positive it wakes up. So what happens is that you could have a very complicated linear function with millions of variables and then it puts a single number and that number unfortunately happens to be negative. The rel is not impressed. It's going to sort of zero out. Okay. It's a very simple function and many many folks who have been in deep learning for a long long time believe that the use of the relus is one of the key factors that led to the amazing success of deep learning because it's got some very interesting properties uh which we'll get to hopefully on Wednesday. Okay. So the short hand here is that um whenever you see this thing it's just a linear activation linear function followed by just sending it straight out. If I if you do this this if I put a relu in here I'm going to denote it like that which mimics the graph uh how it looks. And if I'm if I put a sigmo it I'm just going to use this thing here. Okay just a visual shorthand [clears throat] there are many other functions activation functions by the way. There's something called the tanhage function, the leaky relu, the gillu, the swish. I mean it's like a like a menagery of activation functions because very often researchers will be like well I don't like this activation function. Here's a little modified version of the function which is going to be better for certain things. So you know people's research creativity is sort of at this point has gone unhinged. Um so lots of options but if you just stick to the reu for your hidden layers you can basically get anything done practically right? You don't have to worry about anything else. So we'll only focus on ReLUS for all the intermediate stuff. Uh yeah. >> Yeah. How do you gauge which activation function is more suited for your use case? >> Yeah. So the rule of thumb here is that for your hidden layers, use ReLUS, right? Because empirically we have seen that they they do an amazing job. For your output layer, your very final thing, you actually don't have a choice because what you have to use depends on what kind of output you have to work with. If it's an output which is a probability number between 0 and one, you have to use a sigmoid. U if it is say 10 numbers all of which have to be probabilities and they have to add up to one you got to use something called the softmax which we'll get to on Wednesday. So it really depends on the output and the nature of the output dictates what you use in the output layer. Okay. So coming back to this, so if you want to design a deep neural neural network, uh the input is the input, the output is the output. And so you get to choose everything else. You get to choose the number of hidden layers, the number of neurons in each layer, the activation functions you're going to use and uh for the hidden layers. And then you have to make sure that the what you choose for the output layer matches the kind of output you want to generate. Okay. So this is this sort of this is all in your hands. You decide what happens. But you will there's a lot of guidance for how to do these things which you'll which we'll cover as we go along. Did you have a question >> kind of but I guess I'll do it. Um is is there also exploration in kind of dynamic uh setting of layers so that a user isn't determining the amount of layers itself layers. >> Yeah. So there's a whole field called neural architecture search NAS where we can actually try a whole bunch of different architectures uh and then use some optimization and in fact reinforcement learning which we won't get to in this class as a way to figure out really good architectures for any particular problem. uh but the you the question of okay when I'm training a model with a particular kind of data the first pass through the training data I'm going to use two layers the second pass I'm going to do seven layers that is not done uh and the reason it's not done is because of certain other constraints we have and how we can do the the optimization and the gradient descent and stuff like that but what you can do and we will you we'll look at this thing called dropout for certain layers you can actually for each time you run it through the network you and decide in this layer I'm not going to use all the nodes. I'm going to drop out a few of the nodes randomly and it's a very effective technique to prevent overfitting and we'll come to that a little later on. Uh yeah, one question regarding like uh neural networks is about the coefficients to decide not or we have user deficient for the brain system. No, the whole trick here, the whole name of the game is we use the data, the training data and something called a loss function, which I'll get to on Wednesday, along with an optimization algorithm. So the the network figures out by itself what the weights need to be, what the coefficients need to be so as to minimize prediction error. And that's the whole thing. And the magic here is that we don't have to do anything. We only have to set it up, sit back often for many hours and watch it do its thing. Yep. >> Just one last question. Um, you mentioned nodes just now when you were answering Rolando's question. Can you just confirm exactly what a node is? I have an idea that it's basically any circle, but you've just added a lot more detail. >> Sure. No, when when I'm referring to a node, I'm literally referring to something like this, which think of it as a linear function followed by a nonlinear activation. So it it re a bunch of inputs runs it through a linear function and pass it through like a relu or a sigmoid or something and out pops a number. So in general a node will have many numbers potentially coming in but only one number going out. Now that one number may get copied to every node in the next layer but what comes out of that particular node is just a single number. All right. So uh so let's use a DNN for our interview um example. So in this problem we had two inputs right GP and experience the output variable has to be between 0ero and one because you're trying to predict the probability that someone gets called for an interview. So the output size is fixed the sorry the input size is fixed the output is fixed u and we so since it's really only the very first network we're actually playing with uh let's just start simple right we'll just have one hidden layer and we'll have three neurons right and and as I mentioned to Tomaso's question from before if you are choosing activation functions in the hidden layers just go with the relu as a default it usually works really well out of the box so we'll just use a relu and Since the output has to be between 0 and one, we don't have a choice. We have to use a sigmoid for the output layer. Okay, that's it. So we have those those are the design choices. And when we do that, this is how it's looked like, right? We have two inputs x1 and x2 gpn experience and then it goes through these three uh reloosmo and we get a probability y at the end. All right, quick question concept check. How many weights how many parameters both weights and biases does this network have? Just take a moment to count. All right. Any guesses? >> Yeah. I think you're almost there. Um, are folks going to be doing a binary search on this now? Okay. >> Uh, no. >> Yes. >> 13. >> Yes. Very good. So, that's 13. And my guess is that the reason you came up with 12, and I made the same mistake, that's why I know it is you probably forgot this green thing here. Um so so what folks often forget is the bias right we all count the things right okay and the easy way to do it is okay two things here uh three things here 2 * 6 3 is six uh 3 * 1 is 3 another nine and then you have to add up all the intercepts right so you get 13 and so when we get to very complicated networks the the first two or three times you work with very complex networks uh and we'll do it you know starting very soon just get into the habit of hand calculating the number of parameters just to make sure you understand what's going on. Once you get it right a couple of times, you don't have to do it anymore. Okay, the first couple of times hand calculate to make sure you get it. Okay, so yeah, so let's say that we have trained this network using you know using techniques which we'll cover on Wednesday and it is it comes back to you after training and says okay these are the optimal the best values for the weights and the biases that I have found. So now your network is ready for action is ready to be used and so so what you can do is let's say that you want to predict with this network um you know if you have x1 and x2 what comes out of what so what comes out of the stop neuron right let's call it a1 it's basically this okay that's what's coming out of this thing for any x1 and x2 this is what's coming out similarly for a2 and a3 okay and then what comes out at the very end is basically a1 * that plus a2 * that plus a3 * that plus 0.05 and the whole thing gets run through the sigmoid and that's what you get. Okay, so this slide and the one before just make sure you look at it afterwards and to make sure you totally understand the mechanics of it because this is really important. If you don't if you don't fully understand like internalize the mechanics when we get to things like transformers it's going to get hard. Okay. So just make sure it's like automatic at this point. It should be reflexive. Um okay so yeah and so when we when you want to predict anything you just run some numbers through it you get all these things uh and boom you calculate it turns out to be 22.6 fixed. That's the answer. All right. So, uh I just want to say that let's say that you built this network and now you're like, "Hey, um given any x1 and x2, I can come up with a y, but I'm feeling a little matty. Can you actually write down the function?" Yeah, you can write down the function. This is what it looks like. Super interpretable, right? So this goes to the comment that it made earlier on where the act of uh depicting something using this sort of graphical layout makes it so much easier to reason with and to think about uh compared to trying to figure out what this function is doing. Right? The other point I want to make is that um this contrast what we just saw with the logistic regression thing we saw earlier which was this little function. And so here even this simple network with just three hidden layers sorry three nodes in that single hidden layer right it's so much more complicated than the logistic regression model so much more complicated right and it is from this complexity springs the ability of these networks to do basically magical things right that's where the complexity comes from that's where the magic comes from so and here in this case the number of variables hasn't even changed it's still only two, but we can go from the two inputs to the one output in very complicated ways as long as we know how to train these networks the right way. That's sort of the m the secret source which we'll spend a lot of time on. So yeah, to summarize uh this is what we have. It's a deep neural network. Uh by the way, this kind of network where things just flow from left to right is called a feed forward uh neural network. uh in contrast to some other kinds of networks called recurrent networks which we won't get to uh in this class because transformers have actually proven to be much more capable than recurrent networks and those have become the norm. So we'll just focus on those instead. Um and so this arrangement of neurons into layers and activation functions and all that stuff this called the architecture of the neural network and as you will see later on the transformer the famous transformer network [clears throat] is just an example of a particular neural network architecture much like convolutional neural networks which we'll get to next week for computer vision or another example of a particular network of architecture. So uh we will focus on transformers they are a particular kind of architecture. All right. So in summary, that's what we have. Um, you know, you get to choose the hidden layers, the neurons, activation functions, and stuff like that. Uh, then inputs and outputs are what you have to work with. And so we will actually take this idea and then use it to uh to actually solve a problem from start to finish on Wednesday. So I think I'm done. I give you three minutes back of your day. Thank you.