The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. This is very exciting. Uh in the previous lecture we learned all about uh buffer overflow attacks and today we're going to continue to discuss uh some techniques to launch these attacks. So the basic idea of all these buffer overflow attacks uh is as follows. So first of all they leverage a couple different uh a couple different facts. So one thing that they leverage is that uh system software is often written in C. And so by system software I mean things like databases, compilers, network servers, things like that, right? And you can also think of things like your favorite command shell. All those types of things are typically written in C. So why are these things typically written in C? Well, they're written in C because our community of course is obsessed with C, right? And so C is supposed to be like high level assembly. It takes us very close to the hardware. And so as a result, all of these very sort of mission critical systems are written in this very low-level language. Now the problem with things being written in C is that C actually exposes raw memory addresses, right? And so not only does it expose raw memory addresses, but it also performs no bound checking when programs manipulate those raw addresses, right? And so as you can imagine this is a recipe for disaster. Okay. So once again why doesn't C check these bounds? Well one reason is because you know the hardware doesn't do that and people who write in in C typically want the maximum amount of speed possible. All right. The other reason is that in C as we'll discuss later it can actually be very difficult to determine the semantics of what it means to have a pointer that's actually inbounds. So in some cases it would be very difficult for the C runtime to automatically do that. Now we'll discuss some techniques which will actually try to do that type of automatic inference but as we'll see none of these techniques are fully bulletproof and so these attacks also leverage uh knowledge of the x86 architecture and by knowledge of architecture I mean things like what's the direction that the stack grows right what are the calling conventions for functions, right? When you invoke a C function, what is the stack going to look like? When you allocate an object on the heap, what are those heap allocation structures going to look like? And so, let's look at a simple example. It's very similar to something that you uh saw in the last lecture. So, we've got your standard read request up here, and then you've got a buffer that's here. And by now you've probably trained your lizard brain instincts. Whenever you see a buffer, you're probably filled with fear. That is the right attitude. So we've got the buffer up here. And then we've got the canonical and I and then we've got the infamous gets command, right? And then you've got some other stuff here. Right? So as we discussed uh in lecture uh last week this is problematic right because this gets operation here does not actually check the bounds on the buffer. So what can happen is that uh if the user actually supplies the buffer actually I should put that guy up here for example if that buffer comes in from the user and we use this unsafe function here then we can actually overflow this buffer and we can actually uh rewrite stuff that's on the stack. So just as a reminder of what that uh stuff looks like, let's look at a stack diagram here. So let's say here we've got I let's say here we've got uh buff. Right. So we've got the first address of buffer here. We've got the last one up here. I apologize for my handwriting. This is writing on the marker board. You should pray for me. So anyways, so then up here we've got the uh the saved value of uh the break pointer. We've got the uh return address for the function there. And then we've got some other stuff from the previous frame. Right? So, don't forget we've got the uh stack pointer, which goes there. And then we've got the new brake here. The entry stack pointer goes there. And then somewhere up here we've got the entry break point. Right? So just as a reminder, the way that the stack overflow works is that uh basically it goes this way. Right? So when the gets operation is called, we start writing bytes into buff and eventually it's going to start overwriting these things that are on the stack. And so this is basically should all look pretty familiar to you. So what does the attacker do to take advantage of that? It basically supplies that long input. And so the key idea here is that this can be attacker supplied, right? And so if this return address is attacker supplied, then basically the attacker can determine where this function is going to jump to after it concludes it execution. So what can the attacker do once it's actually been able to hijack that return address and jump wherever it wants? Well, basically it the attacker is now running code with the privileges of the process that it's just hijacked for example. So if that process was a high priority process, let's say it was running as root or admin or whatever they call the super user in your favorite operating system, then now that program which is controlled by the attacker can do whatever it wants using the uh authority of that high priority program. So it can do things like it can maybe read files, it can you know send spam. Let's say if you corrupted a mail server, it can even do things like actually uh defeat firewalls, right? Because the idea of a firewall is that there's going to be this distinction between good machines that are behind the firewall and bad machines that are outside of the firewall. So typically machines that are inside of the firewall, they have a lot of trust with each other, right? But if you can subvert a machine that's actually inside of the firewall, right, that's great because now you get to sort of skip past a lot of those checks that those machines don't have because they think that you're a trusted uh individual. So one thing you might be thinking, right, I remember I was thinking this when I was a student was, okay, fine. So, I've showed you how to do this uh buffer overflow, but why didn't the OS stop this, right? Isn't the OS supposed to be that thing that's sort of sitting around like Guardians of the Galaxy and preventing all this kind of evil stuff from happening? Well, the thing to note is that the OS actually isn't watching you all the time, right? The hardware is watching you all the time, right? Because it's the thing that's actually fetching instructions and decoding them and doing things like that. But to a first approximation, you know, what does the OS do? It basically sets up some page table stuff and then it basically lets you the application run and if you ask the operating system for services so for example you want to send a network packet or you want to do some IPC or things like that then you'll invoke a system call and you'll actually trap in the OS but other than that the operating system is not sort of looking at each and every instruction that your application is executing right so in other words when this buffer overflow attacks it's not like the operating system was looking at each one of these memory accesses for signs of chicainery, right? All this address space belongs to you. This averted process, right? So you get to do with it what you want to do with it, right? Or at least this is the whole C attitude towards life, right? Live fast, die young. So that's why the operating system can't help you right there. So later in the uh lecture, we will discuss some things that the operating system can do with respect to the hardware so that it can help protect against these types of attacks, right? But once again, it's actually just the hardware that's interposing on every little thing that you do. So we can actually take advantage of some of that stuff. For example, using special types of paid protections and things like that that we'll discuss a little bit later. So that's basically an overview of what uh the buffer overflow looks like. So how are we going to fix these things? So one fix for uh avoiding buffer overflows is to simply uh avoid bugs in your CC code. Right? So this has the nice advantage of being correct by construction. Right? If you don't have any bugs in your program, ipso factor the attacker cannot take advantage of any bugs. That's I'm a professor. I get paid the big bucks to think deeply like that. Now this of course is easier said than done, right? There's a couple very straightforward things that programmers can do to practice good security hygiene. So for example, like functions like this gets function, right? These are kind of like go-tos. These are now known to be bad ideas, right? So when you compile your code and you include functions like this, if you're using a modern compiler, GCC, Visual Studio, whatever, it will actually complain about that. It'll say, "Hey, you're using one of these unsafe functions. Consider using, you know, fgets or using a version of SPRF that actually sort of tracks the bounds of things." So that's sort of one simple thing that programmers can do. But note that a lot of applications actually manipulate buffers without necessarily calling one of these functions, right? This is very common in network servers and things like that. they'll define their own custom parsing routines to make sure that things are extracted from the buffers in the way that they want. So just restricting yourself to these types of things won't solve the problem completely. Uh so another thing that uh makes this approach difficult is that it's not always obvious sort of what is a bug in a C program. So if you've ever worked on a very large scale system that's been written in C, you'll know that it can be tricky if you've got some function definition that takes in, you know, 18 void star pointers. I mean, only Zeus knows what all those things mean, right? And so it's much more difficult in a language like C that has sort of weak typing and things like that to actually understand as a programmer what it means to have a bug and what it means to not have a bug. Okay? So in general, one of the main themes that you'll see in this class is that C is probably the spawn of the devil, right? Uh and we use it because once again, we typically want to be fast, right? But as hardware gets faster and as we get more uh better languages to write large scale systems code, we'll see that maybe it doesn't always make sense to write your stuff in C even if you think it has to be fast, right? So we'll discuss some of that later in later lectures. Um so that's one approach. uh avoiding bugs in the first place. So another approach is to uh build tools that allow uh programmers to find bugs. And so an example of this is something that's called static analysis. Now, we'll talk a little bit more about static analysis in later lectures, but suffice it to say that static analysis is a way of analyzing the source code of your program before it even runs and looking for potential problems. So, imagine that you have a function like this. So, the popularly named fu function, it takes in a pointer. Let's say it declares some uh integer offset value. It declares another pointer and adds the offset to that pointer. Now even just at this moment in the code, right, static analysis can tell you that this offset variable is uninitialized, right? So essentially you can do things like saying you know is there any way is there any control flow through this program by which offset could have been initialized before it was actually used in this calculation here. Now in this example it's very simple to see that the answer is no. Right? You can imagine that if there were more branches or things like this it'd be more difficult to tell. But one thing that a static analysis tool could tell you and in fact one thing that you know pop compilers will tell you is you'll compile this and it'll say hey buddy this has not been initialized. Are you sure this this is what you want to do? Right? So that's one very simple example of static analysis. Another example of what you can do is let's say after this we had a branch condition here right so we say if the offset is greater than eight then we'll call some function bar and pass in the offset. Now, one thing you can note about this is that this branch condition here actually tells us something about what the value of offset is, right? Ignoring the fact that it wasn't initialized, we do know that once we get here, we know that offset actually has to be greater than eight. So, in some cases, what we can do is actually propagate that constraint, that notion that offset must be greater than eight into our analysis of bar. Right? So, when we start statically analyzing bar, we know that offset can only take certain values. Okay? Okay, so once again this is a very high level introduction to static analysis. We'll discuss it more in later lectures, but this is a basic intuition of how we might be able to detect some types of bugs without even executing your code. So does that all make sense? Uh and so another thing you think about doing too is uh what they call program fuzzing. So the idea behind uh program fuzzing is that essentially you take all of the functions in your code and you essentially throw random values for input to those functions right and so the idea is that you want to have high code coverage for all of your tests right so if you go out in the real world typically when you check in unit tests you can't just do things like you know I tried values 2 4 8 and 15 because 15 is an odd number so I probably tested all the branches right what you actually have to do is you have to look at things like like I said how many branches in the program overall were actually touched by your test code, right? Because that's typically where the bugs hide. The programmers don't think about the corner cases. And so, as a result, they do have some unit tests that pass. They may even have bigger tests that pass, but they're not actually hitting all the corner cases in the program. So, static analysis can actually help with this fuzzing here. Once again, using things like this notion of constraints. So, for example, in this program here, we have this branch condition here that's specified with offset being greater than eight. So we can know what that offset is statically. So we can make sure that if we're automatically generating fuzzed inputs, we can ensure that one of those inputs uh hopefully will ensure that somehow offset is less than eight. One will ensure that offsets is equal to eight. One will ensure that it's greater than eight. So does that all make sense? Cool. So that's the basic idea behind the notion of building tools to help programmers find bugs. So the nice thing is that uh even sort of partial analysis can be very very useful particularly when you're dealing with C. A lot of these tools that we'll discuss to prevent against things like buffer overflow or initialized variables they can't catch all the problems right but they can actually give us sort of forward progress towards making uh these programs more secure. Now of course the disadvantage of these things is that they're not complete right and so forward progress is not complete progress. And so it's still a very active area of research of how you defend uh against security exploits in C and just in programs in general. So those were two approaches to deal with uh defending against uh buffer overflows. There's actually uh some other approaches. So a third approach you might think about using is to use a memory safe language. And so examples of these are things like uh you know Python uh Java C. We're not going to put up pearl there because people use pearl are bad people. So you could use the memory safe language like that. And this to a certain extent seems sort of like the most obvious thing that you could do, right? So I just told you over there that basically C is highle assembly code and it exposes raw pointers and does all these things that you don't want it to do and it doesn't do things you do want it to do like check bounce. So why not just use one of these highle languages? Well, there's a couple reasons for that. So, first of all, uh there's actually a lot of legacy code that's out there, right? So, it's all fine and dandy if you want to go out and start your new project and you want to write it in one of these memory safe languages. But what if you've been given this, you know, big binary or this big source code distribution that's been written in C. It's been maintained for 10, 15 years. It's been this generational project. I mean, our children's children will be working on it, right? You can't just say, "I'm just going to write everything in C# and change the world." Right? And this isn't just a problem with C, for example. There's actually systems that you use that you should be afraid of because they actually use Forran and Cobalt code. What it's like stuff from the Civil War. Okay. So, why does that happen? Well, once again, the reason why it happens is because uh as engineers, we kind of want to think like, oh, we can just build everything ourselves. It'll be awesome. It'll be just the way that I want it. I'll call my variables and things that I want. But in the real world, that doesn't happen, right? you show up on your job and you have this thing that exists and you looked at the codebase and you say, "Well, why doesn't it do this?" And they say, "Listen, okay, we'll deal with that in V2, but for now, we got to make things work because the customers are taking away their money, right?" So, there's basically this huge issue of legacy code here and how do we deal with it? And as we'll see with the baggie bounds uh uh system, one of the nice advantages of it is that it actually interoperates quite well with this legacy code, right? So anyways, so this is one reason why you can't just necessarily make all these buffer overflow problems go away by using one of these memory safe languages. Uh so another challenge is that um you know what if you need low-level access to hardware, right? This might happen if you're writing something like a device driver or something like that. So in that case is you in that case you really do need uh sort of the benefits that C gives you in terms of being able to look at registers and you know actually understand the level interrupts and things like that. Uh there's another thing too uh which people always bring up and which I've alluded to before but it's performance right so if you care about performance typically the thing that you're told is you got to write it in C otherwise it's just going to be so slow you're going to get laughed out of code academy or whatever. Now, this is increasingly less of an issue, right? The Perf stuff because uh people have actually gotten very good with doing things like making better compilers that have all kinds of powerful optimizations and also there are these things called JITS which actually really reduce the cost of using these memory safe languages. Uh so have you guys heard of JITS before? So I'll give you a very brief introduction to what it is. The idea is that um think about a language like let's say Java or JavaScript. It's very high level. It's dynamically typed, right? it has automatic uh heat management things like that. So typically um when that when these languages first came out they were all just interpreted right and by interpreted I mean they didn't actually execute raw x86 instructions instead these languages were compiled down to some type of intermediate form. You may have heard of things like uh the the JVM the Java virtual machine bite code things like that right and basically you had a program that sort of sat in a loop and took these bite codes and basically executed the highle semantic uh instruction that was encoded in that bite code. So for example, you know, some of the JVM bite codes dealt with things like pushing and popping things up on the stack, right? So you just have a program that would sort of go through a loop and sort of operate that stack and simulate those operations. Okay, so that all seemed fine and dandy, but once again, all the speed freaks out there were like, what about the Perf? This is too slow, right? You've got sort of that interpreter sitting in that loop and sort of getting in the way of our bare metal performance. So what people started to do is actually take these uh highle interpreted languages and dynamically generate x86 code for them on the fly. Right? So in terms of just in time compilation that means I take your snippet of JavaScript, I take your snippet of uh Java or whatever and I actually spend a little bit of time up front to create actual raw machine instructions, raw x86 that will run directly on the bare metal. So I take that initial performance hit for the uh the JIT compilation, but then after that my program actually does run on the raw hardware, right? And so things like the Perf argument are not necessarily as compelling as they used to be because of stuff like JIT. There's also some crazy stuff out there um like as.js. So, we can talk more about this offline if you actually are a JavaScript hacker, but there are actually some neat tricks that you can do by compiling down JavaScript to a very restricted subset of the language that only operates on uh arrays, right? And so, what this allows you to do is actually get rid of a lot of the dynamic typing overhead you have in standard JavaScript. And you can actually get JavaScript code now to run within 2x of raw C or C++ performance. Right? 2x might sound like a lot, but you know, it used to be, you know, it's things like 10x or 20x. So we're actually making a lot of progress on that front. And so the other thing to keep in mind with performance too is that a lot of times you don't need performance as much as you might think that you do, right? So think about it like this. Let's say that your program is actually IO bound. Okay? So it's not CPUbound. In other words, let's say that your program spends most of its time waiting for network input, waiting for disk input, waiting for user input, things like that. In those types of cases, you don't actually need to have blazingly fast raw compute speed, right? Because your program actually isn't spending a lot of time doing that kind of stuff, right? So once again, this Perf argument here, you got to take this stuff with a grain of salt. And I actually see a lot of students who struggle with this. So for example, I'll, you know, ask someone to go out and write me a very simple program to parse a text file. So they spend all this time trying to get this to work in C or C++ and it's super fast and uses the templates and all that kind of stuff, but it's like a oneline solution in Python, right? Right? And it essentially runs just as fast and you could develop it much much easier. So you know you just got to take these Perf arguments with a grain of salt. So anyway, so we've discussed uh so three ways that you can possibly avoid these buffer overflows. So just avoid bugs in the first place. L that's difficult to do. Um approach two you can build tools to help you discover those bugs. And then approach three is in a certain sense you can push those tools into the runtime and you can actually hopefully rely on some of the language runtime features to prevent you from seeing raw memory addresses and to do things like balance checking and so on and so forth. Um but once again uh as we discussed before there's a lot of legacy C and C++ code C++ code out there. So it's difficult to sort of apply some of these techniques particularly number two and number three if you got to deal with that legacy code. So how can we do buffer overflow mitigation despite all these challenges besides just you know dropping out of computer science classes and becoming a painter or something like that. So what actually is going on in a buffer overflow? So in a buffer overflow the attacker exploits two things. So the first thing that the attack is going to exploit is uh gaining control over the instruction pointer, right? And by this I mean that somehow the attacker figures out some place in the code that it can make the program jump to, you know, against the program's will. Now this is necessary but insufficient for an attack typically to happen because the other thing that the attacker needs to do is uh basically uh make that pointer point to malicious code right. So how are we going to basically make that hijacked IP instruction pointer point to something that does something useful uh for the attacker? So what's interesting is that in many cases it's often uh fairly straightforward for the attacker to put some interesting code into memory. So we looked at some of those shell code attacks from last lecture where you can actually embed that attack code in a string as we'll discuss uh a little bit today and more in the next lecture. you can actually take advantage of some of the pre-existing code that the application has and jump to it in an unexpected way to make some evil things happen. Right? So, typically figuring out what code the attacker wants to run uh maybe that's not as challenging as actually being able to force uh the program to jump to that location uh in memory. So, and the reason why that's tricky is because basically the attacker has to know in some way where it should jump to, right? So, as we'll see in a second, and as you actually saw in last lecture, a lot of these shell code attacks, they actually take advantage of these hardcoded um locations in memory, right, where the instruction pointer needs to get set to. So, some of the defenses that we're about to look at can actually randomize things in terms of like code layout, heap layout, and make it more difficult for the attacker to figure out where things are located. So, let's look at uh one simpler uh mitigation approach first. So this is the idea of stack canaries, right? And so the basic idea behind stack canaries is that during a buffer overflow, it's actually okay if we allow the attacker to overwrite the return address if we can actually catch that overwrite before we actually jump to the place that the attacker wants us to go. Okay, so basically here's how it works. So let's return to uh you know yield stack diagram. Essentially we have to put think of it as like a magic value uh basically uh in front of the return address right such that any overflow would have to sort of hit the canary first and then hit the return address. And if we can check that canary before we return from the function then we can detect the evil. So let's say that once again we've got the uh buffer here. Then we're going to put the uh canary here. And then this will be the saved value of the break pointer and then this will be the return address. So once again remember the overflow goes this way. So the idea is that if the overflow wants to get to that return address it first has to trample on this canary thing here. Right? So you have a question. Why does it have to actually? Well, because uh assuming that the attacker doesn't know how to sort of jump around in memory sort of arbitrarily, right? The way that traditionally these buffer overflow attacks work is that um you sort of look in GDB, you sort of figure out, you know, where all this stuff is and then you essentially just have this uh this string and this array that sort of grows this way. Right? Now you're correct that if the attacker could just sort of go here directly, yeah, then all the bets are off, right? But in the very simple buffer overflow approach, everything basically just has to grow sort of strictly that way, right? And so the basic idea behind the canary is that we allow the buffer overflow exploit to take place. But then uh we have runtime code that at the time of the return from the function is going to check this canary and make sure that it has the right value, right? Right. And so it's called a canary because you know back in the days when PETA wasn't around you could use birds to test for evil things. And so that's why it's called canary. And my question is if the attacker um it's able to override the return address right and modifying the canary. How is it the check? How is it check that the canary also modify is going to be performed because so the attacker overrides the return address right? So how is the check that the kind was modified? Uh yeah. So, so basically you have to have some piece of code that will actually e that will actually check this before the return actually takes place, right? So, in other words, yeah, you're right. There has to be that ordering there, right? Um so essentially uh what you have to do is you have to have uh support from the compiler here, right? That will actually uh sort of extend the calling convention if you will such that part of the return sequence is before we actually treat this value as valid, make sure this guy hasn't been trampled. Then and only then can we then jump somewhere else. I feel like I might be jumping in the gut here. But doesn't this assume that the attacker can't just find out or guess what the car value is? That in fact is the very next thing in my lecture notes. If I had prizes you'd get one. I don't have any. So but good for you gold star. That's exactly correct. Right. So you know one of the next things I was about to say is you know what's the problem with this scheme? Right. What if for example on every program we always put the value a just like a bunch of you know four four values of a because this is like a single 32-bit word right then you'd have that exact problem that you just mentioned right because then the attacker this kind of gets back to your question uh he or she knows how big this is right this is deterministic on every system so you just make sure that your buffer overflow has a bunch of A's here right and then you overwrite this stuff so you're exactly right about that and so there's basically different types of values you could put here in this canary to try to prevent prevent that. Right? So, one thing that you can do here is you can use um this this is sort of a very funny uh type of canary, but it basically exploits the ways that uh a lot of C programs and C functions handle special characters. So, imagine that you use this value for the canary. Okay, so the binary value zero, which is like the null bite, right? the null character in ASI, right? Carriage return, line feed, and then the negative one, right? So, what's funny about this is that a lot of the sort of functions that you can exploit, right, that manipulate strings, for example, they will stop when they encounter one of these words or one of these values, right? So, like imagine that you're sort of using, you know, some string manipulation function to go up this way. It's going to hit that null character. Oops, it's going to stop processing, right? Or maybe if you're using sort of a lineoriented function, right? Character return line feed. that's often used as the line terminator. So once again, you're using that dangerous function. It's trying to go this way. Ah, it hits that. Oops, it's going to quit, right? And then negative one is sort of another similar uh magic token. So that's one way you can get around that. Yeah, one second. Uh and then another thing you can do is you can uh use a randomized value, right? So here you just sort of punt on this whole idea of trying to figure out what exactly it is that might cause that attack to terminate. and you just you know pull some random number out of the ether making it difficult for the attacker to guess what that is. Right? Now of course this random value its strength is basically based on how difficult it is for the attacker to guess that. Right? So if the attacker for example can understand that maybe there's only let's say three bits of entropy in your system then maybe the attacker can do some type of like brute force attack you know so on and so forth. So one thing to keep in mind in general is that whenever someone tells you here's a randomized defense against you know attack fu if there not a lot of random bits there that attack may not give you as much defense as you think. I think you had a question in regards to deterministic value usually what tends to happen is you read from another buffer and you write into that buffer on the stack. So in that situation, it seems like that deterministic canary is kind of useless because I read from this buffer. I know what the canary is and I have this other buffer that I control and I never check in and that buffer I can put as much data as I want. I know the deterministic canary so I can override it very safely. So I don't see I don't see how this really works in what scenario because you're assuming you're reading from the buffer on the stack and you're going to stop. Well, we're assuming so so we're we're writing to the buffer, right? So, so basically the idea is that you write some sort of two long string sort of this way and then the idea is that if you can't guess what this is, then you can't basically uh put this value inside of your overflow string. But if you said it's deterministic, right? Z Oh, yeah. Yeah. It uh right right. Okay. So, I think I understand your question now. Yes. So if you use this system here with the deterministic uh canary and you essentially are not using one of these functions from let's say like uh the standard library that would be fooled by this then yeah you can defeat the system that way but I can use like string CPI and the destination can be buffer and the source can be you know user input right and that would not protect me against that um so I'm not I'm not sure I understand the attack. So, so string CPI would take from the user input all my data would override the uh Oh, and you're saying I understand, right? Because the idea is that yeah, you can you can fill this buffer with bytes from from wherever, right? But the idea is that unless you can guess this, then it doesn't matter, right? But but you're correct that you know in general anything that allows you to guess this or randomly get that value correct will lead to a defeat of the system. In terms of getting enough randomness, can you just take something like the number of seconds or milliseconds since the app and use that at the time of the function? Uh well so as it turns out a lot of times calls to sort of get data or things like that don't contain as much randomness as you might think. um because the the program itself might somehow let's say for example um have a log statement or a function you could call to sort of get the time that the program has launched or things like that. But you're right in practice if you can use something let's say like this the hardware system clock which is often sort of like the lowest level better system of sort of time randomness. Yes, that kind of thing might work. But even if you can pull the uh the log from it still depends on exactly what time you issued the request. So if you if you don't have control over how long it takes for your request to get from your computer to the server, then I don't think you can determistically guess exactly the right time. That's right. That's right. I mean the devil's in the details with all this kind of stuff, right? So in other words, if there is some way for you to figure out, for example, that type of timing channel, right? You might find out that the amount of entropy, the amount of randomness is not, let's say, the full size of a time stamp, but maybe something much smaller, right? because maybe the attacker can figure out the hour and the minute in which you did this, but you know, not the second, for example. But yeah, so let's uh we'll take one more question and then we'll we'll move on. For the record, like trying to enroll your own randomness is usually like a bad idea, right? Like usually correct by system. Oh yes. Yeah, that's that's very true. Um it's kind of like inventing your own crypto system, which is another popular thing undergrads sometimes want to do. Uh you know, we're not the NSA, we're not mathematicians. That typically fails. So you're exactly right about that. Um but even if you use system supplied randomness you know you still may end up with fewer bits of entropy uh than you expect and I'll give you an example of that when we talk about address base randomization. So that's basically how the uh the stack canary uh approach works. And so since we're in a security class you might be wondering so what kinds of things will stack canaries not catch? So when do uh canaries fail? Right. So one one way that they can fail is um if the attacker overwrites things like uh function pointers, right? because if function pointers get hit, there's nothing that the canary can do to prevent that type of exploit from taking place. So, for example, let's say you had code that um declared a pointer. It gets initialized in some way. It doesn't really matter. Then you have a buffer here. Once again, the gets function rears its ugly head. And then let's say down here we assign some value five let's say to the pointer. Right? Now note that you know we haven't actually tried to attack the return address of the function that contains this code. Right? When we do the buffer overflow this pointer address up here is going to get corrupted. Right? And so what ends up happening is that if the attacker can corrupt that pointer, then the attacker is able to write five to some attacker controlled address. Right? So, so does everyone see how the canary doesn't help here? Because we're basically not attacking the the way that the function returns. Won't the pointer be below the buffer? Won't the pointer? Ah, so yeah. So in So you're worried about is it going to be here? Is it going to be here? I'm worried about when you will you actually be able to access where the pointer is when you're over. Uh yeah. Yeah. So you can't necessarily Yeah. So it's a good question. So uh I think in a lot of the previous examples you've been assuming that you know this guy would be sort of here like in the stack. So you know if the if the stack is growing this way then the pointer would be down here. But the order of the particular variables it depends on a bunch of different things. It depends on sort of the way that the compiler lays stuff out. It depends on sort of the calling convention of the hardware so on and so forth. But you're right that if the um basically if the buffer overflow was going this way but the pointer was sort of in front of the buffer. Yeah. And this wouldn't work. Why can't you associate with the function? Ah so that's an interesting point. So you could do those things right in fact you could try to imagine a compiler that whenever it had any pointer whatsoever it would always try to add padding for various things right. So as it turns out um schemes like that will quickly get um expensive in terms of like all the code that's sort of added to have to check for all those types of things right because then you can imagine that every single time you want to invoke any pointer or call any function you've got to have this code that's going to check whether that canary is correct but yeah in principle you could do something like that. So does so does this make sense? So we see that canaries don't help you in this situation. And so uh another thing as we've discussed before is that if you can guess the randomness uh then basically the random canaries don't work and producing uh you know sort of secure sources of randomness is actually a topic in and of itself that's very very complicated. So we're not going to go into great depth about that here, but suffice it to say if you can guess the randomness, everything falls apart. So usually have less bits in the return address. Uh let's see. So you're saying if the canary here is let's say smaller than so I'm saying like the purpose of the canary is that you know what that value is and then you can also like memorize the return address. and check if that's been changed. Uh can't you Oh, so you're saying can't the the uh secure system uh can't it look at the return address and figure out if that's been changed and then otherwise uh yeah so so in other words if there well let me say that yes and no. So note that there's still this that's going to get overwritten in a buffer overflow attack. So this may still cause problems. Um but in principle if somehow like that these these things were invariant somehow um then yeah you could do something like that. Uh but the problem is that uh in many cases um this return the bookkeeping overhead for that would be a little bit tricky right because you can imagine that a particular function may get called from different places you know and so on and so forth. And so just in the interest of time so we're going to uh zoom forward a little bit um but then if we have time at the end we'll come back to some of these questions. So all right so those are some situations in which uh the canary can fail. There's some other places in which it can fail too. Um so for example uh one way that it might fail is with uh malic and free attacks. So this is sort of a uniquely uh sea style attack. So let's see what happens here. So imagine that you have uh two pointers here P and Q and then imagine that we issue uh malix for both of these right we give P24 bytes of memory we also give Q024 bytes of memory And then let's say that we do a stir copy on P from some buff that's controlled by the attacker. Okay, so here's where the overflow happens. And then let's say that we free Q. And then let's say that we free P. Okay, so it's fairly straightforward code, right? Two pointers. We malex some memory for each one of them. We use one of these unsafe functions. The buffer overflow happens. Then we free a Q and we free P. So let's assume that P and Q the memory that's assigned to them are nearby in terms of the layout in terms of memory. Right? So both of these uh objects sort of lie next to each other uh in the memory space. So there's some subtle and sort of evil things that can happen here, right? Because this stir copy here might actually uh over it'll it'll sort of fill P with a bunch of stuff, but it might also corrupt some of the state that belongs to Q. Okay, and this can cause problems. And some of you may have done things like this unintentionally, right? in your own code when you have some type of weird use of pointers and then stuff sort of seems to work but then when you call free later on it's seg faults or something like that right what we're going to talk about here is a way that an attacker can sort of take advantage of that behavior um and we're actually going to explain why that happens so imagine that um inside the implementation of free and malo an allocated block looks like this. So let's say that there is um you know the app visible data that lives up here and then let's say you had a size variable down here. This is not something that the the application sees directly, right? But this is sort of like some bookkeeping info that the free or the mal uh maloc system sort of tracks so it can know the sizes of the buffers that it allocated. So let's say that uh a free block has some metadata that looks like this. Right? So maybe you've got the size of the free block here and then you've got a bunch of empty space here. And then let's say this is where things get interesting. You've got a a backwards pointer and then you've got a forward pointer and maybe got some size data here. Now, why are we having these two pointers here? Well, it's because the memory allocation system uh in this case is using sort of like a doubly linked list to sort of track, you know, how the free blocks are related to each other, right? So when you allocate a free block, you take it off of this doubly linked list and then when you deallocate it, you do some pointer arithmetic and then you fix these things up. Then you add it back to that linked list. Right? So as always, whenever you hear pointer arithmetic, you should think chainery, right? Because that's where a lot of these problems come about. And so the thing to note is that uh sort of we had this buffer overflow here, right? and P. If we assume that P and Q are next to each other or very close in memory, then what can end up happening is that this buffer overflow can overwrite some of this size data for the allocated pointer Q. Right? So, is everybody with me so far? Because if you're with me so far, then basically you can sort of use your imagination at this point and sort of see where things go wrong, right? Because essentially what's going to end up happening is that these free operations, they look at this metadata to do all kinds of pointer manipulations with this kind of stuff, right? So you can basically uh think of it as uh get rid of this guy. You know somewhere in the implementation of free it's going to get some pointer based on the value of size, right? Where size is something the attacker controls because the attacker did the buffer overflow, right? So then you can imagine that it does a bunch of pointer arithmetic, right? So, it's going to look at the back and the uh forward pointers of this block and then it's going to do something like update the back pointer and also uh update the forward pointer, right? And the exact specifics of this you don't need to worry about, right? This is just an example of the code that takes place in there. But the point is is that note that because the attacker's overwritten size, the attacker now controls this pointer that's passed into the free code. Okay? And because of that, these two statements here, these are actually pointer updates, right? This is a pointer somewhere. And because the uh attacker has been able to control this p, he actually controls all this stuff too. So this is where the attack can actually take place, right? So when the free code operates and it tries to do things like for example merge these two blocks, right? That's typically why you have things like this link list because if you have two blocks that are adjacent to each other and they're both free, you want to merge them into one big block. Well, we control size. That means we control this whole process here. That means if we've been clever in how these uh overflows are working at these points, we can write to a memory in a way that we choose. So does that make sense? And like I said, this type of thing often happens in your own code when you're not being very clever with pointers and you make some mistake with, you know, double freeing or whatever. This is why stuff will seg fault sometimes, right? Because you've sort of messed up this metadata that lives with each one of these allocated blocks and then at some point, you know, these this calculation will point to some garbage value and then you're dead, right? But if you're the attacker, you can actually choose that value and use it for your own advantage. Okay, so now let's get to um another approach for sort of getting rid of some of these buffer overflow attacks. And that approach is bound checking, right? And the goal of balance checking is to make sure that when you use a particular pointer, it only refers to something that is a me a memory object and that pointer is in the valid bounds of that memory object. Right? So that's the base idea behind uh the idea. It's actually pretty simple, right? At a high level. Once again in C though it's very difficult to actually understand things like what does it actually mean for a pointer to be inbounds or out of bounds or valid or invalid. So for example let's say that uh you have two pieces of code like like this. So you declare a character array of,024 bytes and let's say that you do something like this. you declare a pointer and then you get uh the address of one of the elements in X, right? So, does this does this make sense? Right? Is this a good idea to do that? It's hard to say, right? I mean, if you're treating this X up here as a string, right? Maybe it makes sense, for example, to take a pointer like this, then you can increment it and decrement it because maybe you're looking for some special value of a character in there. But, you know, if this is maybe like a network message or something like that, maybe there's actually some strct that's embedded in here. So, it doesn't actually make sense to sort of walk this character by character, right? So, the challenge here is that once again, because C allows you to do whatever you want, it's hard to determine what it is you actually wanted to do, right? And so, as a result, um it's a little bit sort of subtle with how you define things like pointer safety uh in scene. And so, you know, you can also imagine that life gets even more complicated if you use uh strrus and unions. So, you know, imagine you had a union that look like this. You know, it's got some integer value in there and then you've got uh some strruct and then it has two integers inside of it. Oops. Right. So don't forget the way that the that unions work is that basically the union is going to allocate the maximum size for sort of the largest element but in any given moment you typically expect that you know either this int i will be valid or this strruct s will be valid in the union but not both. Right? So imagine that you had code that did something like this. you get a pointer to the address of this guy, right? So I get an an integer pointer to the address of in the union this strct and then k. Well, I mean that address, you know, this this uh reference is strictly speaking in bounds, right? there there's memory that's been allocated for this that that's not incorrect but I mean are you actually at this moment in the program execution treating this union as one of these guys or one of these guys it's hard to say right so as a result of these sort of ambiguous pointer semantics that can arise in these C programs uh typically uh these bound checkings approaches they sort of uh can only offer a weaker notion of pointer correctness and so that notion is as follows. So if you have uh a pointer P prime uh that's derived from a base pointer P. Then P prime should only be used to dreference dreference memory that belongs to that original base pointer. Right? So for a derived pointer in P prime that's derived from some original one P, then P prime should only be used to dreference memory uh that belongs to P. So note that this is a weaker goal than enforcing completely correct pointer semantics, right? Because for example, you could still have weird uh issues like um with this union here for example, maybe at this particular point in the program, it wasn't correct for the program to be able to reference that particular value in the union, right? But you know, at least this pointer reference is sort of in bounds, right? So maybe, you know, in this example up here, maybe um this sort of um uh creation of this pointer here sort of violated the sort of semantics of the network message embedded in X. But at least you're not trampling on arbitrary memory, right? You're only trampling on memory that belongs to you. And so in the world of C, this is considered success, right? So you have to be happy for the small things. Um so that's the basic idea. Now the challenge with sort of enforcing these types of semantics here is that in many cases you need help from the compiler. Okay, so you need help from the compiler and you typically need to recompile programs to uh enforce these semantics. So that can be a drag for backwards compatibility. But this is the basic notion of uh sort of bounce checking. So what are some ways that you can uh implement uh bounce checking? Uh so one very simple way is this notion called uh electric fences, right? And so the notion here is that for every object that you allocate on the heap, you allocate a guard page that's sort of immediately next to it, right? And you set the page protections on that page such that if anybody tries to touch that, you get a hard fault, right? The hard rule will say that's out of bounds and then the program will just stop right there. Right? And so this is a very simple thing that you can do, right? And what's nice about this approach actually is that whenever you have an invalid memory reference, this causes a fault immediately. Right? If you've ever debugged a big C or C++ program, one of the big problems is that a lot of times when you corrupt memory, that memory sort of is corrupted silently and sort of for a while and it isn't until later that something crashes and then only then do you realize something happened but you don't know what that something is. These typically do what they call heisen bugs, right? Things that have this notion of uncertainty in them. So, what's nice about this is that, you know, as soon as the pointer sort of hits here, boom, hits the guard page, everything blows up. All right. Now, can you think of a disadvantage with this approach? Takes a lot of extra space. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, imagine that this little this heap thing here was super super small, but then I've allocated a whole page just to make sure that my little tiny thing here didn't get uh didn't have like one of these pointer attacks, right? So this is very uh space intensive and so like people don't really deploy something like this in in production right this can be useful for debugging things but you would never do this for a real program. Does that make sense? So uh these electric fencers are actually pretty pretty simple to understand. Why does that have to be so large? Ah so the reason is because this guard page here uh you're typically relying on the hardware's like page level protection to deal with those types of things and so there's like certain minimum sizes you can set for the size of a page according to the hardware. So typically like that page is 4K for example. So getting back to your question you know if this is some like super small value here then yeah this is like you know maybe two bytes or whatever but then you got like 4K here protecting it. Are you protecting just the heap or individual things that Oh, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. So, by heap I mean like uh like heap object. Yeah. Thank you for Yeah, exactly. So, you know, imagine like for each malo you do you know you could have one of these a separate guard page for it and you do it below and above or just you can do either. That's right. Yeah, you could do either, but once again, depending on this uh on the size of the object, you know, I mean, now you've got to declare two guard pages, right? So now this, you know, sort of quickly gets out of control, but yeah, you could have a book a book ending once basically. So that's the basic idea behind that. Um, actually, yeah, we can erase this guy. And then another approach you could look at is um what they call fat pointers. And so the idea here is that you actually want to modify the pointer representation itself to include balance information in it. So, you know, if you look at your uh regular 32-bit pointer, what's it look like? Well, I mean, it's just 32 bits and then you got an address in it, right? If you look at a uh fat pointer, then you know, one way you can think about looking at this is you've got a four byte uh base And then you have a uh four byte end. So in other words, this is where the allocated object starts. Uh that's where it ends. And then you've got um a four byte uh cur address. So this is where the pointer actually is within that bound. Right? So basically what happens is that the compiler will sort of uh generate code such that when you access these fat pointers this gets updated but it'll also check these two things to make sure that nothing bad has happened during that update. So for example you can imagine that if I had code like this. So I have an inch pointer and then I allocate uh eight bytes. So assuming that we're on a 32-bit architecture, this should point to two uh integers, space for two integers. And then I have some uh while loop that is going to just assign some value uh to the pointer and then increment the pointer. What you'll see is that the current address for this pointer um like at this point in the code will point to the base right and then every time we sort of iterate through here um we can see that we are either checking a bound or incrementing a bound right so you know at this point when we want to dreference it we can actually check and see um is the current address of that pointer in this range and if it's not we can throw an exception here you know so on and so forth right so you know and and once And where is this taking place? This is taking place in new code that the compiler generated. So uh one question that came up uh on the online discussion group some people were saying you know what is instrumented code? What what does that mean? Right? So when I say that the comp that the compiler generates new code imagine that there this is what you see as a programmer but sort of before this operation actually takes place. Imagine the compiler inserted some new CC code here that basically looked at these base bounds here and then if there was something out of bounds it would then you know do an exit or an abort or something like that right so that's what it means to say that there is instrument code is that you take the source code you use the programmer C add some new C source code and then compile that bigger program right so the basic idea I think behind the fat pointers is pretty simple um you know there's some disadvantages to this uh you know the biggest disadvantage is that you know, oh my goodness, look how big your pointers are now, right? And so what this means is that you can't um just take a fat pointer and pass it to an unmodified off-the-shelf library, right? Because it may have certain expectations that pointers are a certain size and when you give it this thing, it's just going to it's going to blow up. You also have trouble if you want to include these types of pointers and strrus or things like that because that can actually change the size of the strruct, right? Right? And so a very popular thing in C code to do is to take like size of a strruct, you know, and then like do something as a result of that like reserve some disk space for a strct of that size so on and so forth. So this causes all that stuff to blow up, right? Because once again the pointers have gotten very very big. And another thing which is a bit subtle but it's that uh these fat pointers typically will not be able to be updated in an atomic fashion. Right? So on you know 32-bit architectures typically if you do like a write to a 32-bit variable that write is atomic right but now these pointers are these three integer sized things right so if you have any code that takes advantage of the fact that it expects pointer rights uh to be atomic then you may get in trouble here right because you can imagine that um you know to do some of these checks you have to sort of you know look at the current address and then look at this and then you might have to increment that and so on and so forth So this can cause very subtle concurrency bugs if you have code that depends on that atomicity of the of the rights. So does that all make sense? So that's one approach you could do. But you know kind of like uh electric fences this has some sort of nasty side effects that means that people don't typically use that in practice. So now we can start talking about uh bounds checking with respect to the shadow data structures that are mentioned in the baggie bounds paper. So the basic idea uh for these shadow data structures is for each object that you allocate, you want to store how big the object is, right? Right? And so for example, if you have some pointer that you call Malach on, right, you need to store that size of that of that object there. And then note that if you have something that's like a static variable like this, right, the compiler can sort of automatically figure out what the bounds are for that thing there, right? statically speaking. So for each one of these pointers, we need to um interpose somehow on two operations. So basically we need to do uh arithmetic. So this is things like you know Q equals you know P + 7 or whatever. And then you want to uh you know interpose on dreferencing. So this is something like uh you know Q equals you know A or something like that. So what's interesting is that you might think well why can't we just rely on direct reference when we interpose on stuff right why do we have to look at this uh sort of pointer arithmetic here and similarly you might wonder the other thing like in other words why can't we just deal with one of these and not have to interpose on both so we can't just you know signal an error if we see the arithmetic going out of bounds because in C that may or may not be an error. Right? So in other words, a very common idiom in C and C++ is you might have a pointer that points to one past the valid end of an object. Right? And then you use that as a stop condition, right? So you iterate through the object, then once you hit that end pointer, that's when you actually stop the the loop or whatever, right? So if we just interpose on in on arithmetic and we always cause a hard fault when we see a pointer go out of bounds, that may actually break a lot of legitimate applications, right? Right? So we can't just interpose on that. And so you might say, well then why can't we just interpose on to referencing and just sort of when we notice that you've uh sort of touched something out of bounds, we'll just raise the error there. Well, the challenge there is that how do you know it's out of bounds, right? It's the it's the arithmetic interpositioning that essentially allows us to tell, you know, whether or not this thing is going to be legal here, right? Because it's the it's the interpositioning on the arithmetic that allows us to sort of track where the pointer is with respect to its original base bounds. All right. So that's that's the basic idea there. And so the next question is how do we actually implement the balance checking system? Because basically we need some way to map a particular uh pointer address to some types of bounds information for that pointer, right? And so a lot of your previous solutions use things like for example like a hash table or a tree right that would allow you to sort of do lookups right in the standard way. So given uh a pointer address I do some lookup in this data structure figure out what the bounds are. Given those bounds I can then sort of figure out if I want to allow the uh the access to take place or not. Now the problem with that is that uh it's a slow lookup right because these data structures you know think of if it's a tree right you're going through a bunch of branches before you can actually hit the value potentially. Um and even if it's a hash table, what if there's an overflow in the buckets? You got to, you know, follow chains or do linear probing or things like that. So the baggie bounds paper um that we are about to look at actually figures out a very efficient uh data structure to track some of these bounds to make that bound checking very fast. Uh so let's just step into that right now. But before we go into that, let me very briefly talk about how uh buddy allocation works because that's one of the things that came up in a lot of the questions. Uh and so one thing that you'll see for these papers is that a lot of times they are not self-contained, right? So they will mention things that they will assume that you know uh but you may not know them. Don't get discouraged by that. That happens to me too sometimes. You know these papers are sort of written in a way that they assume a lot of prior knowledge. So don't get discouraged by that. Luckily we actually have access to the internet so we can look up some of this stuff. I mean imagine what happened in our parents' time. They just didn't understand stuff. They just had to go home, right? So don't be afraid to look stuff up. We got the Wikipedia. It's mostly correct. So how does um how does the buddy allocation system work? So basically what it does is at first uh it treats unallocated memory as one big block. Okay. And then when you request uh smaller blocks for dynamic allocation, it tries to split that address space uh using powers of two until it finds a block that is just big enough to work. So let's say that request came in. We say a is going to equal to malik uh 28 28 bytes. And let's just say in this toy example, there's only 128 bytes of memory total. So the buddy allocator is going to look at this and say, "Well, I have 128 bytes of memory, but it's too wasteful to allocate this whole thing to this 28 byt request." So I'm going to split this request in two and then see if I have a smaller block that's just big enough. So it's going to say, okay, I split this to 0 to 64 and 64 to 128. Uh, okay, but this block here is still too big. Right? Basically what the buddy allocator wants to do is find a block such that the allocated data in the real object 28 bytes is at least half the size of that block. Right? So buddy Alakare says okay this thing over here is still too big. So what it's going to do is it's going to split the memory space again. Right? So from 0 to 32 and then it's going to say ah okay 28 bytes that is more than half the size of this block here. So now this uh block is going to be allocated to A. Okay. And so it gets this address here. Now let's say that we have another request that comes in for B and let's say that we want a Malak 50 right so what's going to happen is that the buddy allocator will say ah okay I actually have a block here that's big enough right 50 is greater than half the size of this thing so I'll just allocate that right there so we have the system or setup where we have a is here and then we have B here. And then let's say uh we had another request that came in for 20 bytes. This is actually pretty straightforward because we can put that right here, right? So then we have something that looks like uh this. And then what's interesting is that when you deallocate memory, if you have two deallocated blocks that are next to each other in the same size, the buddy allocator will merge them into a block that's twice as big. Right? So if we had um free uh let's say C then we go to this situation. We can't do any merging because uh this is the only possible block that this one could have been merged with because it's the same size, but this thing's still occupied. So then if we do a uh free on a then we have this situation here, right? Where these two uh 32 uh byte blocks were merged into one of size 64. And then this one of size 64 is still out there. Right? So it's called the buddy system because once again whenever you have two adjacent blocks that are of the same size and that could be merged to form an aligned block then the system will merge that buddy with this other buddy and then create that new block that's twice as big. Right? So the thing that's nice about this system is that it's very simple to figure out sort of where buddies are because you can do sort of very cutesy arithmetic kind of like the buddy balance system bag balance system works but anyways I'm not going to go into those details this is basically how buddy allocation works um does that make sense right and one question that came up a lot in the in the uh online discussion is you know isn't this wasteful right so for example imagine that up here at the beginning I had a request for size 65 bytes, right? So if I had a request for 65 bytes, I would allocate this whole structure up here and then there's actually you're out of you're out of dynamic memory, right? You can't do any more allocations. And the answer is yes, that is wasteful. But once again, it's sort of a trade-off, right? Because it's very easy to do these calculations of how to do merging and stuff like that. So if you want sort of finer grain allocation, there are other algorithms for that. It's outside the scope of the lecture, so we can talk about that offline if you want. That's basically how the buddy uh sorry the the buddy allocator works. So what is the baggie bound system going to do? Well, it is going to rely on a couple of tricks. So the first idea is you round up each allocation to a power of two. And you align the requests to that power of two. Right? And so essentially the buddy allocator is very nice because it handles a lot of that for you. Right? It sort of naturally will do that kind of thing because that's just the way that it sort of allocates and deallocates memory. And so the second thing that's going to happen baggy bound system is you express each bound as log base 2 of the allocation size, right? And so what this means and so why why can we do this? Well, once again, all of our allocation sizes are powers of two, right? So we don't need very many bits to represent uh how big a particular allocation size is. So for example um you know if your allocation size is 16 then you just need um you know four the logarithm of that four bits represent the allocation size right so does that make sense right so this is another popular question here so this is why you only need uh a small number of bits here because we're basically forcing the allocation sizes to sort of hit this quantized sort of way and they can grow like you can only have something of let's say you know 16 bytes or 32 bytes. You can't have for example bytes. And then the third thing that baggy bounds is going to do is uh store the limit info in a linear array with one bite per entry. But we're going to allocate memory at the granularity of a slot which in the paper they use uh 16 bytes as the slot width. So for example, now this next thing, this is one bit that wasn't actually explicitly said in the paper, which if you don't sort of grasp would make the paper very tricky to understand, right? So imagine that you have uh a slot size which is equal to 16. So if you do p= mal 16. So what's going to happen? So in this bounds table, we're going to say uh take that pointer divide it by slot size is going to equal four. Right? So in that bounds table, we're going to put the logarithm of the uh allocation size in the table. Does that make sense? Okay. Now, what the tricky thing is, let's say that you had something like this. Right. So let's say that you alloc 32 bytes, right? What is the bounds table going to look like there? So here we actually have to update the bounds table. Just going to abbreviate it here P or sorry T for size reasons. We have to update the bounds table twice, right? once for the first slot of memory that this allocation takes up and then a second time for that second slot that it takes up. Right? So once again 32 is allocation size. This is the log of that allocation size. So for the two slots this memory takes up we're going to update the balance table twice. Does that make sense? Right? Right. And this is really the key that I think for a lot of people sort of makes the paper make sense or not make sense, right? Because you have to update the the the that bounds table multiple times depending on the size of the allocation. Excuse me. Oh yeah. Yeah. Sure. Sure. So basically the idea is that you know you've got this this bounds table here and you know it's got a bunch of different entries but it basically needs entries to cover all of P size all the size. Okay. So in this case it was very simple because uh basically this was just one slot in terms of the size here it's multiple slot sizes right and so what's going to happen is that imagine that we then had a pointer that's sort of moving in the range of p we have to have sort of a backing table slot for each one of those places where p could be right and so once again it's this second piece here that makes the paper a little bit confusing I think because it doesn't really go into depth about that um but this is this is how that works okay So uh let's see. So armed with the uh bounds table stuff, what happens if we have CC code that looks like this? So you have a pointer P prime. You derive it from P and then you add some variable I. So how do you get the size of the allocation belonging to P? Well, you look in the table using this lookup here, right? So the size of the data that's been allocated to P is going to be equal to one and then you left shift that by looking in the table taking that pointer value and then right shifting that by the log of the table size right and this arithmetic works out because of the way that we're sort of binding pointers to the the table bounds. Right? So this will get us this thing right here will get us um sort of the log of the size and then this thing over here basically expands that into like the regular value right so for example if uh the size of this pointer were uh were 32 in terms of the bice it was allocated right this is going to get us five when we look at in the table then when we left shift it this way left shift the one this way then we're going to get 32 back again for Okay. And then uh if we want to find the base of that pointer, we take the pointer itself and then we're going to end that with the size minus one. Now what this is going to do is this is actually going to give us sort of a mask if you can think of it. And that mask is going to allow us to uh sort of recover the base here. And so imagine that you know your size equals 16. So 16 equals this in binary, right? So there's a bunch of zeros off this way. Then we've got a one here. We got some zeros over here. Okay. So if we look at uh the bitwise inverse of 16 minus one then actually sorry so if we look at 16 - 1 so what's that going to look like? 16 minus one is going to look like right something like this. Okay. So then if we take the inverse of that what is that going to give us right in binary. So basically this thing here allows us to basically clear the bits that uh essentially would be offsets from that valid pointer and just give us the base of that pointer. Okay. And so once we've got this then it's very simple to check whether this pointer is in bounds right because we can basically just check whether p prime is greater than or equal to base and whether p prime minus the base is less than size. Right? This is just the straightforward thing you do. Right? just seeing whether that derived pointer exists within the bounds we just recovered. Right? So at this point things are pretty straightforward. Now they have like an optimize check in the paper. I'm not going to go into that in detail but suffice it to say that all the binary arithmetic it it resolves down to the same thing. They just do some clever tricks there to sort of avoid some of the explicit calculations we do here. Right? So that's the basic idea. And so uh the fifth trick that uh the baggie bound system uses is that it uses uh the the virtual memory system to prevent outofbound dreferences of pointers. Right? And so the idea here is that uh how much time do we have by the way? Probably like zero. Yeah. So the basic idea here is that if we have a pointer arithmetic here that we detect is out of bounds, what we can do is actually set the high order bit on a pointer, right? And by doing that, we guarantee that if that pointer is dreferenced, then the paging hardware is going to complain. We're going to throw a hard error. Right? Now, in and of itself, just setting that bit does not cause a problem. Right? It's only when you dreference that pointer that you get to the problems.