The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So today um we're moving along chronologically and today we're going to look at two films from the 1920s and both of these films were extremely influ influential on later documentary filmmakers which is why we want to look at them but they have extremely different sensibilities and extremely different styles. Um and they also have extremely different visions of what they want to do with this new emerging camera uh film technology. Um and they also are in dialogue with science in different kinds of ways and we talked some about science films before and that's something that's we're going to draw out in both of these um uh thinking about in relation to both of these filmmakers. Um so as I mentioned in the last class the way that we do these Wednesday night classes is generally I introduce um the films that we're going to be talking about then we watch part of the films and then we have group discussion about it afterwards. um because we don't have enough time, unfortunately, we can't watch the documentaries in their entirety, but we do have copies of most things over in the DV Lab office. And for a lot of the films, we have three copies of each. So, if you want to borrow DVDs and watch the rest of it at some point, if you have a chance, you can also um um get them out um take them out with Dave um in addition to getting camera equipment from him. Okay, so the first film we're going to look at is a film called Nanak of the North. I don't know how many of you ever heard of Nanoke. It's quite a famous documentary film. Um, and as you know from the reading it was made by Robert Flity. It came out in 1922. Um, and this film was made about Inwood peoples um who are often referred to historically by Europeans and Americans as Eskimo. Um, people who a group that lived um historically um as well as in the contemporary period in northern Canada in the Arctic. Um, and the film ostensibly uh tracks the life of an Eskimo family and their struggles to survive in the harsh Arctic wilderness. And in thinking about um the relationship between science and documentary in this class, there's a couple reasons why why Nanuko the North is important to think about. First of all, because it's often credited as being the first documentary film. And as we talked about in the last class, the term documentary itself wasn't really coined until the 1930s. So you didn't really at this point, it was still too early, you didn't really have a distinct genre of documentary film. But in for documentary film theorists when they go back and look at the history of various kinds of films, they often position Enoch of the North as being being the first documentary um film historically. Um and it's also been influential among anthropologists in the social sciences because many people saw it as a precursor to ethnographic film. Um, and if you're not sure about anthropology or ethnographic film, we're going to be talking about that a couple classes later down the line. So, so there'll be more discussion um about that coming up. Um, so I mentioned in the last class how from the very beginning, from the time that you had the Lumiere brothers inventing their their camera um in the 1890s, the early histories of film were very international in in origin. Um, right. So we we talked about how the Lumiè they immediately had their operators um going out different parts of the world taking these films showing them to audiences. So so from the very very beginning it was a very international um um it had a very international scope and I also mentioned in the last class that you have to keep in mind this was also the colonial period. So this was really the height of European um the height of European colonialism. um onethird of the land mass of the globe um during this period was controlled by the British in some form either through direct colonies or indirect protectorates. Um some people argue that one quarter of the world's population were under some form of British dominion. So between the various um major European powers um and the US also had you know it its hands in in some of this but but it was very much a colonial um a colonial international terrain. Um, and so you have to think about the dissemination of cameras and early films in that kind of context as they moved internationally. And you also have to think in the context of the US and Canada. You also had internally colonized people like Native Americans or the Inuit um in Arctic Canada. And I don't know how many of you have talked about this in basic history classes um elsewhere, but in the 19th and 20th centuries, you might know that ideas of social evolution were very common. Any sense of what those ideas of social evolution were about? Yeah, I mean some some people refer to it as social Darwinism. I mean there's that was kind of a later strand. Um it also had um um earlier historical origins, but basically the idea um in much of 19th century European and American thought that you could rank societies hierarchically that societies were ranked. There were some societies that were seen as being more more primitive or more traditional and they were seen as as being ranked and the the groups that were seen as being sort of the most civilized or modern or progressive were European countries um and Americans thought of course Americans were. But but it was very much this idea that somehow societies could be ranked in a certain kind of way and the idea that societies would evolve or transform from being more primitive or traditional to being um um you know more um more modern. So these ideas so these kinds of stereotypes and ideas were very pervasive during this period and many of these stereotypes then about non-western societies were extremely negative and partly that came out of the colonial context. It was it was part of sort of um the understandings of this hierarchical relationships between people in different parts of the world. But in addition to the overtly negative um stereotypes of non-western people, you also had a certain kind of romantic um rousoan ideas of of sort of the noble primitive um savage that that that certain primitives peoples were seen as in kind of a romantic light as being closer to nature um as being potentially more authentic. So there was this kind of countercurrent in European and and American thought where at least some people would argue well modern society is corrupting and these sort of non-western more more quote unquote primitive peoples are somehow more authentic. They're not they haven't been corrupted by by modern contemporary life. And so um many people have talked about Nanuka the North as being a film that sort of came out of this romantic um this romantic primitivist uh tradition. It was a wildly popular film. Okay. And we talked in the last class about how the early science films were also part of popular entertainment, right? They were shown in movie theaters with vaudeville shows. Um um so entertainment was um very much a part of uh the early film terrain and nanuk as entertainment was wildly successful. There were press kits and I actually I can't remember whether I had this online but for those of you interested I'll pass this around. This is um one some of the early press kits that that um when Nano was being shown in theaters. They had all these ideas for um shopkeepers about what you should do to publicize it and all these ideas about how you should build igloos in your lobby and put around fake snow and um uh so anyway the press the press kit from the 1920s is is quite interesting about ideas about how Nuk should be publicized. So, Neneuk was it turned in kind of a pop culture craze, right? All these kinds of commercial tie-ins, Eskimo pies became um you know, big item in pop culture. Um so, so one of the questions to think about then was why was this kind of romantic primitivism so popular at the time? And Anna Grimshaw is one author um who's argued that in order to understand the popularity of films like Nanuk and these kinds of ideas, you have to think about the US and Europe in the context of the aftermath of World War I. Okay. And what she argued was that the first world war was so deeply traumatic for so many people that it caused them to question the kind of 19th century um you know strong faith in ideas of uh science and technology is always leading to greater rationality. Um and for a lot of people those kinds of ideas sort of that society was just uh you know evolving in this kind of upward way and everything was be become more progressive and that you know science and technology were going to bring sort of only wonderful things. uh the first world war was a very strong challenge for um a lot of people and she argues that there were a couple responses to this that that surrealism if you think about other kinds of art movements like surrealism and dataism were were one kind of response um because the surrealist ideas of sort of breaking down rationality and focusing on dream states for example that that was one kind of um response to that kind of disillusionment and she argues that another response was a certain kind of romantic primitivism um right this kind of idea then that well the these supposedly primitive peoples were sort of leading more simple authentic lives and that they didn't have to worry about the horrors of modern warfare or the alienation of modern life. And so so there was this kind of fascination um at that particular historical moment um with these kinds of groups. Um so and in addition to focusing on what were thought of as the time at the time as being primitive peoples there also the romantic tradition has historically focused very strongly on nature. Okay. And there was often expressed a kind of um longing for an untamed nature and wild spaces um which was associated with the fact that many of those spaces were being transformed because of uh colonialism or because of economic expansion. So there was often a kind of nostalgia um for certain kinds of um certain kinds of landscapes. So Nanuk was was a film that brought both of those trends together. A certain an interest in a certain kind of romantic primitivism that was also tried tied to certain kinds of nostalgia for certain kinds of natural landscapes. Um and if you've read a bit in the readings about Flity's background, the filmmaker, um you know that he was the son of a mining engineer. He grew up in northern uh in northern Michigan. He was very kind of outdoorsy type ever since he he was a kid and he started out in the north because he was searching for mining deposits. Um um and then he increasingly began working on film projects with the Inuit. Um you might have read about how he had an early version of the film that ended up being set on fire and destroyed and he ended up going back and sort of reworking uh working it completely. Um, but anyway, we'll we can talk more about flarity after you've seen a bit of the film. So, just a couple things I want you to be thinking about as you watch as we watch a bit of Nanoko the North. Um, the question of why was it so appealing to so many people at the time? Why was this considered to be a classic film and it still is is, you know, often on the list of, you know, top films ever made. Uh the second question to think about is how is it constructed as a film as a documentary film? How is it put together? How is it made? Um and the third question is um how what are the kinds of representations at work in the film about Inuit um as as a group. Okay. So just a few things to be thinking about as we watch it. We're going to watch about you know 20 minutes to half an hour of the film. Heat. Hey, heat. Hey, heat. Heat. Heat. Hallelujah. Hello. There we Oh, heat. Thank you. Amen. Come on. Hey, heat. Hey. Where are you? Yes, I am. So cute. What? Let me pray. Yeah. Yeah. Hey. Heat. Hey, Heat. Okay. Reactions, thoughts. What do y'all think? Something made in the 19 early 1900s. It wasn't It was pretty good. Yeah, it is. It kind of holds up, doesn't it? Yeah. So, what did you like about it? Um, I don't know. I I I don't know. I guess it sort of just had that old movie feel to it. It reminded me of the last the last STS class I was in. We watched um we watched a few clips from Charlie Chaplan's Modern Times. Yeah, that's great. And it it just sort of reminded me of like that like that similar type of movie. It just has that feelgood type. I don't know how to express it personally. Other thoughts, comments? It's cool cuz the stuff like that I've never seen like as far as like the building and stuff. I mean, even though nowadays you could probably go out there a lot easier with the equipment, but yeah, like they don't show that. So, because it's more like not following one person in modern films about like visiting places. So, yeah. And I mean, and just we're going to be talking particularly when we look at Vertov's film um which is a film very much about the modern technology of the time. So, so again um thinking about flarity as somebody who's partly reacting against that. And so here is like a real appreciation with that building. It's like ah look at here's a technology that wouldn't be considered you know modern by by contemporary southerners as as Inuit people would refer to people down here. But isn't this fascinating watching the way that they put it together and the amount of ingenuity that goes into doing it. So, so it's about technology in an interesting way, but but different than than um some of the focus on technology that we'll see in in some of the other films. Jessica, you had a hand. Oh, yeah. I was going to say what I found interesting uh or at least what got me really interested in the film was that it's like a it's a totally different way of life that you know different from the viewers in that day when it was published or shown and and now. I think that was what really fascinated me. Um, and it was just interesting how I think how they interacted like with the filmer. Like sometimes they'd look at the camera and sometimes they I don't know. Sometimes it seems scripted like you know the fishing part where he's like you know there's all these different angles and I was like wait like how is he there like all the time. So yeah. Yeah. So that's an important point that we should go back to is sort of how the piece was put together. Maybe we could talk about the film more generally and then go back to those questions about how it was put together. Oh, and I should just say the parts that you didn't see. Um, for any of you who get a chance to watch the rest of it, there's a number of really interesting hunting scenes. So, there's more with Nanuk fishing. And then there's also a very famous um scene with a seal um trying to to hook a seal through through an ice hole, a very famous um wall walrus hunting scene. So, a lot of it's hunting and then there's also a big storm comes up and they have to get to safety and so so basically it's about, you know, sort of day-to-day survival. Um, so that's the the pieces that you didn't see. But then what you started out by saying sort of the fascination with this way of life. I mean, one thing to keep in mind at the time period and it's still true still true today that one of the things that people were interested in with the very early films was using it as a way to explore or gain some knowledge, however superficial or deep, of people in other places. So you can think of it you know at a during a time period when you know contemporary tourism in in you know with the ease which which we do it was obviously not an option for many people. So, a fascination with film as a way to sort of get some um sense of what life figures were like in different places being a primary interest for people um um in in early cinema. Other man, I think you had I found it interesting the uh I mean obviously in modern day you have a narrator going on while they're doing uh the action, but he had to sort of preface it as much as he could but as short as he could. He had to preface every scene as much as he could but in as short of a sentences as he could since he can't just fill a screen with you know two paragraphs worth of writing. Right. So so it because it's a silent film and there's no narration there's no dialogue. So to try to explain things for audiences who wouldn't be familiar he these really brief intertitles um yeah and and and quite evocative also you know for a popular audience. um many of the titles in terms of sort of picking interest in I think just to build up what you were saying about kind of how different these people look or have been represented. I think there is really this interplay of similarity and difference is what's most striking about the film like he he has the FL team has made all the efforts to show them as very you know different kind of the environment they live is nothing you know the audience have seen or or can even imagine they're completely unfamiliar with the gramophone or at least they're represented to be so there is like absolutely no and yet at the same time they they're very similar to kind of a European nuclear their family. The wife is clean, beautifully cleaning the window and um the kids are given their medicine and the play while the father works. So there is also something kind of reassuring like these people are so different and yet they're they're like us. Yeah. So let's so let's talk about this. Um so one of the the questions I asked you to think about is sort of representations of the Inuit in the uh the representation of the Inuit in this film. Um, and also the question about why it would have been appealing at the time. And so what you're saying sort of goes a bit to both of those, but can we draw that out um a bit more sort of um so what what was the image of the Inuit that Flarity was trying to construct through this film? very hard workshop. Um, I think that I mean a big part of it was like the music, but like it made the Inuit lifestyle seem very they like said like they're happy golucky even though like their lifestyle is like building an igloo is not like fun um by any means I'm sure. Um, so like they are portrayed as like it almost seems like kind of like story book like with like the prefaces and then it's like they're the parents are building the igloo and then the kids are playing like everything seems like easy and fun but like I guess the like the dangers that they face in a day-to-day lifestyle like the starvation um isn't really brought across in the film. Yeah. If we had seen the hunting scenes, you would have got a a bit more of that because the walrus scene is shown to be a very dangerous um enterprise. But but but anyway, but but your larger point being um again these questions you have, how are they how are they being represented? Um any any thought thoughts sort of building on on these questions, comments? They're very I mean the childlike h everything is kind of cute ingenious children even the starting scene when you know all of them supposedly come out of the tiny boat and they they're kind of smiling in this clumsy way and there there is like no self-reflection there is no you know quotes from them they're not I'm sure they participate in the film but they're not represented as being engaged in the film so yeah so there's there's Definitely a sense of humor in a lot of the film which we could think of that as part of the reason why it was appealing at the time because there's parts quite quite funny in addition to the insanely cute parts with the kids. There's actually some incredibly cute stuff that you didn't see of uh some of the kids they make these little snow animals and then they have these little toy bow and arrows that they're shooting them with. It's just like the cutest they use. Like everybody goes like, "Oh, when I when I show it in my classes, but but so so there's there's uh the use of humor. There's um um cute images of of of kids as a way to sort of create a sense sense of appeal as, you know, as part of it. But but again these larger questions that that you're raising I mean and Sean mentioned this also with the sort of the description of them as sort of happy golucky eskimos um what what's potentially being left out of the picture I mean actually my impression was kind of the opposite that I don't know I think it's very subjective but um I thought I mean building up on your idea the social revolution and the hierarchy I think it was more trying to show how we think of the primitive people I think they have this miserable life you know they have to starve They don't have technology and tech technology. So they have to put up with really awful stuff. But then we see that well they're happy children. They still like live even though they have to go hunting but they still their their people. They have a happy life and they enjoy their life just as much as we do with all the war and the modernity and technology that we have. Yeah. No, I think also it shows like how hardworking they really are because like all the stuff they're doing it's like something that we wouldn't know how to do like if we went out there we couldn't do it ourselves. And so even though it's different and like it might not be as complex as something that we think now is modern technology, it's like really like they're working really hard which is good. Yeah. So I mean what what a lot of you are building on I mean there there's kind of two contradictory things going on here, right? I mean in line with the kind of romantic primitivist ideas of the time there there is a certain portrayal of Inuit where you you don't see much of the you don't see their interaction with Europeans. I mean, you did see in the part that you saw the interaction with the traitor, but that's the only bit in the whole film um that actually shows interactions with Europeans and and there's a very long history in this region of um you know, whether Russians or you know, Canadians or or whoever coming up and having sort of very problematic power relationships with with with Inuit people up in that region. And you don't you don't really get that other than the sort of the short scene with the traitor and where it's all kind of presented as funny and cute. Um, so you don't have a sense of the historical context in which people are living. Um, for those of you and I know you've done different sets of reading because most of you just did the required reading and Katarina did the recommended reading where she has a little bit of extra added info. Um, but there are certain kinds of things that got left out of the film, and we'll see this a little bit when we see another clip, but um um um but for um the fact that people used rifles at this point on the rifles, Flareity deliberately had people not appear with rifles in the film. He had them dress in a way that people might have historically, although in some cases, like supposedly the polar skin pants, people in this area didn't didn't wear. Um but he had them dressed that way. Um so one of the ways that it gets talked about by Flity was that he argues at some point there's this this what's the quote I have it written down here that in order to capture the essence of something um that one often has to distort a thing to catch its true spirit. Okay. And what he did a lot in the film was sort of shape what he was filming in a way that accorded with ideas of how he thought Inuit people had been in the past. This kind of mythic portrayal of them sort of what he assumed they would have been like um sort of in a pure quote unquote past before contact with Europeans. And so he has this kind of some people refer to as as a salvage ethnography kind of perspective where it's it's kind of interest in these people but but but also interest in sort of what they would have been like prior to European European contact. And so there's a lot of kind of um taking certain things out of the the picture that didn't didn't fit with that um the the the problematic power relationships in which people were the economic relationships that were there. You don't really see that. You don't see people reflecting on their situation. Although with subtitles granted it would be I mean without subtitles that would be more difficult to do but you don't necessarily get a sense of people as being sort of complicated people who are having their you know a whole range of thoughts in relation to this that scene with the with the gramophone scene. Um so one thing I mean as Karen knows from the reading that she did actually um Flity worked very closely with uh Inuit people in the making of the film. Um he was very dependent on people. he was out um um the people that he was working with dayto-day were his Inuit um you know friends and and people that he that he was working with as he as he made the film. Um and sorry I just lost my train of thought. Um so he actually the people that he was working with actually had a fair amount quite a bit of technical knowledge um that they gained by working on this film. And so the some of the Inuit people that he worked with, you know, they were they took the camera apart, they put the camera back together, they did some of the shooting. Um, you know, they were very involved in the film making process and and in the technologies of filmm in a way that's not acknowledged. And in that gramophone scene, sort of the what is the implication of that gramophone scene when when Enuk bites the record? Yeah. Yeah, that it's this kind of port, you know, this portrayal that's that's that um appears to be showing like, you know, look how this this is so completely foreign to people, these kinds of European technologies kind of isn't it funny and isn't it bizarre and this is so weird and I'd have to even take a bite of it. But the reality was that um Flity was working closely with the person who gets called Nanuk in the film that wasn't his real name. Um and Nuk actually the the person who plays Nanuk suggested a lot of the scenes was very involved in thinking up the film again you know uh um and other people as well working a lot with the technology to make it but all of that gets written out of the picture right you don't you don't see that that's outside the frame well there's a funny moment in the the very first uh inner title sequence you know the very long one where he says poor Nanuk hung around trying to get me to stay for another year you know talking about all the great uh films we could make. And when I to me that kind of rings true because filmm is really fun and this guy's collaborating with with Flareity and he doesn't want it to end. But the way of course it's presented in the in the in the inner titles, it's sort of this sort of simple, naive, but uh but you know, noble person who has this sort of simplistic idea of what they're doing and he and and isn't it sort of charming that he wants to continue to do it? But if you think of him as a collaborator, it's like, wow, you know, this is great. Let's keep doing this because this is so exciting. and and that that one little thing really to me kind of rings rings very true. So is anyone partner partners being these un unagnowledged collaborators in the film and and in part being unagnowledged because flity wants to present this as this was this is about a pre um European contact period where you know somehow I'm c capturing the essence of this this this primitive um these primitive people um and actually for what uh people later discovered that that that wasn't actually an actual family that the the women who get portrayed as the wives of Nenuk were actually the common wives of Flity himself. Flity, it was not an uncommon thing during the colonial period for um European white men in the colonies um to to have relationships with women in the places they were working. He fathered um children in the north that were not acknowledged by his American wife. Um, so he had these very kinds of complicated relationships to the he with people that that he was working with that that is completely left out of the film. So on the one hand you have all of that. Okay. And on the other hand the one of the issues that Katarina also raised is is um the the kind of reassuring sense that you know well these people appear to be so different in the film but they also seem very sort of familiar in a sense that here's this family watch how how the the family is working. Um but but something else to to keep in mind, I mean this is this is something that was quite innovative about what Flareity um um was doing was the fact that he was taking these images, but he was focusing on particular individuals and he was focusing on a family. Um a lot of photographs you would find at at the time during the colonial period um and a lot of uh films after this as well would often focus on non-western peoples as as ethnic types, right? So you wouldn't necessarily see photos, for example, of individuals. You might see a photograph of an African woman that says bantto woman with basket on her head or something like that. Much much of the visual imagery was about these racial types rather than about individuals. And something that was distinctive um about this film was the focus on particular individuals. Um uh so so that was both breaking with with um um contemp much of the contemporary usage at the time and it was also a way to pull audiences in right because audiences you know became fascinated with with um this family with particular individuals and they end up following um it becomes more of a story it becomes more of a narrative. Okay. And that also for a film theorist seen is seen as being one of the major contributions of this film that that instead of um sort of sort of random images of different places, the pieces get put together to create a story around this family and the story being about the the the struggle um to survive in this kind of context. We should change tape. We have to change tape. So, we're going to take just like a two-minute break to change tape and the cameras. So, just to recap a bit. So, for Flareity then this idea um that he had that many people at the time had that the the Eskimo way of life was disappearing and so it was important to capture the way that life would have been before pre-European contact before that was completely lost. So that being part of the idea of salvage ethnography of the time um which even though Flity was not an anthropologist but but that being um part of the um some of the the larger um language around the stuff that we he would have been um um um participating in. But let's before we go on um let's just talk a little bit about how this was shot. So how was it shot? Any ideas, thoughts about how was it put together? What were what was the impact of the way that it was put together? I mean, one way to think about it for those of you who were here last week, think about the way we the way the Lumiere shorts were shot, some of the other stuff we've seen and compare to this. I was too much for the hand hand cream because otherwise electricity would be an issue. And then I also heard somehow like they showed it to Nanuk or like I don't know if it said it on the screen at the time. So like they saw Yeah. So again in terms of his collaborative relationships with Inuit people that he was working with they would have been seeing the rushes as they um as they were created and also had input into what was shot. So supposedly Nanuk and some of the other people had ideas you know and as Chris was mentioned earlier that the person who who plays the person of Nanuk was really into the whole filmmaking process and supposedly was always coming up with ideas. Why don't we shoot this? Why don't we shoot this? Because he he was having fun and enjoying it. But so he he so Flity was also getting feedback from people as he was shooting it. And some people have argued that even the aesthetic sensibility of the film, um, in the clips we saw, you didn't see so much of it, but some of them are just these gorgeous pans across the landscape that just have you, you know, the the snow and ice and then you might see like a few dogs in the distance. And it's very similar to Inuit painting styles. Um, and some people have argued either that Flity was sort of deeply influenced by Inuit painting styles or it might have been also some of his Inuit collaborators themselves using the camera and shooting it according to their own aesthetics. So again, this kind of um, uh, Inuit influence on what Flity Flity was doing and that's not really sort of more formally acknowledged. Um, but other thoughts on on how it was how it was put together? An Aita? It's interesting because I think that's very similar to the kind of movies we watch today like they start establishing shots they go on these closeups and like to it's very interesting how it exactly follows that or like I guess that's what primarily invented the kind of idea of uh using different kind of shots to tell the story in a certain way and personalize the story and show these characters as a individual. Yeah. One thing that that is interesting is that in the 20 years between Cheese Mites and some of the other shorts that we saw last week and this or slightly more than 20 years, film grammar has been really established. Uh DW Griffith, you know, has been pioneering that with with with fiction films, narrative films, which again, you know, have have a lot of overlap with documentary, quote unquote, which isn't even really a term that people are using at this point. But yeah, close-ups, establishing shots, pans, all of those are are really new and kind of exciting things that at this by this point people are used to watching in theaters, but they're not that old. And it completely changes the way um the the camera and then the audience receives the information, quote unquote, uh and the way that the stories are are uh edited, created, manipulated. Um, and I'm not using that term in a, you know, pjorative way, although obviously there's a lot of manipulation here. Um, the, you know, and and it gives you just all of this latitude. I mean, think about how the the characters are introduced, Nanuk and his, uh, his family, title, you know, name, closeup, and the close-up just extends for a long time. And it and that's basically telling you, you know, pay attention to these people, pay attention to these human beings. Um, and you know, you're just asked to like right at eye level, cameras, right at eye level, look at their faces for a very long time um or a comparatively long time. And that is something that just completely locates you kind of um in what the film is going to be about, who it's going to be about in a very powerful way, which of course to us is kind of second nature because we read films all the time, but but it's a big deal. Also, um just some of these terms in case some of you aren't aware, establishing shots. Do you know what that is? sort of sort um a wide shot of whatever the place is so that when a viewer sees it they know ah this is the place so for example if you're going to do an establishing shot of MIT you might do stand on Massav and do the big dome or you know so like ah that what you're going to see next is at MIT you know so here establishing shots it helps the viewer locate where where the action is going to be or in the you know the Eskimo or the igloo building scene uh you a wide shot that shows the people working and the kids over here and where the igloo is taking shape. So, you're kind of located in space and then you might go into close-ups of the, you know, the knives and the people working and the kids playing. The scene gets fragmented after the establishing shot and also reaction shots, um, which Clarity didn't have in the earlier version of the film that that that burned, but he has in this version. So, again, coming out of the the the film grammar that's emerging emerging out of fiction film. So reaction shots then being where you see action happening with one person and then another person reacting to that. And in order to do that with the camera, you really have to have two cameras going or you have to reshoot something and reenact something with a different camera angle if you only have one camera, right? So um so I mean imagine in this class if we had one camera and not three, uh and we asked you all to stay after and reproduce all your comments. that would be one camera shooting as if we had multiple cameras. And that's what essentially what Flarity was doing. So, and just there's a a very nice quote in in Barno um one of the readings for today that that that talks about this issue. Um Flarity had apparently mastered unlike previous documentarist documentarists, excuse me, uh the grammar of film as it had evolved in the film in fiction film. This evolution had not merely changed techniques. It had transformed the sensibilities of audiences. The ability to witness an episode from many angles and distances seen in quick succession. A totally surrealistic privilege unmatched in human experience. I mean again if you just had a camera that's not the way the camera would actually be seeing or recording things had become so much a part of film viewing that it was unconsciously accepted as natural. Right? So much of this the shooting style that we just sort of take for granted. This is showing us what's really going on the place is is is an artificial construction, but we don't necessarily recognize it as such because we're so used to it um being put together in that kind of way. And it relates back to the whole question of the frame that we talked about in the first class. And it's going to be just a huge preoccupation for everyone as you make your own films. What do you put in the frame? And not just in a particular shot, but how does what you put in that frame relate to what you put in the frame of the next shot and the shot after that? And how does one influence the other? And then when you're editing, what order do you put it all in? Um, and one other issue to think about here is how is the editing done? Um, so the editing here being described as continuity editing. Um, in other words, that the editing is done in such a way as to give the viewer the sense of illusion, a realist sense of illusion of being in the place and experiencing things, right? which is which is as you'll see later when we see the veral film with man with the movie camera it's completely different from the kind of editing that was coming out of the Soviet um um film making during during this time period. So, a certain kind of editing meant to capture that sense of that you're you're you're in a place. Um, so a realistic sensibility, but it's a realistic sensibility, but again, keep in mind that's not how the eye or the the camera necessarily um actually sees. That's a construction that we take as natural rather than it simply being that. And we're so used to watching films at this point that we don't even I mean unless we suddenly become interested in how films are constructed, most of us don't even think about it. We don't even think about the multiple shots and angles and and how they're fitting together and how our our brain and our experience of watching other films is is assisting us in making sense of something. Okay. So these kinds of questions about how the the film is put together, we're going to be talking about more when we see um Vertov's man with the movie camera that was made in 1929. But before we jump to that, um just to follow up on this question of representations of Inuit um a little bit, I just want to show you a um um a short bit from a film that was made um in the 90s called Nanuk Revisited um that was done by a French um um filmmaker who went back into the area where Nanuk was shot and talked to people uh in people who lived in that area about um the making of Nanuka the North um and their reactions to it. I need a little light. Can we get a little light? I just need to be able to fast forward. Friday, April 18th, 1988. We are now flying towards Inukjuak at the northeastern borders of the Hudson Bay. Hardly ever noted on maps, nevertheless, this small village has been the seat of a cinematographic adventure which will create decisive change in cinema after doing so with the life of the little Eskimo community. The scene takes place in 1920. An American of Irish origins decides to go and shoot a film on the life of a small Eskimo group. Nowadays, we call it a documentary, but at the time it didn't have a name, and the plan seemed extravagant. The film is called Nanuk. The filmmaker Robert Flity. For the historians of cinema, he is the father of documentary. Today we are heading towards Inukjak 68 years after him bringing with us a tape of his film and 70 pictures found in the archives of Rebong. Flity enters Inukjuak, then called Port Harrison, during summer 1920. He will stay there a year. He writes in his journal. On August 15th, we drop anchor at the mouth of the Inosuk River. Less than half a mile away, we discover fastened onto the hillside five desolated and melancholy huts which form the whole of the station. The inhabitants of Port Harrison are the poorest people I've ever seen. The day following our arrival, the mayor announces on the radio that we are organizing a projection of Nanukbert. This film of Robert Flity was shot towards 1920 a long time ago. Today you're shooting a film on us but was the very first one. This great film has been seen all over the world. Our friends filmmakers come from the other side of the ocean from a far country. We are going to watch with them this film and pictures of those times. Okay. Okay. So, you saw a bit of that and again I'll leave the rest I'll leave um the VHS types and DV Lab in case anybody wants to um uh you can make appointments uh with um Amberly Stewart in the anthro office if you want to borrow our TV and VCR and watch him in the small conference room where we have in case anybody wants to see the the rest of these films. Um but I also just wanted to show you a little bit of a piece called Starting Fire with Gunpowder um that was made by Inuit Media Makers themselves. I mean one of the things I mean so you have Nanuk revisited which is an interesting historical perspective in the 80s at that point as you can see from the documentary um uh media making by Inuit um producers was becoming um a quite interesting movement um in this region both in fiction film and in terms of documentary film there's quite I don't know how how many have heard of the film um Anton I'm not sure exactly how to pronounce it the Fastrunner um I think it was about five years ago it won a major award at Khan. It was sort of the first um Inuit written, acted, produced fiction film that did quite well. And we're actually going to see Zach Kunuk has another uh documentary film that he just recently made about climate change that we're going to be watching a little a little later in class. Um but also in this region, you have through the Canadian government, you had um um and you had people who were living in this area were able to um uh obtain funds. they pressed for funds to fund their some of their own TV um film program. So there's al also documentary work that's been made by Inuit um documentary makers for local TV audiences in this area. So I'm just going to let you see a couple minutes of that so you get a sense of um of what some of that image making is like. Yep. We don't know. I think Ginu are not shy of television and all radio. One of the main reasons is that they've always been very uh uh communicating kind of people but it has been very slow because they would take messages from one community to another from one region to another only by doc teams and it was only through word of mouth that uh they were able to pass this message on and being uh or not having any written history uh this uh form of communication radio and television was uh as uh old as it was new uh an oral form of communication. Jose is right. We are a communicative people. Our language is called intitude. There are far more films and television shows made in intitude than there are books written in our language. I am an Mik Duke Hansen. I'm a broadcaster, a journalist, and a storyteller. This is a story of Inuit television. Maybe I should call. White Match TV arrived suddenly in the Arctic. It was very seductive to many of us. But the exposure to that much English language could have wiped out our culture in a single generation. We had to find our own broadcasting voice. In television started as a backlash in northern Quebec where the introduction of white man's TV was met by stiff resistance. for Okay. Okay. Unfortunately, we don't have time to watch more, but it's really interesting that there's um so the soap opera partly dealing with issue issues of um um substance abuse um in in the area among young people and it took um the part of things like um um uh glue sniffing and um anyway, so there's there's partly sort of educational soap operas and there's a really interesting series that they did that's kind of an Inuit version of Superman for kids which is really fun super um but but anyway so if anybody wants to borrow it I I recommend it. It's a really interesting um documentary about Inuit uh media making. So reactions thoughts about all this what I mean the kinds of representations well the different different questions for each of this let's maybe talk about nano revisited first which was the first one that you saw so at least in the bit that that you were able to see um how was Nanuk understood at that historical point um when they were filming in the 90s, late 80s, it's kind of like they were still like had their relatives like their grandparents might have been in the film or not. And then it's also interesting to see how since it was filmed in the late 80s and this is like oh the modern view of what it's like now there and it's like kind of like that was like 20 or to 30 years ago. weird like takes you back in time again just to see to see why people were were like what was funny about the film that was they were laughing so loud was it because I mean film already was representing things that were would would have been funny at the time so probably even funnier for people who remembered who were children then yeah whole movies in some ways yeah that Okay. I find it interesting. It was kind of like a deja vu for lack of better words. And how they all packed the uh hall to watch the movie that everyone had packed to watch, you know, like 68 years before how it's still uh in the sense of like brought the community together. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so you have kind of two different things going on. On the one hand, um as people say that this is an important historical record, right? because they're they're there um those kinds of visual documents from the time period aren't available otherwise and so you know as gets mentioned in the film in some ways the images and the photographs taken by flare to become kind of this big family album where you know sort of people get to you know like ah you know I remember so and so remember so and so and all this laughing yeah it's hard to know exactly what the laughing is about I mean is it just sort of the fun of seeing themselves and people they know or is it also because the construction of the film is different than the way that they would have put it together and so it seems funny in that way. I mean it might be a bit of both. Um people people dressed people that they know dressed in polar bear pants. Right. Yes. Exactly. Which again was done for southern audiences. So it might be some um uh some mix of the two. Um so you have um I just turn the flap. So you have I had some point that I was leading to and I've just forgotten it but it'll come back to me. Well, one one quick point I I would make is it's also interesting to then start to deconstruct an revisited. Um, you know, you have this what we were talking about as the voice of God narration, you know, in the first class, very triedand-true documentary technique that leads to a certain kind of relationship or feeling with the with the subject. um you know this guy with a plumby British accent translating what the Inuit women are saying and and you know sort of pronouncing kind of the the situation that you're going to be finding yourself in in the film. Um, so it's it's interesting because the point of the film, and it does it quite effectively in many places, is to kind of deconstruct Nana of the North and deconstruct Flarity's technique, but at the same time, it's also constructing its own reality and its own point of view with this with this narration and with, you know, the the sort of the people flying in at the beginning, swooping into the village. I mean, it's very uh it's a very sort of interesting thing where where they're deconstructing this other film for very legitimate reasons, but that other film is also extremely personal and extremely uh oriented towards people in a way that that one doesn't isn't quite so so quite a quite a dissonance there. The point I was thinking of was that so on the one hand you have people responding to Nanuk again as if it's a family album and it's really important to have these images on the other hand you also have hear critical commentary like one of the TV producers talking about the gramophone scene I mean clearly not being happy about the portrayal there and so so people both see being you know somewhat critical of the representations but at the same time thinking that it's a really again a really important historical record for people to have. So this kind of complicated relationship to the film and then we have starting fire fire with gunpowder which I believe came out in 97 91 I'm sorry uh that came out in ' 91. um thoughts about that? Mhm. Um I thought based comparing the last two films we watched, the sense of agency in the the third film was so much stronger just because of the different narrator, somebody of the community and them in the third film. They had a different relationship with technology than in the man who visited in which they were still kind of passively watching this movie and criticizing but still watching and laughing and looking at the pictures and then the third one they had a much they had a lot more control over the technology. Right? So it's Inuit media producers using this technology for their own ends and um right constructing the media for um for the questions that they're interested in. But I think it's really interesting how I mean maybe just a fragment we watch but she really does stress that you know an inate film and it's made in this language and there is more filming in that language and written language brings a community together and these things come up over and over again and if it was a documentary about TV in Italy people wouldn't be stressing that it brings Italians together and it's filmed in Italian because it would be like of course that's what you know TV does communicates messages is usually in the kind of local language. So it's it signifies that this yeah in intense relationship with the technology and kind of the political significance and maybe the hopes uh attached to this project. An interesting analogy to that in in parts of Europe though is the uh the sort of the stress on having a national film industry in many countries. You know a native quote unquote language film industry that is supported by the government. I mean, you think about um Eastern European countries, Germany, I mean, lots of lots of countries in Europe have a film industry because the government intervenes to make sure that they have a film industry. And it's for reasons of um language and culture and and defining yourself in opposition to these sort of hegemonic film industries like the American film industry and increasingly, you know, even Bollywood. Um, so, so that's a very that's a kind of I mean I think I think film often ends up carrying those kinds of weights uh for for communities, cultures, but I think what Katarina is getting at, I mean this move towards Inuit media making is also part of a particular kind of social movement um which gets talked about if you're interested in the recommended reading for this class. There's an article by FA Ginsburg called Screen Memories where she talks about the work of filmmaker Zach Kuk and he's the person who did the mo the the fiction film that I mentioned Fastrunner and he's also the one who did the documentary about climate change that just got made this year that we're going to see a little later in the class. Um and what what FA Ginsburg argues there is that for many um uh indigenous groups in different parts of the world that often the discussion around media technologies is is that this is sort of modern technology sort of doing things to them. And she talks about how for many indigenous groups they talk about both the power that sort of outside media representations can have to to do things like encourage language loss within particular communities which is a real issue here. But she also argues that how many groups have sort of mobilized around using media for their own ends for purposes of cultural revitalization. And so it's very interesting if you see a film like Fastrunner um that film by Zach Kuk, it's a fiction film that's based on a 16th century myth. Um and it's kind of like Flarities in the sense that it's meant to be part of this pre pre-European contact portrait of Inuit society, but it's done for very different reasons. And so it's very interesting to see them back to back because they're they're both kind of historical nostalgia pieces in a way but for different ends whereas Flarity's kind of historical nostalgia is more sort of a European romantic primitivist idea and on the Inuit end it's kind of a romantic historical nostalgia piece but but about but for the purposes of cultural revitalization among Inuit peoples themselves and to sort of pull people together both both both socially and um socially and politically. So it's it's so they're interesting to see back toback. So I would encourage you know anybody who's interested in these issues and have time which I know all of you have so much extra time in terms of portrayal. One interesting thing about the fast runner is that um like Nanuk, you have people dressed in uh traditional uh Inuit garb do hunting in traditional ways and and as as Chris said, it's set in the 16th century, but but at the end during the credits, you see all of the actors dressed in contemporary garb, riding snowmobiles and black leather jackets, black leather jackets. And and the whole point of that is to make clear to anybody who might be, you know, remotely confused that this was a this was a a fiction film. These were actors. There was a, you know, there there were costumes there there were sets and it's not real life. It's not it's not sort of this eternal culture, Inuit culture. So just to conclude our our discussion of flare because we need to move on to to Vertov. Um so so Flity again has been this incredibly influential figure within within documentary film. Um but there's also been a lot of um more recent debate about his work partly based on some of the things that we talked about sort of what kinds of representations were being constructed. What about sort of the um the the stuff that was faked in the film and sort of how do people think about that? And I think some of those historical bates debates have kind of um some of those debates have died down a bit now. Um but but so so basically you had the kind the kind of two sides. One side that sort of was celebrating the work of flirty and the other side was sort of the more revisionist side that that said you know look these um there's also quite problematic um aspects of these representations. And I think now at this point the idea is sort of more that um it's a bit of both. Um that it was a very innovative and important piece of work for a variety of reasons. Um and it also has remained important to um Inuit people themselves again because of its historical record. At the same time it was very much coming out of a particular historical context that very much did feed into sort of European um romantic primitivist ideas at the time. So it's a complicated piece that has that has some of some of both going on. Um any final thoughts that any of you had before we move on to our discussion of air talk? So now we're going back to the 1920s. Um so the film uh this film Man with a Movie Camera came out in 1929. So it's slightly later than the Flity Nano of the North. Um it's an extremely different film um in almost every kind of way. It was made by a Russian filmmaker Za Verto who was born in 1896 died in 1954. Um his name was a pseudonym. It meant uh spinning top. His actual name was Dennis Kaufman or original name who is born um as the son of Jewish intellectuals in an outlying re region of Russia. And as you know from the reading, Verto started out editing news reels for the the new Soviet government right after it was formed when he was in his early 20s. Um and he made many films later on with his wife uh ElizabethVa. Sorry I can't say pronounce it correctly. Um and his brother Muel Kaufman. um and often in his writings he referred to them as the council of three and they issued a number of manifestos um about film and about a new kind of film journalism um that they were um arguing was was about capturing um the quoteunquote pros of life. He was an impassion believer in the ability of film to allow people to look at their world in new ways. Um which you see in his manifestos. Um and it was also he saw it as part of the um the the this kind of thinking about the world in new ways is also for him being associated with the political transformations that he associated with um the the uh Russian revolution at the time. Later on he became involved in more feature uh featurelength films and he also developed an increasingly complicated relationship to the Soviet government um particularly under Stalin as things became more um bureaucratized. Vertov was a very independent-minded um artist and filmmaker and he was um increasingly se seen as being anti-planning um and sort of marginalized within Soviet film making. Um but despite his marginalization over time within Soviet film making, he's had an enormous influence on European um filmmakers, particularly avantgard filmmakers um who still consider this to be um a classic film. Um and it's this film in particular, Man with a Movie Camera, that's that's most uh widely known of his work. So this film is a dawn to dust portrait of an archetypal Soviet city. Okay. And it was actually shot in three different cities, Moscow, Kiev, and Odessa. um a couple questions that uh you should be thinking about as you watch this film. Okay. What is the particular vision of filmm Vertov is trying to get at in this film? And so he put out a newsletter called Kinopravda or film truth. So this question of what was film truth to Vertov? What did he mean by this term? What was he trying to capture through his documentary film making work? Um and also he had a very strong vision of science um and technology. How does that come out um in in the film? What's the what's the portrayals of science and technology in this piece? And then the third question being how does this film compare with Nanuk? Um because it's again it's a extremely different style than Robert Flity's um piece. If we think of the two of them together both sort of coming out of the context of the 20s um you know you know what do those those contrasting styles potentially suggest for us? Okay. So, you see um you see people at work um doing a variety of things. You see uh different life events. So you see babies being born in a hospital, people getting married, people in divorce court, um a funeral. Uh towards the end of the day when the sun starts go doing going down, you see recreation, people going out to sports events or to other kinds of entertainment. And then the the last piece we want to show you Again, you haven't gotten to see all of this film, but what is it about? Go ahead. Um, so what I got out of it is that it's like trying to say that like uh technology is like stagnant without people and people are stagnant without technology. But like film has its life of its own that like people need to embrace. Yeah. So it has it's it's making an argument about film and technology a bunch of different arguments other expansions on that or thoughts of manipulation. But it's not like he's trying to hide it. He's trying to show you what the camera can do. Trying to show you what the camera can do. Is there a narrative to this film? A day in the life kind of. I mean, not quite, but like it does show from the beginning when there's nobody out and then lots of people are out and then um people sitting down watching a movie at the end kind of. Yeah. Yeah. So, you don't And again, because you only saw a piece of it, it might be a little less clear, but again, it it is supposed to be this dawn to dusk in an archetypal city. And again, it's images from three different cities that are that are edited together to make it appear as if it's like this quintessential uh Soviet city. So you see people waking up at the beginning and then they go to work and we there's a lot of stuff in the middle about people working and and watching technology and machines um uh you know move as part of uh everyday kinds of work and then as I mentioned there's all these different kinds of life events that you're shown going going on and then towards the end of the day people are done working they go um you see people um you see various recreation scenes people going to sporting of events and then at the end they go to the cinema right? And they and they watch this film. So there's there's so there's one kind of loose plot line that's about the dawn to dusk in the life of an archetypal city and then intertwined with that you have this thread about the filmmaker, right? So what's the what's the thread about the filmmaker? I think it's interesting because it starts with this cameraman and a camera. I'm sorry. They the scene I mean the film starts with the camera man two cameras one camera man with a camera and a camera and it kind of carries on throughout the movie the idea of the eye watching the eye or the camera watching the camera and then people watching the camera that shoot the camera and it's like kind of the chain of the camera or the eyes looking at each other and the kind of aperture of the eye and the the curtain opening and it was just like I know kind of theme had motion pictures versus uh kind of static pictures. Um at the beginning that was also interesting because the music on the minimalist music the progression of you know it starts slow and then the editing was very like with the end of the music I think that was new in this one rather than like the other m other ones that we watched before that. So the music, just to interrupt, but the music, this would have been shown with music, but the music would have varied and it wouldn't have been exactly this music. But I believe um Verto did I mean he started out early on doing um avantgard sound compositions and I believe that this was actually reconstruction of the movie. Yeah, it's inspired by or something. Yeah. But I mean it was an original the music I mean this is a silent film but they would be played they when these films were shown this one or Nanuk there would have been an orchestra or some kind of musical accompaniment and I think that this soundtrack is sort of inspired by or a reconstruction of the kinds of things that that Vertov experimented with musically. Yes. So it's it's it's it's it is a separate thing uh you know it's not anything based on the music. Uh it's it's a little bit of a not quite one to one ratio. So the music was done by the composer Michael um Nyman who did research on the period the the the incredible artistic creativity that followed um the the immediately followed the Russ Russian Revolution. And so it's based on research imagining what the music might have been. Interesting. I think they they were like very closely related or very Yeah. Well, the the editing is kind of stunning. I mean, if you think about the time period, um it's, you know, then and then compare that to Nanuk. Um it's just a completely different relationship to film, a completely different rel relationship to editing, and as people have said, what the camera can do. Yeah. But before we get into comparison of Nanuk and and and Vertov because I think that's where we want this to go. But but but first can we get out a bit more a bit about sort of Vertov and what's going on here? So we have the parallels as you note between um the human eye and the camera eye going back and forth making comparisons between them and what kind of argument is is he making? Do you guys have a There's a bit of a danger in like I mean he's climbing like a bridge over where the trains come in and then also going underneath the train track and stuff. So it's not like and like as soon as like the train looks like it might have run him over like the girl wakes up like something has gone on. I don't know if she's like related to him or something supposedly but yeah it's such a so beautiful. Um, and I mean it's incredible how this the camera has a life on its own. The cameraman is trying to you have the cameraman trying to film what the camera wants to wants to film, right? It's kind of and it's never really there. It's always climbing and making an effort and the camera is showing all these things that you would never be able to to see. I'm mediated by the camera and I'm mediated by the other process of making the film that they show. So kind of montage and and and screening. Um yeah, is this really dazzling? So a lot of different threads going on. Um maybe one place to start um in terms of Vertov uh one thing that you might have gotten from from your readings that was that he was heavily um influenced by the futurist movement in Europe. So the futurist movement coming out of um being inspired partly by Italian futurism um French cubism. Any sense of what those artistic movements were about? So there are a bunch of young mayor in Italy in in the 20s and they they traveled a lot in Paris to see what the cubids are up to. But the Cubans are mainly interested in in space and in how you know emptiness is full and bringing up. But the future is interesting in movement. And this is why the cubists would only paint like brown and white and the futurist paint with colors because colors with movement and movement associated with um all these cool things the young males like like sports, fast cars, war, Ital has a couple of colonies in Africa and um these guys really excited about it. They're excited about fast plays and they're excited about breaking down the language. We have this future manifesto where they develop a way of um writing without kind of giving up punctuation like rules of punctuation and and and rules of plot and this and there is a lot of um communication between Paris, Italy and and Russia a lot of back and forth. Yeah, exactly. So, so part of the influence on Veratov of the futurist movement would be being a fascination with the future which was very much associated with the possibilities of technology as they were seen by at least some people during during this time period. So a fascinate fascination with m machinery, modern technologies of various kinds, a fascination with movement, a fascination uh linked to both of those about what can the camera eye do differently or allow us to see about the world that the human eye can't. Okay. So, so this is where a lot of Vertov was coming from and and like some of the other futurists, he wrote a lot of manifestos. Um, for those of you interested, it's it's on the the website. But just to read you a bit of one of those where he writes, um, I am kino eye, meaning cinema eye. I am a mechanical eye. I am machine show you the world as only I can see it now and forever. I free myself from human immobility. I am in constant motion. I draw near then away from objects. I crawl under. I climb onto them. I move space with the muzzle of AI'm sorry. I move a pace with the muzzle of a galloping horse. I plunge full speed into a crowd. I outstrip running soldiers. I fall on my back. I ascend with an airplane. I plunge and sore together with plunging and sorting bodies. Um, and he goes on and on celebrating uh the movement, the technology, the camera eye, that the camera eye is superior to the human eye. Um, this is a a directly contradicts what I said in the first class, but it's coming from a very different perspective. Yeah. Yeah. But but similar to some of what was discussed in last week's class, a fascination. Well, what can you see differently with the camera lens than you would potentially with the human eye? And the human eye and and a lot of people have critiqued Verto for this that there's this incredible celebration of machinery and technology, but the human eye is amazing. That actually the the camera lens can't do a lot of things that the human eye is capable of doing. But there are some things that the camera can do that the human that the human um eye can't do. And so last week we saw some of the you know the the micro cinemat cinematography the time lapse um you know the fascinating perspective you get by doing by by doing time-lapse film making it to see things in a new way. And so here Vertov's fascination with how can we see using this using the camera lens. Okay. And so as part of that, you get this kind of heroic portrait of the filmmaker is this kind of hero that's going to get out there and get people to think differently using the camera eye from all these different kinds of angles, right? That you can capture things in time, see it at another time period. You could get perspectives on things that you wouldn't be able to see before. Um, you know, you could have the the the the filmmaker climb under the train in a pit and capture that angle, which which the rest of us could do if we did that. um but but the camera eye allowing um uh those kinds of perspectives to be recorded and and to be shared and in addition to this the focus on editing. So what is the editing like here and how is it different than what we saw in Flarity for example Matt? I mean he tried to make the editing like really like profound at the same time really obvious that he put a lot of effort into making it profound uh by the fact that Percy exposed himself. to know the guy who's actually doing the editing and also shows the woman doing the editing and then he does some really like ridiculous thing for the like when the two scene like split and then put upside down. So I mean sort of it's almost like controlled chaos in a way like he took everything and then just put it all together something logical right whereas I mean again you know with Nanuk you're you're using editing to create an illusion of the way we perceive reality with our eyes and our brains taking in a scene closeups establishing shots pans here it's very much saying no editing ing is its own thing. Editing for the sake of editing is what film making is. And it's, you know, it this links up to sort of theories of montage, which is, you know, sort of like sequences of shot, which were very big in Soviet cinema. But, but it's basically saying again, you know, this is not the human eye. This is not the human brain perceiving stuff. We're doing something, in his opinion, better, something you can't do with your eye and your brain. And here's how it works. I'm going to break it down for you. I'm going to show you the person doing it. I'm going to show you what then I'm going to show you how film works, stills going into motion. I'm going to show you what happens when you take this shot and put it next to that shot and how it changes when this shot is now next to that shot and how you reverse them and how you split screen and what that does. I mean, it's it's really interesting. Um so just to follow up um what what Chris was saying so so montage um being strongly um a particular kind of montage anyway being being strongly associated with um early Soviet film making so how is meaning created then sorry the juosition of images yeah and what kind of images do you want to just or what's the what what philosophically are you trying to do when you're juaposing these images? You're saying they're connected and then also depending I mean like depending on how you edit it, it could be like making it more glamorous or something or I guess in this case it is more showing off. Yeah. So again unlike unlike flare where it's where the editing would be to create a sense of continuity and a sense of sort of realism and being in a space here the meaning what is the meaning created out of it's taking things that are completely different putting them in relation to each other and the idea being that if you have something different over here something over here and you put it and you jam it up against the other thing that it creates a new a new kind of meaning by putting those things together. Okay. So, so the Soviet idea of of um of montage and meaning then coming out of the fact that you're taking disparate elements and and by using the camera in this way, you're creating new ways of seeing the world because you're juxtaposing images that you wouldn't normally be juxtaposing in in experience. But by juxtaposing them in certain kinds of ways, you can make arguments, you can express ideas, you create meaning. That's how you create meaning is through the montage. Okay? rather than creating meaning through a through a sense of continuity or a sense that you actually were in a place or that you're capturing some kind of reality. Okay. So kinoprabda or film truth for vertov means something very different um than the sense of truth in film might might mean for fleer or or for other people here it's very much not the truth of trying to be realistic to people's experiences of day-to-day life but a sense of being a certain kind of film truth where you're trying to use the camera and what the camera can do to get people to think about the world in a new way and according to him kind of have some um kind of truth revelation about the world and how the world works through these arguments that constructed through the montage in the film. Okay. So, it's a very particular conception of film truth and that's quite different than the one that you would often hear people talking about say in the United States in relation to documentary and you you can one way to think about it is in terms of manipulation. I mean all film on one level or another is a manipulation and with the flarity approach the whole point is to hide the manipulation. all the all the stuff we were talking about in terms of the background, the behind the scenes, all of the things that were done, all the changes that were made, the the the the repositioning of the camera, the way it's edited, it's all designed to make you forget about that as a viewer and just immerse yourself in this world that he's constructed, even though it's a documentary. Whereas here, the manipulation is the point. It's all it's all in your face. The whole point of it is to jam it down your throat as a as a viewer and say, "Revel in it. This is exciting. This is what this art form is about. This manipulation and how does this relate to narrative, a sense of narrative being a question. I mean, again, the question of sort of what's the narrative here?" I mean, we've talked about loosely there's there's certain themes. Um whether we want to see it as a fullyfledged narrative might be something else. But one of the things that um uh Vertov um and the council of three very strongly argued for is that they want to break that this is about film experiments and the idea is to completely break with theater and literature and other kinds of fiction film making right so so they're arguing for a radical break that they want to break with narratives that you commonly found in Hollywood films that were being being made um starting to be made during this period with literature with theater and they're saying no we want to completely get rid of that and do something different. Um, and just to read a little bit more of the manifesto. Um, Vertov writes, "We proclaim the old films based on the romance, theatrical films, and the like to be lepous. Keep them away." exclamation mark. Keep your eyes off them. They're mortally dangerous, contagious, exclamation mark. And it's really fun to read some of the manifestos. They're they're quite manifesto- like. We affirm the future of cinema art by denying its present. Cinematography must die so that the art of cinema may live. We call for its death to be hastened. So basically making a very radical critique of other kinds of film making that would be out there. He would be making a very radical critique of say flity's style of of making film that sort of more has more continuities with fiction film um fiction film making at the time and and other kinds of storytelling. Um what about the relationship to people? So again, think about clarity and nano of the north and this piece. What's what's the relationship to people that gets conveyed um by the filmmaker in in both of these pieces? How is it different um in the in like one family that you're kind of identifying more specifically with Nanuk versus in this one? Like there's no one person that you really follow too much. I mean, there's a little bit where they could cut back and forth the same person, but it's just like the whole population, which is kind of I guess the Soviet culture they're trying. Is it about people? It seems like there's no distinction between like people and like inanimate objects. It seems like they just I don't know. Sometimes like in some of the parts there was like the girl doing something that related there was a parallel right to something like physical and and um and then in the nan nanuk um story it was all based on their relationship with people what they're doing their interaction with the world around them. Yeah. So in that so it's about individuals f following individual stories creating a narrative in that way and here to the ex I mean certainly there are people in there but it's more of a visual representation of society in a sense if you want to see it that way. So the idea is not to capture individuals and follow them and their experiences but to convey some kind of more abstract idea of what say Soviet society would be and to see its pieces as working um as being about movement maybe about sort of the the the interdependencies in the division of labor where you you know you see um different categories of people doing different kinds of things. There's also a critique implicit in here for those of you who read um you might have read some of the background information but others you wouldn't you know so you know immediately after the the Russian revolution there was a lot of sort of creative dynamic stuff happening also uh very uh difficult times economically and so Lenin at a certain point instituted the the new economic program which was sort of a a bit of a retreat from the revolution at that point and so it was more um sort of allowing more sort of capitalist relations to to reemerge a bit and partly vertov is making a critique. I mean you see the kind of you know you see some people lying on benches and then you see other people who look quite prosperous. So I think part of what's going on there is making a critique Vertov making a critique of sort of with the new economic policies during this period that you have sort of a resurgence of sort of economic inequalities that would have been there before the revolution. So he's also making his own argument within the context of sort of that that post-revolutionary uh period in Russia. So for those of you who didn't have haven't done the background reading that's something that would have come out in there but that's partly what's also going on um um uh with those with those uh juositions but sort of in general then the sense that you get of people is a sense of society in a broader sense sort of the relationships and and and connections between people as part of Soviet society. It's a collective image rather than being about individual stories and narration. And what um again reading from the manifesto um Vertov writes, we temporarily exclude man as a subject for film. Our path leads through the poetry of machines from the bungling citizen to the perfect electric man. In revealing the machine's soul, in causing the worker to love his workbench, the peasant his tractor, the engineer his engine, we introduce creative joy into all mechanical labor. We bring people into closer kinship with machines. We foster new people. Okay. So, what's the kind of image of society here? Each person has a role in the bigger society, which she's trying to show like how it all works together. And the relationship to technology here very much an MIT theme. You know, we love technology. That's what it's going to save the world. We don't need politics. We just need better iPhones. It's beautiful. So, it's very much about people's kinship with machines and and again, a very different image of sort of modern technology than you find in in Flareity, right? Just a few years a few years apart. So you're think so you're seeing sort of two different trends, two different artistic traditions um happening not that far apart chronologically, but this one being very much about the celebration of modern technology and where it can lead and sort of wanting to bring people into closer kinship with machines and sort of what can we see through these technologies? How does it let us see the world a new and sort of in flarity using the newer technology but also sort of a critique of what he would have been seeing as as modern modern social life looking sort of at other kinds of technologies with sort of with longer histories again in this kind of romantic primitivist mode but also a certain amount of of of real respect for those other kinds of technologies. So again, you've got these two filmmakers, you know, both incredibly influ influential filmmakers doing very interesting, fascinating, innovative things, but coming from completely different perspectives on these topics. But yet, I think the reason it is in parallel because they both have a romantic representation. So there's a very romantic presentation of machines here. They're beautiful. The m the mood is perfect. you don't really see what these machines do or you know when they break down or the kind of it's it's just about their as if they were exist in this kind of timeless wall in the same way the people are represented in flirty so I think it's a nice one other one other thing about Vertov and you know at the beginning he he very much describes the film as an experiment I mean the film itself film technology is one of the technologies that he's talking about and that he's completely obsessed with and it's a scientific or pseudoscientific um representation. He doesn't call himself a film director. He calls himself what I chief experimentalist or something like that. And and the film itself is an experiment. And that raises sort of a very very interesting question that we're going to return to periodically as we make films and look at films which is what's the relationship between documentaries and documentary film making and and science itself? We're talking about making science films. But when you make a documentary, you go out, you collect evidence, you collect data, you process the data in various ways, and you come to some kind of conclusion. And there are parallels. I mean, certainly it's a very different process in many ways, but there are parallels between that and science. And Verdov is saying parallels, hell, it's the same thing. But as we go on, we're going to be looking at, you know, what's the relationship between those two those two processes and truth, reality, whatever word you want to use to describe what we're after. So, just to conclude, um just to throw out a couple things to be thinking about then, um following on what Chris is saying, um as we go through the rest of the class on you think about making final projects for yourself in different kind of pieces, um to thinking about the different techniques you might be interested in using um and what kind of story do you want to tell? Do you want to tell a story from the point of view of an individual and follow him or her around? Do you want to use montage to tell your story? Is the focus going to be on editing as a way to construct the ideas in the piece that you're doing? Do you want it to be more narrative driven or more non-narrative driven? Do you want it to be a realist aesthetic where you're you're drawing attention away from the camera? Or this is a highly reflexive in some ways. This is very um um uh the Vertov piece is very contemporary in the sense of of being reflexive in the sense of focusing on the process of film making itself as being part of what it's doing. Would you want to be reflexive in your film making? Would you include, you know, sort of references to yourself as the filmmaker? Shots of yourself, you know, kind of talking to people or, you know, your hand going out and doing various things or I mean, do you want to include yourself as as part of this process? Um uh do you in relation to issues of science and technology, do you want to celebrate technology or are you interested in in exploring other kinds of issues? What kinds of relationships do you want to foster with the the subjects that you're going to be portraying in your film? Do you want to have kind of a a collaborative relationship that Flarity had to some degree, even though it was a hierarchical one, it was it was it was still based on a certain degree of collaboration. Is that your interest in creating that kind of relationship with your subjects? Or are you interested more in not so much the subject's point of view, but more what you want to say as a filmmaker using those images that you take to say to say something else? What kinds of relationships do you want to foster in the process of um uh making films? Anything else I'm leaving out? Well, a whole semester's worth. Yeah, we'll we'll we'll keep going. But anyway, so the idea is to be thinking about these these completely, you know, two classic films that have been incredibly influential and powerful, completely different techniques, styles, ways of editing, everything else, and to think about the range of choices that you all have. And when you go to think about doing your own pieces, what interests you? What do you want to drive you? What do you want to drive the piece that you're going to do? So, so just the last word, just looking ahead to Friday, uh these are both silent films. On on Friday, we're going to introduce sound. Uh you got to play with the camera last week, so now we're going to take the next step. Uh and we'll also look at some of the things that people shot and talk about what worked and what didn't.