The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. and thanks very much for u for coming and uh so I would say that I remember years ago Joy saying to me that when Paul Farmer was invited to talk and and he couldn't go and she would go in his space that it was always a little challenging you know to to kind of meet the expectations. So um one thing that I think Joya really said well was uh encouraging people to really interact and to ask questions and to raise points and to you know bring up issues that they themselves are familiar with. So I want that to be a a way to actually make this lecture work as well and hopefully going forward with the other lectures. So feel free to put your hand up and raise points and we'll we'll work around that and uh you know that will I think be more exciting. So I'll I'll ask a few questions as well hopefully along the way that we'll we'll get some good answers from. Um what I wanted to do really was to follow on from what uh Joy was talking about and and I think she really did a great job of bringing up the the challenges of providing health care in very resourceful environments and all the difficulties and the huge problems that have to be overcome to do that. but also that one of the reasons why these problems have been so acute is that the the policies and the strategies that have been used to support healthare and to improve healthare haven't always been welld designigned and I think we've you know recognized that there are many aspects about the the way that we've gone about trying to improve health care systems um which really weren't suitable for the environments and for the communities that they were in and this is a real challenge also for the use of technology and for information systems that we need to be thinking very hard about what are the real needs of people on the ground and then identifying where those needs relate to access to information as opposed to um other fundamental issues like presence of trained staff, access to drugs, access to you know basic uh requirements of life like clean water and food and so on. And I think that uh there are a number of issues about information systems that are also somewhat dysfunctional in the way that they've been approached um in resource poor environments and a lot of countries around the world actually even middle- inome and high- inome countries and that's something that we're really interested in addressing. What I want to do is really talk about the importance of this question of where information access is is a real challenge and where it can improving that can really make a difference to the quality of care. And in some ways there's there's sort of two sides to this because on one hand we are looking at situations where someone might need to have access to for example laboratory data or the the previous medications that a patient's been taking to be able to design their care or to diagnose that patient more effectively. There's also the other side which is that you can't really do improvements in quality of care unless you can measure how well you're doing. you can't really ensure that that the care is actually being provided and that that quality is improving as you initiate different improvements. And so there's both the intervention piece and there's also the measurement piece. And these two interact in interesting and complicated ways. So you know sometimes we may be really monitoring what's happening with other aspects of care and other times we may be that the information system may be the main intervention. So I'd also like to do a little bit of review of some of the systems that have actually been developed over the last 10 years. a lot from our my group and colleagues and friends around the world and also and other organizations and and systems and particularly to focus on evaluation data and I think this has been one of the greatest missing pieces in a lot of the projects around the world that although fairly large investments have been made in fact some cases very large investments have been made in information systems we really don't have a good evidence base for what is actually working and what isn't um we're getting it now but it's taken a long time so I'll kick off by talking a bit about global health informatics or global e- health which is the other term that people use a lot. I'll talk about the EMR system in Peru that we developed the partners in health EMR and then talk about open MRS as a platform and how we've actually used that system in Rwanda and I'd then like to review some of the other e- health projects and lessons learned from these experiences over the years. Oops. So what was the kind of the original problem that was set when I started with PH um just over 10 years ago and it was really the question was can treatment of HIV and in this case particularly drugresistant TB be delivered in settings with limited or absent infrastructure and so I think Joy really went a long way to addressing that question in terms of how do you design a system that will work to provide ambulatory care for um TM MDRTB and to get the prices of drugs down and so on. But then the question was how do you then scale that? So when I started there were probably maybe about a hundred patients who'd been treated in Peru for MDRTB or who were on treatment and we wanted to aim for tens of thousands of patients. So how is that the same? Is that just a case of incrementally increasing the what you're doing or is that qualitatively different? And do you need different systems? And I think really the argument made then and I I certainly would support that now is that you cannot treat 10,000 people in the same way you can treat 50 or 100 people. You need a different way of doing things. And so information systems are one of those pieces. The other thing we wanted to do was to scale this system to many sites and also expand it over time so that it became a long-term project with many new people working on it rather than just a small core group of enthusiasts who really kind of designed the original system. And we needed to do so to ensure that there were good outcomes and that the cost was manageable. And I say manageable leaving it somewhat vague. So we can come back and talk about what that means. One of the u interesting things when we started was that people thought we were basically nuts. Um the idea of doing information systems in Haiti or Peru or Rwanda, you know, people really said, you know, you you guys are crazy. I think that was the Clinton Foundation actually. And so we had a slide which she used to show people for a while until they eventually decided that maybe it wasn't such a bad idea. Um over the last couple of years we've really seen a big change in in kind of people's thinking about this. Um it came a little bit from um a whole series of developments are going on such as the need for better global health delivery and a recognition that the delivery process for care is one of the key problems that we face that there are technologies and you know there there are approaches to health care and tools and drugs and so on that will allow everybody in the world to have a decent quality of life but most people or a large portion of people are not getting full access to that. So delivery is a critical part of it. Um there's also obviously increased funding for global health particularly with the global fund and PEPFAR and other agencies recognizing um you know with epidemics like HIV and MDRTB that there needs to be better investment in in both the the direct care but also in the systems and the infrastructure. And then there's also fortunately better lowerc cost technologies, more robust, low power um easier tools to use than when we started. And one of the things that kind of spurred this off was probably the meeting in Balagio about two and a half years ago which was hosted by the Rockefeller Foundation and and we ran a session um on electronic medical record systems and looking at how these systems could actually be improved and scaled in developing countries. So you've heard a little bit well heard quite a good bit about partners in health last week and I just wanted to quickly review the kind of the PH model of care and how that fits with the way that we've been working with information systems as well. So first of all of course we focus on access to health care to all people whatever the situation or environment. We also look at the the question of how do you create long-term partnerships rather than um just one-off projects that maybe last for a year or two or three, but actually really building these relationships and working with communities and training people and and handing over all of that management as this as the project grows. Um clearly we have a big focus on community healthcare workers and building that um community workforce within each different environment and training people and so on. And clearly another piece that we Joy talked a lot about was the question of addressing the various different causes of disease and the the the socioeconomic causes of of ill health such as lack of food, access to clean water, housing and so on. And one of the things that I think is particularly relevant to to my work is this question of bringing together both the elite um institutions, academic institutions and medical schools and the technology that we have access to in a place like MIT with the lived experience of people in extremely difficult and challenging environments and looking and saying well what are the things that we can do that would really help that situation not what is the technology we've that's worked in the US we can just plon down there but what are the real problems on the ground and is there some way we use to actually innovatively solve those problems. And I think that's the approach you really have to take. Think of you know very very driven by the problem by the need by the ideas of people who actually work in that environment. You've um I'm sure seen examples of the the healthcare community healthcare workers and this is the the accompanitor in Haiti the person who who really walks with this patient through their health and through their management of their disease providing directly observed therapy to the patient and and this is really one of the key interventions that has made such a difference in care for HIV and TB. Um when I started this work I was thinking quite a lot about the work I'd done in the US and in in Europe on management of chronic diseases and this is really a relatively new field. So when I was doing medical school I wouldn't like to say exactly how long ago um chronic disease management was still kind of a little bit ad hoc thing. There were people who knew how to do it like the diabetists and there were other people who weren't so good at it and heart disease in particular was not managed well in the community. Um and what we needed to do was to kind of look at a new model for managing patients. So what happened with HIV and and drug resistant TB but particularly the whole HIV epidemic in Africa was that suddenly we had to build a chronic disease management model that worked in developing environments in very very difficult environments. And the things you need to do there you first of all you need to do case finding you need to identify the patients and this is you know still very challenging and I'll talk a bit more about this later on. You need to make sure they start on the correct treatment. Now if it's a a simple case of HIV, I mean if if HIV is ever simple, then you you would start on probably tryune or some fairly straightforward treatment with one, you know, one tablet and that might be a little bit simpler than maybe treating um a second line case of HIV. If you have drug resistant TB, well, you're talking a lot much more complicated treatment. Um the next thing is to ensure that there's a stable and economical supply of medication. And that turned out to be one of the really critical things that we've worked on over the years and surprisingly something that retrieved incredibly little attention until the last year or two. And it's a huge huge problem and a huge limitation to our ability to treat patients throughout the world. Um we need to ensure compliance of treatment and that's something where the community healthcare workers of course are our um critical technology if you like um in many of the projects. And then we also need to monitor the progress and outcomes of these patients to ensure that they are in fact responding to treatment to respond to problems that occur either drug side effects or um patients for example who have resistance that are not responding to the treatment they're on. So there are a number of core functions that we focused on with systems we were building. The first was clinical care and quality improvement and and this was I think um really the core issue. We were not just interested in kind of the public health approach of like what's happening you know sort of in a community sort of larger community or national level but but how do you actually address an individual patients treatment um the next thing was monitoring reporting and so making sure that we could keep track of what was happening and also report to the government and to the funders drug supply management which I said you know kind of really suddenly appeared as a major problem originally in Peru and and also observational research collecting data that could be used to understand better what was happening and how to improve that. So the first example that I started and you know again um really building on what Joy was talking about last week was the treatment of drugresistant TB in Peru and and as she said that Peru had a particularly high instance of TB and still does um and there were about 40,000 patients a year getting first line or DOTS treatment when I started working there. Um it's a little bit lower now but it's still pretty significant. And over 3% of these patients had drugresistant TB. And this figure is actually hard to measure and we're doing big big studies at the moment to really try to measure that accurately. And these patients can require up to nine different drugs to treat them. So it's a really complicated thing and it's tailored to the sensitivity or resistance patterns of the organism that they have. So it's not just a case of of standardizing this process. You really have to tailor it to get the best results. So what we did was we built this web-based medical record was based on some projects I was doing um with Peter Solvich one of the people who running this course um a long time ago we they we' started working on web- based medical records and so when I started talking to PIH about the the needs of the Peru project that seemed to be the right technology um people did think we were crazy to do this but um it worked um we started with basically dialup connection for about a year and uh the system was built in basically bilingual in English and Spanish. And then we've sort of scaled it over the years and it's now got over 100,000 patient records in it. Um over 13,000 have started or completed treatment for MDRTB. And it's the national system for MDRTB for the government. Uh the system has a number of different uh key areas of data particularly the smears and cultures and drug sensitivity test results or DSTs. So remember this, we'll come back to this. This is the testing the the microacterium to see which antibiotics it responds to. Other lab data like biochemistry, a kind of a registration form with previous history and examination data and previous treatment. Digital images of chest X-rays which we actually use a special protocol and digital camera for and then drug regimen data are very key part of the whole process. So having got this thing established, we found there were a number of problems. And so one of the lessons I think which I'd like to kind of bounce out to you is when things don't work, it's often an opportunity to do something interesting. Um it's annoying. It's sometimes dispiriting. But when you find a problem, it's often the time when you should take a step back and think what's going on here because that's when we actually you tend to find yourself innovating and coming up with interesting results. So one of the problems we had was that this bacterology data was not very good. It was difficult to get hold of because in the area of limu we were working in there were 120 clinics and about 60 of them did either microscopy for um the smears of the microacterium. This is from the sputum samples. This is um or they did culture in some cases. And so each one had its own little log book and its own microscope and maybe they had the incubator and a guy who was actually reporting the stuff and they would the team would go around with a notebooks they'd write the stuff down. They'd go back to the the clinic um the clinic we work with and they would then put it into a log book and then that would get entered into the YMR and you can imagine it was just a a really inefficient process probably an extremely typical process of what actually happens in many places. So what we said was well why don't we just use a Palm Pilot download a list of the patients in the district give that to the to the the team member who was going to that site and they could then enter into the Palm Pilot and then when they synced that system when they got back to the clinic it would go into a kind of holding area where they could check the smears and cultures and make sure the data was in good quality and then just that would activate put that into the main record. And so Wim Blier who was working on his PhD with me at the time uh did this project was a little really kind of almost like a tri trial project to kind of get the get started on this this study that he was doing but he turned it into a huge success and what we did was to do an actual in study of the impact of the system and this was a design where we wanted to look at both historical controls and contemporary controls. So we looked at four clinics. We randomized two to early and two to late implementation. And then we looked at the the pre-data and then the comparison data. And what we found was that um in the original sites was about a month or so to get the data in um both intervention control and that fell a little bit over the year or so did the study to about 22 days about 3 weeks. But in the intervention group it was actually only seven days 7 and a half days and that was significant. And the other thing which was good was that the quality of the data was significantly better in the intervention group. And then we also found that the staff liked it so much they kept complaining they wanted to finish the study and just use it everywhere. And they subsequently use and implemented new sites and they also use it now for collecting patient weights in some cases. So the next problem was that the drug census v test results were done at a at a number of larger laboratories and Peru was at that point establishing a proper laboratory system for for doing these DST results. When we started the project originally all of the samples had to be sent to Boston to the Massachusetts state lab and so we would haul these things in multiple bags and containers and so on with CDC approval but it was never a great process. um and we had to bring them back to Boston to to process. So as they established more laboratories, one of the things that came up was that they needed to more rapidly process the samples. So there was a study to look at more rapid methods for doing the DSTs. But at the same time, it was realized there was all these problems with the information management. So 10% of the results took more than 60 days to arrive at the clinic after they had been reported in the lab. Um about six six of the patients waited over a 100 days to start treatment. And these are sick people with probably multiple years of TB with and they're shedding drugresistant TB and infecting other people. And then finally, there were a lot of duplicates. Don't know what that is. I suppose it seems appropriate TB advisory. And so 17% were also duplicates. So they were wasting the resources. So what Wine did was to build a system called Echaski. It's the Chesky is is an Inca runner. So this guy is the the little runner who who takes the samples between the laboratories. And uh the each was established as as a kind of a module on top of the EMR. And it included tools that allow the um laboratories to actually track the samples when they arrived to do quality control on the the processes and and the samples and then also to report the results to the physicians and the physicians would then get an alerting email to say that there was a new result available. And so we then did a cluster randomized control trial of this in um over almost 1,800 patients. And what we did was to randomize 12 clinics to the intervention and 22 to the control initially and then that expanded as there were sort of subclinics in that group. And the study lasted about a year and a half. So what was interesting was that first of all the intervention health centers had 82% less error rates in the DSTs and 87% less rate errors in the um the result the sort of the culture results and this was particularly about um missing results. So a lot of the time the error was that you just couldn't find the result in the in the patient's chart. And in addition to that we found for example that in 66% of the controls and 55% of the intervention health centers they were missing about 10% of the paper results. So this is really fundamentally a problem of of just the workflow of the access to to data and just the problems that occur with that. And so then we also looked at the um the effect on delays. And you can see there's a pretty significant drop in the in the delay on getting a result from the lab. Now we're doing a lot better here than we were in the past. It's only 17 days whereas you can see before there were a lot higher numbers. So things were getting better in general but the system did improve things in both cases. But what was also interesting was that there was a significant reduction in the time to culture conversion and that's really an very key clin clinical endpoint. Now I'd love to say that everything lined up perfectly and that the time that the patient started treatment was shorter and and everything but the the treatment start was very variable. So it was hard to really get a clear signal on that. It didn't it didn't shorten very clearly but the but the culture conversion um time was significantly shorter. So it did seem to improve the way that the the process was actually managed. Question David, what does culture conversion mean? It means that the patient um has um who has TB is when you actually take a sputum sample and you grow it in the lab, it will grow the bacteria and that means you're culture positive. And so when you get started on treatment, when that person goes to culture negative, it's a it's a critical event because it's it's one of the key milestones in curing that patient. And it shows that the treatment seems is actually working. And what you do is you take two samples a month apart and if both of them are negative then the data conversion is the date of the first one. Um and so it's kind of a key event that we monitor. So having done a lot of work on this uh particular area of MDRTB and also worked on a on an equivalent system which we built um for HIV management in Haiti, we kind of recognized that there were some real issues around having specialized vertical systems and we needed to think about doing something that was more kind of um general purpose and could apply to lots of different kinds of diseases. So we needed really a system, an EMR system or an electronic medical record system that was simple to set up that would work on multiple computing platforms, you know, Windows and u Linux and maybe the Mac. Um and then subsequently on on actually mobile devices. Um we needed local users to be able to modify the system, add forms and reports and generally be able to actually customize it to their own requirements rather than being really dependent on outside expertise. And we wanted the system to be web- based but also designed so you could run it on a on a smaller device such as a laptop in a clinic if you didn't have connectivity. Um it needed to support open standards and these are really a critical thing which we'll come back to but things like HL7 or health level 7 which is a communication standard for health information between different systems like a for example a medical record system and a lab system. um LOINK which is a a coding system for lab data and SnowMed and ICT ICD10 um which is uh basically a system for coding diagnoses. ICD10 is used by the WHO and a lot of international agencies and Snowmed and Snow Med CT which is the modern version of that is used by a lot of US hospitals and we also wanted the system to be open source so that we could share the work of development both with our colleagues in the US but also around the world and that the ownership of the system would be then of really handed over to everybody who used it. So instead of saying here's some free software but you have to ask us to maintain it, we'd really hand over the whole system and the expertise and the training to really develop and use that. And so out of this came a system called open MRS or the open medical record system. The um open EMR, open EHR unfortunately had gone at that point. we had the number three. Um but uh that was a system which was originally conceived by a couple of colleagues of ours at the Regan Street Institute in Indiana who are working with their colleagues in Ampath in Kenya which is a a project in western Kenya which I'll talk about more and uh they've been thinking about this and building some prototypes when we got together and we were talking about how we needed to build something based upon what we've been doing in Haiti with the HIV EMR system and so we decided to collaborate and to actually build a new system which we started um at the beginning of 2005. five and this is a system which is designed to be very kind of open both in terms of open source but it also supports open standards and it has a concept dictionary to to manage the data which I'll I'll come back to. Um it's modular so that you can actually take the core system but you can also build additional pieces of software and plug them into it so that you can have people who have limited experience experimenting trying things out and trying building building new modules and then as they get better at it being able to really extend the system. uh it was released as an open- source system in 2007 and that's kind of important because there's a lot of people who talk about open source but when it comes down to it it's really hard to get the source code. So I assure you since April 2007 our source code has been fully available and uh we're very very passionate about that issue and one of the things that people talk a lot about open source is you know who actually develops these systems and who's responsible for for dealing with problems and and bug fixes and so on. So we have a core team of paid programmers, one of whom is here, Rita, um who's been working on the system actually for about a year and a half now in Rwanda, um and doing some of the the training of of Rwanda programmers. And uh so that that team really is responsible for for managing a lot of the issues, but we have a lot of volunteer programmers now, both um individuals and also some companies. So the concept dictionary is a simple idea with lots of very interesting and sometimes complicated manifa manifestations. So the idea is that instead of having a database where you build a separate table for each different uh set of data say a new form or a new kind of lab date lab test you have a dictionary and you can enter new concepts in that dictionary and they can be numeric in which case you have a range of numeric values. They can be coded in this as in this case where what you have is the main concept which is functional review of symptoms and then a list of other concepts which are really like a drop-own menu that you can then code this result with. They can also um be used for drug orders and you can also enter free texts in concepts. And the idea of this is that it gives people the flexibility to to add and extend the system but also it has other advantages like you can develop a core data set for example for drugs and TB as we've been doing and then you can share that with other organizations so people are actually using the same codes and you can clearly map reports and analyses between the different sites. So it's really an important issue and this can then be mapped to other coding systems and we've done this or our colleague from Millennium Villages project Andy Caner who will actually be talking later on in this course has done this for SnowMed and ICD and other coding systems. The openm community is is based around a mailing list and we have this website and this is us at one of our meetings of about 120 people um which we've had in South Africa for about five years in a row now um getting everyone together to work on the requirements of the system and also do a lot of programming. This is an example of uh then taking open MRS which is a core system and a common platform for building EMR systems and then actually focusing on a particular disease within that core platform. And so in a way it's kind of taking us a full circle. It's a platform which can support primary care HIV TB heart disease whatever but in this case we've customized it to make it easier for people managing MDRTB patients to have the tools that they would have had in the old system. So you can see they have a list of reports here and then you can enter you search for patients here and then this is an example um that Mark Goodrich one of the programmers in our team here has been working on to visualize the data for MDRTB and it's quite an it's sort of based on a long series of different experiments over the years with our other systems. You can see that you have the different lab results here. These are smear results for this patient. This is a culture result which is positive. This is drug sensitivity test results um showing resistance to isanized and ethamitol and rafampin and this is a timeline for the drugs or what we call a drugoggram showing that the patient is taking this particular set of drugs during that time and that there's no resistance for the drugs that they're taking according to this result. Another really interesting thing that happened after we developed this um system for MDRTB based on open MRS was that Amir Khan and his group in Pakistan in Karach decided they wanted to use the system. So they took the system, they did a mashup, excuse me, a mashup with Google Maps and so you can then see all the patient locations in Karach and then the patients who are green, their healthcare workers have texted that they actually received their directly therapy within the last 48 hours. And then when you click on one of these people, you can pull up this record which is from the open system. It's another way of viewing the smear and culture results. So it's kind of an interesting mix and this was something that they took on and were able to do because it was open source. They were able to take the system and customize it and build on that. So OpenMs is um been growing rather rapidly. Um not all of these sites are clinical but about a month ago we did a survey to see how many sites were definitely using the system for clinical care and there are at least 24 countries in which there are projects using the system for clinical care. Um, many of these are development sites and many of these we don't really know what people are up to. And last year about 110 countries downloaded the system. So we don't really quite know who is doing what with those ones. Question. That's exactly I was going to ask if if you're marketing it to them in some way or is it just that it can't really know who's using it? I mean, we wondered about having a system that um asks you if you can sort of send a message back saying, "Hey, I'm I'm running now." But it's in a way it's kind of a little bit um seems a little bit like a sort of, you know, keeping tabs on people, right? So, it's it's a difficult question, but if they wanted to, they could just vit. Exactly. And so, what this is doing, this is actually East Africa. Um here is Rwanda, which is where we have a lot of our sites. There's 21 sites there. This is um Western Kenya. Elderret um Uganda down in Malawi we have a site in Nino and some other sites um down in the east coast of Tanzania Millennium Village Project sites and West Africa. And then if we look at Rwanda itself, which is where I do a lot of my work um you can see this is the the border around here, Lake Ku, which I had the good pleasure of being in two weeks ago. Um and uh and our site Rquavu is just in this area here near the Akagera game reserve. Um, so we've been working in Rwanda for about five years now. It's a a small African country with about 9 million people, very densely populated and very heavily rural. Um, although Kaggali, the capital is actually quite uh quite rapidly developing. So it seems like it's better off than it than it really is. Um, it achieved really rapid economic growth over the last few years, but still has really big health problems. These numbers are probably a couple of years out of date. type. I wasn't able to get the exact recent ones which have improved a bit particularly maternal and infant mortality rates but there's still you can see very high numbers for for these two figures particularly maternal mortality and very low median income even though you wouldn't you wouldn't think that when you're in Kagali. So currently we're using open MS in about 21 health centers. We're actually expanding at the moment to another five or 10. Um these are sites that PH is supporting with the government. In addition, um we collect data on um HIV initially and now on TB and heart disease and we're expanding it to primary care. We have about 16,000 patients tracked in the system at the moment. Um that number is going up pretty quickly now that we started registering new patients in primary care. And um we have a team of what we call Rwanda data officers who do the data entry from paper forms and that's usually the way people are entering data into systems like OpenMRS. And many sites actually have their own servers now because the internet access is really unreliable and it uses satellite internet. So it's got a high latency. And so what we're doing is uh we we have a system running locally but then we have some tools for synchronizing that data to a central site so that in the background you're getting a copy of that data and you're also pushing back the data on things like CD4 counts and that's really important. So the lab data which is really critical for managing HIV patients is getting to the peripheral sites. This is an example of some really kind of uh alerts and summaries that we've been printing for our staff for about three and a half years now. And these are generated. So this is a row you know for the p each patient has a row here and and what we're doing is we're actually showing the most recent weights most recent CD4 counts and uh if there's a problem we can have a actually activate an alert such as you know this patient needs a CD4 count is out of date and this data is really important in fact in helping to keep track of Patrick I know that in one they have a model of performance based Uh so it's one of the best models so far. So to monitor performance, you really have to have a a good information system. What was the implication of this uh program on the ongoing performance is going that is happening in one natural. So if you wouldn't mind I will actually come back to that in about five minutes because I've got a couple of things I wanted to to to to set that up with. It's it's a very relevant question which we've actually been bumping into. So one of the questions we wanted to know was um how effective was the EMR system in supporting some key aspects of care for HIV patients. So Cheryl Amaroso who is our project manager um and leads the EMR projects in Rwanda um looked at this question about whether the physicians had access to the latest CD4 count. So the way they did this was that when you fill out a p paper follow-up form the physician is asked to record what they believe is the most recent CD4 count. And so then we looked at whether there were delays in getting access to that. So we said why don't we implement this new lab system which will allow the laboratory to enter the CD4 counts more efficiently into the EMR system and then that will drive them towards those alerts we just I just showed you and see if that had an impact. So we looked at this question of of CD4 counts that were done in the last 60 days that were not available or not known to the physician when they saw the patient. We found that about a quarter of the time this they actually had an out-of- CD4 count. Um once we'd implemented the lab system and with the paper printouts we got that down to about uh 16%. Which is you know pretty good improvement but it's still not good enough obviously and you have to think about the kind of environment we're working in all the different clinics the the logistics of trying to get between those clinics and to actually deliver paper and then manage it all. So the question then was how do we actually improve that further? So what we did was then to set up so that um the clinicians can actually look at a summary of the patients. So we have the um summary of HIV patients and several of the clinics now have access to this in the ID clinic where the HIV patients are managed and what they see is a little summary here which has uh basically uh list of any adverse events um recent symptoms the drug regime the patient's taking in this case tryune and um trimethopin selfthoxis or prophylaxis and then here's some key lab data like the CD4 counts and liver function tests and then obviously a eight and and CD4 count graph. And this is kind of the core data you want on follow-up for these patients. And one was interesting thing was interesting was that this this week actually or in the last couple of weeks, our colleagues at Ampath using the open MRS system have just published a paper looking at the impact of their clinical summaries which are very similar to the one I just showed you. Um and what they were doing was printing out these summaries and giving them to the physicians before they saw the patients. Same sort of model. And so they then decided to choose two clinics and randomly chose one to be an intervention site and then a the other the control site. And they looked at the impact of the computerized reminders for you know patient people who needed a repeat CD4 count to see if that had an impact on the actual behavior of the clinicians in ordering these tests and getting you know getting this data from the patient. And they found that in the intervention group about 53% of the time they ordered the test whereas in the control group it was actually 38% of the time and then this being um rural Africa the printer didn't always work. So when they actually did work the figure was 63%. So that gives you a sense that there was obviously having a pretty significant impact on the decision-making process of the physicians. And I think sort of taken along with the the work we we did with the CD4 count access, you can see that there is a an evidence base growing to show in specific areas how an information system like this can actually really have an impact. Um there's a lot more to learn. But uh but one of the interesting things about this was that um having the information system to collect the data um does allow in principle you to do better performance-based finance um assessments and that's something which I think is going to be important going forward in Rwanda. Um however uh when I talk about the primary care piece they use the paper registers to determine this performancebased financing. So when we actually decided to do things electronically, we then had to scramble to develop a special report so you could print it out to make it look like the paper registers otherwise they wouldn't give them money. So So one of one of Rita's colleagues is busy hacking away that report at the moment. I think it's nearly finished um ironically but in future I think Randa will be interested in um using these kind of tools to really improve that process and I'm sure that that will be a phase we'll go through. So, one of the interesting things in Rwanda is that it's a country that has a very forward-looking approach to health information systems. So, what they've been doing is saying, well, instead of just having a few different organizations come in and build medical records or lab systems or systems for monitoring evaluation for, I don't know, malaria or whatever, we want a national plan. We want an architecture. We want to think about what each of these different components needs to do. We want to approve ones that will really do that well and we want to make sure that they interoperate and they are based on open standards and this is really exciting stuff. I mean it's the sort of thing we're trying to do in the US at the moment but Rhonda has the advantage of being able to do this in a smaller scale and there isn't the same degree of legacy systems obviously. Um so there are good things about not having stuff. David at some point did you mention how important or not important patient privacy is in the implementation of these systems? Um I will do I knew that someone would ask it is a very big issue for us. Yeah. I mean I'll come back and discuss it in detail but definitely um this is a very important question particularly as you start to scale and you have start to have national systems and so there are some real questions. So so what's happening here this is kind of like national level and this is sort of like health facility level. So you have the MR system, you have lab systems that you can link to using HL7. Um pharmacy systems and we're working on standards to link those to the MR system. For example, sending a drug regimen from a patient to the pharmacy. Um there's radiology systems and in in Ampath they have a simple uh pack system that's linked to using HL7 to open MRS and then we have various excuse me mobile systems of course one here called SO you may have heard of and uh also ODK and openX data which can link data either entering data or downloading data in some cases from open MRS and then at this level you have things like the national supply chain and Chimera in Rwanda You have tracknet which is a national web-based system for doing um aggregate reports um which we can now we now have a prototype um SDMX HD message which is a who standard for sending reports automatically to another system and then there's also this question of national registries lists of patients providers um terminology servers and so on and so this is kind of my view of the world with the EMR is kind of the middle here it's just my my way of looking at it I think that um this is a good way of doing it particular clean health facility. Other people would view it a little differently. We'd be down here sort of near the bottom. Um but uh this is an example of one of the models for the national e- health architecture. Um not necessarily the final version, but this is one where we're using a Canada health infoways exchange data exchange layer to link all the different pieces open MRS and tracknet and uh mobile devices for healthcare workers and so on and then all these different registries and birth registries and so on. This stuff is really has big implications for um you know access to private data and who owns that data and who manages it and I think there there are a lot of unresolved issues though Rwanda is unusual in at least having policies around this. Um I think only three developing countries um or four sorry had had policies in the last year to manage health information privacy. So it's it is a big issue. So one of the nice interesting things was that there the government in Rhonda was interested in using an EMR system more broadly and we've been talking and negotiating about this for quite a long time. I mean several years at this point but they've decided they wanted to go ahead and use open MRS for the clinics and smaller hospitals and we actually just started a plan to to roll the system out and I was in a couple of weeks ago and I actually was um we had the first new government site u where we actually rolled out the system and it's now running. So that was exciting after I would say three years of planning. So making progress. Now this is another critical piece of the pro of the overall process and which is how do we actually ensure that there is a workforce who are not only have access to open source but they can really use that in a constructive and effective way and you can't you know can't just say here's a big open source project it runs on Linux you know go ahead and use it. you obviously need to have trained workforce. And so what we found in Rwanda was that there were computer science graduates but they didn't have a lot of hands-on skills. It was a very kind of theoretical course. So um what we did was to set up a training program and Rita was helping to run that program for the last year and a half and to teach uh Rwanda programmers how to do really hands-on programming. We also taught them about medical information systems. um taught them how to actually build modules in open MRS and then we did lectures on um medical informatics and about medical data and some of the issues around medical data and this is our first group graduating and this is Dr. Yes, who is the permanent secretary of health and a a big supporter of this work um and Chris Bailey from WHO and uh we've had another graduating class last December. I was actually 12 in that case. So this group of programmers are now actually working with a bunch of organizations including the Ministry of Health and Partners in Health and some of our other partners in the country um and helping to actually build the systems that are being rolled out. So one of the things that the government wanted was to expand beyond HIV to registering individual patients. So moving from a chronic disease issue to actually registering individual patients using a touchscreen registration system. And this is something that we've rolled out about uh 6 months ago in RQAVU, our sort of main site in the east of the country. And we're now registering um several thousand patients a week, I think, at this point. And uh we started that actually in the new rollout site as well. So this is an example where this data which is normally kept in five or six different paper registries which are not synchronized and not organized that's actually what's used for the performance-based financing. So that's the thing we have to then retro print but but but it'll get it'll move. So I want to talk a little bit about some other information systems. Um the the real inventors of this idea of touchscreen patient registration and touchscreen systems for use of point of care in developing countries is a group called Baobab. uh founded by a friend and colleague called Jerry Douglas um and he really pioneered this idea of teaching people how to use a touchcreen because it's much easier than actually teaching people to use a keyboard and a mouse and they've registered hundreds of thousands of patients in the long way in Malawi and have developed a system for direct data entry for HIV patient records where the the registration person enters the patient originally the nurse enters the vital signs and then the physician actually enters clinical data and prescribes the patient's drug regimen. And then finally, the patient then goes to the pharmacy and they dispense from the system as well. And they use a printed barcoded label to on the patient's health passport to to link this all together so that you can actually easily pull up the record. And we're now using that for our sites in uh in Rwanda where people will actually doing the registration piece. And in Malawi, we're we're actually um also recording the diagnosis in a coded um system and we're recording drug regimen data. So this is kind of an interesting step forward question. Yeah. Do you have any interest in you said you put do you have any interestification? It's a big conversation. Um I think having some type of an ID that people can pull up the record with and that they can easily you know reidentify the person is very helpful. I think that there's some reservations about having everybody use bar use their fingerprints for example or biological identification. I mean there's some cost issues though that's less a problem than it used to be. Fingerprints aren't as great in people who have who do a lot of manual labor and farming as they would be in somebody you know who has you know a fairly light sort of uh computer kind of job. So it's not as reliable as it might be. Um some people are doing that. I'm not sure if it's the um if it's a critical thing but there are situations where it might be helpful. So another thing which system which has been interesting and again this was actually worked by oh sorry do you have any data numbers on the cost of this project inensive for uh so the question is really um what are some of the data about cost benefit for these type of systems and also who is funding this type of work um um this actually is one slide which I'll come back to which does have some data about cost benefit but I think there is a sort of question um are you in a phase of developing and piloting um and evaluating systems or are you in a phase of rolling it out to multiple sites in a kind of a more production level so I think a lot of what we've done in the past has been around um kind of developing really inventing new kind of approaches and developing those systems. So that tends to take a bit more time and more expertise. Um, with the roll out in Rwanda, we're going to start collecting much more accurate data because then we'll be able to replicate, you know, what does it cost to actually replicate a site as opposed to what it originally cost to develop the system because a lot of the development cost hopefully because it's open source and because it's shared with other groups is in fact um kind of shared with other organizations and is available to people. I mean, it's an interesting question because when you look at the numbers for what's actually been spent on health information systems in low and middle- inome countries, it's pretty big. Um, in fact, I've been still trying to get the numbers for USAD and PEPAR and the global fund. We know for the World Bank um that currently approved projects over the last last three or four years, but the ones that actually currently functioning in low and middle inome countries, they spent more than $480 million on health information systems and none of that's been evaluated. So, we really don't know what those systems are doing. And the World Bank to their credit is actually beginning to start looking at that and asking that question. Um the numbers for for USAD and PEPAR and Global Fund are probably much higher than that. So we're talking billions of dollars and the problem is there is really very little evidence as to what works and what doesn't and and what's been replicated. So I think your question is is very timely. Um but it's in a sense what we're doing is relatively low cost compared to these projects but we'll have to really try and understand what it takes not only to set systems up but it's really the total cost of ownership. what does it cost to um set the system up to roll it out to a whole group of sites and to maintain that over a period of several years and then how does it average out to and I think that that kind of number is is actually the critical thing rather than you know if you have an initial grant you know can you set something up but does that still work in six months or a year like the reason why I'm asking this is that country like Niger improve the health outcome of the country. But um when you want to transfer this system from Rwanda to Nigeria that's like 10 15 times like just the southwest part of the country the size of Rwanda. Oh yeah sure. Do do you have any um concerns or any factors that you might take into consideration you're trying to like drop of the pilot study like did Rwanda back to a larger country without limitations such as privacy issues like what you have any factors like that do you see any factors like that when you're trying to transfer this technology from much larger countries Um again I think I'm going to sort of try and cover some of these questions sort of throughout the talk but I mean to particularly answer those points I think I mean scale is definitely an important issue and um Rwanda has the advantage that it's relatively easy to get around so it's easier to get some of the sites than it would be in a much larger country potentially. Uh there are several projects in Nigeria using open MRS at this point um and couple of them actually making a lot of progress now. Um so I think there is a sort of a foothold in trying these systems out. Um and so far that seems to be working reasonably well. I think the confidentiality and data ownership and security of data issues are going to be important wherever you're working. Um there's a kind of an interaction between is there a legal framework in the country? Is there a a policy framework for who owns the data? Um do patients feel comfortable with that? And then the question also um do you have you know good technology and good training because actually really training I think is probably the most important issue in making sure that patient confidentiality is maintained. I mean I think you can build a good secure system but if people are sharing passwords or they're downloading stuff and and not respecting that data that's going to be the biggest problem actually. Um so I think training of really users and data managers and data entry staff and so on that's a really big big requirement and getting that piece right is probably the critical thing. Um so just wanted to to highlight this particular project which I think is really interesting. Martin Wary who is the uh lead author on this will be talking later actually the end of this month. So um he's got some really great ideas and experience in this area. But I just wanted to highlight this particular project where he used a palm pilot very similar to the way that Wain and I did this project in Peru and they wanted to look at homebased basically health surveillance. They have a team of people going to different houses in western Kenya and what they do is they collect data on patient registration. So the the say the the the family you know the woman and um who's the head of the household and uh her husband and the family and record all the different patients and then also recording data on HIV a TB screening test vaccinations and also maternal care and what they found was that then they went to their sort of pilot phase was 14,000 households and 41,000 patients. So they're they're pretty serious about what they're doing here and uh this is now scaling up rapidly. Um what they found was that 45% of the pregnant women were not known to the health system. So they didn't have a trained birth attendant. They were not registered as as being you know pregnancies that might be requiring you know intervention or risk. And so very very big issue um which you know is one of the things that's really causing problems in a lot of countries and uh they also found that 63 61% of the HIV patients that they found who were HIV positive in their voluntary counseling and testing process were not known to the system. And that was one of the motivations for trying to do this homebased testing because they realized there was this big unmet need for HIV treatment. And uh they found it worked really well. Very few technical problems, high user satisfaction, very much as we found in Peru. And they calculated that over the 2 million patients are going to visit, we have about a $300,000 grant um I think from Rockefeller or actually Abbott Foundation. And uh that will work out about 15 cents per patient. So that's actually not bad. I mean it's hard to know what is a good number but that doesn't seem like a bad number. Um another system which I think has been important in Africa is what the district health information system and this kind of fills the same sort of role that the tracknet system does in in Rwanda where it's at district and national level. It's used to really um do reports and um mapping of aggregate data from health facilities and they it was developed in South Africa by South African and Norwegian team called HISP and they um have actually used it now in a number of other African countries. It's starting to be used in Rwanda, um Tanzania, Kenya I think as well and also in India. And um what they found was that they there were some issues around the way the system was being used and and uh the quality of data. So one problem that came up was in program called PMTCT or prevention of maternal to child transmission of HIV. And these are really critical pro programs that are in place to prevent you know the baby baby from actually being affected by the mother. Um and there are some key data you need to have to make sure that this happens. So it's not only a monitoring process but it's also part of the intervention. You need to know which mothers are HIV positive. So you have to test them in pregnancy. You need to start the mother on prophylaxis. Usually in our case triple therapy to suppress the HIV viral load. You need to uh get the woman into a health facility for the birth and ideally you do cesarian section. You need to give prophylaxis to the baby. You need to test the baby with a heel stick which is what one of the things that Joy showed you last week to record whether they're antigen positive. and then if they are you need to start that baby on antiretroviral therapy. So it's essentially kind of six key pieces of data and what they were finding was that this the studies I mean I've seen studies where only 20% of the time did that actually work in South Africa. So it's really a terrible outcome. And so um Kadar Mate who's a former colleague and actually will also I think be talking here um did a really interesting study on 316 clinics in quazan in um the eastern part of South Africa and they looked at um the completeness and accuracy of the data um for these six key data elements um and what they did then was to um go to the clinics and actually look at the real data on the ground. So they did a real study where they you look at the the actual records and then compare that with what's in the system and and do a proper formal evaluation of the quality and they found that only 50% of the time were the data endless accurate which they said is within 10% of the reconstructive values um and only 12 sorry and and only 10% of start again only 50% of the time were they accurate I within 10% of research values and I think 12% of the time they had all the data available So it was a really very poor outcome and what they found was there was no computerization in any of the health centers. So people were just told give us the numbers you have to go through the paper registers you have paper charts put it all together there was no training there was no proper supervision for that. So they were on working on a kind of the dotcom business model you know you lose money on every transaction but make it up on volume that somehow you know if you if you have bad data in every site but you aggregate it'll get good right I mean it's it's almost like a do you know it's like a subprime mortgage idea you know you you if you don't control what's going on on the ground then clearly you are not going to know what's happening at national level and it's one of the real fallacies of the public health approach to data which I've seen over the years and it's really been a disaster that people cannot not you know you cannot get statistics at national level unless you do the work on the ground and it's hard work and it's painstaking and it requires a lot of training and so on but that's the critical piece and the other advantage of doing it on the ground is that people get to use the data locally they get to see it they get to benefit from it and so this was really one of the the key findings of the study was that the DHIS would work if there was a way of actually collecting and managing the data at the sites such as an EMR system and another important study that just came which I think is one which would be good to talk about and and debate a little I think um in this class. This was published in the Lancet by Leester and colleagues about two or three months ago and it looked at the use of cell phone SMS reminders for HIV patients in Kenya to encourage them to take their antiretroviral therapy. So it was really kind of a a compliance with treatment type of study. And what they did was to send an SMS once a week and then if they didn't get respond from the patient then uh the healthcare worker would actually ring the patient and they would kind of provide them extra support. And what they showed was that um 61% of the patients who were receiving the intervention um had good compliance compared to 48% in the control group. And they also showed uh that the viral load was better suppressed. And that was statistically significant though it was kind of a borderline thing. um but they did show that there was some impact on the actual quality of care of these patients more directly. So this is a really interesting study and I wonder has anybody actually read the study here? I'll have to change that. Any any no one read it? So, does anybody know much about um the numbers for adherence rates for HIV treatment in Africa? Anyone want to have us have a a guess at what the typical rate would be for say a one-year adherence rate, good quality care and good adherence? So there have been a number of studies looking at this and a few actual systematic reviews and um one of them looked at loss to follow-up rates. So that's obviously more more serious where you actually really lost touch with the patient but um numbers like 61% adherence rate is not very good. So in the the success group the intervention group those figures are way worse than we have at PH in any of our projects that I'm aware of. we would be looking more in the terms of 90% for one year probably 95%. Um and these are you know this is because the the accompanitors are there every day seeing the patient ensuring they take the treatment. So this technology of the community healthcare worker or accompanitor is a very good technology for making sure that people get treatment and also providing support and encouragement and you know a communication channel back to the health center. So I think one of the things we have to do when we look at this study which you know was quite made quite a big splash was percentage-wise it improved things and I think there's some lessons to learn from that but this is not a good outcome. If this was one of PIH's projects in say in Rwanda we'd be really upset if this was the figures we're getting. So I mean I think we have to be very careful with interventions you know what is the best standard of care and so this approach of not providing very close supervision of patients doesn't work that well and uh I think it's an important message to think about if we're doing quality of care interventions are we really getting the best result and what I would say with this is that there's two groups here there's the preart group somebody you know is HIV positive maybe from the VCT from voluntary counseling testing program but hasn't started on treatment yet either because there hasn't been time or because their CD4 count is high. And then there's the group who are on ARV treatment. So the pre-art group are actually at risk of loss to follow-up and they don't necessarily have a healthcare worker. And those are group where having reminders and using an information system to track them is probably really important. But once people are on treatment, having a healthare worker actually do the supervision is much better. So I mean I think this is an important lesson to think about. Now people will say there are cost issues around that but I mean I think you know the cost issues around having patients not take their treatment and get resistance. question David SMS was it it was just one direction right they didn't send confirmation back the patients were sent a text and then they would have to say um are you good or you're not good and so there was some kind of dialogue going on and of of the ones who successfully did the dialogue that 64% um the ones who received the d who who were actually in the program the other ones just had normal care so the people who had an SMS mess sent who then were called by the nurse if they didn't if they had problems and had sort of had that kind of conversation going on. They were the 61%. So I think it's just you know I think it's just an important cautionary tale and also if you look at the paper that the viral load is they kind of sneaked in. I mean if they analyze it different way it's it's not fully significant. So I think it's it's I think it's an important study but it illustrates some of the difficulties of really understanding what works best here. Um I don't have a huge amount of time so I think I'm just going to quickly go through the supply chain thing. Just wanted to emphasize that um it's really important to have tools to monitor drug supply and to to manage drug supply in um different clinics. This is a system we used in Haiti for the last 5 years or so and we actually track the um the stock cards in each of the clinics using a web-based system and then people can order online. And this was showing that when we were implementing the system that he actually has pretty low stockout rates. We got it down to about 1.1%. Although with Haiti being so such a difficult country to work in, you know, it's gone up and down depending on access to internet and so on, but stockout rates in many projects in Africa are in in the 20 to 40% range. So it's a really key issue. And this was another intervention where a group um called Frontline SMS working with Ushihidi which is a group in Kenya that developed this a mapping system for for community data initially um after the election violence but also used for a number of other purposes. They put together a system to look at stockouts in clinics in rural Africa and the patients had to text if there was they were prescribed a drug and then when they went to the clinic's pharmacy the drug was stopped out. So they would text a certain number and that way they get mapped and they use this to actually uh change the policy in the country and to get it in the press and to really change you know activities around stockouts and raise this as a a really high priority issue. I think it's been one of the reasons why there's much more attention to stockouts and drug supply management in the last year or two. Um just a few questions on lessons learn issues and lessons learned. First is you really have to have good local leadership if you're going to make these projects work. So you know you need to know know who is who is actually driving this and what do their needs what do they really want to get out of this not um you know let's do an EMR system but we need this to get better access to lab data or we need a summary here or we want to implement decision support or or guidelines and how can we do that most effectively. Um we need to to really emphasize the importance of individual patient records. So this whole idea of DHIS and all these sort of public health approaches that WHO and other organizations and public schools of public health in the US have promoted for so long that you just aggregate the data and people in the clinics, you know, just to write down the numbers for that week doesn't work. Lots and lots of data to show that this numbers aren't good enough. But the other thing is it's not useful because the people in the in the clinics don't get any benefit. They get no feedback. They don't get to use that information. They don't get to review the numbers. So I think it's really important that we have systems even if they're simple systems to collect data in health facilities and that also probably applies to communities with cell phones as well. Another problem which I've seen a lot is this question where people they they treat forms like some kind of a sacred object. It's like this sort of thing. We've got the form and now you need to computerize the form and it drives me nuts. these forms, you know, they grow and they grow and everyone argues about it and eventually say, "Okay, the form is ready and you're like, what are you going to use this form? Are you going to collect data and like but but why?" And if you don't, if you don't do it that way, you drive the whole thing by the form, then you build the infrastructure and the software and so on, but but then at the end of the day, do you know if you can actually get what you need out of it? What you really need to do is to say, what are your goals? Do you want to look at access to patient data? Do you want patient summaries? Do you want reports that show quality of care? or do you need reports to funders? Decide on your outcomes and then work back from that. Work on what is the core data set you need to do to collect to actually make that work and define that core data set preferably in agreement with other projects so that you can actually share that data. So this is hard to do I have to say but it it's what we're trying to do with maternal health for example at the moment and then the form then becomes an artifact that is generated to feed this thing and it means that the data you're collecting is going to actually correspond with what your most important goals are and what you have to avoid is the form vortex. you go round and round and round and everyone's like, "No, no, I want this, I want that." And eventually gets bigger and bigger and it's and 10-page forms not good. Um, another thing is this question about local data use. So collecting data in the clinic or even at the community level in the village and using it locally. It's incredibly important because what happens so often is you have these things where they basically, you know, the data is collected here and it goes into the center. it gets dragged in by everyone and basically what you get is this sort of you know centriu centripedal approach and you don't get the benefit in the communities. So you have to avoid systems that just suck the stuff into the middle and the other thing is this question about the core data set. Once you've defined what your goals are and you've defined, you know, we're we're going to we're going to focus on these particular important things that are actually going to impact on care, you need to defend that core data set and keep the core values. It's okay if someone says, well, I want to collect some extra data. I'm prepared to pay an extra person to do the data entry and we'll add that as an extra form to the system. I mean, that that's a process that's okay, but you need this core data set and you really want to maintain it and keep the fidelity of that. And then when you do that, for example, with this maternal concept library, which uh we're working on with Jonathan Payne, who's actually part of our group, um getting everyone to agree, you know, this is the data we need for maintaining quality of care. Um basically tracking down pregnant women in the community, um ensuring that they get trained birth attendant, monitoring them for risk factors, that sort of thing. So basically, you want to have some way of defending this. So this is my friend who defends the data set. Another thing you need to do is um good tools for data management and building into the system tools to make it easy for someone to see you know are there missing data items are there you know discrepant items can you see if there's like uh people are entering the numeric data into text fields and and generally trying to make it as easy as possible to spot problems early. Another thing which um somehow I've learned the hard way but it doesn't seem to be that obvious. You don't want to be trying to do 10 things at once, none of which is quite complete. It's a really bad place to be. You don't want, you know, oh, this all these things are almost ready. You you've got to nail a couple of things. You got to say, we're just going to do patient registration or we're just going to get this lab data to the doctors and we'll get that right and we'll get it working till everyone like this is really great. It's it's only, you know, one of the 10 things I want to do, but I really rely on that thing. If you're in that space, you have huge potential to build on it. If you're there where everything is not quite ready and everyone's putting all this work in, they're collecting all this data and they're working hard, but no one really trusts the data, it's not a good place to be. And uh other fairly obvious but important thing, making sure you have good power supply and power backups and also lightning protection and grounding. You you if you went around and measured how many sites actually had grounding in their in the clinics, you'd be surprised. It's very it's very low and it's very dangerous. And it's also dangerous for equipment but but you know can be dangerous to individuals as well. Um data backups critical obviously very important. This is actually um after the earthquake this is the server for gestio um in Porta Prince and they were propping up the ceiling with various posts. They were able to maintain their backups but um a number of organizations because they had electronic data with off-site backups. For example um medicine frontier using open MRS in portance were able to reload their backups. So really really important to have your off-site backups and our synchronization tools we use in Rwanda actually do that kind of automatically which is helpful confidentiality as you you brought up earlier very very important issue um there are good technical solutions it's a training issue particularly and um really lack of national policies in many countries including Haiti have made it very difficult to know what you can and can't do in these situations. mobile devices. We're going to talk much more about those. I will not dwell on it. Couple of examples from Haiti um systems that this was actually used in clinics there and this was a system we developed with some colleagues here to um to do a screening process for um surgical patients though it didn't actually get used in that form. Um and uh finally I just want to mention the maternal concept lab and this is what uh we've been working on with a whole bunch of other organizations which I think um who gates PIH Main Villages project D3 ampath um IDRC and and so on and they're all working together on a on a core set of initiatives for supporting maternal health and this is really an interesting project and we're looking at how can we actually put together the most important data and screening you know what people actually use in terms of published reports and so on so we can actually identify the the most important items. Okay. And uh we talked about that. Okay. So we're a little short on time but we had a few conversations. So any more questions