The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. I'd like to in this evening lecture what I'd like to do is continue a bit to expand on and complicate and maybe also deepen this idea I've been suggesting to you that I'm labeling the Fred principle really a shorthand way of describing the immensely complex and from an intellectual standpoint a historical standpoint immensely exciting and astonishing process whereby film went in an in an incredibly ly short time from being a mere novelty to being an embedded social formation in the United States and and in other industrialized societies and not just only a so embedded social formation becoming by the end of the 1920s one of the central media for the expression of art and an artistic medium so that it went from being a mere novelty from Fred Sneeze in 20 years or so 25 years to being a medium astonishingly rich and complex narrative art. That progress uh is part of what I mean by the um Fredot principle. And and it might be helpful if I if I concretize that a little bit more by mentioning a bit more about what I mean about the what I was implying or referring to when I spoke about that moment of imitation. Remember I said that there were essentially three that the that the that silent film and incidentally I take it as a model for the way in which most new media systems uh develop in culture. You can apply this same basic schema to other forms of of popular entertainment including shocking as it may seem Shakespeare's public theater. And I'll come back to the implications of that analogy. The idea that Shakespeare was the movie of his time, that Shakespeare's theater was the Hollywood studio system of of of the of the Elizabethan era is a very complicated one. It's a very inspiring one. And it's it's complicated because it makes us reassess our inherited notions about what art is and where art comes from. One of the subtexts in this course is precisely that. the has to do with what I call the enabling conditions of art and I'll come back to that again as a theme again and again in in the course. So part of what I mean by the Fred out principle is this is this uh roing complex uh uh um uh partly unpredictable process whereby uh au an enlarging population incredibly hungry for the novelties being produced by this new technology create uh a kind of symbiotic relationship between the audience and the emerging medium. So that as the medium be the medium grows more complicated in part because the audience okay after five or 10 or 15 visits to the to the Nickelodeon or uh or to the the a after the movies moved out of after the movies moved out of the penny arcades and began to take their own space as some of you know and as as is recounted in our reading for this for these early weeks. The movies first moved out into what were called Nickelodeons, right? They were they were uh storefronts in the for the most part in which you and the admission was a nickel. That's why they were called Nickelodeons. Uh and uh you sat in in many of these on benches without backs next to strangers. You didn't have private seats and you would sit in there and see a series of short films. So but the fact that the Nickelodeons emerged so quickly is a mark of how popular an uh film became even even in the even in its relatively primitive early form. Uh and and then of course within a few years of the Nickelodeons appearing what else began to happen? Theaters made specially for the showing of motion pictures that were longer than the early shorts because film began to expand its length all through the period from 1910 through 1920. Right? What what's the great moment when the feature film is born in the United States? 1915. Who's the director? DW Griffith. Who's the what's the film? Birth of a Nation. Birth of a Nation, a very complicated uh example because its content is disturbing in some ways. It's a very reactionary and in some respects racist film. It it it it it absorbs and carries forward what we might think of as the the racial prejudices that were uh very widespread in American society at the turn of the century and especially in the south from which uh Griffith himself was was a southerner and was born in the south and what his film was deeply influenced by a best-selling novel called the clansmen which was a celebration of the Ku Klux Clan uh and the uh birth of a nation. So, so the content of Birth of a Nation is very unsettling and disturbing. And even when it was first uh um released to the public to great claim because it it it it expanded the possibilities of movies in all kinds of ways. From a technical standpoint, it is an astonishingly important film. And from a content standpoint, it's a very disturbing film. It's a wonderful reminder of the fact that this progress I'm describing to you is not an unaloyed triumphal story. Uh even as the movies became more technically complicated and and uh more demanding and longer and more interested in character, they also nonetheless carried the lies and prejudices and and um um um hierarchic assumptions that were embedded in the society from which they arose. How could it be otherwise? Every media form does this. But it's but it's important to make this point as a way of reminding us that the story we're telling is not uh in some simple sense just a kind of a kind of progress myth in which we're celebrating development and and and genius. We're we're we're identifying and locating something more complicated than that. the process whereby these cultural myths uh and these stories that are drawn from inherited older stories and from and from the lore of the society more broadly, more generally uh uh are are transformed into this new medium and they have a tremendous technical interest. But very often they also have a kind of cultural or sociological interest of a negative kind in the sense that what they reveal are the prejudices, the lies, the limitations uh of the society that's given the the mythologies that sustain the society. Again, this is a matter to which we'll return. One of the deep cultural functions of American movies especially was to promulgate a kind of mythology of America. And we'll talk more about this when we when we when we reach certain genre forms in the second segment of the course. I said something earlier this morning that I want to make uh explicit uh because I think it's an important another way of qualifying this triumphal story. It's hard because I'm enthusiastic about what I'm looking at and there is some material that's so exciting here to watch. In a way what we're watching is we're watching the birth of the movies. We're watching the the the discovery of the language of cinema in these early films. And that's why even though from an artistic standpoint, some of these shorts are not very rich. I hope they're interesting enough that I've made them interesting to you from a historical standpoint. If you look at them closely, you can see ve you can see the movies being born. You can see a language, a syntax for speaking in pictures for for this new new visual language being this new visual medium being developed. uh and and I I'll if I have time this evening, I'll give you a few more concrete examples of that. But another way in which one can qualify this apparently triumphal story, it's not a triumphal story, even though it is a story of refinement, development, and evolution of a of a kind that involves increasing complexity and technical perfection, technical uh uh mastery. uh it's not merely that or not or not or not even primarily that it's very important to recognize among other things as I implied this afternoon that uh not all the possibilities that are inherent in the in the in the nent medium aren't necessarily exploited in a particular cultural moment or or maybe ever exploited depending on how things develop. That is to say, uh, I mentioned this this afternoon, uh, how, for instance, when Edison first conceived the apparatus before it was actually invented of the mo of the motion picture projector and the motion picture camera, his first idea was that he would create an an item that would be a consumer item that would be sold to individual families and the film would become, you know, the the an equivalent of a kind of a photo album, although it would it would have motion in it and and the and as I suggested this this morning this afternoon there's no reason why given the nature of the technology itself that that vision of how film might develop was impossible. In fact, it wasn't impossible. It was just incredibly ahead of its time. It took it took a half a century before something like that actually became available in society. But there was no reason in terms of the the possibilities of the technology that that that needed to happen. What I'm calling your attention to is what is a very widespread myth. It's especially pernicious and widespread at MIT and it's ve for reasons that are obvious and understandable. We at MIT love to believe that technology will solve all problems. The primary thing I'm suggesting to you is that the evolution of the movies that I want you to be aware of this process of increasing complexity and and uh uh uh compression in which in in which the movies become a more and more independent form of expression in which the movies begin to discover the unique characteristics of the motion picture camera and of the environment of the movie theater that that the movie that the movies begin to explore those qualities in this new medium that are unique and special. That process is important and I want you to be aware of it. But I don't want you to embrace that principle too uncritically because I want you to recognize that what that that the technology itself does not explain this process. The process is explained by cultural factors and social factors and even individual sometimes individual psychological factors. Right? Uh what we're talking about here is the myth of technological determinism. The myth that technology drives culture. the myth that a new invention obliterates old inventions. The truth is much more complicated than that. And one of the most remarkable things about this evolutionary process I've been describing, as I said earlier, is how swift it is, how fast it is, how we go from being a mere novelty to becoming a a significant social form by 1910 or so and to becoming a virtually universal aesthetic and entertainment experience for the majority of the population in the country by 1920. So in something like 20 or 25 years, the movies go from being an absolutely unknown or trivial novelty, sharing space with fortune tellers and strip and and strip shows in the penny arcades to becoming not just an embedded social form but one of the dominant economic engines of the society, employing tens of thousands of people in various uh direct and ancillary positions and mobilizing virtually the entire population of the country in an an in a regular a routine and habitual experience uh um uh to which they return again and again and because the audience is returning again and again I remember I said there's a kind of symbiotic relation between the audience and the because the audience is returning again and again what happens that's also an aspect of the resources that are available to the medium what begins then to develop are form are are forms of storytelling that rely on the audience's prior memory of other shows, right? So that one thing that emerges very quickly is what we might call a star system in which particular actors are become identified with particular kinds of roles and audiences want to come back to see those stars again and again. What also begins to happen is the establishment of a very rigorous kind of genre system. What's a genre? A category of story. The western is a genre. The detective story is a genre. The elegy is a poetic genre. Right? That so so genres. So and and and the movie the the typical the fundamental movie genres begin to emerge relatively early. There's a western adventure story. There's a historical spectacle. Uh there are certain forms of urban crime narrative that that became our detective and crime films at a later at a later stage. Uh and there are certain and there emerge especially certain forms of satire and comedy. So so a genre system begins to emerge as well. And there there are reasons of course why this kind of thing is useful to a mass production system to a system of an assembly line system because look if you make seven westerns uh if the same uh movie studio makes seven westerns they can use the same horses again and again they can use the same set they can use the same hats they might even be you and this in fact happened they might even be be able to use the same clip of film that shows a cattle stampede in seven different movies because nobody would actually see it. So economies of scale become possible uh as the system begins to regularize itself once it stabilizes after that period of imitation and patent warfare. Right? So one of the things and there's and there's nothing noble or artistic or or or conscious uh about this development. That's part of what makes it so remarkable and it puts us in touch with a paradox that's at the very heart of what I hope to make you aware of in this course. It's a paradox that I guess it animates my transition many years ago now from a traditional literary scholar into someone interested in film and media. And it's this paradox that based on what I've been telling you about this evolution this evolution of the medium of of the film medium. It's the paradox that capitalist greed, the crassest of alliances between commerce and modern technology might be the enabling conditions of a complex narrative art. Right? Where does art come from? It's about the and it's not just about art though even about sort of social even if even if we forget the question of art and just talk about sort of the the social and cultural importance of moviegoing in modern societies. leave out the question of whether it's an aesthetically valuable experience. It's so central to human experience, remains so central to human experience that there's a tremendous par that there's a tremendous paradox in this that the that the crassest of alliances between commerce and technology, right? Nothing noble or admirable about it. Nobody's sitting down thinking I want to make a new great medium for art. nonetheless become these this alliance becomes the enabling conditions for a complex form of social experience and of narrative art. Well, that paradox is at the heart of a lot of what we're we'll be looking at in this course and I hope you'll keep it in mind as we go on. I'd like to say a couple of words, not too many, a couple of words about the um the great train robbery, the very first uh film that you've seen. uh this the great train robbery is discussed in some helpful detail in David Cook's history of narrative film and I urge you to look closely at his account of it but I want to remind you of about a couple of highlights. One is that that although the great train robbery seems very primitive to us, it's important to realize that even the great train robbery is already a refined text almost most most of the most fundamental principles of what we might call the syntax or grammar of the movies is already embedded in the great train robbery. And what that means is that the period the five or six year period before that when there is all this practice in with non-narrative forms uh lies behind the great train robbery in some and what also lies behind the great train robbery is this experience of audiences going in to the to first to the penny arcades then to the nickelodeons that begin to open up in the in in the by the turn of the 20th century uh and becoming impatient with repeated scenes that simply show uh jokes uh hoses going off in people's faces or trains coming into a state. After a while, the novelty wears off. The audience wants but of course the people who are making films are also interested in what they're doing. You can feel especially if you look at DW Griffith's shorts and you've looked at two you will have looked at two of them in this course uh the uh a beast at bay from last time and the lonale operator which you'll see tonight before we turn to the Keaton films. uh and you'll see in these are just a sampling of his of his early work. But if you look closely at those where you can feel Griffith's own excitement at discovering the possibilities of the cinema learn and in many cases these films you Griffith is doing what doing some things with the camera doing some things with narrative shape with the shaping of narrative in in cinema that had never been done before and you can feel his own excitement at the possibilities of this of this astonishing of this astonishing technology. Well, the great train robbery, the most important discovery that the great train robbery shows us, and again, it seems so obvious and so embedded that we wouldn't even think about it today. We've absorbed these principles so deeply into our DNA that we don't even think of we're we're we learn how to watch movies in this way from the great from the cradle in some ways be because we we're by by the time most most people today are five or six years old, they've been subjected probably to more audiovisisual images than anyone alive in 1900. And that's you know we're we're just cognitively different from from the in terms of our capacity to process audiovisisual information. Uh we and but imagine an audience that's completely illiterate in these things that has to learn this system as the system itself is evolving. That's part of the excitement of looking at these at at these early films. And the most important discovery in the in the great train robbery is the discovery that the shot the single the single uncut shot of film however long it lasts and its length is dependent on on the decision you make about when to edit it right uh so it can it can go on for a long time or it can be very short and and the length or the shortness of a of of of cuts also affects sort of the rhythm of your experience in the film. This is something that you can see Griffith practicing with even as as as early as a beast at bay. If you think about the great climax of the beast at bay where you have the where you have the uh uh um uh the woman the woman being threatened but you also have this sort of this sort of race in the automobile to try to to try to get there on time and then and then the race to rescue her by a variety of people. You could what what Griffith does is he cuts back and forth. He creates the principle of parallel action. What he realized, what he discovered was that the audience will recognize this kind of cutting as showing you simultaneity, showing you things that are going on at the same time. In other words, what he what he discovered were in a certain sense how the mind how how we would cognitively process certain kinds of gestures on film. And what he discovered, of course, is that if he cuts, if he edits more quickly, if he creates a fast rhythm, he creates excitement. And if he create and what he began to discover was something that in later directors like Hitchcock would carry to to an almost evil pitch a capacity to manipulate and control the audience's reaction by the speed with which particular images appear or disappear. So so Griffith even at this early stage you can see Griffith discovering important principles. The most fundamental principle in a great train robbery which is not a Griffith film and precedes Griffith is the discovery that the shot is the basic unit of action. Why is that a great discovery? Well, if you think of the if you think of the movies as as a a as a device or as a as a as a medium that grows out of especially a theatrical dispensation grows out of other things as well. Novels feed into it. Visual art feeds into the movies. But it's certainly true that most of the major sort of ways in which directors first conceived how to think about the experience of what's of what the camera is looking at, they would they would have been influenced by their own experience of theater. And if you think about it for a moment, what you can see even in the great train robbery and uh the an impulse to treat the camera as a stable thing, the camera doesn't move very the camera the there are panning shots in which the camera will go like this, right? But the camera will not track. It will not move back and forth or sideways off its off its in in the great train robbery. It's that's a discover that's a discovery that Griffith is going to make and will exploit. Uh and you can see it in in in a beast at bay. But in the great train robbery, we haven't got that far yet. But what we have discovered, what what Porter, Edwin Porter did discover was that the shot is the basic unit of action. And that and what this means is it's not simply what the camera sees, but then how the shots are edited afterwards that is so crucial. So what it what it came to understand was that the making of of any movie is always a two-stage process. There's the shooting of the film and then there's the editing of the film. Right? And that that itself is a fundamental disc. But the idea that the shot is the unit of action instead of the scene was hard for movie makers to get because and what they would do they would set the camera up and then actors would walk in front of the camera. They would do what they had to do and they would walk off. What's going on there? They're conceiving of cinematic space in theatrical terms. As soon as the camera is liberated, taken off its tripod, moved around in some way, uh allowed to back up or or or come close, even allowed to move laterally or uh uh what we're beginning to do was to explore more systematically what the camera's unique features are. How the theater is different from the movies, how how how certain effects are possible in the movies that would not be possible in the theater. When you watch the Keaton films that you're going to see tonight, watch for the ways in which Keaton repeatedly sets up situations so that such that when you see a particular gag of his, a joke, what you realize is that the joke could not have happened in the theater. It could not have been told to you verbally. The joke is visual. The joke involves motion. the the joke in the joke involves uh a recognition of the powers of the s of the powers of of of cinematic representation to tell stories. Uh and there you'll see many examples of this in the in the in the uh Katon materials that you'll that you'll be looking at tonight. So the so the one of the very first discoveries that's made is the discovery that the shot is the basic unit of action. Uh a second discovery is the recognition that you have to cut between scenes. You do your editing between shots rather rather than and that mo and mostly what you do is you let scenes play out even though you might abruptly cut a scene before the action is completed. One of that's another discovery that was made. If you cut the scene if a person starts to walk toward the door the first earliest films they would show the person walking all the way to the end walking out of the door. Then filmmakers discovered, wait a minute, there's a way of creating a kind of quickness here. Because if I show Thorburn walking toward the door, starting and I cut and he knocks his glasses off. Uh, and then I and then I cut and I wait till he gets to the door and we see him leaving the door. I don't have to watch him take those 17 steps that Right. So what what what's been discovered is a basic principle of cinematic syntax, right? You know, but what but but it seems so obvious to us, but of course it's really a great discovery. It's a uh in other words, the the properties of the medium have to be understood before you can really begin to exploit it. And that's why uh I've asked you to look at some of these short films. None of the short films I've shown you are completely without uh some uh uh technical interest. And uh even though of course they're the only films I'm showing you that I wouldn't sort of make arguments uh to defend them as works of art, but I certainly would make arguments for them as technically fascinating documents. And I hope you'll I hope you'll look at them in in that light. So the shot as a basic unit of action cutting between scenes and a couple of other things in the in the that I think are important in the great train rob one is that you can see in the great train robbery they're beginning to discover the value of camera placement. What happens when you place the camera in a particular position that if the camera uh especially if action is coming toward the camera if you that you might not want to place the camera directly in front of the action that's coming toward you that something happens if you place it slightly up toward it so it can see it at a slight angle. creates a greater illusion of depth in the image for example and it does other kinds of it lets the action get closer to you before before the uh scene has to be cut. Uh so camera placement is something that you can see is is beginning to be learned beginning to be mastered in the great in the great train robbery and f camera or c or or camera position. So there are other things and finally one might mention one other thing that again establishes a principle that begins that that that then is continued continues in use for 50 or 75 years and that's the principle of the process shot. You can see in the great train robbery that he that some effects have been created by tricks that there's a that there's back projection going used in that. It's it looks crude to us. We can see through it, but the early audiences would would not have recognized that. We we're so used to location filming that we can pick out uh we today can see through the process shots of earlier films. Th this in fact damages some of Hitchcock's films very badly today because Hitchcock used a lot of processed shot effects in his films. When he made them the audiences were used to there was a convention of film going today everything because cameras are so much more more mobile and light and so so much has been uh learned about how to even about filming in in low light and so forth that they that there's much less use of process shots. So, well, a new kind of process shot, I suppose, is emerging with digital animation. And one could say it's sort of a return to the idea of manipulating the image in illegitimate ways. Um, but the but but we can see even in the great train robbery, we we can even see the beginnings of the use of process shots of recognizing that you can create effects in the movies that are unique and special that no other medium would allow you to do. And what's embedded there is science fiction. What's embedded there are all the kinds of imaginative not just science fictional all the kinds of imaginative movies that have been made that maybe take you inside people's nightmares or dreams where what the film is showing you now what in words what what is embedded in that process shot even more fully embedded in in Melier's the French director's films like trip to the moon where he explicitly goes into a realm of fantasy is not only that the film is the most profoundly realistic medium that was ever invented it may also be the most the the the the most expressive medium for the for the rendering of non-realistic states of dream, of nightmare, of fantasy. Uh exactly be be because of the freedom that that uh the film medium allows. And it even these implications are at least embedded in the use of the process shots in uh Porter's The Great Train Robbery. The the the other short that you're going to see tonight that is not by Katon is called the Lonale Operator. It's it was made in 1911. Um and uh it in a way it's the most it's the most advanced film of its time. And that that's one re and I what I hope when you look at it you'll you'll watch especially for how much more complex it is than let's say the great train robbery and it'll be a kind of small measure of this Fredot principle that I've been talking about. Let me mention a couple of things about uh the lonale operator. Between 1907 and 1911, most films consisted of no more than 24 separate shots. Right. Between 1908 and 1913, led by DW Griffith and his company, the Biograph Company, many more shots were introduced into in into a single reel of film. And in the Loneale Operator, there are 98 shots, six intertitles, one main title, and two written inserts, all within a 17-minute length. Now, think of the just the advent of the the access of complexity that has occurred just in less than 10 years, right? Uh um it's such a complicated film that one of the things we realize even looking at it, if we look closely, is that it actually required uh a kind of attentiveness that earlier films did not. As filmmakers began to make these things and began to make them longer and began to make them more complicated, they realized that they couldn't just bring the camera out and start shooting. They began to develop the the the formal rationalizing strategies that led to the making of movies as we understand them. There was a 4-day shooting schedule created for the Londonale operator. It was one of the first films to to to have uh this format. And of course it's the format that is followed today with virtually every film uh in in in different in different uh aspects. Um uh and this also required a pre-planned shooting script. They had to they had to plan what they would pre-plan all of their shooting all of their shots all of their camera angles. They needed a shooting script, a written script. Films didn't have written scripts at first, but Lonale did. Uh and it also required in order for them to make their schedule out of order shooting. That is to say, they had to shoot certain things not in the sequential order of the film. And that's one of the most basic principles of film making because once you set up the camera for a for a a shot of a particular environment, if that environment shows up later in the film, it's unbelievably more expensive and timeconuming to reconstitute that whole set. So they the B almost all films to this very day are still shot out of sequence in order to maximize the the uh uh the the the the the time you have in order in in order to work at your most efficient. In words, it's not an efficient way to make a movie to shoot it sequentially to follow the to follow the script in its chronological sequence. Uh, and the Loneale Operator is one of it's maybe the first film to to have all of these features that we would associate with with a mo with with a modern or a contemporary film. Uh, you might notice in the it's a it's an immensely complex film even in terms of its content and I might leave that I I won't talk about that much now except to say this. Watch the way in which the film tries to deal with what we might call uh hierarchies of gender. I mean, the film is partly about how a woman takes on a man's job. I mean, her I guess it's her father, isn't it? Her father is ill and she has to take over running the the train station and she runs in and and so there's a certain sense in which one of the things that's dramatized socially is is a woman sort of moving into a kind of masculine realm, taking on a role that's more aggressive than is appropriate for for the for the gender ideologies that are dominant. at the end of the 19th century in the United States. But the film is pretty clever about this like many such popular texts because although it does grant this woman a certain kind of masculine authority and competence, it also has other things in the film that balance that that remind us that she is still nonetheless uh a weak vessel that she is still a damsel in distress like the typical Victorian construction of women. uh in other words what you can see is that the movie exhibits an anxiety about gender roles that's also an anxiety that's resident in the society itself uh and I I won't talk more about this now it's something we will develop this aspect of the movies the movies as a reflection of social anxieties and social and social problems as the as the course goes on but I do want to call your attention to certain technical things that you can watch to at least one technical item in the film it contains what might be called rhyming scenes in which at one point in the film you'll see a sequence of scenes and a particular shot and then later in the film almost exactly the same shot will reappear and the effect of this of course is to create a sense of coherence and a sense of familiarity in the audience. It's actually a very subtle and careful strategy that Griffith himself devised. Uh it creates a kind of continuity and clarity to the whole film. Watch for example how the doorway to the lonale station is photographed when you first see it. how this image anchors the film's spatial relationships and how the film has a certain trajectory of movement that is repeated as the film goes on. So that for example early in the film we see the heroine go from the exterior to the interior of the ticket office and then to the inner office of the telegraph operator and we see her do this right and then this sets up a kind of basic location and basic action for the entire film. It's as if what happens in that moment sets up creates a familiarity with the for the audience with the sort of geography of the movie because a lot of the action then will depend on our understanding of that geography. And then there are at least four different times that Griffith repeats that basic three-shot trajectory from the um exterior to the interior of the ticket office and then from the inner to the inner office of the telegraph operator. It happens four times in the film. So it so the film has a kind of visual coherence. By the time you come to it the third or fourth time, it's as if you're intimate with the physical geography of the movie. This is actually a structural feature that it's easy to miss it, but it's it it's actually very artful and we can see it's a it's a mark of how far film has come even by 1911 that this level of attentiveness uh is is available to us in the film. There's m much more that could be said about the Loneale operator, but I will leave it to your intelligence and your attentiveness to try to pick out more thing. And again, we're only talking about a 17 minute a 17-minute film. Well, uh, Buster Keaton's career could be said in some degree to enact in small the larger processes I've been describing. He comes into film late and in fact if we were working perfectly chronologically in terms of when Chaplain became a director he would precede Keaton but I've organized the film according to the feature the dates of the feature films and the general is an ear a much a decade earlier than modern times which is the last quote silent film. It's not really a silent film but it's the last silent film in a deep sense that was ever made. It was made in the sound era in 1936. And when we next week we'll talk more about the implications of that and why that was a very daring thing for Chaplan to do something like almost a decade after the advent of sound he made a movie that essentially had no dialogue in it. So Katon came a little later comes into movie making uh after uh a little a few years after uh uh Chaplain but his but his career has a similar trajectory. He began his career in legitimate theater in vaudeville and in and in and in on the performance circuit uh and and uh- was an acrobat from a very young age from the the age of two or three was in his parents' stage act. He was actually uh uh uh a and in fact he learned a lot of his acrobatic feats on his parents' stage act. one very famous uh passage in his his father used to take him he was just a young kid three or four years old five years old would take him by his legs and swing him back and forth like this he had very long hair and he would sweep the floor with his hair and then swing him two or three times this would happen live he would swing him like this and let him go and the kid five years old would fly against the wall and fall down it would look terrible and Katon took later in his life Katon talked about this there were actually some cities in which the the uh uh societies for the for for the prevention of cruelty to children came in and shut down the shut down the act. Wouldn't allow the act to go on. Not stupid because his father was a drunkard and sometimes performed drunk. And Katon was sometimes injured. He was also injured when he made his own movies for because he was such a daring acrobat. Uh and uh Katon recounts that when he first began to perform in this, he would make faces, you know, faces that indicated pain or happiness or relief when his father was manipulating him this way. But he found that the audience responded much more comically, much more immediately if he just kept his face expressionless. And that's where there developed the probably mistaken uh uh label for Keaton of the great stone face. And in his films very often, you'll see this young man facing monumental catastrophe. His face will look out at things without everchanging expression. And there is something kind of kind of comical about that. You'll see some examples of this in the in the general. Well, you'll you'll see in the two short films that Keaton began to make that he enters film at already a relatively sophisticated time and and the shorts I'm asking you to look at are very interesting uh uh remarkable films in in their own way. And one of the things they teach us and one of the reasons I want you to look closely at at at uh Keaton is they te is they show us yet again another aspect of what I mean when I talk about the Fred principle. this development of evolution and and and and and increasing and increasing complexity because if you look at cops or if you look at one week what you will see Katon doing in those films is learning how to link jokes together in some sort of a coherent way but the films and and there are wonderful coherent sequences in these films but still one doesn't feel that there's a real character in them that there's a sustained coherent uh fictional universe being dramat Maybe in Cops one does feel this. There's much more sort of textural coherence in Cops. But what we can see Katon doing is beginning to move from the idea of a single joke to a sequence of jokes. And then by the time we get to the general moving from a sequence of from a single joke to a sequence of jokes to a sustained narrative which incorporates within it various kinds of comical jokes and also sequence jokes because Katon's best jokes are not single jokes at all not oneliners but the the joke will be told again and again or what or really what will happen is he will do something and you'll think how could and then he'll the next step will top what he's done before and the next step will top you think that he got to a point where it would be impossible possible to add another comic complication to what he's done when he of course does it. Uh and this becomes one of the deep principles of chap of of Katon's comedy. There are numerous examples of it in both the two shorts and in this in the longer film that I that uh the the general but let me mention an example from the general. Very early in the general there's a sequence it's probably the quintessential Katon sequence and I won't go into such detail as to spoil the film for you. Uh but let me just say it involves a cannon and it involves Katon uh uh who's chasing after Katon plays a uh the engineer of a of of a locomotive, a locomotive engineer. The general of the title is not a a mar a military general. It's a locomotive. The locomotive is called the general. And the and the film recounts a historically true story of a of a time when the Union Army um came in uh that with uh the Confederate army uh the Union Army came into Confederate territory and stole a locomotive belonging to the Confederacy. And this and and he was a and Keaton in a comic vein retells retells this story. When you watch this cannon sequence, you'll see exactly what I mean. You'll and this sequence is at the heart of James AG's essay on the silent film comedy. And when you read that essay, you'll see even more clearly what I mean by a trajectory joke or a sequence joke which builds and builds and builds and keeps topping itself. Well, this cannon sequence is a perfect example of that. And it's a perfect example of it not only because we see the joke getting more complicated as it goes on, but as the joke becomes more complicated, something else happens. The joke becomes more than a joke. It becomes a kind of comment on experience. It becomes a kind of comment on on on on on what life is like. That is to say, we move from something that simply makes us smile to something that makes us think about the world, that comments on the world, that imagines the world in a coherent way. I'll try to be more explicit about this in a in a in in a moment. So in Katon's career, we see him doing astonishing things as an acrobat and we would admire him just for his acrobatic performances in these films. Watch in this film in the in the general, for example, the way in which when he's piloting his locomotive, chasing the people who have stolen his original locomotive, how he's the only one on the train and he crawls all over the train. He almost every while the train is running, he'll crawl up to the front of it. He'll run to the back of it to put more fuel in. you what you can what you can see is and and also you can see this stuff happening in really happening. It's not faked in any way because there's a there is a a camera following the train as it's moving. You can see it's really moving because you can you can see it you can see it moving on the track and you can see the world behind it and you can you can tell that Katon is not faking these effects. Well, this cannon sequence is a is a is a sublimely rich example of this complex process I've been describing and it it has to do in part with what I call the multiplicity principle which I will define in a moment. So we see Katon as an actor as an acrobat as an acrobat actor as an incredibly in as a man much more than cha chaplain interested in the technology of motion pictures and of cinema. And you'll see a couple of examples in the films you're going to look at tonight in which we see Katon exploring uh in a somewhat systematic way the nature of the illusion of the motion pictures. There's one remarkable moment, comical moment in one week in which uh the heroine gets into a bathtub and it looks like you and she's sitting in the bathtub. She's starting to get up and it looks like you're actually about to see some unmentionable parts of her body and just as that's about to happen a hand comes in front of the camera and blocks you. And it's actually a very disturbing moment in a way because it interrupts the narrative flow. It's it's a it's an intervention from the outside whose hand it is. It's not a character in the film. It's the director or something, right? It's very bold moment because what it does is it reminds you of the film as an artifact. It reminds you that the film is uh an artiflexiveness or self-consciousness that you would never see in a Chaplain film, but shows Katon's astonishing interest in the technology of motion pictures. Uh, I had many examples that Greg and I had ready, but I don't have time to show them to you. Maybe you can put up while I'm talking. The the Playhouse. One of his most famous examples of this is a film called The Playhouse in which he ends up playing every role in the movie. And the way he did this was incred was incredibly interesting. He would shoot the film. Uh, and then he he would shoot the film, but he would but he put a he put masking tape over the lens of the camera and only one little tiny part of the of the lens of the camera was was would expose the film and he would he would shoot that. Then he would rewind the film and then if he were over in this corner for that shot, then he'd move over and sit in the other corner. He'd put a new kind of tape on the camera, film it again. And the film you're going to see will show this. And you can see they're all buster, right? It's a it's an it's a it's again what it shows is he's a technician. He's interested in the technology of motion p of of of the of the uh motion picture camera and what kinds of manipulations are possible because he's the conductor, right? He's you'll as it turns out he's going to also end up being the o the the only person in the audience. Well, um, and then finally, what what what I've already implied is that Keaton's jokes and his technical interests also end up making him a metaphysician, a philosopher, an artist. Now, Katon himself could never articulate his own ambitions in this way. If you said, "Mr. Keaton, your vision of the absurd universe is more complex and rich than Jean Paul Sarts," as in fact it is, incidentally, he would laugh. He wouldn't even understand what you were talking about. Not only because he'd never read Sart since he died before he well sorry he was alive when Sart was alive actually but but he undoubtedly he did not read but the universe that he projects uh has has a kind of content or a meaning that's a function of how intelligent he is about exploiting his medium and telling his stories as if his jokes express a vision of life a sense of experience. Now this so you um and of course this is what you're looking at is sort of minor keaton here but it but it shows his it shows his technical his technical interests well so what I mean so let me explain what I mean basically by the multiplicity principle this process of accretion and complexity I've described at a certain point you get to a point where what what began as a gag or as a mere entertainment takes on a density or a texture that makes you think wait a second the vision of experience that's projected in This text is intrinsically interesting. That is to say, there's an understanding of life that's embedded in the story. When you reach the point where the text itself embodies some sort of understanding of life and it's coherent, an understanding of life that's coherently presented, powerfully presented, what you're what you're looking at is what I call art. There's you might just call it more intelligent entertainment, but this is a way of distinguishing between entertainment and art. In other words, there's a certain point at which entertainment becomes so complicated that it's more than mere entertainment. When does that occur? Well, one way to tell when it occurs is to watch for what I call the multiplicity principle. When events in the film play more than one function, do more than one job. When they forward the story but also declare for character. when they express when they make you laugh but also express a vision of life and at the same time ex uh are consistent with the character psychological nature that multiplicity that density that texture is what we associate with works of art right uh a bad example would be you're all familiar I hope with the kind of bad soap opera line in which a character comes in and says something like this oh hello John my longlost brother who just got out of the insane asylum after 15 years of unfair misery All right. What's wrong with that line? Why is that a stupid line? Although we hear them all the time. What What's wrong with it? Excessive and awkward exposition. It's it's very awkward exposition. But why is it so awkward? What makes it so awkward? It's it's its intention is clear. It wants to present information to the audience. But in order to do that, what what is it violated? Um it's ceases to be something that follows the nature of the character. It ceases to be something that is that honors the character's nature. Exactly right. That's a very good answer. What's your name? Michael. Michael. Thank Michael. That's very good. And what what happened? Okay. I want to give information to the audience. In order to do that, I'll compromise the character's basic nature because no brother, no sister talking to a brother would recount the brother's history to the brother, right? That just wouldn't happen. Right? So, in order to accomplish one task, the text has compromised itself on another task. But imagine a story in which this information emerges in in dramatic ways. two characters are talking and Mary says to Joan, "Oh, Joan, my brother's coming back from the asylum." And she says, "Really? I didn't even know he was in the asylum." And Mary pulls back and says, "I don't know if I should tell you." Right. Okay. So, we have a we have a dramatic scene in which what in which the information that the audience is supposed to have is presented in a way that maybe tells us something about Mary's nature and maybe tells us something about Joan's nature. That is multiplicity, right? More that's what I mean by the multiplicity principle. You will see many many instances of what of what I'm calling the multiplicity principle in Katon's work and you will especially see it in these astonishing repeated um uh uh sequences in which we see in which we see the and I'm talking now in a way about the general in which we see the Katon hero who sort of uh is steadfast but also a muddler. He keeps he keeps doing the same things. they're not really likely to help him and then he gets help from the outside and was what what Keaton's jokes repeatedly depend upon the idea of of uh accident in a certain way and I I'll come back to that in finally in a second. So so think about the multiplicity principle the difference between entertainment and art again this is a principle I'll come back to and try to illustrate with greater uh uh concreteness and greater leisure in later lectures but I want you to be aware of these of these issues. So the general can be understood as a kind of culminating text in at least two ways. It's a culmination of Katon's career. That is to say, the jokes and gags that are enacted in in uh in the film recall many earlier Katon films. And the basic character of the general is the basic character of the Katon hero. a steadfast, unremarkable young man who perseveres in the face of catastrophic difficulties with mostly comic expectations, very small expectations of success, who often muddles through almost despite himself right now. But it isn't merely, but I say almost despite himself and this is where the complexity of Katon's vision of life comes in. Why I'm saying that Katon moves from being merely a jokester or being merely a great entertainer to being an artist. His jokes embody an idea of what experience is like and it's a very powerful mortant mature idea of experience because what happens again and again in the small jokes the sequence jokes in Katon's work especially in the general and in the larger film what happens again and again is a is a an adventure in which a steadfast relentless young hero does everything he can to to uh accomplish his goal and it's obvious that he's up against forces far beyond himself that he could never that there's a unbelievable mis mismatch between this minuscule tiny figure and the and his powers and the forces he's he's fighting against. There's one Katon film called the navigator in which the Keaton character even more than with the locomotive in the general has to navigate an ocean liner and he's alone on the ocean liner and you see him running up and down into the engine room back up to this up to the bridge not running all over the ocean liner in a in a in in great difficulties. There's a wonderful film, late film made in 1928, just the his last silent film called Steamboat Bill Jr. in which he dramatizes an astonishing song, an astonishing an astonishing um uh hurricane uh and a long extended sequence in which we see him trying to escape the hurricane uh trying to contend against this natural force that's so gigantic. So the the so so the the general is a culmination in the sense that it gives us another version and the the richest the richest version so far of the of the adventures of this kind of Katon hero. But what makes it a what what makes it sort of metaphysical or philosophically interesting is that what what this joke repeatedly does and what the structure of the whole film repeatedly says is something like this. We get through we make it through life not mo mostly it's a it's a great comic Morton comic. We get through life mostly not because of anything we've done but because of accident. We live in a contingent universe. Right? The idea of contingency is at the heart of what of of of Katon's jokes. We could we could call them jokes about contingency. The word contingent is interesting. Remember it means both li it means liable but not certain but not certain to occur. It means possible. Right? So, so uh for it's it means dependent upon subject to conditioned by right in law you could say something uh you can say that something that is contingent is dependent for its effect on something that may or may not occur as in a contingent estate or legacy right in logic the same thing dependent upon some condition or upon the truth of something else not true a priori not necessary so what keaton's jokes constantly do is they show us two things. They show us a world in which human agency matters. Because if this schmenrich didn't keep, that's a Jewish word for schlamazle. It's a clown. If this schmenrich did not if this schmenrich did not um keep on so steadfastly, he wouldn't survive. But his keeping on so steadfastly still wouldn't make him survive if there weren't the intervention of mere accidents, stuff he has no control over. There's one magnificent moment in the in in one week for example where he's standing in a certain place and the house and the house behind him falls down and he happens just by accident to be standing so that by the open window the house falls so he doesn't get hurt. He used this joke more than once in other films because such a great one. But it's a perfect example of what I mean. A partial example of what I mean because he's not responsible for the fact that he escaped. On the other hand, because he was trying to get away from difficulties, maybe he was in that particular position because of acts of his own. So, so what it says what what so what this joking vision says about the world is something that's true. We all love the idea that we've gotten to where we are by our own acts, by our own conscious control. The truth of the matter is that life that life is much more contingent than that. It's partly accident. It's partly luck. And something deeper than that. Keaton's vision of the universe is one which suggests that while the universe may screw you up sometimes, it won't always do that. That is to say, it's not the universe in Katon's world is not angry at us. It's indifferent to us. It doesn't give a damn about us. It's not aware of us. It's too big for us. Right? You can't come away from Katon's films without a simultaneous sense of the importance of human action of human agency but also of the inadequacy of human agency of how contingent every experience every adventure every personality is and that and that meaning that idea of the world is a profound one I think it tells so that so that even though Keaton is telling a joke embedded in the joke is a kind of interpretation of life and embedded in the film is a kind interpretation of life. Uh when you're looking at the general, I think you will see multiple examples of this kind of thing. Let me say one last thing. I haven't mentioned anything about the structure of the film. I'm a little out of order there. Watch how the film is structured. It it's a ve it's a much more complex variation on what I said about Lonale Operator. The film begins with him going up the track and then the second half of the film has him going back down the track. You may not be aware of it, but actually the film in a certain sense has its tail in its mouth. When it goes up the track, he has a series of adventures. When he comes back down, he has a series of adventures that in a certain sense replicate what's happened before. The film mirrors itself in a way repeats itself. Watch. It's an incredibly elegant structure. It's incred and and the elegance of the structure reminds us also uh of the in its own way also reminds us of this principle of contingency that's at the heart of Keaton's vision of the world. Let me conclude by reminding you again of what I said earlier. When I call Katon a philosopher and a metaphysician and a wise person about the world, I do not at all mean to suggest that if you ask Keaton to explain how he thought about the world, he could do this. That's that's the job of professors and literary and film critics. Right? What I'm saying to you is that Keaton like many great artists had an intuitive understanding of the world which he expressed with greater and greater complexity in the medium of the cinema. And in the general we have what is ultimately a culminating instance of that. One last point about the film as a culminating example. It's not just a culmination of Katon's career. It's a culmination of silent film in it in it in as a whole. Katon would have expected his audience to recognize the degree to which this film was a parody or a mockery of famous historical films made by DW Griffith. It puts down the pretentiousness and the Marshall valor that's celebrated in so many of the historical spectacles that Griffith and other serious directors were making at the time. Uh and it and it also goes back in a certain way to the very roots of film. What was the very first narrative film or one of the very first the uh also a film about a train robbery, right? Called the great train robbery. Well, this is about a train robbery too. And who is the central character in this film? Really? A train is the central object, the central more interesting in some ways than the character himself. this and there are many other ways in which the particular features of the general allude to and in some sense summarize the history of silent film and all of the original audience coming to see the general would have been of course alert to these connections would have been literate in these connections wouldn't have needed footnotes or professors to tell them about it because they would have lived through the history they would have lived through the history of the previous 20 years they would have seen other Keaton films they would have seen DW Griffith they would have the history of the of the uh medium of movies in their heads when they sat down to watch The General. So that's another way in which The General is a profoundly culminating text.