Good. All right. Um, so we're heading in to our our last of the as yet intractable dilemmas. We talked about the curse of familiar atte uh assessment and today the toxic power of data and experiment. Um let's do this as an exercise. Grab one other person. Your goal is to make a list as long as possible. Um what is all the data that MIT has about you? If you if you could if you could go through every server that is somehow even tangentially under the control of MIT, what are all the different types and sources and nature and example of data that MIT has about you? Does that make sense? Make the list as long as you can, as fast as you can. Ready? Go. All right. Let's let's let's start let's start aggregating some big categories of things. financial information. Okay, so they have a lot of financial information. Maybe just like what are a few examples of some of the most maybe sensitive or personal parts of that. They know your parents income. They know your know your income. Your income. They know your bank bank account. They they know your bank account number or like you give them literally but they they don't like have a screenshot of your like for example. All right. So they know a lot of financial things about you. What what are some other categories? Health. What are some sensitive things in there? History. Vaccinations. Vaccinations. Prescriptions. Allergies. Allergies. Mental health visits. Insurance. You can also tell people are LGBT sexual orientation activity. Okay. What else you got? Yeah. Register. Let's call it registar information. Name address phone. Oh, they might have their travel data. Yeah, if you have travels, you have to register. Like MIT knows. Yeah, especially if you've been international. If you do it through the screen, or if you're going to like a country that they have warnings for, you have to be like, I was there. Wow. What else we got? Academic records. Good. That's part academic records. What What would that include these days? They know your grades. What else? Registration. Like what classes you show up for? Test scores. Every click ever in Canvas. Attendance. Yeah. Um, academic records is a good example of one for which the the granularity of data over the last 10 years has transformed dramatically. Like if you if you if we had had this discussion in 1980, they would have been like, I guess they know what my grades were and what classes I signed up for. Um, but the volume of data about every activity that you've ever taken online in any of your classes is substantially higher um than it used to be. Those records might not be maintained forever. Maybe all those sites get deleted every 18 months or so. Something like that. Um but some of them might be kept for longer for research or other things like that. All right. Other categories. Residential. Yeah. Home and current. Um let's make it even bigger. Let's say location. Um so they know your residence. Um home and campus. um track your devices on Wi-Fi. Card swipes in buildings. Um we have some um so you know essentially as you move around campus it is some somewhere someone somewhere somewhere there are databases that record all those activities how long you know how long they maintain those materials we don't necessarily know but I mean I'm sure they tell us if we asked but what else they got from that location they can also tell like who you hang your outfit yeah I just learned about this today what's the system of where you add people okay so I guess if you live in a residence you create a guest list of people that are allowed to visit you. Like that's like you can just reconstitute the entire social network of MIT from the get list, you know. Um yeah, there's there's all kinds of things you can learn from that. It's like extracurricular activities so they know what sports teams and like athletics like stats on that. And then if you signed up for like club teams, it would be all those kinds of things. as well. Yeah, your gym gym membership swipes activity political affiliations. How would they how would how would they get your political affiliation? Like if you're involved with the recent stuff that's been going on in campus. Yeah. Or you know and or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. So, um there are presum you know increasingly presumably lists of people who are um affiliated with pro Palestinian, pro-Israeli, any of those other kinds of things. But also people would have just been able to tell before if you remember I don't I assume there there's a Democrat and Republican club at MIT I would imagine um someone somewhere emails. Yes, they have the entirety of your email record even like broader just like online activity because like emails, websites, anything you've registered for. Yeah, they also offer like a VPN. So like it's secure to everyone but like you also have your like Google Drive if you sign up for the NYC. Yeah. Um I had a congressional committee that wanted to find out more about my work um not necessarily in a generous way. um this past year um and uh and the the office of general counsel did like a whole search throughout my email um to find terms that this congressional committee was interested in learning more about um and uh and they you were going back and forth and I was sort of like you know what do you need from me and they were like well it's better if you if you help us with this but like either way we're going to do it. Um so uh um yeah all you know all the all the records that you generate and and that that that's a good example of how even like you know how I'm reasonably confident that in most circumstances like MIT is not going through my email every day and like what's Justin up to you know like they don't care. Um but simply having those records um allows all kinds of things to happen with those records. Um, uh, do you do you guys have automated laundry machines? Washing frequency. It's like an app. Yeah. Yeah. It's even an app like it's an app like you pay for your machine and you have to sign up for your email. Yeah. You have to do um Yeah. Yeah. And so that I mean that I think also raises some questions of like um it's possible actually that MIT doesn't have your laundry data, but that MIT just somehow mandates that a third party has all of your laundry data. Um which again like how keys to your room if you live on campus. Yeah. Um like physically. Yeah. Keys. Um what what's good about them having keys? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I mean, and an and you know, like like if there's a day that you're locked out of your room, you're going to be like, "It is so great that MIT knows exactly what key goes in my door and can make another one of those." Um, yeah, we had like room inspections a few weeks ago where they went into every room to check if they were abiding by the rules. Yeah. Good. What um what what might be good about room inspections for everyone? I think Yeah. safety like like you know like if if your if your neighbors are like having hallogen lamps that can catch on fire and stuff like that like you would be glad that um they knew about that but obviously also seems like a huge invasion of of your privacy. Yeah, I would I would say like what also like kind of like made the room inspections like um good like better than like is also like you're trusting MIT to be responsible for this. So like they told they told everyone ahead of time and they made sure you know that is it like a visual inspection all so they're not going through your stuff but like obviously that's not a thing for a lot of colleges a lot of colleges could just like come barge into your room and look at anything. Yeah. So you know institutions make choices about how you know so I mean hopefully I don't know what what is what kind of feelings do you have when you start looking at this completed list? Hm. Um the one that like I've been thinking about lately given uh like the permanent action stuff is just general demographics. Once you're on campus and also um something that was not mentioned in financial is like purchase history. So like if you buy anything on campus they know you got sushi to make. Yeah. like Tito and like all like the the coffee stores like in like the ones in like Forbes stuff like that. Yeah. I mean particularly if those things somehow go like can you put money on your ID card and spend directly to your ID card. So, you know, there's I mean, like two two units that we should be thinking about um anytime we think about school data is that schools have a bunch of data and then schools authorize third parties to get a bunch of data and sometimes only the third party has access. Sometimes both parties have access like both Canvas and MIT people have access to all of your Canvas data. you know, the laundry app might be a good example of if nobody I mean, if somebody told me that the maintenance department had access to all the laundry data or it I wouldn't be surprised, but if they were like, "Yeah, no, we make you sign up with an email, but you know, only the laundry people know your laundry data," that wouldn't surprise me either. Um, but those are sort of two useful salient categories that will come up as we keep talking about things. Your deliveries, too. Oh, yeah. Deliveries. Um, oh, because things go through the mail room. Yeah. So, um they have uh they like store all of your information and your deliveries into like a tracker system and then they send you emails when your delivery is coming if you didn't pick it up. Good. Yeah. And so there's, you know, typic typically the data is exchanged for some kind of service. You're like want to know when your new headphones are coming or something like that. And so you're glad that they have that, but in order for them to be able to know when your new headphones are coming and to do other kinds of things with it, you know. I mean, the other thing it's like you say like, you know, over the past 10 years, was it a good idea for MIT to track the changing volume of deliveries to individual students? Like yes. Like I'm sure MIT has had to build all kinds of infrastructure to make it possible for you all to get your stuff in a sensible way and it's probably a good idea that MIT has data about aggregate you know partic particularly in the aggregate it's probably a good idea to know like oh you know in in 2014 um the typical student got you know 2.3 packages a year and now they get 30.6 packages per year and you know like just requires a whole different infrastructure to support those two kinds of ways of people doing commerce. Um, any what other feelings do you have as you look at like the whole at the whole list of data that MIT might have about you? Feel like ultimately I'm not really that surprised. I feel like we kind of grew up in a generation where like digital data has been collected for our entire lives. Like it was not something that was introduced but always there. And so like I feel like I've kind of grown up in this world knowing that all of this type of information can and is being collected on me. And so like I'm still gonna like live the same way, but I just like it just is what it is in like a kind of sad way. Yeah. Yeah. There's sort of sag, you know, it's not um you're clearly not comfortable with it because if you listen to to pe if like if you stop talking for a second while people were making the listen listen, there's like all kinds of awkward laughter that happens throughout the whole time. There's something about this which is like, oh, this doesn't feel good. Like like any individual category can make you not feel that great. like like do you really want MIT's IT department to be able to track where everyone can go? Like that seems like it could go ary. Um and then just like the whole you know the whole volume in a in aggregate you realize like how you know how much school you could make a very similar list for K12 schools as well. You can probably guess the places in which things are not exactly the same but um uh you know um and and the data collection that people can do can be really influenced by policy. you know, the states have different rules about how attendance is connected to funding. Um, who's there on a particular day, who's there for what periods of time? Um, you know, you could imagine that you want to make sure that if a kid moves schools three times in a school year, that not all three of those schools get like a full students tuition worth of uh or you know, a student per pupil expenditure. Um so but there are states that you know part of the reason why they issue ID cards to students and track their entrance and things like that is to pay really close attention to that attendance data um just for that particular policy purpose. Um yeah I mean adding on to like it being not surprising I would say like a lot of the information that like like they took while we were here like our like current residence or laundry and stuff like that. It's I feel like it's kind of like much more unsurprising just because like it is something that is like novel when you come to like a college or like an institution like this where it's like oh wow like they really do have this information. Um but I think what's kind of um a little crazy is how much of this information they have before you even get here. So yeah, for applicants, for for people who are admitted, if you're admitted into the school and things like that, yeah, there's a lot that you need to tell MIT for them to be able to to come here and get here. There's a there's a lot that you need to be able to um you know, uh the if you to get in again these days, you have to take the SAT, which means you give, you know, you are required to give a bunch of information to the College Board. Um and you also like are in the process of doing that, you're probably asked to opt in to a bunch of things. I had I had a master's student I can't remember all the details now but uh um did their thesis on essentially the kinds of things that the college board did with information that they got um which to some extent you could say something like like if you opt into flowers.com or something like that you're like man I really want good information about what flowers are available and then flowers.com sells your data you're like well that's like maybe that's a terrible system to exist in um but flowers.com did ask me if I wanted to give them my data and I did agree to let them do anything with it. So like I you know and that was just my voluntary relationship but you didn't really have a voluntary relationship with the college board. Um you know you had no choice but to interact with a college board to make it through this major life milestone. And so to you know to the extent that the college board does things with your information that's a different relationship um that you have with them than you have with flowers.com or pets.com or your own favorite thing. Um, okay. So, we just we live in a world in which schools have enormous amounts of individ um about their individual students. Um, that there's probably pretty big generational shifts in that experience. You know, one of the main laws that governs um these records is the federal furpa, the federal education records protection act, which I think was off authored in the 1970s. um you know the kind like we basically we have a legal framework for supervising this data um which was just built in an entirely different era um you know um furo refers to this thing called student records um at the time it would have been entire it would have been very very clear what a student record was you would have like gone to the registars's office and there would have been like big file drawers and you would have pulled out a file and been like that is the student record um are your clicker questions part of your student record are your um codio assignments, are your Canvas entries, are your, you know, Piaza form things like are those part of your student records? Like there, you know, there's there's much less clarity over those things um than one might think. Um the uh um the term the term toxic has a kind of negative connotation, but I borrowed it from a security researcher named Bruce Shire. Um, and part of his argument was that like toxic things are powerful. Um, you know, there there are, you know, chemotherapies are toxic. Um, and they save your life. They're great. Like like sometimes it's really good to interact with powerful toxic things. Um, but toxic things are also dangerous. Um, in you know, in particular, I think most of us have an inclination um that when something is toxic, you should not leave it lying around for a long period of time. That was kind of the heart of Bruce's argument was was that companies were making a big mistake by having um by having a a a very capacious approach to the collection and storage of data. Um that actually what you should be doing is like just taking the data you need and getting rid of the rest of it because it's a toxic asset to have lying around. The more you have it lying around, the more you're vulnerable to breaches, to other kinds of actors doing various nefarious things um with that data. Um, if you're an educational researcher, what what what kinds of thoughts might you have when you see this like giant list of the data that schools collect about people? Maybe like honestly like the first thing that kind of came to my mind was like excitement in the sense of like if you're forming any type of research and trying to study how any about a person can like affect whatever you're studying like if you have all of this data then like there's really no limit to what you're able to um kind of research. Um this was an article from today two days ago. I'm going to give you a couple of cutting edge things. Middle schools in Norway banned smartphones. The benefits were dramatic. A study shows um a study published earlier this year um from a Norwegian doctoral student. Um where there were hundreds of schools across Norway that it um that in various ways banned smartphones. Um some of the outcomes they look at are student outcomes like learning but also mental health. Um, I show that banning smartphones significantly decreases the health care takeup for psychological symptoms and diseases among girls. Postban bullying among both genders decreases. Girls GPA improves and their likelihood of attending an academic high school track increases. These effects are larger from girls from so from low socioeconomic backgrounds. Um, so in Norway they have vast informations about students. Here are some things that you need to know to make this study work. You need to know all the students grades. You need to know where all the students go to college. You need to know whenever the students visit the uh Norwegian health care system and what kinds of requests they're making from the Norwegian health care system. Uh and you need to have them every year take a well-being survey that includes a bunch of questions about bullying. Like that's a lot of information for the state to collect about all these students. But it certainly seems to me like a pretty pro-social thing to be able to say, "Hey, you know, if we, you know, if we look at the schools that ban um smartphones in middle school versus the ones that don't, um there seem to be all of these health outcomes." And we can even actually say that the you know, the health, it's not just academic outcomes, it's also health outcomes, although the health outcomes are probably related in some way to the academic outcomes, but it's particularly for girls and it's particularly for um students in low socioeconomic environments. like that seems like pretty useful stuff to know. Um and so that is the kind of tradeoff that people would face as they're going back and forth between um you know these like the the massive data that we collect about students is also what lets us do pretty sophisticated complicated research about those students to be able to make claims about how well they're doing in various parts of their lives. Um toxic power of data experiment. All right, I'll tell you about at least a couple of other things. Um, there was a study that you read about um in the chapter last night. Um, this is a headline that came out. It was in 2018. There's a headline that came out about it. Pearson tested social psychological messages in learning software with mixed results. I don't did we talk about mindset in this class? Maybe we did briefly. Growth mindset and fixed mindset. something you're probably all familiar with it because teachers talk about all the time. Um but there were or education researchers other folks um there are some social psychologists who have identified um uh two kinds of mindsets that people often have towards learning or other kinds of things. One is a fixed mindset which generally says like some people are smart and some people are not smart. Um and a growth mindset suggests that um people have fluid intelligence and you can make yourself more intelligent in other kinds of things. seems to be a pretty good idea um to help young people adopt the latter mindset rather than the former mindset. Um better to have them think uh have a growth mindset rather than a fixed mindset. Exactly how much it matters um is a subject of enormous debate. There were a number of early studies that suggested it could matter quite enormously to all kinds of people. And some of the more recent larger studies suggest that like the best things that we can do that we know how to do to improve growth mindset only help some students and maybe only help them a little bit like a lot of things that we study. Um, so Pearson um offers all kinds of software products and um uh I think this was a a line of computer science software products and so you're like you do a bunch of programming exercises of multiple choice questions or things like that and the thing that they decided to add was not just right or wrong messages but um randomized you some people getting growth mindset messages and some people not getting growth mindset messages. So, I won't get this exactly right, but example of a growth mindset message, you know, might be something like um you know, uh that's not right, but keep trying and you can learn more or you know, other other things to suggest that if you keep working at this, you'll get better. Um what seems good about implementing um that kind of intervention in a system like this and what seems problematic about uh implementing an intervention in a system like this? Well, problematic is that the control group is essentially like not necessarily being hurt but not benefiting at all. And like like if you're saying that a growth mindset really does help people, choosing to essentially not help them by putting them in the control group. Yeah, that's interest. So I mean Pearson So Pearson goes and reads a bunch of research about growth mindset and they're like, "Hey, this growth mind stuff seems to work sometimes. Um, but they don't decide to just add it to their product. They add it to their product in this kind of experimental paradigm where some people get it and some people don't. Um, and so people in the same class are going to have a different experience. Um so Dana proposes that one problem with that is that um the people who get the uh experimental intervention might benefit in the way that people in the control group don't. What are some other problems that kind of potentially could show up with this? I guess you have to take into account like who's in the control group and who's in the experimental group. How good of a job do they do at filtering out their students to make sure it's roughly equal in terms of like socioeconomic background, your prior experience with the subject, etc. That's good. So, I would and I would say under most circumstances, especially in these kinds of digital systems, we can be really good at randomization. um you know you I mean you could imagine that if you're like randomizing across whole schools or something like that there might be people who are like well I don't want my school to do it or you put me in a control group but I just want to get the intervention anyway or something like that. um these kind of digital systems can be like very strict about the implementation of randomization. Um and you could be pretty sure that there's not that there's not going to be any kind of bias and deliver. I mean there you can imagine ways for bias to show up but for the most part it's going to be some you know there's going to be some computer code which is like you know if exercise four like assign someone a zero or one control is zero experiment is one and especially if you have hundreds or thousands of people who are participating in the experiment you can be pretty sure that those two groups are are the same. Um not only that but you can also verify that they're the same if you collect all this information about them going into it. Um so these things are going to be pretty good at that. Um well I don't know if there was any consent given but like from what I can gather is that this was just done without the students knowledge. Yes. And so it's like I wouldn't necessarily like it if I like came out of MIT graduating and then someone's like okay here's a paper of like what we analyzed during their four years here. I'm like I don't necessarily want to know that people have been like watching my like every move and analyzing like certain things about me psychologically. Uh-huh. Why not? It feels a little creepy. Feels like you're being watched, right? Feels a little creepy. Without any consent, I can see why this is like good. Other other observations that people have? Also, calling it like a social psychological message kind of makes it feel like the experimental groups being like propagandized or something like that. And so it's like, oh, they're being experimented with these like these different gen psychological messages. Yeah. It's like it seems like that specific verbiage can like be kind of uncomfortable for people to accept as something that is potentially beneficial. Good. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean the reason why people are doing the social psychological messaging is because maybe it works actually you know and it's not and in this particular case it's not just like hey we got kind of a hunch this works these like well actually there you know at this point there was maybe like a decade of research that was was totally plausibly suggesting that this could genuinely help students learn and improve their their life outcomes and other kinds of things like that. Um and the and the way you do that is through an inter you know through a social psychological intervention. Although it's you know not clear to me what in schools is not social psychological. I was going to say another thing that as much as like we need the two populations to be like just as representative are the experimental groups even representative of the general population like you have to imagine that people aren't being forced to participate in these things or maybe if they are like the schools that they chose are they actually representative of the entire population. So because like there obviously are studies where they get like outstanding results but then the population used is not representative of the general population. So then once they apply those doesn't actually work. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Um you know and to some extent you might think that organizations like Pearson would have an advantage over much smaller companies um because if you have products that are adopted very very widely across the country in lots of different contexts. I mean, you might for practical purposes say like, let's just pick these handful of schools um to be able to test things in, but you could say like we're going to pick these handful of of schools because like these are particularly representative schools. Um or, you know, there might be systems that are that are adopted and laid out in such a way that you say like, well, let's, you know, let's just pick 1% of all students in any of the schools who are using our system to get, you know, um participate in this randomized study or something like that. I feel like we talked a lot about like all of the things that go into using like a software program because obviously that then entails that you have something to run the software program on. So anything online already comes with its own set of like biases and um like things that affect the types of people that are using it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's fair. Also, another thing that I just realized in what uh Dana said was the population that that they're testing this on is in college. So, they've already probably developed a mindset. Um and also they are in college. Like they probably have already a good enough mindset that got them to college. Yep. Yep. although that you know I mean and um well one thing that I really love about the study which I think um so so I I wrote some after this article came out um I wrote a bunch of things which which basically said I think this is a pretty unfair article. Um here I'll give you the case for why I I I think what Pearson did here is admirable and needs to be done more although you don't have to agree with me. Um so number one um generally speaking there's a body of research that suggests these things are a good idea. We don't know however are they a good idea in this particular product for this particular population. So I think it makes more sense um to run an experiment in this particular product for this particular population to test the thing rather than just roll it out. I mean this is an important sort of counterfactual. If Pearson had simply added these messages to everyone in the product, there never would have been an article about it. Um, nobody would have ever written, you know, like like like you know, encouraging messages show up in software product is like not an article that even the education press um is going to populate. Um, number two, you know, like another counterfactual, there is no nonsocial psychological response um to like every mark your teacher has ever put on your paper to indicate whether you're right or wrong is a social psychological message. Um, if you go on edex and get something right, you're going to get a green check. If you're going to get something wrong, you're going to get a red X. Like that is a set of messaging. If you've ever had a, you know, none of us would say that teachers who say try harder or that was great. I'm really proud of you. Like no one would be like, you know, Miss Jenkins, stop manipulating my children. Like no, that's like exactly what we want them to do. Um uh some people are concerned um about consent. Um people who go to school do not consent to their learning experiences. Um, one of the things that we do as a state is say like you must learn stuff and in fact you must learn stuff that the state just requires you to learn. Um, you don't get you know um these people didn't get to decide which Pearson product or which computer science project they they chose. Um why should they get to decide whether or not they get an experimental version or a control version? And in fact um uh the US government for the most part agrees with this principle. So um there's a rule called the common rule um which dictates how research can be conducted. Um uh there's a bunch of policy guidance that's associated with that and there's some categories of research that are exempt. The first category of research that's exempt is research about typical educational practices. Um if you're studying the kinds of ways people teach and learn in the classroom, you are not held to the same standard if you're doing pharmaceutical research or something like that. Um there are some there are some exception like if you're doing things that you that like you could reasonably believe in advance um might harm people um then you're not exempted in the same way although you can still conceivably uh do the research. Um you know another thing that's important about the study is that um like people people talk about the potential benefits of an experiment um but experiments can also harm people. Like it it could be that even if on average this growth messaging was great and worked in lots of studies, it could be that like in this particular context or other kinds of things um uh it made things worse and we should probably make sure that when we introduce things in the classroom make things worse. Um, how many people would have been concerned? Let's say that in 2017 they had everyone use one Pearson product maybe that doesn't have any growth messaging and in 2018 everyone use a Pearson product that had the messaging associated with it. Um, do you think that would have raised people's concern or felt creepy? Like why not? Why does that feel okay? You're like, "Wait a minute, it's the exact same thing." I think there's this idea of like potential discrimination, like, "Hey, why can't I be part of that?" Like, it's either everybody or nobody. But part the more an intervention is particularly powerful, the more you're like, ah, it feels kind of like if you know control group like gets this intervention and gets an average grade of 89. Um, an experimental group, you know, gets the intervention and they have an average grade of 89.5. Like that's there's something that seems unfair about that. Although again like you know if in 2018 we give you a software product that you get an average grade of an 89 and then the following year we give you a software product with an average grade of 89.5. Um like your birth year was pretty random too. And so there's something about that. I mean you know the case I want to make is that here here's another way to think about it. Um most people would be appalled by an education system that didn't have variation. Like my hunch is all of you believe that variation is an essential part of educational systems. Like you believe that your teachers, your public your p your textbook publishers, your software developers should be trying to improve their products. Um they should be trying to improve their instruction. They should be trying to improve their lesson plans. The only way you do that is through variation. You teach one lesson plan one year, you teach a different lesson plan the next year. Sometimes it's better, sometimes it works. My hunch is you all are totally comfortable with the idea that some of that variation will be bad um and that most of it on average will be good. Um the main thing that randomized trials like this do is they take that variation and they make it systematic so we can learn from it. Um if we do one thing in 2017 and a different thing in 2018, it's actually it's actually much much harder to figure out if the different thing worked or not. um because all the people in 2017 might be in some systematic way different from the people in 2018 when we the the best way to be sure that the difference between two groups is just because of the thing we're intervening about is a randomized trial. That is the magic of randomized trial. Um so they are power like like everyone in the education system believes in variation. We all want things to improve. Um, it's actually not that hard to convince people that the best way to systematically vary things is through randomization. Um, and almost all of us find that randomization creepy. Um, like even if you sort of explain all, you're like, ah, it still doesn't feel right. Still doesn't feel there's there's been some cool studies I've done in the past. It shows up in healthcare, shows up in other kinds of, you know, things like um uh you know, you ask patients like, "Do you want an unproven treatment that might work better?" And they'll be like, "Well, yeah, maybe." Um, do you want to be randomized to an unproven treatment that might work better? No. Definitely. It's like it's the same thing. Um, except we can learn from the randomization. Um my question is in this case like how are these different from like when companies release betas that some people get and some people don't? Oh here's I mean every time you interact with a software product every time you interact with a web-based software product there is a reasonable chance you're participating in an experiment just like this. Um one this the numbers won't be right. One out of every hundred times you go to Amazon, um the buy button is going to be green instead of blue. And someone is doing a test to figure out whether or not you pushing the green button is better. um you know, one out of every hundred time or thousand times or 10 times you go to Google, they're going to give you some variation of the search algorithm to see if you're happier or you linger longer or you're more likely to click ads on, you know, um we interact every day with software platforms that are collecting vast amounts of information on us and conducting experiments on us all the time. Um th though the reason why those companies use those two approaches is because they are enormously powerful at improving products. Um the reason why just about any query you have you go into Google and ask it a question and it tells you an accurate answer that's relevant to the question you asked is because they have conducted billions of experiments on millions or billions of people uh all throughout the last you know 20 25 years that they've been operating. um it is an like an essential part of our software infrastructure. Um and um I don't like I don't know does the idea that you are are participating in experiments all the time when you go Amazon shopping like does that does does that have the same level of creepiness to you like for some it's like yeah Jeff Bezos do whatever you want but but like but you know but but we feel differently about Pearson for some reason. I have a question about like beyond the like is this creepy or not creepy question but like if I'm AI have decided to buy a product like I'm paying to use Amazon or I'm paying to use Pearson and with that is the assumption that like I understand the thing I am buying because you pitched it to a certain way and I will get it. So then like how does the question of like are you allowed or not allowed to do this go from there? And it would be a and it would be a a huge difference from historical educational curriculum material purchases. Like it used to be, you know, like I bought uh you know, H Hotton Mifflin biology eth edition and I just know exactly what's in eth edition. Like and in fact, you know, the salesperson is going to come back when ninth edition's going to come out and they're going to be like, here's what's different about ninth edition, why you could buy it. And I might be like, no, I don't like what you did in ninth edition. um I'm going to switch to a different company's products because these these improvements are not improvements. Um yeah. Um under what circumstances should companies be able to dynamically improve their educational products? Um what kind of information should they make accessible about that? Um should they tell families? Should they tell educators? Should they tell you know my people could come up with different answer to these questions. Um, I think actually publishing a bunch of that information is probably enormously important, but not to parents and teachers and educators. Parents and teachers and educators have no time to be like tracking how your Pearson computer science like practice problems are changing. Um, there are specialized advocates across the country who focus on education, who focus on student privacy or other kinds of things who like actually would have the time and expertise to follow those audit records. Um but like you know if we started sending home a notice to parents every time a you know a company who used one of their products was conducting an experiment people like it would just be you know the the back it would be the terms and service conditions of your um presumably too by the way um it's it's very unlikely that when whatever school bought this Pearson product presumably that like their lawyers are competent and they made them sign a purchase and sale agreement that included these kinds of conditions in them. Although it's also not it's also the case that like you know the researchers who did this thing didn't sit down with these schools and are like let me tell you what we're doing in the next phase so that you you know I mean they might I think in this case they didn't give them much indication. Um um would it be like like I guess back to the conversation of like if it's like creepy or not. Do you think it might have anything to do with like the illusion of choice that you're given? Like for example, like if you're on Amazon or something, you can or like if if if you're on an app, you have the choice like sometimes not to update the app and just stay on the previous y setting or like if you have something like Amazon, like you can not use Amazon or like you you're you're perceiving it as like you're choosing to opt into that. Well, like in a situation where like you have to use a certain technology in school, like you could argue that like this student doesn't have a choice to opt out of this if they like and you could and you could see that choice operating at different levels. So, a grade school student has zero choice about whether or not to go to grade school. Every college student chose to go to college. Um, now sort of like once you've chosen to go to college, it doesn't it doesn't feel like that should mean you have to accept everything that comes along with college. Um, although again like you know you don't like like you know you could you could choose some majors over other majors based on the technology. You choose some classes over classes. Um the moment in recently in which some of this most came into focus was when schools started requiring students to adopt um proctoring software. Um so probably none of you have have any of you ever taken a remotely proctored test um at MIT? Where where did you take a remotely proctor test at MIT? Uh I believe uh there was the ASC during my like freshman like starting year. They used like some weird proctoring software for that where you had to like like take your webcam or take your laptop or webcam show the rest of your room all these kinds of things essentially. Good. Um so uh there are a number of cases where um for instance uh universities implemented this kind of proctoring software mid-semester um and in fact implemented it mid-semester and required students to pay for it. Um that like you can imagine that as a set of circumstances which like most draws the eye of people because like I've like I've already committed to this college, I've already committed to this course. Now you're making me you know essentially install spyware on my machine. um you know and then like I don't know have some random person see what my dorm room looks like and other kinds of or my bedroom you know these sort of things seem creepy um arguably maybe they're less creepy the more that they're disclosed to people over time although I also use the phrase illusion of choice um because in fact for lots of things you know for instance like every there are no cell service companies that compete on the basis of not selling your location data um like it is not really a choice to not have a mobile phone um anymore in society and so you're not really ch like um you know in theory that's a choice but it's not really one you know going to college like for some people is not really a choice like you're going to have to go to choice to have the life that you want and things like that um uh but I do but I do think K12 students in particular now another sort of unusual feature of this is that and it goes back to this sort of data collection um you know K12 many K12 students across the country are mandated to create a Google account. Um, and then Google has reams of data about all these kinds of things that they uh that they that they do with that data. Um, and uh um you know and there might be various ways that again you know so should like to what extent these things are legitimate or not. It's probably much less of a debate these days, but definitely when schools were first adopting Google for education. Um, it was not uncommon to hear that school boards had uh really vigorous complaints from parents. And oftentimes the com the most vigorous complaints came from parents who worked in the software industry. Um, like do like I know who these people are. I work for these companies. Um, how are you going to make my kid do these kinds of things? Um, let's talk about another one of these cases. Um so another story that you read about was in Bloom um in 2013. So um the Gates Foundation along with a number of other organizations, Wireless Generation, some other people sort of observed like man here's a weird thing. um companies who serve schools have tons of data about students and sort of the only way we can make this system work or the way the system currently works is like some company goes to a school district and says we'll operate this service for you but here's all the data we need. Um and the schools are like yeah okay deal. Um, and if you make enough of those kinds of arrangements, I mean, we another exercise we could do here is like make a list of all of the educational software products that you've ever used in schools. Um, and you all could probably come up with lists of like dozens or more software products that you've encountered in some kind of way. Those are all people that have some kind of data about you somewhere. Um, that seems like a terrible infrastructure. Like you require people to go to schools. um the schools make contracts with third parties to provide services and all those third parties end up with sort of shards of data. Um so the idea of inbloom was let's concentrate all of the data about students in one nonprofit organization. Um let's get let's you know it be something along the lines of trying to generate the kind of data set that the Norwegian study that I just showed you would require. Um like let's get all their student records. let's get all their let's get let's get all all their app usage let's get all those kinds of things um and have a nonprofit entity hold on to that data um and in particular let's make it so that instead of um companies making arrangements with individual school districts to get access to the data they need they just get in touch with this nonprofit um now what could potentially be good about having a nonprofit intermediary between schools and third parties that want to provide services to schools but require data to do it. I think public perception is that nonprofits are a lot more trustworthy than for-profit companies so people won't get as freaked out about it. Yeah. Good. So, do you want like Pearson to have all of this data or do you want, you know, InBloom um, you know, funded by a consortium of state departments of I mean, it was funded by the Gates Foundation, but like sponsored by a set of state departments of education to have this data. What else? I had a question like how it functions. So like if they have the data and then um like a company or some kind of researcher is trying to access it, do they have final say on like how it's being used or do they then go back to the schools? So as so the go so in bloom failed and we can talk about why it failed so you don't have to worry about it existing although I'll show you a new thing that showed up this past week which is remarkably similar. Um but I think some of the key value some of the key value proposition was that the companies would go to Inloom um and get just the data they need. What do you think InBloom would potentially be better at than schools might be raw data processing? Good. So, first of all, they're just like if if if your if your job is not to like, you know, teach kindergarten and Mandarin, but like just to process student data, you're probably going to be better at processing student data than this organization that has to like have a field hockey team and run buses and other kinds of things like that. Security is better, too, if that's your main focus. Why would there are 13,000 school districts in the United States of widely varying capacities in all kinds of IT things? It seems like an organization that is like just focused on IT things is going to be like we don't even like in a lot of ways if you have a society where a school has to be good at IT things you may not be organizing that society correctly. Um and so you can you know if you go to other countries you know during the pandemic like we had um schools provision laptops and hotspots to to students. Insane. There's no reason to think schools should be any good at that. um like there should be other institutions in society that are good at IT procurement like it it shouldn't be your local I mean I sometimes I would compare it to people like you know in the 19th century when we decided that every household in the United States should get or in the 20th century we decided every household in the United States should get electricity we like didn't go to the local school principal and be like so how are you going to run wires up the holler um you know we invented the TVA and other kinds of organizations that was really good at electrification um so that the schools didn't have to be good at electrification like electrification is is closer to you know provisioning broadband and laptops um than it is to other kinds of educational things. All right. So these institutions um could conceivably develop a whole bunch of expertise around data around privacy things like that. Um another thing that they could probably get pretty good at doing is only giving providers the exact data they need. Um, so schools have a tough time vetting like all of the data that they're making available to all their different providers. And so presumably, you know, they make arrangements and people just collect whatever. If there's a sort of intermediary in that collection process, you could imagine that InBloom could be pretty good at being like, "Yeah, Canvas, you just asked us for these 14 things, but I'm pretty sure to operate your system, you need these six." Um, so why don't you start with these six and see how you do from there. um and they might be able to do all kinds of other you know right now for Canvas to operate it needs to have um you know your actual email address and other kinds of things like that. You can imagine building all kinds of intermediary layers that that only hashed identifiers are passing on to these third parties and in Bloom collects all this. Um in Bloom fails um oh almost immediately. Um well here's a here's a few things that were written about it when it started. Um, nonprofit InBloom offers an internet database service that allows schools to store, track, and analyze data on school chunking. If you think about it, that information is more than just test scores. It's whether kids receive free lunch, a telling indicator of the family's finance. The time the school got no fight in the schoolyard. It could be a child's prescription medicine. Um, the upshot of storing all that data in one location is it could be used to tailor curricula to each child. If Johnny's data suggests he's a tactile learner, which is not true, there are no learning styles. Um, and he's failing math, Inloom's analytic action might suggest a particular teaching approach. Um, this is all about building personalized learning environments for kids. Um, but as more school districts team up with Inloom, including New York, parents are becoming increasingly vocal critics of the data collection. This information, I have no idea what it is. I have no idea who's using it, and I have no idea for what purpose. Um uh so part of what the existence of InBloom did was to like was to go to communities and be like, "Hey, you know what's happening right now? There's tons of data being collected about children." Um and we're going to put it all in one place. You can imagine that, you know, like for people like me, they're like, "Yeah, that's a great idea. We're totally going to be able to have all these benefits." But like there's tons of data being collected about children and it's all going to be put in one place. is like not actually as it turns out a very popular public pitch. Um in Bloom CEO is quick to point out that the company isn't collecting data the this isn't collecting data the school districts don't already have. It's just providing a one-stop dot to make the data accessible and usable to teachers. Although really a lot of what it was doing was making the data accessible and usable to third parties which might then benefit teachers. Schools and districts collect a lot of data but it's all over the place. Strainberger says it's it's different systems are disconnected and so as a result this data is not usable. Can anybody think of of uh all right so that that was a very serious problem like schools are collecting tons of data it's fragmented across all these services all these kinds of things and so you know a sense there's like constant ongoing privacy like either privacy risk privacy violations and um not sensible ways to manage them. That's the problem in Bloom's trying to solve. Can anybody think of around 2013 like major things that are happening in the United States related to uh people's perception of their data and security? You all are a little young for this now. Target target I think is not that far away from that. So we start seeing some of the like major data security breaches. Cambridge Analytica uh I think um I think Cambridge Analytica is a little bit afterwards because that is around the 2016 election. Yeah. Snowden. Um, this is the sort of Edward the Edward Snowden era of uh of of rec recognizing the federal government is collecting much more data about people um than was previously thought. So, so in 2013, first of all, people are far less accustomed to surveillance than you all described yourself as accustomed to surveillance. Um, and there just been this major national revelation. Sort of an interesting thing about the inloom story is so eventually what happens is there were sort of 11 states that signed on initially and the hope was is that like then 13 and 14 and 18 and 20 that eventually lots and lots of states would come on almost immediately states started withdrawing from it. um in particular over uh in part because of the concentrated objection from local advocates uh lo local advocacy groups including um like student privacy groups that were just formed around this time. New York was like one of the lead ones. It was one of the last ones to fall out but it also had one of the most sort of viciferous determined um community of student privacy advocates um opting you know. So um state started p like one of the one of the main um outcomes of inloom was not its existence actually but like a bunch of state laws about student privacy in part that would make it more difficult for things like inloom to exist. um a a a common problem that shows up when trying to fix data and privacy problems and I'm giving you an example from schools but this is a thing that you could find in almost any um uh in any other sector like the the pre-inloom counterfactual is really really bad. It is not a good system to like force kids to go to public schools and then have a bunch of thirdparty for-profit companies get their data from schools. The schools are bad at managing. they don't have the expertise, all these kinds of things. Um however by trying to fix the problem in bloom draws attention to the problem you know like man this data is such a mess and we're going to collect it all like in some like there are all kinds of circumstances in which you like if you draw attention to data and experiments even if the sort of like the the status quo is really terrible people are not going to be enthusiastic about the fix because nobody thinks dayto-day about the status quo but they think really intensely about this crazy inloom thing that you're doing. Um, does that does that as an idea make sense? Like this essentially, you know, there's all kind like other studies come out along the lines of um, hey, we've come up with this really good way to protect your privacy. Will you opt into it? People will be like, whoa. Um, why would why would I have to protect my privacy? Why would I opt into this thing? It's dangerous. Like, they would prefer the status quo where their privacy is not protected towards this thing in which you've raised their concerns about. Um uh so this is an organization that just came into life um last week. Uh it's called Safe Insights. Um it was funded by $90 million from the National Science Foundation. Uh it is out of Rice University out of the same people that developed Open Stacks. We talked about Open Stacks the other day. They're the company that creates um uh free and open source textbooks for community college folks. Um they have we have enough time. I'll show you the one. Uh, let's see if we can find the the Safe Insights welcome video. As a longtime college instructor, every day of my career has been dedicated to helping my students reach their academic goals. I'm always looking to better support their learning in ways that are proven to work best. There's so much we have to understand about how people learn. Every mind is beautiful and special. That means we all learn in different ways. We all have our own definitions of what success looks like. If researchers are able to uncover new and better ways of learning, that will have a profound impact on how educators approach teaching. To do this, we need a way to securely connect with a wide variety of students as they study over time in real classrooms. Student needs are changing. With more learning happening online, it gets harder and harder to understand what each student needs and how best to help them at the moment when they're really needed the most. Education research is essential for advancing teaching and learning so that every student can succeed. We know that research informed teaching works, but it's still too hard to conduct large-scale reliable research and then apply the results in the classroom. Safe Insights brings together learning researchers, educators, schools, and colleges in a secure environment to get the answers we need while strongly protecting students and their interests. Every student deserves the chance to succeed in the classroom and beyond. Safe Insights will give researchers, educators, and students what they need to take learning to the next level. And as educators, we will benefit from better research from Safe Insights to effectively help all our students. Great. It it is it is a little dramatic for for like a database but I I mean I don't know I like database. Okay. Um what are what are what are your first instincts having spent a whole bunch of time um uh having spent you know an hour and 20 minutes talking about the toxic power of data and experiments and how do you think like a typical American parent or typical American college student would react to that video? I think it would change like based on different generations because I think our generation who is now like using Tik Tok when we openly know like they use our data and like listen to us is completely different from like our parents who are like oh my god like don't have a profile picture don't this and that. So I think our generation will be way more accepting of this and I think as like in like 10 20 years down the line I think people and parents will be so accustomed to their children's data just being like whatever good. So you know so conceivably even you know in bloom launched today might have had a very different experience than in Bloom launched in 2013 not because of anything different that they did but because of the context that they operate in. I think there's evidence of that. I was just talking to somebody who runs a a video repository for uh child development studies. Um and one of their conditions is that uh the the videos can only be used for non-commercial purposes. And I was like, how you know why did you do that? And we're like, well, we made it 10 years ago and people were really worried about stuff and that sort of helped calm them down. But if we did it again today, I you know, I don't think the same level of concern exists, not only among people generally, but like institutionally as well. What do you say, Courtney? Um I think it was really smart that they've attached themselves to Rice because I think especially like our parents generation maybe less so now there's a lot of goodwill given to universities and so like if in Bloom came out today and it was like oh in partnership with MIT I do think people would have received it a lot differently and like people have a lot of trust that like oh it's connected to Rice how bad could it really be? Yeah. And you know I would say I would say the the Gates Foundation related conspiracy theories were not quite as strong in 2013. Um but like the Gates Foundation is not a trusted organization in the same way that I think uh yeah Rice University universities in general like state schools um are still some of the most trusted institutions in society. Um I think like maybe actually a little um connected to that trustworthiness I think is that um if you say like oh my god look all your data is in one place like to someone who finds like education research and things like that really important and is like much more aware of um like how that might help that might sound good but I think to the average person first and foremost what's going to pop out when you tell tell them, "Oh, we have everything in one place and we promise it's safe." It's like one, like you're not giving me any information about how you're keeping the data safe. And two, like I think like it's always been like set up like don't put all your data in one place. So it's like well how why are you like saying this is a good thing because then this means that like someone can have all my data as opposed to like let's say if it is split up even if it's there I can be like okay like my teacher might have this piece of data on me but they might not have this other piece of data and actually probably the main technical I mean there'll probably a bunch and we don't know exactly where they'll be then but one of the one of the earliest proposed technical innovations of safe insights is not to bring all the data together. Um so it so it doesn't propose that all of it gets collected. One of the main things that they want to be able to do um is to be able to conduct research queries across data without having people have to directly access those data. So there's a there's a whole field of study called things like differential privacy and stuff like that which basically says um how do I how do I tell you the kinds of things that are in a data set let you run a query over that data set um but never actually encounter that data set and and in this kind of environment there might be how would you run a query that connects people's you know student behavior in a learning platform with their registar information with their state test scores without having to like make one giant data set out of all those things, but instead to like, you know, have the query just, you know, run over the data it needs, you know, still like have the main the people who own that data still hold on to that data, but have the results of that query go to technology developers, um, researchers, things like that without having to have them collect all of the data. So in some ways it's like explicitly trying to be the opposite of inloom like don't bring all the data in one place like try to get the benefits of aggregated data without having to share it with either a trusted third party or everyone or something like that. I was I was just going to say I feel like you kind of answered it like right there with what you were saying, but like in your opinion, do you think like the people who are creating this new um the safe insights? Do you think they like really understood what went wrong in Inloom? And do you think like ultimately does it lead back? Boy, it sure I mean it sure sounds like it to me. Like powerful privacy preserving learning research. Um, so like the very first concept they they want to ingrain in your head is safe. Um, the second concept that I think they're doing rhetorically is leaning into insight rather than data. Um, so I think if you asked people what Inbloom was, they would have described it as some kind of data repository. My hunch um is that the safe insights people are going to describe themselves as an insight generator. um as a research producer. Now, it's the exact same thing, right? Um because in order to get the insights, you have to have the data somewhere. And InBloom, InBloom's purpose was never just to like hoard data. It was to make learning better for kids. Um but I think I think there are I like I guarantee you that all of the pe many of the people who worked on safe insights um have done plenty of studying of what went wrong with in bloom um and are designing this enterprise you know so that it's you know it's with a trusted university it's founded by the national science foundation which I assume also has very high trust but like all this language it it definitely strikes me as like like people who read up on the inb bloom case study and are trying a different tack. I think uh another good thing that they did was associate themselves with a previous product that was successful which was open stacks which in itself open stacks I mean they are open what is it open source uh like preuse uh textbooks and that in itself has proven to be like okay we are transparent quite literally transparent about what we're doing and we've already provided a useful successful product for the masses and there Um they have a ton you know they have uh 40 partners 39 collaborating institutions of their collaborating institutions 77% are minority serving institutions so they're trying to start from the beginning saying you know we're not just going to do this to improve Colombia and Rice we're going to do this to improve you know lots of different kinds of organizations um it it also you know instead of being a consortium of states um it's really mostly a consortium of digital learning platforms. Um probably matters to like they're emphasis on college. Um I'm like assistance doesn't do anything for college. So they definitely have some things that are not I'm not sure it's literally true, but Assistments 99% of what they do is serve K12 students. Um, but I think it maybe does make a difference to, you know, in like like college students are adults. College students opt in to go to college. The state doesn't force anyone to go to college. And so you're just operating in a um in you maybe a luury choice, but there you're operating in a in a space where you feel like people have more agency to begin with to operate. Um they they you know unlike unlike Inloom which said these 11 states are the organization like these state education agencies are sort of the key people we're interacting with um they don't mention higher education accredititors or state boards of higher education or they basically have like left government out except for the National Science Foundation um of this development. Maybe people are more trustworthy of of these organizations or maybe they're just like even if they're not more trustworthy of these organizations, people are kind of drawn, critics are potentially drawn to things like New York State approves X, you know, versus this kind of like arbitrary group of universities, some of whom might be in New York, approve X. Um, so it'll be super interesting to watch. This is a um the grant that they got was from the same that $90 million is probably the largest federal grant uh um an educational research project ever. Although there's a couple of educational research projects that if you totaled up all the grants they got over a period of time might be sort of at least within that ballpark. Um it came from the same grant funding that supports like telescopes and ecological plots. um it's called midscale uh research infrastructure things that are like um where you know no one university can build like a giant radio telescope and and you don't want one university to you want to build a thing that like the entire field of astronomy can all collectively use together um and so this grant stream is meant to build enormous things that everyone can can use together so it'll be sort of interesting to see what they do um in the in the decades ahead but um I think AI mean you know in some ways especially coming about 10 years after the collapse of Inloom. Um, uh, it's to me it's sort of neat. You know, people still have optimism that if you pull together a bunch of student learning data, um, and data about students and you conduct a bunch of experiments, you can build things that help them learn better. Um, but there are, you know, there are re there are enormous real risks and there may be even more enormous um, kind of reputational risks that go into this work. Um, one thing that I've tried to communicate, which it sounds like these folks are, you know, are adopting to many different groups is like, you know, because I'm basically part of the community of people that would like to collect lots of data about students than I've done, you know, re, you know, I've I've I've handled data files that have like way more information about people than I feel comfortable having access to. Um, and part of the job is doing things responsibly, but the other part of the job is like constantly talking to the public about what we're doing. Um, you know, the only way people will not be creeped out by doing experiments, um, is if a we conduct a bunch of experiments that meaningfully improve learning. Um, a hu a huge challenge that education has, um, is like we don't have the equivalent of the human genome project. We don't have a thing that you could point to being like, well, yeah, we took a whole lot of your data, but like we're curing cancer here, people. Um, you know, I mean, if if Safe Insights came up with something that made students learn math 33% faster, it would totally change the way people think about the collection of D. So, your costbenefit data would transform um uh quite dramatically. Um, but even in the absence of that, like it's incredibly important to be engaged with these student privacy groups, engaged with families, trying to explain to people like there's always going to be variation in education. Um, what we probably could benefit the most from is systematic variation where we can tell which parts of the variation work and which parts don't. And the only way that we can do that is through some of these approaches that include data collection and randomization and things like that. So you just like made the statement that like safe insights comes up with like some solution. So is safe insights kind of like that is it like a third party that is it is less of a third party than in bloom. Yes. you know, like clearly some of the things that that Rice is going to do with his money is build systems and study open stacks with it. Um, like part like much more so than Inloom. Um, in in Bloom didn't have a In Bloom never, to my knowledge, never had a list of partners that looked like this list. Um, they never said from the beginning, oh look, like Cahoot and Google Classroom and the all these other people are our lead partners. um and are going to use this to figure out stuff. They they like really saw themselves solving an infrastructural problem um more that you know like I I think these folks are positioning themselves more like first we're going to have a set of tech products that improve learning um through better research practices including better forms of data management and data sharing and data privacy. Um, but if it like if it's a real infrastructure product, like part of what you know, I'm I'm sure Rich's goal um is to say we're going to develop these research these privacy protecting research enclaves and we're going to develop them in an open source way that like whatever future edtech companies come along are going to be able to benefit from this infrastructure. Like they're going to be able to do all the same kinds of things that OpenStacks is doing to conduct cool experimental research with lots of data while protecting people's privacy. Um, Great. It's 2:25. Um, so I should let you go. We'll come in on Wednesday. Um, and we'll you have a little bit of reading about implementation in schools. Um, but mostly uh what you should be working on is um getting some words on paper for your final product um project and thinking a little bit. Oh, a thing that we'll do probably by email this week, but maybe a bit in class on Wednesday is I need you to sign up um to either present on Monday or Wednesday. Um, maybe I'll send you something pretty soon that invites you to sign up for one of those two slots.