The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hello, welcome. The good news, we're basically done. We've covered all of the theory. The only thing we're going to do the remaining part of the course is to think through several applications of Forier. Today I'll do some just really easy motivational things. I'll do anam a second another example from filtering just because that's such an important idea. I'll talk about how Forier transforms show up in physics and then uh next uh starting next week we'll talk about sampling which is just a simple application of forier. You've already sort of seen it in the last lecture and then we'll talk about modulation which is yet another application of forier. So basically you have the theory and all we're going to do um in the for the remainder of the course is think about applications of forier. So we already talked about a filter. I motivated a filter by thinking about 4A series because it's easy. If you think about the uh system that's comprised of a resistor and a capacitor and you have an input VI and an output VO then you can think about that system being a filter. The filter can be characterized by a frequency response. You're all experts at that. The And then if you can break the signal into 4A components, which was easy when we had a 4A series, if you can break the signal into 4A components, then it's easy to uh calculate the output as the sum of weighted and t possibly timeshifted versions of the components of the input. So uh we can decompose the signal the square wave into a bunch of um forier components and then think about how they pass through the filter where if they all pass through the low frequency part of the filter so that the gain is one and the phase is zero the output looks just like the input and if they all pass through the part of the filter that's sloping down with a slope of minus one with a phase lagging by pi / two you turn a square wave into a triangle wave. That was the simplest example of a filter. We saw it again when we thought about speech production because there the idea was that the different kinds of sounds that we make are partially generated by the larynx and partially generated by the throat and it's all the musculature in your face that that enables you to make the precise different sounds. And that was what we call the source filter model of speech production. The source is down here. The filter is here. And we again we can think about it by thinking about filtering. Filtering comes up all over the place. And it's one of the most important applications of 4A techniques generally. And it's for all the reasons you already know. If you can think of a way of breaking down a signal into 4A components, then you can think about an LTI system as a filter. And in filtering applications, um, in signal processing filtering applications, we usually try to think about high frequencies, low frequencies, designing systems that pass the lows, pass the highs, that sort of thing. But the key is breaking down an input, which might be complicated into pieces. That's where the forier transform is so good. And so I want to illustrate that by thinking about a hard problem in signal processing. And that is an electroc cardiogram. So first off, it's completely amazing that you can measure an electroc cardiogram at all. The voltages produced by cells are on the order of 100 millolts. That's true for all cells for extremely fundamental reasons which if you're interested in 6021 has a lot of information about why there are fundamental fundamental physical limits on what kinds of voltage a cell can make. So the the voltages are small, but they're much worse than that. They're constrained to the inside of a cell. You can't generally get access to the inside of a cell. In fact, it was a big technological breakthrough when people figured out how to draw. Cells are little. It's kind of hard to imagine how little they are. About um two to three million cells would fit in the length in a one inch length of a human hair. And that's a skinny hair like mine. So blonde skinny hair. The rest is not necessarily skinny, but the hair is skinny. So uh you can get about a million cells, maybe two million cells in one length, one inch of um length of the human hair to give you some idea of how small they are. They're tiny tiny tiny little things. So it was a big deal when people were able to measure inside a cell. And when you put electrodes on your chest to measure an ocardiogram, you're not inside a cell. cells are surrounded by an insulator. So not much of that electrical current is available to you. Furthermore, the cells in the heart are surrounded by saline. What's important about saline? What is saline? Salt. Salt water. What's important about saline? What would be different if we were filled with distilled water besides the fact that we would die? Um conducts electricity. So the uh fluid that's the that bathes the cells has a very high ionic concentration and that means that it conducts electricity which means most of the potentials are shorted out before they ever get to the surface of the skin. Then there's another 20 layers of insulation called your skin. So it's it's astonishing that you can even measure these things. And when you do, it's not surprising that there's a lot of signal uh in the waveform other than the signal that you intend. There's about 10 to the 13th neurons in your body and they're all chattering away. So you see those. So that the idea of filtering out the part of the signal that results from the EKG is completely non-trivial and it's very useful to think about it in the 4A domain and absolutely everybody does it that way. If you were to take the 48 transform of this waveform, you would get a waveform that looks like this, which looks perhaps more complicated, except that you can make some sense out of it. Hearts beat about 60 or 70 times a minute, depending on how athletic and how old you are, which means that it's the components around one hertz or bigger that are coming from the heart. Things significantly lower than a hertz probably aren't coming from the heart. things that are up in the 10 kHz region probably are not from the heart. This enormous spike, what's that? That's the lights. That's the power. That's the we distribute uh electrical power by modulating it at 60 Hz because that distributes better. But then it radiates and so some of that can be coupled into everything including me. So the big line is the 60 Hz that's being coupled from the power distribution network into the person whose EKG this is. So what we'd like to do then is generate a filter that takes out the stuff that isn't uh EKG. So we'd like to eliminate this low frequency stuff and we'd like to eliminate this high frequency stuff. Right? So what we do is we design a filter filter design bod of course. Right? Smile everybody smile. You don't there's no nothing on a quiz for weeks to come. Right? So, uh so Bodie, so we would think about uh passing the high frequencies. Uh I didn't say that right. So, we would like to cut off the very lows. We'd like to cut off the very highs. And we'd like to get rid of that one glitch at 60 hertz. So the 60 Hz thing, that's what this is intended to do. It's intended to be a very narrow filter that just wipes out the 60. So this is the kind of filter that I'd like to design. And here's the design. Handful of poles and zeros. Your task, talk to your neighbor and figure out which poles and which zeros go with the high pass, the low pass, and the notch. Uh, look at your neighbor. Say hi. Smile. Okay. So, where which of the poles and zeros contribute to the high pass? Right. You can point like there's up and there's left and there's center. So which ones are high pass? The ones near zero. So the zero or the poles or one of each or both or what? So what's it what would hap what would the vot look like if you only had the zero? Yeah. So it would it would the the zero alone would cancel out frequency components at zero which on a bodhi pl is way over there. Right. Uh what about the what about these poles? What's the poles for? They flatten it out. So if you think about reading off the effect of the poles and zeros starting at zero and going to bigger and bigger radiuses then the first thing you have to worry about going left to right on the bodie plot is the zeros doing this and then these poles flatten out the zeros. So what what's this doing? That's the uh the thing that's attenuating the high frequencies. which leaves us with this. What's that? And how do you know it's a notch? There's a zero. So the zero on the J omega axis means there's a frequency that it completely wipes out. Why do I need to have this stupid pole here? Can't I just put the zero there? Yep. Bring it back up. So the idea is that if you put the pole close to the zero, if you get to a frequency that's pretty far away from those, their effects cancel and there's no there's no effect of either of them. So their effect is constrained to frequencies that are very close measured as in terms of of this distance. So you have to be at a frequency that's very close in order to have an effect. Okay? And when you do that, when you design such a filter, you clean up the waveform a lot. And no one in their right mind would generate an EKG machine that didn't do this, right? I mean, that's just built into the pre-amplifier that's attached to the electrodes. So the point is that uh filtering is very important application of forier transforms. We can take an arbitrary signal and often get a lot of insight into what we would like to preserve and remove by thinking about the forier transform. Insights that you wouldn't get by looking at time waveform. Okay, next thing I want to think about is a little bit different. I want to think about physics. This isn't of course in physics nor am I a physicist but I do do optics. And the thing I want to think about is defraction. You can't understand optics unless you think about defraction. And honestly, the easiest way to think about defraction is free a transform. Right? So the a very simple example of defraction. So here's a defraction grading. So uh if I pass a coherent beam through there, which I just happen to have, uh if I pass a coherent beam through a diffraction grading, what do you see? the defraction grading split one beam right all term I've been pointing with one right well if I put this in front of it now I get three right so somehow there's something about this that's breaking one beam into three uh can you think of why uh can you remember uh 802 where they probably mentioned this. What is this? What's in here? Slits. Close. Yeah. What? So, the simplest experiment where you could illustrate this kind of a defraction phenomenon is goes by the name Yes. Show the name uh young double slit experimental. So if you so if you pass light through two slits, something phenomenal happens, right? It's very sim it's very closely related to this. What's in this? Something like a slit. It's actually something like a whole bunch of sleds. So, yeah, polarizer. Close. It's one of those neat words from physics, but not quite. Um, polarized has to do with the fact that the light has an E field and an M field, and they are perpendicular to each other. And sources like this one actually keep them separate. So, this actually does generate polarized light, but you can't really tell because if I spin it, if I spin the laser pointer, you can't really see anything. But if I spin the grading uh oh, I just said something. So, what did I just call this? Grading. So, what is it? It's a defraction grading. It's got a bunch of little um u horizontal uh structure. So the idea is um is here the grading you can think about it as an array big array big compared to the size of the point that I was illuminating big array of um scatterers. So you think about having uh a material that transmits light and a material that scatters light and the material that scatters light is arranged in lines and the lines are separated from each other by some kind of a distance here represented by capital D. And the reason that you see the the uh farfield pattern, we call that the farfield pattern as opposed to the near field pattern. If I were to um if I were to do this and but put it very close then I would think about the field then I would think about the pattern being the near field pattern. If I get close compared to D. So if the slits are D apart the near field is kind of D close and the far field is when I'm far away compared to D. So if I'm far away compared to D, then you can imagine that the light's coming in this way and each one of these generates scatter. So there's a spherical wave coming away out from each of these. Right? That's Huygens's principle, right? So the idea then is that there are contributions from each one of these scatterers out here in the far field. Each point in the far field picks up a little bit of light from each of the scatterers, but they're in different phase relationships. They were in phase when the coherent light struck these. But now if I were to think about a point here, the phase that you get is different from the point here. So here the two points would generate uh the phase from two points would be about the same. Here they would be different because uh the distance traveled from this scatterer is that much longer. Okay. So if I look at a particular angle then each of these scatterers is a different optical path length from the source. That means that if I arrange the angle so that this is lambda, the light that scatters off of here will constructively interfere with the light that scatters off of here and here. Everybody see that? So that means that there's a funny angle the sign of which is lambda over d at which you get constructive interference. And that's what's going on with the defraction gradient. Okay. And you can see that uh uh there are simple illustrations of that all over the place. Here I have a CD and a DVD. Which one's which? I'm showing you the back side of a CD and a DVD. DVDs on the uh is this one. How do you know that? Because it looks blue. Why does it look blue? Not a clue. It's just they always do, right? smaller. So somehow this one reflects better the bluer lights. So you see more of that. And this one reflects better longer lights. This one's got kind of a greenish twinge. Maybe kind of like all colors. I like to call it green. Maybe it's because I know the answer. So So if I take these guys, I can get the same sort of thing. So, I'll take the CD first. Now, of course, this has a coating on it. So, if I try to shine a laser straight through it, not much will happen, right? If I don't really want to blind somebody, this is not um Okay. So, I'm going to take this and I'm going to attempt to hit this while watching back here, which, you know, for somebody my age is pretty hard to do. But the idea is going to be that instead of using this as a transmission grading, I'm going to use it as a reflection grading. So if I do this. Okay. So that's kind of cute. So uh my laser's green. What's lambda? 530. So let's round off. Let's say 500. But yes. Uh, so let's so the green so I've got like a green laser and I've got What will happen if I move the laser back and forth? How will the pattern change? Won't change. So if I do this, which I can't do while I'm watching it. Okay, no change, right? What will happen if I move this this way? Well, the angle is what matters. So, as I move it farther away, the pattern gets bigger. Right? So, if I do this, if I were at all coordinated, which I'm not. I'm trusting that it's doing what I'm telling it to because I can't look at the same time. So, let me put this at a precise three meter uh one meter away, three feet. And let me shine this in here. And let me do a very precise measurement. And those are now one foot apart by my precise measurement skills. Um, so, uh, what I'd like you to do is figure out the pitch. The information on a CD is written spirally. That's the reason there's uh an apparent color. I just measured the pitch. How far apart are the tracks? So take the data, right? So the if I'm 3 feet away from the screen, the dots are separated by one foot and figure out how closely spaced the tracks are on a CD. Okay. So, what's the answer? One, two, three, four. None of the above. Okay. a a very small number of uh votes but about 90% correct. So what do I do? How do I figure it out? You just Yeah. So so we just made a big deal out of how um uh so the distance which was d sin theta had to be an integer multiple of lambda. Right? So all we need to do is think through some trig. So um if I think about the angle so if I think about the dots being a foot apart when I'm 3 feet away then the tangent is a third. So the angle small angle approximation is about a third. So the sign is about a third. So it's about uh so lambda is about um 500 nanometers divided by a third and if I carry that out a little more precisely I get 1613 and the manufacturer specification for CDs is 1600 nanometers so it's 1.6 micrometers. Okay, excuse me. What is the precision that they usually hit? Oh they're pretty good. Uh so uh in fact we'll talk about this a little later. Uh they do this by an embossing process. So you make a master uh out of uh aluminum and then you stamp it and the stamping is actually very good. Uh so probably the biggest manufacturing problem is the thermals. So you stamp it in a in a heated um polystyrene. So there's a little bit of a coefficient of shrinkage as it cools, but it's not very big. It's uh fractions of a percent. So what will happen then if I switch to the DVD? How many tracks are on a DVD? Right? So we can do the same kind of an experiment. Now if I um try to do the DVD, in order to get them to be a foot apart, I have to get much closer, right? So now to get these space at about a foot, I have to be about a foot away. So what's the track? What's the spacing on the DVD? Smaller or bigger? So it's smaller because the angle got bigger, right? So it's the same sort of deal. You if you think about um the one foot, so you get one foot spacing with about one foot So then the tangent is about one. It's not quite a small angle anymore. So theta is is uh 78. And so the uh experiment the experimental value comes out about 704 nanometers. So it's about the root of two. It's about a factor of two smaller. So we get about 700 nan. It's a it's a fraction of a micron rather than 1.6 microns. And that's why they look a little different, right? So we get about a factor of two in terms of information density in terms of track count. Of course, the information is also stored more closely within a track as well. So instead of being about a factor of two better, it's maybe a factor of four better, but because the tracks are spaced about a factor of two. Okay. Okay. You can do more interesting things, right? That's kind of the most degenerate case because that's 1D. Um, so here's a fancier grading from my lab which has the property that if I shine a light through it, I get more dots. Okay. So, what's in what's inside this? It's a 2D grading. So instead of having just lines going this way, it has lines going this way and lines going that way. Okay? And in fact, back in the uh back about oh five or 10 years ago when laser printers were a novelty, they became all the rage to put them right into your laser printer into your laser pointer. Okay. So here's another uh laser pointer. Um so here's uh a thing that you screw on the end which has a traction grading built right into it, right? And so now if I'm into say um I don't know some graphics you know reading off the cursor. So there's a cursor now in my laser pointer rather than being a dot. Or if I'm more chy now I can circle things right. Not sure why I want to do that but in case I wanted to I can do it. Um, if I wanted to underline things, I guess. I'm not sure. Right. The point is that these things are all This is just a diffraction grading. All that's in there is a little piece of glass that's got um got it's not actually glass, it's actually plastic that was made with an etching process the same as uh with an embossing process, same as they make CDs with. Uh so if you're uh into Yeah. Who knows? Uh, and they if you go even if you go backwards in time, they get even chintzier. So, this was an this is an even older laser printer. Uh, laser pointer. Okay. So, now you know they're fun. You can tell it's older because it's red, right? And it's dimmer. If you uh think the click art is kind of still, this is my favorite. Save the fa favorite for the end. Dark side. I don't know. Anyway, anyway, so that's kind of the idea uh the way you can think about defraction gradings. So now I want to think about a more general theory. I worked out a specific theory for a one-dimensional um defraction grading. Now I want to think about the general theory. What if I simply told you some pattern in space? What if I told you your job is to make the defraction grading to project a dollar sign? How would you do it? Take a wild guess. Take the forier transform of course. So um so the idea so what would happen if the target is more complicated than a grading? The way to think about this is to think about just like in the case of the grading, if you collect the light that hits the far field, the far field that hits a point in the far field came from all over the target. Okay? Just like in the grading, in the grading, the point in the far field came from every one of the lines. And there was a simple relationship among the phases that came from each of the lines. And that's what gave rise to the pattern in the far field. Well, the same thing's always true. All the points in the image in the far field came from each point had contributions from every point in the target. And if you think about points in the target, now I'm going to think about just one point. So I've this is the target space. Way out there is the far field. So in the target space there's an xcoordinate, there's a y-coordinate, there's a zcoordinate. Let me just worry about x for the moment. The point that is x displaced in this direction contributes a different phase to the far field than a point that's at zero. Because the points at x, you get a different phase. And that phase relationship depends not just on X but also on the angle. And this is the relationship the phase generated by a scatterer at the point X just like the two just like the one-dimensional grading. If you take x and multiply by the sign that tells you the delay uh in meters but then you can convert that into radians by dividing by the wavelength and multiplying by 2 pi. So the phase that is generated by scattering from this point displaced a distance x when measured an angle theta in the far field looks like that. Okay, that's supposed to be just a simple uh reiteration of what we just did. Now, the tricky part is that all of the light that hits a particular point in the far field, a point in the far field is characterized as theta. Where's my laser pointer? So if you go to the far field at a place theta the total amount of light that hits the point theta is the sum the integral of all the different scatterers. So f ofx represents how much light gets scattered as a function of x. x is the target. So how so this is integrating over how much light gets scattered at each x and at a particular x you get this phase delay. So there's a coherent sum then so you add up all of these complex numbers by the integral. Now imagine that the sign of theta is about theta. Right? That was true in all of the examples I've done so far. Right? So here I'm what 15 ft away and it's a foot. So that's small angle approximation. So now let's uh replace s of theta with theta. And let's think about this number 2 pi theta over lambda. That's just frequency omega. So I'm thinking about now the far field which we had previously called dependent on theta. Theta is just omega. So I've got a relationship now between how much scattering happens at each X in the target and what does the picture look like in the far field and that's a 4A transform. Okay, so there's an exact fora transform relationship. Well, exact is a little bit of a an approximation because I'm using a small angle approximation. I'm ignoring a few things. Not only am I making a small angle approximation, but I'm assuming that if the light goes straight and as the light goes up, they have the same intensity when they hit the board. Right? That's not quite true. That's the Fronhoffer approximation, blah blah blah. Uh fancy names for a bunch of approximations. The point is that if you make reasonable approximations, you get a 4A transform relationship between the um scattering in the target and the farfield image. Okay. Um, so now we have a very convenient way of thinking about what happened whenever I shot my laser through this thing, right? I get a bunch of spots in the far field because everybody shout this is the aha, right? So we've got an impulse train in the forier transform which means that the thing that was down here was an impulse train right because we know that the forier transform of an impulse train is an impulse train right so this is an impulse train in space the scatterers represent an impulse train so whenever I illuminate it I get an impulse train in the 4A transform form because the for a transform of an impulse train is an impulse train. Well, that's pretty cool. Okay. Uh so you all know why an impulse train is an impulse train. Um, so this two-dimensional rating then the interesting thing about that then is that it must be the case that the 4A transform of a 2D grid is a of a 2D impulse train is a 2D impulse train. So I want to think a minute just a minute about that. What would we mean by a two-dimensional 48 transform? So two dimensional 4A transforms. So I want X uh J omega 1 J omega 2. So it's a lot like a 1D transform. Uh I'm going to think about having X except now there's two time variables, time 1 and time two. And I'm going to have to have two of these funny exponential things. So I'm going to have e to the minus j omega 1 t1 plus omega 2 t2 dt1 dt2. Okay, it's almost like a 1D transform except I have 2Ds now. Okay, and the way to think about that, I probably shouldn't distract you with this. That's the next slide. So the way to think about this is if you do these uh so this separates right e to the j sum is e to the j1 plus e to the j2. So I can I can uh write this more simply as x of t1 t2 eus j omega 1 t1 dt1. So then I can integrate that eus j omega 2t2 dt2. This is the integral over the t1 variable. So if I think about doing the transform in steps, this is the integral I might say. So let's say that I had a my um let's say my original 2D thing was a square that I'd like to characterize as a T1 dependence and a T2 dependence. The way I think about the 2D transform, this thing says for each T2, treat T2 as a constant. For each T2, that's for each row, treat T2 as a constant and just take the Forier transform of the T1 direction. So what I do is I take I take the Forier transform of this and I put it here. But when I've done that, I've changed the t1 axis into an omega 1 axis because the result of integrating over t1 throws away the t1, but I'm left with an omega 1. And I didn't really change if I repeat that for all the different lines. I didn't really change this axis, which was t2. So it's still t2. All I've done now is taken a bunch of integrals in the middle. Now if I take the outer integral what I need to do is integrate over t2. So if I integrate over t2 uh so now I want to integrate this way. Now when I integrate out the t2 the t2 goes away. So I take fora transforms this way for each column in this space. I generate a new fora transform over here. and I repeat that doesn't change this one. This one is still omega 1. But then when I take the transform this way, I had a t2 that turns it into an omega 2. So I started with t1 t2 space. Take all the transforms row-wise, make a new array, take all the transforms column-wise, make a new array, and I end up with omega 1, omega 2. Okay. So if I do that, what's the transform? What's the two-dimensional transform? Uh what if I started with a vertical line? What if my spatial dependence had a vertical line in it? What would be the two-dimensional transform of a vertical line? Well, the rule says transform all the rows. What's the transform? What do I call that function? Shout. I'm deaf. So, let's say the line has a height of one and the background has a height of zero. So as I read across here, it's 00 0 1 0 exponential impulse impulse in the left. So when I take the transform, I get one I get constant. So I get a constant over here. And then I take this one. Same thing. Same constant, same constant, same constant. I end up with a constant over here. So this started out being delta of t1. This is a constant everywhere. So now when I take the uh if I take the columnwise transforms, what's the transform of a constant? It's an impulse. Where should the impulse be? Zero. So I end up when I do the omega 2 the t2 uh transforms I get a delta in omega 2. So I have omega 1 here and I have omega here. So I end up with a delta function like that. Then I do it again and I get one here and then I do it again and I get one here. So I end up with line. So vertical line in t1 t2 space turns into horizontal line in omega 1 omega2 space. Got it? It's all very simple, right? And if I do the same thing, if I did a horizontal line, it'll come out vertical. And if I do a diagonal line, it'll rotate 90. Okay, very cute. You all got it? So, the idea then is that there's a very natural generalization from a 1D transform to a 2D transform. And that's kind of fun, but it's also kind of important. So now for the important part. So this is a um a picture a diffraction grading a diffraction um um photo microraph done by Rosyn Franklin back about 50 years ago. She had taken DNA, I can't remember. I think it was from Gertafa, but I don't really remember. She had purified DNA and uh at that time lasers were not this size lasers. Oh, actually she used X-rays. She used a source of coherent light from an X-ray. So it's not even a laser. It was X-rays. She fired coherent X-rays at uh DNA. So she had just a big glob of DNA and took this picture. And it was pretty and pretty confusing. By the way, just just so you know, this is an artifact. This is a hole in the in the photographic film. So the idea was coherent source of X-rays, sample of DNA into a photographic emulsion. Develop it, you get this. So it's very similar to the defraction grading experiment that I did, except that the target was not a diffraction grading. It was not a CD. It was not a DVD. It was DNA. The cute thing is that Watson and Crick, she showed this to Watson and Crick who were the geniuses at so many different levels is absurd. Uh, and especially Watson knew all about 4A transforms. And so he saw that and immediately was able to interpret it as telling him something about uh the threedimensional structure of DNA. In particular, if you think about our modern view of DNA, you can make an association between the structure of the DNA and this picture. So there's a high frequency band. So if you imagine that what you're seeing is three bright points from a diffraction pattern like I showed previously, this and this represents a high frequency. This represents DC. So the distance between DC and the high frequency is telling you something about the inverse distance between base pairs. The highest frequency in the uh X-ray picture the uh uh is inversely related this highest frequency is inversely related to the distance between the base pairs. the fact that there's this high frequency this these u closer spaced frequencies those are actually lower frequencies right because they're closer to zero we're in the far field right so we're in the frequency domain big frequency small frequency the fact that we're seeing these small smaller frequency things here and they're periodic that means there's some structure at bigger spacing which Watson and Crick interpreted as the pitch of the double helix. Okay, so the the helix is twisting. This is a modern picture and it fits very nicely with the with the picture that um Rosen uh Rosen Franklin uh made and the angles the fact that there's a an axis here. The reason for going through all this junk was to motivate the idea that there's an angle transformation in a two dimensional transform tool. In fact, angles in space get rotated 90° when they're in frequency. So the angle between these solid lines tells you something about the angle that the helix makes as it's wrapping around. So you can easily make a 03 model of this experiment. And that's what this is here. All I've taken is a trivial model. I just made a wire frame that had u base pairs arranged as um a rotating spiral just like a spiral staircase. Then that was a three-dimensional picture. Then I just flattened it. And then I took the two-dimensional 4A transform and got that So got it. So the idea was I made a trivial model for what DNA should look like according to a modern conception took the two-dimensional forier transform and what you can see there is all of the features that you can see in uh Roslin Franklin's uh picture. You can see the big band that corresponds to the base pairs. You can see the smaller bands that correspond to the twist. And you can see the angle that corresponds to the angle of the double helix. So the point then is just that there's a lot of physical phenomena besides the signal processing things which we're very interested in. There's actually a lot of physical phenomena that also uh have intrinsic meaning within a 4A domain and optics is a very important example of that. Okay. Uh see you later. Have a good day.