The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Are we ready with the concept questions from the homework this week? How do we get different? There we go. I looked at one, it was one thing. I looked at the other, it was the other. Does G enter into the expression for the undamped natural frequency? And most people said no, but about a third of you said yes. So that's the that if you've worked on that problem now, you've already discovered the answer. You'll find that G does not come into the expression when you do a pendulum. G is in the expression and there's a question on the homework about what's the difference. How can you predict when G is going to be involved in a natural frequency expression and when it is not? So I want you to I def I want you to think about that one a bit maybe talk about it at there's still questions about it we talk about in recitation on Thursday Friday. Okay. So does G enter into the expression here? Sure. You know this the simple pendulum the natural frequency square root of G over L. For a simple mass spring dash potbot the natural frequency is K over M whether or not it's affected by gravity. So there's something different about these two. Okay let's go on to the third one. In an experiment, the system given initial velocity observed a decay in amplitude of vibration by 50% in 10 cycles. You can estimate the damping ratio to be approximately what? Well, it gives a little rule of thumb I gave you last week. I'll go over it again today. 0.1 divided by the number of cycles to decay 50%. So, if it took 10 cycles, 0.11 divided by 10.01 1.1% damping. Okay. Next. At which of the three excitation frequencies will the response magnitude be greatest? You've done you've you've done uh oscillators excited by cosine omega t kind of things before. So at the ratio one most people said it's where it would be the largest. Why at one? Anybody want to give a shot here? What happens when the you drive the system at its natural frequency? resonance. It's called resonance. We're going to talk about that today. So, it's when the frequency ratio is one that uh and for the system being lightly damped that you get the largest response. Finally, which one are we on here? Oh, this one. Can all of the kinetic energy be accounted for by by an expression of the form I Z omega squared? Is there any that certainly accounts for some that's by the way I brought this system if you haven't so this is a really simple demo but it has all sorts of so in this case we're talking about that motion certainly has some omega squar kind of kinetic energy but does the center of gravity translate as it's oscillating What's the potential energy in the system? This by the way, anytime you get an oscillation, there's an exchange. Energy flows from potential to kinetic to potential kinetic. That's what oscillation is. So there has to be an exchange going on between kinetic energy and potential energy. And if there's no losses in the system, the total energy is constant. Okay? So the kinetic energy certainly in the motion but when it reaches maximum amplitude what's its velocity when it's right here zero. So all of its energy must be where in the potential and where's the potential in the system pardon the string in the string doesn't not stored in the string. There's only two sources of potential energy we talk about in this class. Gravity and springs. Well, these strings don't get don't stretch. So, there's no spring kinetic energy there. Potential energy. There must be gravitational potential energy. How is it getting how is it coming into the system? So, he says when it's when it when it turns the center of gravity has to raise up a little bit and that's the potential energy in the system. The center of gravity goes up and down a tiny bit. So is there any velocity in the vertical direction? Is there any kinetic energy associated with up and down motion? Yeah. So that doesn't entirely capture it. 1/2 I omega squ. Is it an important amount of energy? I don't know. But there is some velocity up and down. I guess my guess is that it actually isn't important. But it the answer is it does move up and down. It has to or you would not have any potential energy exchange in the system. Okay. Next. Is that it? Okay, let's keep moving here. Got a lot of fun things to show you today. Let's uh So, last time we talked about uh response to initial conditions. I'm going to finish up with that and then go on to talking about excitation of harmonic forces. So, last time we were considering a system like this. X is measured from the zero spring force in this case gives you an equation of motion of that sort. And we found that you could express x of t as AI give you the exact expression x knot 1 - zeta^ 2 cosine omega damped time time minus a little phase. angle and there's a second term here v 0 over omega d sin omega dt and the whole thing times e to the minus zeta omega nt. So that's our response to an initial deflection x0 or an initial velocity v 0. That's the full kind of messy expression. There's another way of writing that which I'll show you. Another way of saying is that it's an x knot omega d t plus v 0 plus zeta omega n x knot all over omega d sin omega d * t e to the minus zeta omega n t the same exponent that's this is your decaying exponential that makes it die out and so I've just rearranged some of these things there's no little phase angle in here now so you have just a cosine term that's proportional to x knot and a sine term which has both v 0 and x knot in it the x knot term if damping is small this term is pretty small because it's x knot times zeta when you divide by omega d which is almost omega n that goes away so this term the scale of it is zeta ome zeta x knot so if this is one or two% that's a very small number so we used I gave you an approximation which for almost all practical example examples that you might want to do make an approximately sign here. So this is just x knot cossine plus v 0 over omega d sin omega d t e to the minus zeta omega n t and this is the practical one you can use for any any reasonable system has relatively low damping even 10 or 15% damping you get part of the transient decay comes from X knot cosine the other part V KN over omega D sign and that's for all that's what I remember in my head when I'm trying to do it now the question the thing I want to address today is you know what's this useful for what I my approach to teaching you vibration is I want you to go away with a few simple under practical understandings so that you can actually solve some vi solve some vibration problems and one of them is just knowing how knowing this allows you to do a couple things and we'll do a couple of examples this morning. Um by the way this form this is some a cosine plus b sign expression and I labeled them a and b a and b they're both of the form A1 cosine omega t plus b1 sin omega t. And you can always add a s and a cosine at the same frequency. I put just any frequency here. They just have to be the same. You can always take an expression like that and rewrite it as some magnitude cosine omega t minus a phase angle. And the magnitude is just a square root of the sum of the squares a1 2 + b1 2 and the phase angle the tangent inverse of the sign term over the cosine term. So you can always rewrite s plus cosine as a cosine omega t minus v. We use that a lot in that'll be used a lot in this course. And then of course if this whole thing is multiplied by an e to the minus a omega nt then so is this. Okay. Okay. What are these things useful for? And we've derived this all for a mass spring system. Is that equation applicable to a pendulum? So, uh this this expression is applicable to any single degree of freedom system that oscillates. You just have to ex exchange a couple things. So let's think about a simple pendulum. So our the common massless string and a bob on the end some length L. The equation of motion and this is point A up here. IZ with respect to A theta dot plus M G L sin theta equals Z. That's the equation of motion with no damping. That's the equation of motion of the system. Is it a linear differential equation? No. And to do the things that we want to be able to do in this in this course like vibration with harmonic inputs and so forth, we need we want to deal with linear equations. So one of the topics for today is linearization. So this is one of the simplest examples of linearization. We need a linearized equation and we need to remember in a couple of approximations. So sine of theta you can do a tailaylor series expansion. theta - theta cubed over 3 factorial plus theta 5 over 5 factorial plus minus and so forth. And cosine of theta is 1 - theta^ 2 / 2 factorial plus theta 4 over 4 factorial and so forth. So what we say what what do we mean when we linearize something? So linearization means that we're essentially assuming the variable that we're working with is small enough that the right hand side an adequate approximation of this function is to keep only up to the linear terms on the right hand side for sign the the term raised to the one power that's the linear term. This is a cubic term and a fifth order term. We're going to throw those away and say this is close enough. For cosine, it's 1 minus theta^ squ. We throw these away. The small angle approximation for cosine is it's equal to one. Okay, so that's really that's the simplest example of linearization of a um of a nonlinear term. So when you linearize this equation of motion, we end up with I zz with respect to a theta dot plus mg l theta equals z. And we can get our familiar natural frequency for a boab as root of g over l. So we need linearization to be able to do pendulum problems. Okay. And maybe let's do an example here. I've got a pendulum that we'll we'll do an experiment with this morning. But you know, 30° is about out like that, right? 17° is about like that. That's quite a bit of angle. is that small in the sense that I'm linearizing this equation. So 17 degrees happens to be um I'll use this here and it's actually 17.2° 2° = 0.3 radians. Sine of.3 is 2955. And if we fill out look at these terms, the lead term here is three. Plug in the.3 minus and the second term when you f when you cube.3 and divide it by six the second term is minus my number here and if you subtract that from this you get exactly this. So to four decimal places, you only need two terms in this series to get exactly the right answer. This thing out here, this fifth order term is really tiny. But the approximation, if we say, okay, let's skip this. We're saying that 3 is approximately 0 2955. Pretty close. So up to, you know, 17 degrees.3 radians, that's a great approximation. So it's a little high by about I think it's about one one and a half% high. So for pretty large angles for pendula uh the that simple linearization works just fine. Okay. Okay, once we get it linearized, that equation of motion is of exactly the same form as the one up there. We don't have any damping in it. We could add some damping. Could put a damping in here, call it with a torsional damper, CT theta dot. And now that equation is exactly the same form as the linear oscillator. linear meaning translational oscillator has an inertia term, a damping term, a stiffness term. It's a second order linear differential equation, homogeneous linear differential equation. Nothing on the right hand side because they're exactly the same form. Then the solution for decay transient decay from initial conditions takes on exactly the same form except it has an initial angle theta 0 and I'll use the approximation here cosine omega d t plus theta 0 dot the initial velocity over omega d sin omega dt all times eus zeta omega n t. So that's the exact same transient decay equation but now cast in angular terms. And if you wanted to express it as uh a cosine omega t minus v, then the a would be this squar plus this squared square root. And the fee would be a similar calculation as we have up there somewhere here. Just the b term over the a term. Tangent inverse. All right. What's it good for? So I use this this equation gets used quite a lot as a some practical uses. I'll show you. Um, let's do an example. A little more complicated pendulum. My stick maybe. Center of mass there. AI Z with respect to A. We'll call it uh ml cubed over three for a slender rod. And now what I want to do is I have coming along here a mass a bullet has mass m has velocity vi for initial here and that's its linear momentum p initial and it's going to hit this stick and embed in it. So, you've done this problem before. Yeah. Pardon? ML cubed over three. That's the That's a ML ml. Good. I don't know where I was thinking cubed this morning. ML squared over 3. Good. Good catch there. Okay. So, we have it. It's mass moment of inertia. This is a pendulum. This bullet's going to come along. So this is exactly what I've got here. Get it in the picture. Yeah. So it's initially at rest. Come along and this paper, this clip here, it represents the bullet. So zooming along, hits this thing, sticks to it, and when it hits it, it does that. So then this thing after it hits, swings back and forth. So what's the response of this system to being hit by the bullet? Well, I claim you can do it entirely by evaluating response to initial conditions. But we need to use one conservation law to get there. So what's conserved on impact? Is linear momentum conserved on impact? How many think yes linear momentum conserved? How many think angular momentum's conserved? Good. You guys have learned something this this year. That's great. Why is linear momentum not conserved? Because are there any possible other external forces on the system? At the pin joint, you can have reaction forces here and there you there you have no control of them. But the moments about this point, are there any external moments about that point during the impact? No. They're reaction forces, but there's no moment arm. So there's no moments. So you can use conservation of angular momentum. So h1 I'll call it here with respect to a is just uh r cross p i and the the r is the length in the i direction. P's in the j direction. So the momentum is in the k. So this should be m v initial * uh l and its direction is in the k direction. So that's the initial angular momentum of the system with respect to this. This has no initial angular momentum because it's motionless. And since angular momentum is conserved then h two we'll call it with respect to a has got to be equal to h1 with respect to a and that will then be i zz with respect to ata dot right but I need to account for the mass this thing. So the total mass moment of inertia with respect to A is IZ with respect to A plus M what? Now I've got the total mass moment of inertia with respect to this point that of the stick plus that of the initial mass that I've stuck on there. And this must be equal to theta dot and I'll put a knot down here because I'm looking for my equivalent initial condition. And this then is m v initial uh time l. And I solve for theta dot zero. And that looks like m v initial l over i z a plus m l 2. and everything on the right hand side. You know, you know the initial velocity, the mass of the bullet, the length of the distance from the pivot, mass moment of inertia, and the additional mass moment of inertia. These are all numbers you plug in and you get a value for this. And once you have a value for this, uh you can use that in this problem. What's uh theta zero? the initial def angular deflection at time t0 plus right after the bullets hit it. And why has And it hasn't moved because it hasn't had time to move yet, right? It takes velo at some velocity. It takes finite time to get a a deflection. So there's zero initial angular deflection, but you get a step up in initial angular velocity. And so the only the response of this system is theta of t is theta0 dot over omega d sin omega dt. So what's omega d? Remember I didn't remember. I'll define a few things here. In this case, this is CT over 2 I Z A plus little M L squar. We have to deal with all the quantities after the collision. 2 time omega N. That's the damping ratio for this torsional pendulum. For this pendulum, it's the damping constant 2 * the mass the inertial quantity time omega n for a for a translational system at c / 2 m omega n. For a rotate for a pendulum system, it's the torsional damping over 2 * the mass moment of inertia times omega n and omega n. Well, like for is going to in to calculate the natural frequency, it's just mgl divided by i zz plus this. Maybe ought to write that down. So always for a simple single degree of freedom oscillator you want the undamped natural frequency. Ignore the damping term. Take the stiffness term coefficient here and divide it by the inertial coefficient. But we care about the natural frequency after the impact. So this is going to be ah trouble is here I don't know for this system I haven't worked out yet what this term looks like what is it this was this this result right here is for the simple bob for this stick it's mg l over2 plus the little m* l messy So m g l / 2 plus little m l that'll be the come from the potential energy in the system all over i zz a + ml 2. So you get your natural frequency out of that expression. Okay. So you know we've talked you do this problem sometimes before you when when you do say somebody asks you how high does it swing and so forth. Well you can do it by uh conservation of energy etc. But now you have actually the exact expression for the time history of the thing after it after the impact including the effects of damping. And if you were to draw the result of this function of theta as a function of time, this one starts with no initial displacement but a velocity and does this. That's your exponential decay envelope. And this is time. Okay. Now what? Yeah. Excuse me. Why? This one. Excuse me. Forgot the G. I mean it accounts for the restoring moment. The additional little bit of restoring moment that you get from having added the mass of this thing to it. Right? So it has by itself mg l sin theta and we linearize it too. So it's mg l theta and those two terms would add together. So you just have a second term here that that looks like m has mgl like behavior. Okay. The most how I most often personally make use of expressions like this or the one for translation is because experimentally if I'm trying to predict the vibration behavior of a system one of the things you want to know is the damping. And one of the simplest ways to measure damping is to give a system an initial deflection or initial velocity and measure its decay. and from its decay calculate the damping. So the um last time I gave you an expression for doing that and that was uh damping ratio 1 over 2 pi time the number of cycles that you count that you watch it times the natural log of x of t over x of t + n period. periods of vibration. That's called this has a name. It's called the logarithmic decrement this thing. So when somebody says log decrement, that's where they're referring to this expression. And um let's comment about this. In this expression, x of t must be zero mean. If this if your measurement of we have x of t here or theta of t, they must be zero mean. It must o be oscillations around zero or you have to have subtracted the mean to get it there. Because if this is displaced and is oscillating around some offset, then this calculation is going to get get really messed up. It's got an offset plus an offset here, plus an offset there, and it means it's totally meaningless. So, you must remove the mean value from any time history that you go to do this. Now, there's so there's an easier way, the same expression, and this is in fact the way I use this. I'll plot out like you know just you know your data acquisition grabs it plots it for you. I take this value from here to here and this is my peakto peak amplitude. And then I go out n cycles later and find the peakto peak amplitude. And so this is perfectly this is just the same as one over 2 pi n but now you do uh natural log of x peak to peak at t over x peak to peak at t + n periods and that that now peakto peak measurement you totally ignore the mean doesn't matter where you are you want the here to here to here. Plug it in there and you're done. Okay. So, let's I got one, two, three, four. Let's let n equal four. And let's assume this expression here then is 1 / 2i * 4. And let's assume that in these four periods from that's one period 2 3 4 and getting out here to this fourth four periods away that this is 15th the initial. So this would be the natural log of five. So 1 over 2 pi * 4 natural log of five. And you run the numbers, you get 0.064 or what we call 6.4% damping. So that's how you do that's that's the way you do calculation like that. Now I gave you a quick rule of thumb for estimating damping and this is what I I don't I can't work I don't do logs in my head but I can do damping estimates without that because I know that zeta is also I just plug in some numbers here and run them all in advance is.11 divided by the number of cycles to decay 50%. So, we're going to do an experiment and I guess it can be seen in camera. So, here's my pendulum and I've tri this is my initial amplitude and this is about half. So, if I take this thing over here like that and let go and count the cycles that it takes to decay halfway, we can do this experiment. So, let's do it carefully. So, I'll line it up like that and you're going to help me tell you count how many cycles it takes till it gets to here. So, one 2 8 about eight cycles. So, it decayed halfway in eight cycles. So, zeta is approximately.11 over 8. It's 1 and a.5% 1.4%. 4% something like that. Okay, perfectly good estimate of damping. Now, got a stopwatch here. Going to do this experiment again. I want you to count. You're doing the counting. And I'm going to say start. And I want you to count cycles until I say stop. And I'll probably stop on 10 to make the calculation easy. So you quietly to yourself, count the number of cycles from the time I release it until the time I stop. Come back here. Okay. So this time the backdrop doesn't matter. We're just uh I just want you to count cycles and I'll start I'll let it get going and when it comes back to me is when I'm going to start the stopwatch because I have a hard time doing them both at the same time. So start How many cycles? So I got 17.84 for 10. So 10 per divided by 10 is 1.784 cycles uh seconds per cycle. Can't write like that. 1.784 seconds per cycle. The frequency would be one over that. Right? Thing you have to be careful about when you're counting cycles is if I start here that's zero. One, two. Very common human mistake is when you're counting something like this to say one when you start and then you're going to be off by one count. Follow me. If I start zero, one, two. So, I start the clock on zero, but the first cycle isn't completed till one whole cycle later. So, be careful how you count. Okay. Now, we're going to shift gears and take on a new topic, and that's the response to a harmonic input some cosine omega t excitation. Yeah. What is omega d. So it's called it's the damped natural frequency is how it's referred to. It is the frequency you observe when you do an experiment like we just did. The actual oscillation frequency when it's responding to initial conditions is slightly different from the undamped. But if you have light damping, if you have even 10% damping 0.1 squared is 0.01. That's.99 square root is.995. So you're only off by half this. They're only half a percent difference. So for lightly damp systems, for all intents and purposes, mega n and mega d are are almost exactly the same. Okay, we now want to think about we have a linear system putting a force into it that looks like some f cosine omega t. And out of that system, we measure a response x of t. And inside this box here is my system transfer function. It's the mathematics that tells me I could take f of t in and predict what x of t out is. So I need to know the information that goes into this box. And of course the real system, this is just the mechanical system. Force in, measured output out. This is what we call a single input single output system. SISO single input single output linear system. And there's all sorts of linear systems that you're going to study as mechanical engineers and you've already begun, I'm sure, studying some of them. One of the one of the properties of a linear system is if you put a force in F1 and measure a response out X1 and then you try a different force F_sub_2 and you measure the response out X2, what's the response if you put them both in at the same time, F1 and F_sub_2, you just add the the responses to them individually. So f_sub_1 gives you x1, f_sub_2 gives you x2, f_sub_1 plus f_sub_2 gives you x1 plus x2. And that's one of the characteristics of a linear system. And we use it to we use that concept to be able to separate the in the response our calculations about the response of a system like our oscillator here. Separate its response due to transient effects. Transients being initial conditions. they die out over time. That's why we call them transients and steady state effects. So cosine omega t you can leave it running for a long long time and pretty soon the system will settle down to responding just to that cosine omega t and that we call that we call steady state and we we use them separately. So we've done initial conditions. Now we're going to look at the steady state response of a say our oscillator or mass spring dash pot to a harmonic input f cosine omega t. Another brief word. If I have a force f cosine omega t would look like that. And the response that I measure to start off with might um it's sitting here at zero when you turn this on and it's going to do some odd things initially and then eventually settle down to some long-term steady response. The amplitude stays constant. its phase angle with respect to the input isn't necessarily the same. There's some possibly phase shift and that's so the two if you're plotting them together they won't line up. See this messy stuff at the beginning? When you first turn this on, it jumps from here to here that force you and it gives it a kick to begin with. And this will have some response initially due to that transient startup. And this response is all modeled by the response to initial conditions. And it'll die out after a while. This messy stuff. What's the frequency? What what frequency do you do you expect this initial look erratic looking stuff to be at? It's response to initial conditions. What is the model for response to initial conditions? What's the frequency of the response to initial conditions of a single degree of freedom system? We have equation over here, right? up at the top has a cosine term and a sign term. Part of his response to initial displacement, part of his response to initial velocity. Any of this startup stuff can be cast as initial conditions. And the response to initial conditions is always at the damp natural frequency. Period. No other frequencies for a single degree of freedom system. So you get a behavior that is oscillating at its natural frequency. mixed in there is response at the excitation frequency and after a long time the response is only excitation frequency. This is now out here. This is omega in here. You have omega and omega d going on. So this is messy. Usually isn't important. If it is, there are ways of getting the exact solution. But mostly vibration engineers, you're introd what we call a harmonic input. Okay. I don't want that. So we'll work a classic the classic single degree of freedom oscillator problem excited by fot cosine omega t. have done this in but now we'll do it using engineering terminology and look at it the way a person studying vibration would think about this. We know the equation of motion and I'm interested in the steady state response. So this is X and I'll do just write it once like this. SS steady state I'm only interested in it's after those transients have died out. And that steady state response I know is going to be some amplitude x knot cosine omega t minus some phase angle that I don't necessarily know to begin with. But that's my input. This is my output. I plug it into here and turn the crank and see what falls out. So, so you plug both of those in and you get two you get this going to be a little writing intensive for a few minutes. So you plug the x knot cosine omega t into all of these terms. The m term gives you minus m omega^ 2. The K term gives you a K. And the damping term minus C omega sine omega t minus V. All of that equals the right hand side f cosine omega t. So this just purely from substitution and then gathering some terms together. So I'm going to I'm going to divide I'm going to divide through by k by k. If I divide through by k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k divid this give me a one. This gives me an m over k which is 1 over the natural frequency squared for example. And I'm going to put this into a form that is the standard form for discussing vibration problems. And so this equation can be rewritten in this form. 1 - omega^ 2 over omega n^ 2 cossine omega t minus v - 2 zeta omega over omega n sin omega t minus v. All that's still equal to fot cosine omega t. So this is getting into kind of more standard form. Say 1 minus omega. This now this omega over mega n is called the frequency ratio. We're going to see a lot of that. And I've substituted in here c omega over k turns out to be 2 zeta omega over omega n. So this frequency ratio appears a lot in our Let's see here. Now, you need I'm going to you need a couple of trig identities. cosine omega t minus v cossine omega t cossine v plus sin omega t sin v and sin gives you remember my sin omega t cosine v minus sin v. So that's a trig identity you actually use quite a bit doing vibration problems and we need them. So we take these plug them in in all these places and do quite a bit of cranking. Yep. Uh yeah, thank you. And that that's called that F over K is how much the spring would move statically. How much the point would move statically. We'll get to we'll need that term also. Okay, you do all of this. Now I'll call these Okay. So this is C. That's expression C. You can't see that probably call this D this E. So you put you plug D and E into C and work it through you get two equations. You get two you break it into two parts because one is a function of cosine omega t. Then you have another part after the substitution that's a function of sin omega t and you can separate them. But there's no sin omega t force on the right hand side to get zero. Got two equations here. How many unknowns do we have? All we know when we start this thing is we is the input and we now have two we have the we have unknown response amplitude and we have an unknown phase that we're looking for how many equations how many unknowns two and two so you can do a lot of cranking which I have no intention of doing here and solve for the amplitude of the response and the phase this. Okay. And every textbook, the Williams textbook does this. There are two readings posted on uh on stellar by Ralph. Every textbook goes through these derivations that I've just done. Nick, you got a question. Pardon? Yeah, I keep forgetting it. You're right. So, you got a K here. And notice this equation. We can throw away that for now. We get rid of this for now. We have two these two equations and two unknowns are just algebraic equations and they're not time dependent. We can get rid of that part. So we've now reduced this to algebra and the answer and that's the answer's plotted up there. You've probably seen it before says that x0 is f over k. Okay, I get it right this time from the get-go over a denominator which appears again and again and again in vibration. Omega^ 2 over omega n^ 2 squared plus 2 zeta omega over omega n square root whole thing and an expression for fe tangent inverse of 2 zeta omega over omega n 1 - omega^ 2 over omega n^2. So you can solve all that mess over here for these two quantities. Do I do you need to remember this? Are you ever going to find you're going to ever going to be asked this on a quiz? Not by me. You're ever going to have to use this on a quiz and in homework? Absolutely. So this the takeaway is today know how to use those response to initial condition formulas and damping and these two. So when you plot when you plot these you get this picture up there and we need to talk about the properties of this. Remember this omega over omega n is this thing called a frequency ratio. It's just a ratio of the excitation frequency to the natural frequency of the system. And when they're equal, for example, this ratio is one. This whole thing in parenthesis goes to zero. This this expression over here goes to 2 zeta because that's one. 2 zeta^ 2 root is just 2 zeta at when omega= omega n. This whole expression is f over k / 2 zeta for example. And that's called resonance. And that's when you're right at where that peak goes to its maximum. We need let's talk about this expression for a moment. If you have a uh we have our cart, our mass spring dash pot. We started here. If you apply a force, a static force fot, it'll stretch the spring by an amount f over k. So x we'll call x static is just fnot over k. And if I I want to plot I want to this has a name. This is called this ratio here just gives you the magnitude of the response. It it goes by a variety of names. Some people call it a transfer function. Some people call it a frequency response function. I write it this is I write it intentionally this way. This is I put output over input because this this expression has units of output over input. So I just write it like this. Remember myself what remind myself what this transfer function is about. The input is force. The output is displacement. This expression has units of force force per unit displacement. If I go to here, if I try to plot this, let me start over. If I try to plot this, it's going to be depend on the exact value of the spring constant and the exact value of the force every time. I'll have to draw get a unique plot every time I go to do this. So textbooks and engineers, you know, I don't want to have to remember this part. This is where all of the content is in is in this denominator and it's dimensionless. So what I'd really like to plot is x knot over x static. And if I do that that is x knot over the quantity f over k. If I just divide this is xstatic. If I bring this to this side then this expression this is just one over that denominator. And sometimes I think in the text the handout by Ralph they just call this h of omega it's dimensionless frequency over frequency and that's actually what's plotted up there the uh and this is called has different names also magnification factor dynamic amplification factor because the ratio of x toxic If uh this is the dynamic effects magnify the response compared to the static response. So it might be this over this might be 10. It means the dynamic response is 10 times the static response. Okay. How do you to sum this up and we'll be getting close to the end. We want to talk just about the properties of this. How do we use this? So in practical use, you have an input specified some force cosine omega t. You know, you have a single degree of freedom oscillator that is governed by equations like that one. And you want to predict the response. Well, you say x of t is equal to the magnitude of the force times the and you divide that by we could do it this way the the magnitude of the force divided by K which is the static response to get To predict x knot, we just have to take this quantity and multiply it by fnot over k. So you know this, you better know that about your system. And you multiply it by this quantity magnitude of h of omega. And the whole the time dependent part is times cosine omega t minus the phase angle. And the phase angle you get either off the plot or from the uh if I written it down. I haven't written the phase angle down yet. It's kind of a messy expression, too. That's why we plot it. 2 zeta omega over omega n all over 1 - omega^ 2 over omega n^ 2. But by knowing just this plot which you just put in every textbook about vibration in the world. By knowing this transfer magnification factor calculating the static response multiplying the two together you have the the amplitude of the response. And its time dependence is cosine omega t minus the phase angle. And I've got a little example here. Actually, rather than the example, I've gone to all the trouble of setting this up. All right. This is just a beam. Where's my other little beam? And a beam is just a spring. Put a mass on the end. This is basically a single degree of freedom system. It has a natural frequency. The beam has a certain stiffness. Okay. And now I'm in this case we're interested in response to some harmonic input. So anybody of you any of you know what a squiggle pen is? This is a kid's toy. Yeah. So, all throughout the term, we've studied rotating masses quite a bit, right? This thing has a rotating mass. So, you could see in the end, maybe when you leave today, you come down, take a look. It has a little rotating mass. It's actually a pen. It was a kid's toy. Shakes like crazy. And now we need the lights down. And it happens that the uh so I've got a strobe light here and I've kind of preset the frequency so it's very close to the frequency of vibration of this beam. So this there's a rotating mass in this pen going round and round and it puts a force into the system that looks like f cosine omega t in the vertical direction. also does it in horizontal but vertical is our response direction. So it's putting in a force and I have set the length of this of this beam so that the natural frequency of this beam with his mass on the end is exactly or very close to being the frequency of the excitation. So this and I have the flash rate is slightly different than the vibration rate. So you see it illuminated at many positions as it goes through the cycle. So you see it going up and down. So if I mismatch it quite a bit then you see it go and you actually if you look at the very right end you can see a white thing going round going up and down. That's the mask. You can actually see the mass in the very end of the right there. You can see something going around and around there. That's the rotating mass. So, the beam is going up and down. And I've got this this the vibration frequency of that mass going round and round equal to the natural frequency of the beam with the mass on the end. Now, if I and it's moving quite a bit. I'm going to loosen my clamp and I change the length of the beam. I've shortened it and now the it's still moving up and down but not as much because the frequency of vi of the rotation of the eccentric mass is no longer close to the natural frequency of the system. So where are what? In fact, I've made the natural frequency of the system. You can bring the lights back up. system by making the beam shorter. I've made it stiffer. So the natural frequency has gone up. The frequency of the rotation of the eccentric mass has stayed about the same. So what's happened to that frequency ratio? Omega over omega n. So less than one or greater than one. So the omega n has gone up. Omega stayed the same. You're now less you're your the frequency ratio when you shorten this beam is less than one. And the properties of the mag this transfer function we call it or this magnification factor looks like this. When we're exciting it right at one, this is omega over omega n, you're right at resonance. When you excite it at a frequency ratio less than one, you start dropping off this back side and the response goes down. And we could do and if you excited at frequencies much greater than the natural frequency, you end up way out here. And I can do that, too. So, how much do you think it will vibrate now? A lot. A little. Hardly. Whoops. Oh, I brought it out so much you can't see it. Hardly moving at all. And that's because in terms of this this terminology of magnification factors, transfer functions. This is a plot of x overx static. It goes to right here. When you go to zero frequency, you are at static. So the response the response at very very low frequencies goes to being the same as the static frequency. So on this plot it goes to one at resonance you put in one here this goes to zero that becomes a one 2 zeta squared this height here is 1 over 2 zeta that's so the dynamic amplification at resonance is just one over two times the damping ratio if you have 1% damping twice that is O2 one over2 is 50. So if you only had 1% damping, the dynamic amplification, the amount that this vibrates greater than its static response is a factor of 50 greater. But then as you go higher in this omega over omega n, then you get way out here and you get almost no vibration at all. And that's what's happened when I've lengthened this. Okay. Okay, that's so there's your introduction to linear systems. In this case, a single degree of freedom system that vibrates an oscillator. We're talking about steady state response, not the part of the solution, the mathematical solution to initial conditions. So all of this has been about steady state response of our simple oscillator to what we call a harmonic in input f cosine omega t and what so what's important that you need to remember and be able to use this concept here you know this idea of a transfer function that's really important you might want to remember it though as this dimensionless quantity X overX static. Just remember the shape of this transfer function. Magnitude of the D amplification 1 over two zeta at resonance, you know, goes to one at low frequency. The high frequency it gets drops way off. Next time we're going to talk pick up the topic of what we call vibration isolation. The practical thing to know as engineers is you is uh when you have a significant vibration problem like in a lab and you're looking through your microscope and the floor vibration is causing trouble with your microscope and you can't move the subway. What can you do to solve that problem? Well, you might be able what if you put some kind of a flexible pad under the microscope. you might be able to reduce the vibration of the microscope. Okay, things like that. That's the part that is the topic of vibration isolation. So, we're going to get into that next time. Thanks.