The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, enough about the knowledge of the past. Be it me, be it memory or history. We in a very interesting space-time capsule. We have the possibility of imagining the future or at least contemplating more and more about how one might use even geometry to associate with minimizing the obstacles of the future. And we also have the capacity to look backwards using many techniques as showed in these examples. This should produce a much richer set of ideas of urbanism than modernism. It will depend on the genius of individual interpreters given this new scale of things. What we're not seeing are overall theories of urbanism based on amalgamation of these two ideas. uh forwardlooking and backward looking. Maybe that'll happen. Maybe we're still too early. We switch now to a discussion of the relationship between public and private space. At first glance, the distinction between private and public space is simply a question of the difference between rights and obligations. You cannot park your car on my land because I have the right of ownership. But when we get to a parking lot on Mass Avenue, it's a contestation between two of us fighting for public use for the use of a publicly available space at any time. Sometimes we are very angry that we are beaten by a car which has gotten there first. But we have no rights. We only have rights to park if it's free. In the same way, we have rights of behavior in our private world which are not superintended by the law provided we don't hurt anybody or behave illegally. But if I grow marijuana in my garden, uh, and as long as it's seen as green space, it's okay. Um, there no rules in the Cambridge Historical Society's book, which says that you're not allowed to grow marijuana in your garden. There probably are other rules which prohibit that. Um there are a number of other distinction between between public and private and have been used at different times. I don't want to go into them. I simply want to look with you at a number of examples where the relationship between public and private is not so clear and where if you take a a matrix and have four headings to your vertical columns. The four headings are use, ownership, access and meaning. Let's look at each of these categories and see what examples come to mind. Under the first which is use, use, ownership, access and meaning. Richard Sennet gives an example in London in the 18th century. It was impossible for investors in shipping and in trade to know the outcome of the ex of a of a shipping trip that they've invested in. There was no electronic communication. It took too long to write letters. The letters had to come by ship anyway. So, you didn't know if the pirates had got hold of the ship that was carrying silver back to Spain or whether the ship had been sunk in a hurricane. This knowledge was only capable of being transmitted verbally through human beings. So near the docks in London, a coffee bar grew up. The coffee bar was a private entity. You paid a penny to enter and sit down. You weren't able to. You had to sit anywhere that space was available. You couldn't reserve space. It was frequented by sailors who had this important information about their ships. So the wealthy and the poor managed to occupy the same space because of the importance of the information. What became of this place? Lloyds of London grew out of this coffee shop. The important thing is that an important public set of transactions could take place but under the shelter of a private institution. If we wish to put our body into public space, we need security. Security is often provided more by private institutions than by public. 30,000 people on a summer's night occupy the center of Boston only if they go to the Red Sox game. The Red Sox are private corporation with private security. MIT has its own security force. Harvard has it. The Christian Science said just going down Mass Avenue, you transact transsect uh number of private authorities. So there's a principle that the private sector provides a kind of in phenomenological and actual security for the actions of public need such as putting your body into public space for those people who criticized and they're endless. Hana for instance, Richard Senate criticized the modern world as being promoting isolation from the public world. Nar, narcissism, self preoccupation, people locked up in their own private quarters, fed by television and electronic systems and not hazarding the danger, if you want to call it, but the adventure, which is a better word, of immersing yourself into public space. So public space doesn't exist except in Roger Scrutin the British critics's argument that public space only exists in the street. All the rest is an affectation and an unnecessary affectation. The idea of creating a public space as a plaza is an affectation. It's true of contemporary Tokyo for instance. Public world exists in the dense stream of connections between functions. There's no tradition of public meeting space where it's been tried in the in the in front of the tall new Metropolitan City Hall building. It's a waste of time. We'll go into the history of public space in a few minutes. We still have time. So if we see that public use can be advent made more appropriate by private endeavor. We have a notion of sharing of use which has always been true in in urbanism. The agura which most of our arguments for public communication space rests on was a 37 acre piece of messy mixtures of monuments, temples, shoe makers, stoas where philosophers like Socrates sat and engaged young men, not young women, young men in discourse. Um even housing this is the space of democracy. Witchery the historian writes about it in the same way that I've just mentioned it as an as a highly dense elomeration of shoe makers, temples, monuments, none of which fit any cardinal pattern. There's no assemb of items in the buildings which reset in relation to any other. This is in one thesis done here by a master's smark student the result of a kind of democratic form of rhetoric which only allowed people to speak that's males and not women and not slave to take part in discourse through the use of a particular language. When it became necessary for people to meet and debate propositions later on, a meeting place called the PNIX was created separate from the Agura. The agura was this mixed domain. Aristotle rejected that in image of the agura. For him a public plane public place of meeting was a clean absolutely minimized environment. Uh I should read you the quotation from Yeah. The agro in Athens, far from being architecturally impressive, was a jumble of crowded downtown streets and irregular open spaces where shrines and altars, public buildings, and monuments stood in the midst of workshops, market stalls, and taverns. Agra was the haunt of the dregs of the populace, the home of idleness, vulgarity, and gossip. For Aristotle, the ideal public square were that all commercial activities and all merchant and vendors were would be exported to another part of the town. Nothing in the aggra may be bought or sold. No member of the lower order may be admitted and is summoned by the and so on and so on. So much of Aristotle's view of the public meeting space as opposed to the agura the Athenian Agra has become part of architectural dogma city hall plaza rests on an aristoilian assumption that there's something absolute about p public space which is satisfied by whenever we wish to immerse ourself. But in our in our metaphysical condition, we think of it as depicting our public environment in gracious and whole terms. The curious thing is the pattern the bipolar relationship between city hall plaza and Faniel Lord marketplace. Faniel Lord marketplace would be the agura in the ideal connection between the two. However, it's not. It's a singular high up market phenomenon totally driven by market conditions up market conditions. Uh so we start off with a notion of the public meeting place which derives from a unique setting for democracy in fifth century Athens and has maintained itself through deviations in under the Romans. There were no elevated platforms in Niagara for people to make speeches. If you spoke, you spoke from the same plane as everybody else. The Romans introduced in the forum places for people who were spokesmen, people who had particular ability to make political speeches or speeches which are not political but of a specialized nature. In the examples I'll show in the slides at the beginning of next class, you will see that the traditional many of the traditional public squares in small towns in Italy were simply based upon passageways through space, not culdeacs of space at all. I spent a year in Ais living in Aisi documenting the town and measuring pedestrian volumes. The patune is exactly that space. I'll show you in some illustrations. Um, in the post telephone era, the need for people to obtain communication by machine interpost systems has become another variable. What is the most significant public place built since 1920? anywhere. This is a part of an urban tradition after all. Have we stopped? But it's really hard to h it's really hard to say. Well, say six. The Highline Highline is a water is a is a old train track. Um Oh, you mean from scratch? No, I don't. I mean just anything which resembles a public square. They built one in Columbia Heights in DC in the early 2000s. That's been pretty successful. Yeah. Rockefeller Center is by far the best universally. It contradicts all the argument about public. It's the largest private investment in a city in history. Let me give you a few details. It's the largest privately held complex of its kind in the world. It's the largest private building project ever undertaken in modern times. It was bought. It was leased by John D. Rockefeller from Colombia University in 1928. It was completed was built between 1930 and 1939. In 1985, Colombia University sold the land beneath Rockefeller Center to the Rockefeller Group for $400 million. The entire complex was purchased by Mitubishi estate in 1989. In 2000, the current owner and so paid $1.85 billion dollars for the older buildings. This is an there could be nothing more private in ownership than Rockefeller Center. It provided the public with an open space. It provided the public with an underground concourse, shopping concourse. It added streets to the number of streets in the grid of Manhattan. And yet, it's a public space. So, does public space have to be owned by the public? I'm looking for examples of contradictions. simply to make our argument a little more interesting. Well, there's the famous court case, the Supreme Court case in the suburban mall in Portland, Oregon. I forget the details, but that's where I think you're not allowed to have a protest in the mall, even though it functions as a public space because it's private. So, you know, Rockefeller has more control over that space than a space that actually would be public. Yeah. I don't know about certainly Diego Rivera's mural was was removed uh and uh during the just before the 39 war Germany wanted to invest in Rockefeller center and built something called Deutsche House and that was turned down. Uh so the Rockefellers have played a very antiseptic attitude towards politics. I don't know what this present status would be. Security issues at the moment in America are probably so inflamed after Boston that uh you'd probably stop anybody carrying a knapsack for a while. Um, but to be more serious, I don't know about the limitations on public protest in New York. I should ask somebody. Um, I don't know of any history of the restriction of public protest in New York. It's a very open city. Well, with the protest, I mean, they started getting people in Iraq. Yeah, in that one too. I mean they would there was that famous that day before we invaded Iraq the second time there were protests all in cities all around the world and you saw you know most of that people gathered in plazas and in New York they had you pinned in you know they had all the streets blocked off with the um the popup fences didn't look very open. It raises another question which urbanistically is difficult to answer. Um we have city hall sitting on a plaza the mayor has said that he has actually thought of selling city hall plaza city hall not I don't know about the plaza do you feel more public when putting your body into space in Phileen's basement then you do in city hall plaza. If association with other people is the phenomenon which guides us from an self preoccupation to a sense of being or part of a human enlarged human race. part of the rhetoric of communication, stochastics and so on which Hana Arand makes a big fuss of in the human condition that we are different from animals. Uh I don't go to nor do I know anybody who goes to Boston City Hall or Plaza on a Sunday morning to negotiate with strangers. You do because you have too little else. Yeah. No, fair enough. You in a Cisi you will wander down to the patune because it's on your path somewhere else anyway. It's in the middle of a small town. Uh, and it's if there's any action. Secondly, the amount of private accommodation you've got is very small. Why do black kids in Baltimore play basketball in the street? Because they haven't got the space. They haven't got backyards to play basketball as you can in your own suburban garden. So there's all these connections. City or plaza should have been surrounded by dense housing. Most of the Rockefeller Center placed in De Moine, Iowa would not be the same as Rockefeller Center built on a grid of density plus income with Fifth Avenue right adjacent to it and part of a an extraordinary grid which pumps energy through all of the system much like your the the system of your articulation in your brain. Let's just look at some other examples. under the idea of control or axis. I pay taxes to maintain army camps and nuclear power stations and private domains which I don't claim access to but yet I own a fraction of it. What is public about me owning a part of the built environment but not being able to have access to it? I have much more access to shopping environments which are largely private. And I do too. Who guarantees access to all space? Independent of ownership. This is an a subject which Michael Soren tries to attack in his book. We terms shopping centers space to be a geographic where there's dissipation of stable relationships of loosening of ties to any specific place where there's nothing which is emanating from history. Everything is assets. A market doesn't produce any environment which has the resonance that is required for domain of public space. And lastly, the category of meaning. But just before we leave ownership, there's a category of psychological ownership which is very much part of the herabitation of your urbanism. If I had to ask you in Boston, what would be missed more? the Boston Celtics moving to Sacramento or City of Old Plaza being redeveloped. The one is an absolutely public phenomenon, especially the Celtics or private company. They they're only physical here in the sense they play 62 31 games a year in this in the town but the psychological ownership which is very again we go back to Rossi or not back to him necessarily but we get the sense that there are traces of understanding which we carry with us as human beings. which are not absolutely contingent. It's 5 to2. Let us talk a little bit about meaning. The federal courthouse in Boston is an interesting example. It faces the towards the sea which is a foodish kind of notion facing to lobstermen in the boats. The traditional courthouse in New England faces towards the town to a square opposed to a church or something of this kind. It's really weird because a courthouse here not only faces the seat, it has real good prime real estate that is off limits. It's heavily secured around as usual. Well, it has a McDonald's underneath it. Yeah. Underneath. Well, that's part of it. So, it's weird to stand in that little corner, that little tip, and look at what they have and then at the same time see nobody moving around because of the security around. Yeah. running places. It's it's badly configured in a number of ways, but there are there are private courouses in New England in Boston. In the State Street building, there are there are courouses which are purely private where you can settle civil suits by judges who are retired sitting in and you have to agree that you will. Now what is the difference between a public courthouse and a private courthouse? In contemporary s the private courthouse is lost in the build in the assemblage of this state street building. You could be going to visit your accountant instead of which you go to a courthouse which is not all you have to agree is to listen to take the judgment of you have it's a wonderfully beautiful environment he doesn't have the dsgs of the population have to go to a public courthouse I wonder how that would configure in cre's structure on. Okay. I've used the shorthand system of trying to connect us to some of the dilemmas of public and private life. The idea of solitude of removal from the public was considered madness in medieval society. You were you considered is insane or heroic. If you went on a trip without somebody else, without a group of people to build a to maintain your own private garden was considered as a very antisocial move. What caused us as a society to change from an extreme publicness and you read this book on Socrates in Athens, you are amazed at the sense of transparency. Socrates would be walking barefoot through the agura and a young man would come up to him and ask him something and he'd give a philosophical answer and the young man would be asking for where he could buy food. This intermering of the acceptance of remote speculation about life and everyday things is not part of our domain any longer. It may be in some places. Why did we invent solitude? Start with that question. Think about the answer to that question. We are blamed by Hana to Richard Senate and endless architects for not behaving more in public. I lived in a CC4 neck close to here measuring the whole town. This is a drawing an axonometric based on my measurements. That's some of the texture of part of the part of my purpose was after being at MIT as a student and teaching I got a Rome prize to study pedestrian movement in a small town. Next, this is the pat delun and those are the measurements of pedestrian flow at different times of the day. One of the things that is interesting was that there was always as the patun is the central plaza of the town. Aisi is a linear town. I just turn on the light for a second cuz I'm afraid you have to. It's got this mad system of turning it off in one place and turning it on in another place. He sees he's on the slope of a hill. The town consists of a set of public spaces linked across the grain and go along the contours with a major patzo or kimuna in the center because The land use is distributed throughout the town. There's as much chance of there being a destination here as a destination here. The volume of traffic moving this way through the center of the town is the same as the volume moving that way through the town. So the center of the town in a very dense non bulldozer kind of environment is a combination of platforms at different steepnesses. Patza with a San Rufino, Santa Kiara, San Francesco and so on forming the basis for the organization of the town into parishes and into neighborhoods. But essentially the meeting place is in a restricted town in the center and serves both as a pass through and as a place. The slide on the left is my crude attempt at lap timelapse photography of a burial of a soldier in the central plaza. Next, I stayed up in a tower above the plaza for many hours of the day and night and was struck by the fact that when there's nobody in the plaza, a small years of postman delivering mail, it still seems very well inhabited as opposed to when it was full with a crowd. It seemed appropriately sized. Next, traditionally the piaza, the Italian piaza um takes its form from a position of centrality or axis surrounded by dense in housing environments surrounded by a wall. This is a classic image of it plays out in different ways as the town is a bit bigger than this one. This is the paleio in Sienna. Um originally it is a place for festivals and for u animal games. Next, now it is a a large open space which twice a year hosts a paleio and a polio is a kind of medieval reconstruction of a ritual. It's a game in which the various components of the town compete in a race where a lot of money is now gambled. On the right is an example of the use of public space for private use. This is very typical in the Italian open space where land is leased from the public authority by the private in this case a restaurant. Next the paleio takes place in the pat delo. Here there are other significant places in the town. Just above it is the great cathedral and medieval hospital. People have fussed a lot about the emptiness of city hall or plaza and there are at least two thesis which have been written about it and two competitions to do something it. What is wrong with Boston city hall plaza? Say something. It has no active. There's no active what? Okay. There's no reason the building. The building is the problem. Why is the building a problem? Is one part of the problem. Okay. So, we've got a couple of ideas. The one is there's not enough housing density around the square. It's probably a good observation. In a decentralized city, why do you need a central square? Stubbornness. Yes. Archivalness. Yeah. It's that this was a good idea. historically, but it's misappropriated literally. It's taken out of another context and placed in one which doesn't serve it. Um there have been two attempts at solutions in competitions. The one is formal that is to do something formally. One of them was to continue Hannova Street from the north end through the plaza uh and to advocate some shopping along it. Uh others have proposed no formal intervention but only programmatic intervention. There's one famous one which puts a baseball diamond in the square. Um also I think the biggest difference is that uh in Sienna you the space it's like an interior space in an outdoor place because it's including and here the space just on the sides. Well, there there are city wall there's another tradition of open space which I'm not showing that is the creation of open space in front of important buildings. Uh in Aisi there they happen to be small open spaces plazas in front of each major church. this depends very much on the quality of the building that is being addressed and whether there's any real significance in the comfort of Sienna. The municipality has paintings from medieval times of the kumune. There's a sense that the this place is somehow to use a word from our first class that it's somehow centered. I'm using a word from the cosmic model centeredness. It's a met metaphysical con concept. Um in the case of the compo it is both and a CC it is both I repeat myself it is both an important functional path to connect and also a place which can serve both small and large functions. Next This is the underground of Rockefeller Center with a shopping mall and elevators and new roads and the rooftop condition which was even considered to have aerial bridges above and recreation events on the roof. So in Rockefeller Center this is public space below and above. Next This is the largest probably at its time the largest private building development in history. I don't know about the comparing it to the pyramids or whatever, but in modern times certainly it's part it's like a Cisci the square is part of the structure the geometry of the whole town. In this case, it fits into a grid system which it doesn't try to destroy but actually adds roads. So its adjacency to fifth avenue plus its surrounding of a high density and high income area make this square again a functionally appropriate commodity not a an attempt to symbolize something. Next attempts to this is on the left a project called urban design Manhattan some 25 30 years ago by a group who tried to argue that the way to deal with Manhattan was to see it as a three-dimensional system with vertical connections. private and horizontal connections public. The slide on the right is what you see of the sky at intersections in the grid plan of Manhattan. It's an attempt to argue that you that there is a logic to what you see in the sky between tall buildings. Next, the muteness of the departed World Trade Center and the attempt in Shanghai to have completely private activity dominate the scene. despite all of the attempts in the competition and the procedures of participation to replace the buildings on the left. The building which is result is the purely the result of the wishes of the Mr. Silverstein the developer. Next, the tall building is a modern icon which has often been seen as having perceptual value much like a cathedral dominated a medieval town. the tall building is the and uh the attempts to make them taller and taller. On the left is the is a building in Shanghai. On the right is Louis Khan's attempt to design a much shor lower building in Philadelphia. Next, the Saudi bank building in Jedha on the left and the attempt to make a tall building in Quadalumpur on the left as an Islamic building. An Islamic skyscraper is a paradox. Next, you've seen this project on the left. It's Melnikov's the entry into the Pravda competition in St. Petersburg with a rotating system. Um, and on the right, the 1922 Chicago Trivia Competition. This is the entry by Adolf Lewis. uh where it's difficult to explain in simple terms but it's its obviousness is one of its powers. Next, there's no legislation or design of the periph of the vertical ends of tall buildings as a system. I know of no city in the world which has an inventory. This is Houston on the right, Constantinople on the left. One might have thought that somebody would have had the idea that the geometry of the system of tall buildings would have some significance but I don't know any if you know of a city tell me which controls the form of the system of tall buildings. It's seen as one of the things that is not necessary to control. It's interesting because it's seen in many respects. When you have a river and you have green space, you see the profile of the city from a distance. Next, tall buildings are often used to project futurism. This is in the cover of an arch booklet on the right and a wonder story book on the left where the synchronicity of the transportation system creates the dynamic of the city. Next, there's another aspect, concealed aspect of the city. Much though it's vertical shape is uncontrolled, so is the below the level of the platform. This is a part view of the the workings under Herald Square in New York. And on the right is a Diego Rivera drawing called frozen assets which argues that under every city there are bodies locked up and dead bodies giving a kind of macab picture of the use of the bottom. You'll remember a picture I showed you of travel in the sewers of New of Paris tourist trips. Next, here are two examples in from Manhattan of the attempt to buy new office buildings on the Lever Brothers on the left and the Ford Foundation on the right to give the impression that they're creating public space. There's no market for the space underneath as I try to show you in a comparison of Fifth Avenue in Madison or Fifth Avenue and Park. Um, so it's very easy to give up the ground floor space in an office building as it was easy for Seam's building to set back in return for higher bulk. There's no public space under a tower. Richard Senate has written very critically of this device. The Ford Foundation puts a garden inside the building as if it's a public park. In fact, it's very curtailed as to its entry. Next, bank in Hong Kong, of course, a famous bank where there's an attempt to give a sense of public in the interior and the access to the interior is tightly controlled by a single escalator. The whole idea of this insinuation is that this represents a unification of the work that's being done in this in this vertical space and yet each group works individually. Next, this is Herman Herzburgger's insurance company project in Amsterdam. No, no, sorry. It's in uh it's not in Amsterdam. It's in uh I'll think of the name. um where each of the workers in this insurance company is allowed to personalize their own space yet the openness of the whole structure depicts a sense of community. This is the exterior of the system whether whereby the system stops bluntly when it leaves the building. Next This is where the conjunction of public and private becomes somewhat meaningless. On the right is Trump Tower. On the left is City Corp, the ground floor of City Corp, which has 20 stores and enormous things going on. Do you feel public in these animated spaces which are intensely private ownership and you remember the matrix use ownership access and meaning and try always to use that matrix to test whether what is private and what is public about space in this case ownership is completely private. Access is public. Use is public but probably oriented absolutely to to private profit and meaning is whatever you want to make of it. You can feel more public in the base of City Core Plaza than you city core building than you can in city hall or plaza in Boston. Next, the attempt to shape tall buildings with elements of the decentralized city both ecologically and it's bit of a joke. Next from the Wonder magazine diagrams you get this intense there many visions of Manhattan which are multiplications of traffic uh suggesting that automobiles be on a different the trains on the lowest level automobiles above and including a rail system, public rail system, pedestrians on a level above and many levels above they are pedestrians. This is an image of the modern city which is closeted in a lot of people's minds. It just doesn't happen. was much visioned by a number of things. I think Moses King who did some of the most wonderful versions of this. These are not kings. Um portrayed a kind of utilitarian base to this. Manhattan was getting to be so dense and congested that the the reaction was let's use vertical space to distinguish between vertical and horizontal movement. Yes. Um, you can imagine movies being made. This is this is probably suitable for a Batman movie uh where extraordinary things are being supernatural events are taking place. There's something supernatural about people walking on the 20 up in the sky on the 20th floor across from two buildings. The basic rule, the basic rule is that people are where there is reason to be. The number of people on the 20th floor of two office buildings is too few to generate any need for connection at that time. You come down the elevator and you connect on the base. There are few cities in the world which have developed enough density. Nor do I I won't be around but I don't project that there will ever be cities which will develop significantly upper level pedestrian crossings. This contradicts many of the much of the romance for this kind of world of architects. Park was based on dense models of inter urban interaction which seldom take place. That's why architects hate suburbia so much. That's a Catholic statement. Next. Next. On the left is the marathon in New York and on the right are the celebrations after the hostages from Iran were released and returned. Um, archaic cities relied on spacetime inventions such as rituals, not only to mark space in particular ways as you saw in the in the example of Madurai in southern India but in crude form. This is the same phenomenon. The bringing together of people in public to celebrate a particular thing. In the case of race which has meaning which is meaningless. In the second a celebration to return people after being captured by a foreign nation.