The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay. I was trying to look at your face and say whether you all hate me or not. Uh and I was say uh I said I was going to send a email yesterday and say uh this is time for your evaluation and then I realize if I sent to you yesterday I probably get the worst evaluation. Right? So, I just wanted to remind you I'm going to send you an email uh uh you need to do the uh evaluation and uh uh sometimes I was the other day I was telling my wife I said that because we always listen to this uh say car talk I don't know how many of it's a it's a very interesting uh radio talk right so so they at the end they always say we squander an hour with with with me and I say you go under semester with me hopefully. Uh okay. So uh we have three more lectures and uh uh this is not going to be review of the past. We're going to continue pushing and see how how much we can stuff there. uh what we talked in the last lecture uh the uh say we focus on the pin junction and then from pin junction solar shell in fact is um uh very lateral is just say you got a carriage generation by photons which goes opposite to the uh for bias and then say we mentioned the shock quiser limit uh where uh the the the key is that the shley Kaiser uh in fact I just had a uh program manager call for two hours in the morning on the PV project that we have and the so the uh shock requiser is assuming there's no other re combination other than radio recombination and under for photons immediate uh say when the electron holes are not at equilibrium the there's a difference in the firming level of the electrons and holes and the photon emitted that has uh like they have a chemical potential right the chemical potential is the uh difference of the quasi firming levels so I was uh uh presenting some of the f uh understanding I had uh at the end of last lecture say this is a very interesting thinking from the entropy perspective And so uh uh with that uh uh we pretty much finished uh in terms of uh what I want to do a parallel treatment. Right? If you think about uh we talked about uh molecules, we talked about electrons, we talked about phonons, we talked about the photons and often we use uh uh we can trade them more or less parallel because they are dilute particles and uh they have wave characteristics and then say the uh the way that we've been dealing with this is we talked about the energy level that's the due to the wavel and the quantization of say energy due to wavel uh um matters and then um uh uh we uh see eventually so at a single interface or multiple interface you have interference you have reflection and that's mathematically if you approximate interface as zero thickness you know that is always smaller and the uh wavelengths right so this is a what the chapter five uh was about and from there you you could calculate transmission so those those were description under the wave picture then we move on to say uh really uh the transition from that wave if the wave uh the coherence is lost I don't need to consider the phase information of those waves I just need to consider trajectory of those waves and that's say where uh is completely treating as a particle right so if you think about quantum mechanics what Einstein uh say introduc is the granularity of waves of photons photons electromagnetic wave are granular waves so it's a particle and wave duality and the way that we've been treating is okay we first treat this as a wave propagation and then eventually we completely neglected the way we we trade them as a particle. We don't carry the face anymore, right? So, so there um uh this is from the transport uh uh perspective and then we went to the borsma equation and uh using borsma equation we derived hopefully you have seen uh that all the diffusion equations or drift diffusion equations uh in bulk materials and then when you have uh uh say boundaries where uh the boundary uh create some scatter pattern of those particles. Just like when you go uh play uh say a pool and then your particle your ball hits the boundary get reflection right could be uh the some for most of those transport turns out there's diffused reflection uh that uh create additional impedance for the uh uh carrier flow. So and uh then say the chapter 8 was trying to wrap the idea that say microscopically when you think about energy conversion is really the transformation of one type of energy carrier energy into another type of energy. Right? So that's the interaction the scattering the absorption the excitation of energy carrier. But then at the same time you have the loss you have the transport. So, so you want to design a good heat engine, right? Your thermodynamics has to be right. Say that scattering. We have energy conservation, we have momentum conservation. You can think that as your thermodynamics has to be right. And then your transport has to be right. Right? That's the I say that's the left hand side of the board's man equation. And I warn you that say I couldn't do liquid. Right? So uh if I think about electron fon photon those are waves periodic boundary condition and modes and uh so with that the dilute particle approximation is valid and uh uh to deal with so the next we're going to talk about liquids and uh uh I will spend a very little time on the transport in bulk liquids and in fact I I think when I look at the literature I think we don't really even understand well transporting bulk liquids and it becomes much harder because liquid as well as amus material you go to amafus silicon right you lose that periodicity right crystals is idea because when you say give a structure you only have one arrangement perfect crystal periodic right but when you say amus where the atom can be anywhere, you got zenience of arrangement. So that makes the picture much harder and the liquid. So so liquid in fact the difference between a morphus material and liquid is very small. And if you think about glass, right, you would typically think this as a solid. But the glass if you look at the say uh people doing uh uh studying this uh say glossy face and they have real logical properties okay they ch they could change all right and so um so for uh what we I'll first give a very brief recount of the bulk what I saw uh say bulk properties and how people try to treat it and Then quickly this field went to computerized so computer simulations and then uh I'll discuss more on the interfaces right in fact that's probably most interesting if you deal with transport uh related to liquid right say how the uh liquid interact uh with solid at the interface and say uh um so including the electrical double layers and the solid solid interaction when we have say this say interfaces. So uh that's chapter nine and uh and we're talking about liquids and the interfaces and uh um I mentioned that uh say the if you look at the for liquid um uh say what are the historic approaches is people trying to deal with liquid right uh say one of one approach is trying to modify the boardsman equation right boards my equation uh is um say a dilute particle right so when you have a more concentrated high pressure gas for example the particle is a lot longer very dilute so uh you have the approach modify boards by equation right and uh I'll briefly mention two particle distribution distribution function and the corresponding ansc equation Okay. And then the other approach is uh uh really uh starting with Einstein is the Browning motion and that eventually developed into the linear response theory. So those were the uh uh say um uh some of the directions and eventually this one uh uh didn't pan out very is not very fruitful boards by equation trying to modify Okay. And uh uh uh so most of those studies now is based on computer simulation and uh linear response theory. So let's uh uh really give a very brief uh picture of a bulk liquid, right? And uh uh one of the um u variable a very of the function we use often to characterize uh liquid uh is the radio distribution function which actually can be measured uh using tools like a neutron scattering tool. And the definition is okay I have so this is trying to measure what's the order of the atoms uh say uh if I take any of the atom as the center how the surrounding atoms are distributed on around this atom right and so the radial distribution function uh is uh 4 pi uh this is the um say the really 4 pi r² dr r is gives you the volume around the r and this n is the average density of the uh atoms and this is the radial distribution. So basically if you look at the in this uh radius r from the uh atom I'm looking at and the thickness of dr right so how many mo say atoms I have uh in this small shell of volume so this is uh the definition for the radial distribution functions the number of atoms in R and R + DR, right? And if you think about the difference between uh uh liquid and gas and the crystals, typically the radial distribution function. So in a crystal if I look at the atom this is center the next atom is some distance away right the next layer and then the next layer it's periodic right so you continue uh that's the crystal uh periodic arrangement and if you look at the uh so if this is a g as a function of r and r Right? And if you look at the gas and the gas is a uh pretty much like a uniform distribution and so there's no really no structure in the distribution function and then you look at the liquid liquid is say uh if I take a atom immediately surrounding there say because of the mutual influence of the atom atoms. So there is a little bit of structure and the away from it there's no correlation because the atoms are moving pretty randomly. So uh the way uh I can uh the typical distribution function of this is dying off after a few uh layers of atoms surrounding this spec any of this specific atom. Okay. So what's the use if you do uh the uh um uh uh use the distribution function right say the uh radio distribution function for example I can calculate uh if I know the potential interaction between uh two atoms so if I know the potential interaction between two atom then I can calculate using the radio distribution function what's the total potential energy G in the system is 0 to infinite integration 4 pi r² and uh this is a potential interaction between two uh atoms and uh n grr dr okay right and uh uh uh if you go back to the thermodynamics Right. In chapter four we consider say different u partition function microcononical system canonical system ground canonical system. Right? If you write down the potential energy and you have kinetic energy, you have potential energy, you can actually write down the uh uh distribution functions and from distribution function you can calculate the corresponding thermodynamic potential like in a colonical system it's the uh uh fretome free energy there and in microcon is entropy. So once you have this thermodynamic functions you can uh say derive all the thermodynamic property of the system like the equation of states right. So um one uh one interesting uh um uh case was the uh equation of states. So if you do uh for example if you say wander this is the famous wonder potential right. If we take a v one potential fi r the small phi r is four epsilon and uh sigma / r 12th power sigma / r 6 power one ras potential and then let's suppose I have this sort of the uh radio distribution function as a step function in right the radial distribution is step is zero so it's basically here I'm drawing this way but uh what I uh say this step is just here this is my d so within zero to d this uh distribution function is zero so this is when r less than d right you can't have atoms get a close than D because that's the territory of the specific atom and uh uh when uh R is larger than one uh than D let's say this is a one uh so it lost the structure completely once is getting out of this region right so if you take this two functions you plug in and what you find out is your fn is uh this The total potential of the system is a n² over v the volume and uh and using this uh potential energy and kinetic energy you go reconstruct the partition function and from partition function you get the equation of states and the equation of states equation of states you have is P equals uh N KBT and V - B N minus uh A N² over V² and B is the volume of individual molecule one molecule. So this is the uh equation of states that's slightly different from the ideal gas law. PV equals say ideal gas is a PV equals NRT, right? And this is the one equation of states right one it come from the wand potential and the wonder equation of states and it has a very important uh say historical uh importance. And in fact I say uh if you go to check I probably the nor price one the first one in physics was in I think is the x-ray and the first one in chem probably was one okay and uh why because if you look at the idea gas law is p * v equals n rt right and uh but the vand equation of states is actually giving you the liquid. Okay. So you plot the equation of states. So this is the uh uh for the vandor gas it looks like this one equation of states. And uh uh it turns out you when you take a horizontal line this area equal this area that's where the horizontal line should be and this is the uh liquid this is the gas and in between. So if you for different uh temperature you plot it in between you have the vapor dome right? So you look at the uh steam characteristics you have in this region you have mixtures of liquid and steam right and uh this is the steam region liquid region and uh uh turns out this one you can in between let's say this is a b c B and B does B to C this region is impossible and in this region you don't have a homogeneous uh uh states uh you decompose so you got a mixture you got uh not one phase you get say uh water and steam and uh in this is the subcool you can potentially have super heat and uh in If you train B say thermodynamically it's absolutely unstable. So you got the say mixtures and of course normally we always get this mixtures uh say in the whole uh from a to d region right. So the importance of the uh vand equation it really give you characteristics of from liquid to the uh vapor phase historically very important. So that's the uh thermodynamics part. and uh uh from uh uh the uh kinaticus part. So that's a transport right. So if you think about uh the Borsman equation and the assumption we have in the BSMA equation is the molecular kills right the distribution function at the end we say we can use one particle in the system the one particle distribution function to represent the distribution of all particles. So uh if I write down a two particle distribution function. So at time t one particle has a position and momentum RP and second particle has a position and momentum R2P2 that's the two particle distribution right and the Bsman distribution uh say equation is based on the molecular chaos assumption means this is independent of each other the T R P and times T R2 P2 right that's a molecular chaos assumption and because of this and the n particle is just a product of n uh say uh of all those distribution function to the nth power and uh the uh uh correction so at the beginning uh there were effort until 60s Okay, people trying to do uh correction to this uh uh molecular chaos assumption and one of this is uh due to onscere and t r p and r2 p2 2 equals uh FT RP FT R2 P2 but say uh there is a function here add a function to prevent for example the two molecules or two atoms occupy the same location at the same time right so you can use that hot sphere so here is the function represent the distance of the two molecules. And with this uh uh kind of uh uh partial distribution function, you go back to the derivation you start with the uh say Louvo equation and uh when you simplify to two particle and you look at your scattering term you derive set of equations uh for the uh for f as well as for g. So this are the so there what I want to say I didn't write in fact I didn't even write in the book it's very complicated equations but say there were effort and in fact there are some solutions to the unscope sol equation but say it was found that the unscope equation you can you still you can do a little bit denser liquid uh fluids not liquid you still liquid is very dense and you can do a denser Yes, but say uh the range cannot be extended very far. So because the equation gets very complicated and this road of extending the morsman equation was not successful pretty much abandon abandoned uh after 1960s. So the other direction came from Einstein and Einstein uh did the Browning motion and that was his uh PhD thesis right he wrote this was at the patent uh office and they publish all these papers in 1905 uh the relativity uh say photoelectric effect and the uh brownie emotion and uh so this were uh one year publications so uh at the time he didn't even know there were browning experiment but he know a few facts and he know that if you have so so what his purpose was trying to determine what's the size of molecules? Okay. And uh uh and he know that when you have so he was doing more gdunkin right thinking experiment. Say, okay, if you particles, right, big molecules in a solvent, right? You put the milk in water and uh uh one thing he know was there is ideal gas law type for those uh uh solute molecules in the solvent and this is osmotic pressure. He knew osmotic pressure and so the osmotic pressure P is the same as ideal gas N RT. N is the uh uh say number density of this molecules in the say the solid molecule in the solvent. So that's one thing he knew and the second thing he knew was fluid mechanics. Okay. And uh Einstein uh know that when you have a particle, right? And in flu flow, you have of course this is a very small particle and they stra when a particle moves in the liquid there's drag flow drag effect. Right? So the drag force, does anybody remember the drag force? Pi mu d. Okay, 6 pi mu d. Well, is it d or r? Okay, I have 3 pi mu, right? So it should be r, right? Okay, R times velocity stocks formula and he use this to construct the uh what's the diffusion mass flux okay so uh the uh uh so you can do this by say okay I have osmotic pressure if I have a concentration gradient I have a pressure gradient right so n is the concentration so if I look at the if let's say there is a in the x direction there's concentration gradient you take a control volume and you do your uh uh pressure so uh pxus p x + dx Right? And that should say this pressure at the steady state should balance the drag force on the particle in the in the say due to the osmotic pressure the uh particles are moving and the uh say the resistance on this particle is due to the stocks flow drag force. So what you have here is uh times let's say here this is the pressure times cross-section let's say here is your cross-section we're considering and minus 3 pi mu d I don't use r and u times the lambber of particle in this volume that gives me steady state right pressurdriven force and the uh I say uh resistance due to the flow and if you uh write into differential form what you have because say AC times eventually dx gives me volume da da d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d gives me another n so I will have What you get out of this is n * u equ= 1/3 pi d mu dp dx and dp dx we you say convert into using the uh uh say osmatic pressure relation we have KVT and 3 pi D mu and dn dx. So this is the flux right? If you look at this lumber density times velocity gives you the flux meter squared the number of particles per meter squared right. So uh the uh what we have here essentially if you think about the fixed law right this is your um j flux equals mass d a d n dx that's your diffusivity and uh uh say here the diffusivity is related to a viscosity diameter right so uh so from here you can say the diffusivity is a kbt and 3 pi d mu so from here Einstein say you can do an experiment you drop a milk you measure diffusivity time it and you can visibly see Right? You know the viscosity. This is the viscosity of the liquid. Right? You know that you know that you you know what's the diameter of the molecule. So uh uh it's very simple right and um so that's why this is the called the Einstein relation. You recall in when we talk about semiconductors the semiconductor has a diffusivity and the mobility has a relation and here is diffusivity viscosity viscosity is also so in the term mobility is like a inverse mobility right and this is a diffusion is diffusion process right so diffusion is due to fluctuation viscosity is a sort of friction dissipation. Right? So this is one example of the more generalized say fluctuation dissipation theorem. Here we have fluctuation here we have dissipation. Right? Okay. So that was Einstein treatment and in fact Einstein later on uh solve the other way. So if you do nanofluids you go to read the Einstein paper he actually solve uh say this is one way to do this and he say okay you can also add lanop those he didn't call nanop particle those molecules and you measure viscosity increase so what's the viscosity increase to the base fluid viscosity and from there he has another way to do the same problem so for that problem He actually has to solve really he you go to say he actually solve the viscos the flow problem around particles. So you you uh you can see he's a fluid mechanician. We didn't go to the other research fluid mechanics. Okay. So that was the starting point. There was a very small book on the Einstein work in this area on the brownie motion and very cheap $10 you can go to you should go to get take a look at it and uh so uh from here uh there was say the generalization so Einstein have the uh say the general general the less generalization is due to lengian equation Okay. And non equation is a stochastic equation. Just say okay is F= MA and uh uh but say the driving force for uh is due to random thermal fluctuation. So if you write the uh if you have say a particle in the liquid and surrounding fluids give a kick right. Okay. And then this say is say the uh you have then the acceleration mA the d velocity dt and the force acting on the molecule or atom or particle right when it start moving you always have a drag force. So the drag force is always there and drag force is proportional to velocity. So uh you write uh into okay you can write into normalized to mass but say it's proportional to velocity. So you can do a vector here put a vector right so there's always drag force and then you have a random random kicking force right random force that fluctuating. So that's the uh random say uh driving force here is random and there's some basic relation because this random force so the the average is zero itself is zero and uh uh this random force is not related to r. So if you do your time average they are also zero but the uh the driving force itself of course is related to temperature. So if uh uh if you say here is a uh say the different time r at the time uh s and this is a it's say uh the typical long equation assume this is instantaneous. So there's no memory and uh here what we have is um um 2 m e kbt and delta t. Delta t just say instantaneous and this random fluctuation is related to temperature and also related to how large is the um uh is the uh dissipation here. Okay. So this is the long equation and uh solving this is long equation because this is random. So actually could be uh uh pretty you go to rigorous mass way there there are many different ways to solve this random you can do your spectral analysis for example um but say uh in the uh book I'm not going to present going through every step we have a very nonrigous way just to say uh I multiply both sides because this one dudt t du dt can be written as ddt d r dt right. So if I multiply both sides by r and uh uh you go uh uh take the time average and this term actually drop out. So you get a regular equation. You can solve ordinary differential equation. Solve you can solve for the radius the deviation of the radius of the particle from t=0. So here I'm going to give you the results. So if you do the radius of this R square right this is the if you put a particle here after some time where it's going to be right and this is the random walk and the radius is uh six uh KBT uh M IDA and T - one / IDA and plus ea exponential minus e t. So um so this is the uh solution for the uh the uh distance from the origin due to the random walk of this particle and you you notice there is this uh long time this term drops out right. So the diffusion the distance because this is a uh uh related to diffusivity. So the distance will be really diffusivity times the time square root. That's the order of magnitude of the diffusion. This is when you solve the fial law of heat conduction. You know the diffusion of heat is diffusivity times time square root. Right? So this is the longtime behavior of the browning motion. So the heat conduction all this diffusion is a random walk process and uh uh recently there if you check the literature there actually a lot of people doing still doing the browning motion experiment and uh some people uh uh say we did experiment we say the initial time the initial term also that's the uh uh transend at the start of the kicking so Uh one interesting comment I have here is uh uh if you look at the brownie motion look at the velocity here right uh forget about this you see the velocity will be exponential decay right because this is the velocity t this is velocity if you saw velocity is exponential decay after it's getting quickening right so uh and uh since all this relation come from related to that exponential decay. But turns out this is wrong. Okay. And uh the reason for uh this is wrong is in this long equation uh there is also say when your molecule get a kick right. So they so here we have you have you use the stock theorem right stock but when a when a particle start from zero right this is a static state solution and when a particle start from zero stationary you get a kick you get a transient solution and that transient term uh was significant if so if you add the transient term into here. So there should be a additional transient term this stocks force and that transient term is integral. So it depends on the previous time. So this equation actually become uh say a integral equation differential integral equation and if you solve this differential integral equation you don't get the exponential decay for velocity you get uh power law for the velocity so if you solve velocity is actually if you solve this transient is t I remember is 1.5 three hs so it's a very slow decay exponential and power are very different right exponential is very fast power is slow so that's the memory effect out of the uh uh borisma equation uh no the out of the uh laner equation and I was interested in this because uh uh uh so the first the the discovery of this memory effect right was by computer. So in 1950 or 1960 uh uh when uh people started doing the computer simulation molecular simplest molecular dynamics they find this is not the case velocity autocorrelation. So you typically you calculate turns out later on uh when we saw we go to uh linear response theory you'll see that diffusivity. So diffusivity is related to velocity autocorrelation. So is t u0 dt. So that's a velocity autocorrelation function. Right? So you can see if it's a exponential if it's a a power decay you would expect this is very different right was Einstein relation original relation between diffusivity and mobility wrong or not right it turns out even though he didn't include even though he has a exponential decay but the auto correlation at the end the result is same so he was lucky Okay, the between the fluctuation dissipation relation still valid even the decay function is very different and this was later proven there was a paper uh later proven uh mathematically by solving integral differential equation see this is still valid okay so I was interested in this problem because uh for long period people are doing this nanofluids they add nanofluids in uh uh liquid they say there's higher thermal conductivity and their serious say uh their browning motion right whether it's a browning motion effect and browning motion if you do this exponential decay it drops very very rapid and you go to say do all the auto magnet is about five six order magnet too small to actually contribute to heat conduction then there are other uh uh uh uh people And at the same time we actually also found the paper we thought say that's say oh this is a much slower decay okay and because it's a power law and that may be explaining uh the uh uh say the the thermal connectivity is not exponential and then we went further and they say okay it turns out the people prove at least for viscosity and diffusivity right that's a fluid flow problem is still valid. So then the question is for heat transfer for energy is that valid or not? It's unanswered question. Okay. Later on we did experiment we don't think it's a brown emotion but mathematically that's still one thing in my mind is what's the what what is the autocorrelation function for heat and how they decay in a browning uh uh say fluids when you consider this uh uh time retardation the memory effect what people call memory effect because they uh it takes time for the stocks flow to kick Okay. So, uh that's all I'm going to talk about for the bulk fluids, right? And I think there are actually really lot say very poor understanding on even the basics of transport in liquid and uh there uh there some uh potential to do good research in this area. And next what we're moving on is going to talk about the uh interfaces and uh uh so the what's important is to understand the potential interaction and uh so what let's look at the forces and potentials. And of course we know force is the gradient of potential. So if I know the potential I know the force and uh the uh what we're looking at is more longer range potential. So due to the charge we're not looking at the coalent force between that's typically connect the uh atoms to form molecules. Right? So when we look at the longer range potential due to charge, you can always start the most basic. So uh let's do uh of course the most basic is a coolum force right coolum interaction will have a positive charge or negative charge. I have this is Q1. This is Q2. And the uh potential is Q1 Q2 and 4 pi epsilon R. R is the separation uh uh between the two. Here is the uh R. Okay. And uh you can use the basic coolum potential to construct all other forces that due to elect say this charge origin due to this colum origin here and uh so for example I want to understand what's the potential between uh say a single charge Q and a dipole. A dipole is a positive negative charge very close to each other. Right? So I'm going to have a dipole here and positive negative charge and here is mass q here is plus q and uh uh this is um say let's say here is a and the distance of the dipole here is d and uh the separation the dipole this d is much smaller than the radius uh the separation between q and the dipole That's R. R is larger than D, right? So you could then just sum up all those uh coolum potential, right? What's my potential here is uh the potential is equal to Q let's say to this Q or to this Q here and uh this is a B this is C. So if I write the uh 4 pi epsilon ab to the negative charge plus this q to positive charge 4 pi epsilon to uh say uh ab. So you just write the distance down and do your math right using the fact that the uh so uh here if I do the AB for example uh is rus uh d / 2 cossine theta squar uh plus d sin uh theta d / 2 squar. So that's my uh se the orientation of this dipole. This is a theta right d. So it's a half d that's this distance time sin theta that's this one and minus that's because on this side and uh that's the distance ab uh uh the hypotenuse of the right triangle where I'm I'm writing down and similarly you can write a and then you use the fact that r is much larger than d you linearize it and what you have Here I have get a um mass Q beta is a dipole moment cosine theta and 4 pi epsilon r² where say beta is the dip is q * d right so now or uh uh this is my potential originally for a single you I can say for two point charge I have the potential is over 1 / r. So the force is 1 / r². Right? Now if I look at the point charge and dipole the potential is over R square and the force is over R cubic right because you want to know what's the relations and uh uh as another example I want to find out what's the force interaction between two solid surfaces right why interested in that because I want to say if I put the particles in liquid what's the wonder attraction force whether I can keep this fluids stable or not right if they glue onto each other you you you have the eventually sedimentation right how I can make a stable colloid you need to know those forces right so uh I have constru constructed using the simple coolum potential between a point say a point charge and dipole. I can look at the next what I have two say when I look at the dipole dipole. So if you look at two dipoles due to the coolum interaction because you have uh the dipole has say positive negative each one has a positive negative you interact with the other one right you got a four term summation and you add up all those four terms and you find out that your potential for dipole dipole due to this is R six right that's the uh say uh when we talk about one's potential right this is the uh attractive part and then say when they get very close you got the repulsive part here we're talking about the attractive part okay and with this you can so this is two isolated dipole Now with this dipole you can go construct if I have a dipole right and I have a solid what's the force what's the attraction between this dipole and the solid the solid itself I'm going to consider not say a solid that's made of uh not I say not a single point charge solid I say it's a neutral each atom is neutral then I can approximate the atom itself as a dipole right so I have say really each point I have dipole I'm going to sum up the force interaction of this dipole with all the dipoles in the solid so if you do that so here I have the distance d and uh uh let's Say here I have my coordinate X and because the X ais symmetry right so I can consider at the any X I do a say ren I integrate over uh say uh uh infinite right if I consider at any x radial direction so this is like I have a cylindrical coordinate and uh I can write the uh potential interaction you turn this dipole and the ring here as because say the distance is six power. So the distance here if I look at this point and this is a r right here I have d + x. So I have d + x² + r² and uh 6 power. So this is my distance and then say I have the lambert density of this dipole atoms and 2 pi r that's how many I have in this uh and then times dx right so that's a volume and so dx and then I integrate the x is 0 to infinite this is my origin 0 to infinite that's x r i zero to infinite. That's the all the solid, right? So you do that, what do you get? You do your integration, you'll get the uh uh this is a pi c and 6 d cubic. So d is the separation between this dipole and the wall uh and this solid right and that's a potential if I do once I have the potential I take derivative so the force is d4 power okay now if you go to check in the book I give example because people say do I have sleep when I have a liquid flow on a solid surface. Right? So I use this I okay that that um represent my own opinion. I think there's no slip in the normal condition because I'm just say when I have this dipole what's the bonding force and then I look at the say I have the atoms and what's the potential barrier on the surface and the question is that whether I have enough sheer force to move over those potential barriers right so I guess my point is you can take that whether you you can criticize it But say the point is you can develop your own argument and then say you let others shoot you down and say where is wrong here right and of course say you say if you have very large shear you may have it but say practical situation I don't think there is a sleep between liquid and solid surface Okay. So this is a one dipole to a solid. And now I can do the same if I have two piece of solid, right? Two parallel plates. So we have two parallel plates separated by D. And if both sides are diples and again you integrate now you already integrate one side you just integrate uh this other side also. In that case what you have is five = a 12 uh pi d² and this a is a pi square and n1 * n_sub_2. The m1 and2 are the uh number densities on both sides. And this a is called a hammer constant. How many of you have heard of hammer con? Right? That's where it come from. Okay. And uh uh so uh now this is the potential. So what's the force interaction between two parallel plates force? That's d² uh d cubit right. For two atoms you do d6 potential d7 force and for two surfaces is uh say d cubic and you can do spheres also different geometry and in fact you read books people have done all those so for different surface there's corresponding that integration give you a different uh hammer constant and by the way so this was considered This is classical. There's nothing really uh complicated, right? You can do that. You go back and you redo it yourself. But say uh that was in uh I think it was in 1940s or 1950s. The same problem was put a different spin and this was a suggestion by Maxbornne to Casemir. Kasmir again, right? So we say kasmir did this size effect on thermal conductivity and ca say max suggest to say kasmir said this wonder force can be understood also as a zero point energy. So what say then Kasmmer went back what he did is okay if you have this is the other way to look at this force and in this case is no longer electrostatics here is electrostatic is coolum force right but say this other way to understand is like the mode the energy of electromagnetic waves stay in this gap right and So this is the modes and there are many other modes right of if you think about the perfect reflecting surfaces as you move closer and closer there are more moles excluded excluded. So the energy in this cavity is smaller right. So energy when if you know the energy again you take a derivative of this energy you get the force and this mode is 0 point because 1/2 h new that's the energy that's 0 point energy in the cavity and it's the other interpretation for the wand force. So uh let's now give it a quantum picture. It's it's important because uh now if you look at the a lot of work on cosmir force and uh but this one of course is electrostatics. So this picture is electrostatics. This is more the mod is more getting into the dynamics right. So later on there are further development just to say uh by uh uh lifesize uh this is London Lifes and he develop a theory based on just electromagnetic wave you calculate the say you really calculate using dialectric functions of medium one two three. So what we have here is electrostatic limit. But if you do electronamics you can have generalized theory and the generalized theory it turns out depends on the dialectric concept of epsilon 2. Here we are talking about one versus attractive. This two actually if you have another media right media in between you can actually have a repulsive the two surface can actually get uh repel each other. uh so some people are trying to develop that in MIT campus a lot of faculty several faculty Steve Johnson and uh uh I think uh uh Carter Maharan Carter and and several people are working on this. So the idea is can you develop a surface there's no friction right uh uh if you can repel those uh uh uh self-repelling okay so with this we have talked about the attractive forces right and uh like I say if I want to look at I put this flu a particle in fluids And uh attractive force if there are only attractive force they will elomerate and the sediment right and how you you need a a repulsive force to maintain them if you want to have a equilibrium you can have keep this at certain distance so uh in the next lecture we're talking about that but I want to go back to the solar cell. I want to show you a few slides on solar cell. I didn't have time last lecture. questions. Okay. So, uh I didn't qu show any of this uh uh say graphs last time we talked about basic principle. So here is a a shortly quaiser limit calculation for the maximum efficiency of a solar cell and depends on the band gap of the material. So here you can say this is say is a concentration right if there's no optic concentration uh you get the uh here you can say uh this is about 1.4 four that's the pig and the pig efficiency is about 23 20 there that depends on what kind of spectrum you take right and original shock say about 28 and uh there this is about 31 32 and so this was a paper by Henry so this is about go massite bangak and 1 uh uh is about see this is here that's a silicon And so silicon got mass like in uh the good bang gap range and here is the efficiency. If you concentrate the sun thousand times by concentration you generate say more photons. If you look at then you have uh say uh larger uh open circuit voltage and also higher short circuit current. So you get a higher efficiency and that's a single junction and uh here was a uh some historical and it's a old one you can say and uh uh the silicon the best Christian silicon that's this line here and uh uh I actually visit Martin's uh the the group before they say they have about 26% efficiency. Okay. And so it's actually let me say this is single junction cell. Single junction cell the best chocolate quiser uh uh say you're about 30 31% right. So that's actually getting pretty close. And uh uh what's uh uh uh interesting uh here is the uh multi-junction cell and multi-junction cell uh now is about the 41 42% uh efficiency and uh 43. Yeah. Huh. 43. Okay. 43. they split the uh that's a by wavelength splitting into different cells is another one is one okay and uh uh but see the uh I think here I see this open this one is the uh catelite right that's the first solar uh uh it's lower efficiency it's a direct gap solar cell and the First solar uh cadmium telerite uh you almost get the worst in the world but they are most profitable company uh because catamu is a is a poison it's toxic environmentally and you go to Japan they had an environmental disaster in the 60 they never pic uh but first solar uh uh they use the same film their their film is few microns because of optical absorb option is good direct gap and they are selling about 10 uh 11% 10 to 11% efficiency right the silicon sale is selling about anywhere this is lab efficient that's the best efficiency silicon sale is sending anywhere between 15 18% or 20% efficiency so at the end is a cost because they are most profitable because silicon is about three few years ago right $3 so now is This curve a cost curve is very dropping very fast and uh uh lot of work is done on the uh uh polymer solar cell right and that's you see the history there and this there is should be I don't the die uh cell right this open circle that's the die cell and that's about uh uh it should be around around 11% Michael Grattle and uh uh but say uh eventually which one is going to win uh which one go first get the great priority great priority means say can you compete with uh the coals natural gas right that's the it's a cost very cost sensitive multi-junction cells is trying to use different spectrum of the wave equivalence and it's actually really uh quite ingenious in the sense you have wider gap semiconductor on top so the red light doesn't say get absorbed go to lex sale on the bottom but say uh you have to connect them correctly each cell have to generate because you're not putting the cell in series right the top cell generates certain current that go to le cell so this the current has to match and also uh typically when people collect Fact they do a quantum tunneling tunneling junction uh to collect them. So uh if you make a infinite junction uh they practically people down is three junctions because when you grow different materials they become very crappy and once material become become crappy doesn't work recombination too fast right so but theoretically if you do uh uh infinite junction you can get around 86% efficiency that's the and recombination we already mentioned. So this is where uh the uh uh silicon is very good abundant this optic absorption that's really not good. That's the problem right. So that's the where the cost you need to thicker one to get the absorption up and that's related to materials pure because you have to use very pure materials. So uh this is the uh single crystal and poly crystine. If you go out you look at this that's your say whether you pretend you're expert whether you have a poly crystine. Look at this colorful that's poly. Okay that looks like a more mono cryst. And uh uh and then people are trying to do uh sinfilm uh for example a maf silicon but maf silicon the problem is the mobility charge do not travel very well. So even though you can use a 500 nanometer maf silicon it's still too thick for electrons holes. Okay. So you want to uh so you want to make it even thinner and uh once you get a very thin optical absorption is also a problem and here is people actually trying to make uh uh say uh you can see here you have a maf silicon that's a widest band gap and then you have micro crystalline silicon or you can have silicon germanmanium chiff band gap so that you can do multi junction cells. Uh this is a a polymer polymer unlike the typical pin junction where you got a potential uh uh so in fact that the potential is not that important just by diffusion is fine the concentration gradient and uh uh the polymer problem. So is a is say molecules molecular ch you excite the electron hole. The problem is the electron hole they bound to each other. So they actually have a lower energy. That's a ton. And uh uh what you want is to extract them out. Electron go one side, hole go to the other side. But the exiton if they bond to each other and eventually they die, they release heat, you're doomed, right? So is that first you need to separate the acetone and then get onto uh uh say polymer again the conductivity is not good. So people are doing this threedimensional right one is a whole conductor the other is electron conductor that's bulk junction solar cells even though it's when you say bulk junction it means just a penetrating junctions P and N type of materials and they they they are also uh uh you have to make it very thin and uh grat cell electrochemical cell uh this is a um uh they using the uh really molecules say they die as the synthesizer and uh it's a monol layer. So they call them every nanop particle with this monollayer to increase absorption. Again you get the electron hole the acetone and uh once you get that because it's a monol layer uh so you generate electron hole and they go one goes to the solid that's the titanium oxide so titanium oxide is in cosmetics so it's pretty cheap and the whole go to the liquid so the liquid oxidize liquid and diffuse to the electrode so so uh and reduced and so so so this is where because it's a liquid it's not very reliable and uh uh the reliability is a big problem and so people say this could be cheap but so far nobody has been able to commercialize them okay so that's where people trying to do okay some I so here is a first gen uh siliccomb base thin film base whatever third you can try to get a lower efficiency. Uh say higher efficient, no cost. That's a lot of people working on this. Okay, stop here. And just a reminder, I'll send you an email now. You can win all your angry Okay.