The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. So, so far we've recently been talking about examples in SCT2 and we're going to continue to do so today. So, the example that we did last time was the pion photon form factor that did not have any soft degrees of freedom. It just had linear and hard degrees of freedom. So, it was a particularly simple example of something we could think of in SCT2. We'll start with a slightly more complicated example. this decay b to d pi where we have both linear and soft degrees of freedom. This was an example that we mentioned at the very beginning of our discussion of SCT and now we're going to see how factorization looks for it. And then we'll talk about something called the reormaliz rapidity renormalization group which has to do with situations in SCT2 where the separation of degrees of freedom is a little more complicated than in the previous examples. and we'll see that there can be a new type of divergence that shows up and that new type of divergence leads to a new type of normalization group. So B toD pi so there's going to be in some sense three hard scales of this problem. the mass of the B quark and the mass of the charm quark are going to be taken to be much greater than lambda QCD. So we'll have an HQ type description of the B quark and the charm quark and also the energy of the pion which is in some sense related to the difference of the B quark and the charm quark mass will also take that to be much greater than lambda QCD. So just by kinematics this is this thing is proportional to MB minus MC roughly could say it's the difference of the squares of the hydron masses. Okay, so let's first we know how to treat this decay if we were integrating out the W. This is a weak decay. So B is changing a charm. Integrate out the W boson run down to the scale MB which is the largest scale here. That's the electroeak Hamiltonian. So that's what we'll call the QCD operators which are the relevant description at the scale of order MB. some prefactor and I'll write the operators in the following way a slightly different basis than we used previously or a long time ago when we were talking about this particular case. So just a different color basis singlet and octet. Okay. So that's our description where P left is projecting us onto the left-handed components. So what we want to do is we want to factoriize the amplitude. This is an exclusive process where we make a transition between specific states. So we'd like to separate scales in the DPI and then we have O8 in this matrix element. So we have two matrix elements, one with 0 and one with 08. And so what could it possibly look like? Well, we already talked about the degrees of freedom here. The D is going to be soft and the B is going to be soft. So this is soft. This is soft. This is going to be linear. And so if it's going to factoriize and the soft degrees of freedom are not going to talk to the linear the kind of thing that you would expect to show at leading order in the lambda expansion is that you have a the following kind of process. Let me reclaim this space. So here's a heavy quark. Here's one of these operators. Here's the veilance quarks in the pion. Another heavy quark. So this is B, charm, U and D. And there's an anti-quark. And we have to dress this by gluons. And if it's going to factorized, then the way that we should dress it by gluons is as follows. We would have soft gluons here. And they could interact if you like between things in the in the B and the D because the B and the D are both soft. And we can also have vacuum polarization diagrams and that is going to factoriize from things in the pion which are going to be colinear. So we have our linear gluons and linear quarks inside here. And maybe there's some Wilson lines too. So we would expect some kind of picture like that and that's actually going to be what we do find. But exactly what happens at this vertex what kind of convolutions there are that we have to work out. All right. So what factorization in this context means is that there's no gluons that are directly exchanged between the BD part and the pion part. so that it effectively factorizes in into a matrix element that's like a B toD transition and a vacuum to pion transition. So you can even guess what kind of objects this would depend on. If you have something like this green thing that's a bet to D form factor. So we expect a B tog form factor and for the pion if you have something like this well we already talked about something like this when we were talking about gamma star gamma to pi 0. So for the pion we expect the pi 0 the light cone distribution which is the sort of leading order operator for the pion. So we'd expect a 5 pi of x and we'll see that we do indeed find that. So the B and D have P square of order lambda QCD squared. For their constituents the pion is colinear and its constituents have P square of order lambda QCD2 but they're boosted. We can again use SCT this is SCT2 but we can use SCT1 as an intermediate step just like we did we talked about last time. So let's do that again. So match step one was to match QCD onto the SC one. So there's some hard scale and the hard scale in this case could be any one of these three. So collectively I'll just denote them by Q. And so what's going to happen in that matching is we take these operators 0 and08 and we have to match on to SCT operators. So let me call the SCT operators Q0. Yeah, I guess there's because of the fact that there's a heavy quark in the way that uh the way that that works. There's two possible spin structures in here, but we'll see that actually only one of them has the right quantum numbers in the end. So we have heavy cork fields, charm and bottom. That's we can imagine that type of operator. And then for the cleaner part, we can dress it with the Wilson line as always. And let me put the flavor upstairs. And let me put in the most general Wilson coefficient that I could think of for this process. This could also depend on V.V prime. I didn't denote that, but in general it will. And it could depend on any of the scales Q. So it can depend on the large momentum of the linear fields as always. And there's one combination that's not restricted by momentum cons conservation. So there's one combination that's not related to these scales and that's the in my notation the P bar plus operator and then there's a likewise there's another thing with the TA. So same thing TA everything the same TA and then this has got a different coefficient like that. And so what are the direct structures just to be explicit? The heavy one. So the light one is is going to be m/ four in my notation the 1 - gamma 5. And for the heavy one, you could have either one or gamma 5. And that's because you originally have a left-handed originally here you have a left-handed guy between the charm and the bee. But remember that mass term connects left and right. Right? So after you integrate out the mass of these quarks, you don't know whether you don't know the kirality anymore in this. So that's why you could have both the possibilities one and gam five. So if you put any other direct structure, so here you could use kirality and so you know that these guys should be left-handed still and that's why you know that this should be this structure. So you know it should be an n bar slash because any other structure that you would stick in here between them uh would give you something that's power suppressed because you know that n slash on cn is zero and also cn bar gamma per mu with any kind of p left or whatever is also zero. So we'd have to have something more complicated. All right. So there's those operators and when you do this matching it is non-trivial in the sense that these two operators it's not diagonal. It's not like 0 goes to Q0 and O8 goes to Q8. Soon as you start adding loop corrections these two mix and then they give you some contributions to these coefficients C 0 and C8. Okay. So what you mean by octed operator in the electric Hamiltonian is different than what you mean by octed operator in the SCT1 factorized result. But that's just a complication that you deal with when you are doing the matching. This guy can be proportional to the Wilson coefficients C 0 F and C 08 and that's not really a big deal. Any questions so far? Yeah. So the is the point of matching scale one as an intermediate step is to get the softs. So you're going to do that's right. I'm going to do that right now. Yeah. So then step two field redefinition in the sket one. And let me not put superscript zeros. Let me just make it as a replacement. So then we get our Q0 again. And okay, for this guy, it's exactly the same because in the in the q01 comma 5 the all the y's cancel. in the octate guy. It's not quite that way because there's because we do have uh in that case we do have uh the Wilson lines getting trapped by the TA. So let me write out that case. So we have So that's what we would get after the field redefinition for the two operators. Okay. So the next thing to do would be to instead of calling them uh y's call them s's. So but there's one more thing I can do too. So these are remember these are soft fields and these are linear fields. So this isn't factorized because we have contractions between these y's and the fields over here. Gluons can attach to the heavy quirks. So in order to factoriize we want to move those y's from there over to here. And we can do that. So here's how that works. This is a formula that I could have told you earlier. So if you have a Y that lies around a TA, that's just actually the adjint Wilson line. So this is a formula that relates fundamental Wilson lines and an adjint Wilson line. So the in the adjint Wilson line you'd build it out of matrices if you like. They're like this. So, so the matrix indices would be blast and cruise. And instead of having fundamental indices for the TA alpha beta, you have an FABC and you this is the kind of thing that you would exponentiate, but other than that, it's the same thing. And there's just a color identity relating them. So because of this identity you can also write down another identity which is y dagger t a y this guy so y dagger t a y is just the other y this guy's an orthogonal matrix tb so if you reverse the indices then you get the opposite way and als Also this guy is it remember this is a matrix just in the AB space. So if I use this formula in here that allows me to take these Wilson lines here and move them over here right because I can take them write them as a y and then the y is just something that doesn't care about it just moves over because it's contracted with that index a guess I've got some problems with capitals and small letters. Let's make them all capital. So then I can move it over here and then I can convert it back to a yagger y if I want to. Okay. Okay. So we can take this guy and and this thing and write it over there as HV Y t a Y dagger HV prime. This is if I was careful to do that. uh this is the prime and then all the ma and then all the soft gluons all the ultra soft gluons are over here in this matrix element and all the linear fields are over there. So if you like you could say we get this and then we get our colinear matrix element that has TA but it has now no ultra soft and so we have a product ofar and ultra soft things tied together by one index a okay so that's just a little color rearrangement it's useful because now they're really factorized and now when we Take matrix elements. The matrix elements will factoriize. So, oh sorry before we take matrix elements have got to switch to sket. So this is again an example where it's trivial because what we have is we have one type of operator that we're considering this weak transition and we don't have a time order product of any type of two operators in SCT 2. We just have a single operator that has both types of fields and then we have the lrangeians. So this is again simple. So we have one mixed operator plus L0 linear and L0 soft and those things are already decoupled and so this is simple and so we simply replace Y's by S renaming it soft instead of ultraoft really nothing is changing and these colineers we just put them down onto SCT2 colineers from SCT1 colineers Okay. So to make it look like I've done something, I'll write it out again, but there's really nothing happening except that now the fields are in SCT2 with the correct SCT2 scaling. So there's no Wilson coefficient that's generated by this step. There's no additional Wilson coefficient because of that fact. So these are sketch two now. And similarly for the octed. So here we would really have the Okay. So now we can take matrix elements. Yeah. What do the coefficients look like when they're not just one? So they would be functions of say plus times minus momenta. So we could have if it wasn't one, what would happen is effectively so yeah we talked a little bit about this last time but let me remind you. So if it wasn't one that would happen in a situation where you had something like this some offshelf field oh say like this. So this is a tproduct of two things rather than just one thing that mixt and colinear and this field here was offshell in a way that basically this field here is an offshell field that uh would be a product of the plus and minus momentum of these guys. And so you could get something that's effectively living at this hard linear scale below the hard scale in the problem from sort of troducts of soft and linear operators. This is a being a little sketchy, but since here we only have one operator, that couldn't happen because you just start attaching softs and and colinear has been it's already factored. So there's no way that you can sort of get this intermediate offshell guy. So this guy would be colinear, right? In the the way to think about this is this is like this. This is just a diagram that exists. But then you go over to the SCT2 and then you have your change of linear to the right linear, right? But this guy doesn't change. He's still hardlinear. Imagine when it's non-trivial actually has a different scale. Yeah, this scale would show actually up and so if it doesn't show up, so this would be kind of a situation and going from let's get one. And I actually we could have done some examples where that happens. Um but I'm choosing to do this rapidity reormalization group instead. Basically this happens if you look at matrix elements and you could look at matrix elements where you have some subleading interactions. And there are examples in exclusive decays where you could have this happen. One example is if you look at B 0 to D 0 pi 0 just having all neutral charges then actually this will happen. It'll be and it'll be more complicated than what I'm telling you, but you can derive a factoriization theorem for this. It's power suppressed relative to the one we're talking about because the one we're talking about always has a charge pion. And it turns out that that happens at leading order. Whereas the neutral pion process with the neutral B and neutral D is something that's power suppressed. Hope I'm remembering that right. Yeah, I am. All right. So, number four. So, this is on the side. Number four, take matrix elements. And here we find actually that one of the matrix elements is just zero. the one with the octet. So, let me write the non-zero ones first. I wasn't too careful about the two different so there's some guy that's just giving a convolution between the Wilson coefficient and 5 pi and then this guy which is some normalization factor times a form factor. These things are all mutependent in general. And this thing here is the wise function which is the hqt form factor and w0 is kind of the kinematic variable that that form factor can depend on which is V.V prime the labels on the fields and that encodes the momentum transfer which here is just related to the kinematics. So W0 is some function of MB and MC which I'm not going to bother writing down. uh just some constant. I mean it could have some kinematic factors that makes up the dimension like some depends on my gamma. Yeah, it's just some number. Okay. Okay, so that's these are the singlet operators. So in the singlet case we have initial state and final state. In all all cases we have initial state and final states which are color singlets and these operators are color singlets. In the case of the octet we also have color singlet states and we we factoriize them such that we'd have a matrix element for example. So let me just write one of them and well and this is zero because there's nothing that could carry the index a in this matrix element. Okay, so the octet matrix elements are zero. It's important that we factorized it for that to be true. Right? If we had dpi then we'd have a color singlet operator here B. So we wouldn't have been able to make this statement in the original operator in the electric Hamiltonian. This would just not be true. But once we factored it and put all the ultra soft fields here that everything that's going to be contracted together then we can make this statement. We couldn't even really make this statement when the y's were on the other side. Right? We had to move them over here to ensure that the statement is completely true. Okay? So color octed operator color singlet states. Okay. So then you just put things together and we can multiply these two things to get the final result. So if we write it as a matching from the electric Hamiltonian there's some normalization factor. So grouping together these factors of fi e pi and n prime which I'm not worrying so much about. there's a pisg function and then there's a single convolution between the hard coefficient which is kind of like our example of the photon pion form factor and then this light cone distribution. So we see an example where it showed up in a totally different type of process from the one we were considering previously thereby showing us kind of the universality of that function. And then there would be power corrections to this whole thing that we're neglecting that go like lercd over those hard scales. Okay. Okay, so this is the esco yise function and actually I did write down what the the w would be. So this w would be that some common you can write it in terms of the mezison masses like that. So it's the is wise function at max recoil and this function is measured for example in a semilepttonic transition. So you can imagine that the pion distribution function or properties of it were measured in the the photon pion transition. The isgar wise function is measured in the betl new transition and then you can make predictions for this bd pi. Okay. So that gives you an example of how you would use these factorization theorems. So this applies to basically this this type of factorization that we've just talked about. applies to a lot of different things with charged pi minuses. Or you can make the pi minus a row minus and that wouldn't really change anything. So you could have b 0 if you wanted to look at charges. You could have b 0 to d plus pi minus or you could have b minus to d 0 pi minus. And there's a third one which is the one we were talking about over here. B 0 to D 0 pi 0. So there's three different ways, three different B to D pi transitions depending on the charges and what we've derived applies to charge pions or charge rows. The neutral ones end up being power suppressed. And you can see that kind of from our discussion. There was kind of never a there was we have just writing down the leading order operators. Well, yeah, maybe you have to work a little harder, but effectively the leading order operators don't make this transition with the two two charges being the same such that you could get a pi zero. So, you have to do something more in order to get that case. All right. So, questions log over MC. You can if you want. Oh, MB over MC. So MB and MC, we're treating both of them as as the same in what we've done. So if we wanted to sum logs of MB over MC, we'd have to do something a little different than what we did. You'd have to first integrate out MB, treat the charm quark as a light quark. You could do that. Would it make the It turns out that Yeah. So those are single logs. Actually, they're not double logs. And it's related to the fact that you have massive particles. when you have massive particles you don't get the extra singularity and people in HQ worried about summing logs of MB over MC for a while and then after sort of doing enough calculations they realized it was totally irrelevant and you should just not bother you should just calculate the alpha s corrections treating MB and MC as comparable and summing the logs if you sort of think of leading log as being more important than the order alpha s calculation that misleads you sometimes the sign is even wrong and so there's sort of a general experience that summing logs of MB over MC and HQ is not a not even because they're single logs. It's because they're single logs. I mean that's one thing that makes it different than say the double logs that you would resum in this process. Uh actually these double logs are also single logs. So you could decide whether or not to resum them. But uh you know either whether or not you do resumation this is still useful because you could make a prediction for this decay rate and it works really well. All right. You can actually also make predictions for these decay rates. You can predict actually the relations between the D0 and D star0 using the factoriization subleading factorization theorem. Okay. So let's move on to our second topic which take the rest of today and that's rapidity divergences. Okay. So when we were talking about SCT1 and we were talking about loop calculations, we saw that there was a subtlety where when we were doing our colinear loops that could double count the ultrasoft loop if you remember. So kind of schematically I could say that this true CN was a sort of a CN naive minus a CN zero bin. So you could do the calculation ignoring that but then you have to be careful and there's a subtraction and that subtraction avoids the double counting with the ultrasoft right. So if you think about there being ultra soft amplitudes and linear amplitudes this is avoids a double counting. Now we never talked about whether there's something analogous to that in SCT2 and we just did a lot of SCT2 examples without ever even saying those words. to why it's actually for what we've talked about so far okay to ignore this issue but in general it's not okay. So if we go back to our picture of the degrees of freedom in SCT2 have this hyperola and you could have softs you could have some colineers and in the example that we just did it's like these were kind of the relevant modes and in general you might have some guy down here as well. So these are the the degrees of freedom in the SCT and effectively what's happened is if you want to think about double counting you're sliding down this hyperola. So this hyperola is kind of at a constant invariant mass say lambda QCD squar or could be lambda QCD and unlike the case in SCT1 where this guy lived on a different hyperola here to get between them you would be sliding down the hyperola at fixed invariant mass. Okay, so that's a little different, but in general in SKT 2 there are also zero bins. So in general you would have something like let me denote it this way CN minus CN soft and what I mean by this is this is my original amplitude where P mu was scaling like Q lambda squared 1 lambda the original and this would be a subtraction where you take that amplitude and you make it scale like in the soft regime. So it would be P mu lambda lambda lambda. So that's different than the example of SCT1. In the SCT1 case, we would really just be scaling down the one and the lambda so that they would be both of order lambda squared. Here we're actually scaling down the one and scaling up the lambda squared to a lambda. And that's the right thing to do to go from here to here. So we're just taking the amplitudes in this region and subtracting them in this region. And in general, we do have that. But actually, that's not the real complication that shows up in this in the in SCT2. The real complication has to do with whether there's any divergences associated to that. If this amplitude here didn't have any divergences, it wasn't kind of log singular, then you wouldn't really care about doing these subtractions because then there would be no infrared singularities that you're double counting and it it would just be effectively a constant. And the constants are always ambiguous. So whatever mistake you make in constants here, you just make up by changing your hard matching. So you don't have to worry if when the linear goes down into the soft region, there's no divergences. And that is actually what's happened in all the examples we've treated so far that when the colinear goes into some region where it's not supposed to have singularities that you just end up with no singularities. There's no log singularities. Okay. So so far there's no log singularities from the overlap regions. But that's not in general the situation. And we'll do an example in a minute where that where that where there are singularities that overlap. And the true difficulty here is the following. If you think about what's separating these modes, you might draw lines like this. Okay, just draw some straight lines separating the modes. And remember that we're plotting here in the P minus P+ plane. And that p fixed p^ squ is like fixed product of p minus p+. So p ^2 is p plus p minus up to the p per square piece which we're ignoring. So you could think of these lines as lines of constant p plus over p minus. Okay. Okay. And if I this is the so some ortho something orthogonal to p to p ^2. All right. So that would be one way of thinking about so you need something that's orthogonal to p^ square in order to distinguish these modes. And the real issue with that is that is related to the regulators. When we use dimensional regularization, it turns out the dimensional regularization is not sufficient to regulate a divergence that would happen when the CN comes down on top of the S. And the reason is because dimensional regularization regulates P^ squ. It regulates it's a remember it's a Lorenzen invariant regulator. So it's regulating Lorenari things like P^ squ not something like the rapidity which is this P+ over P minus that you would need to distinguish these modes. So invariant mass does not distinguish the low energy modes. So rapidity you could define is it's usually defined this way. So exponent of 2 y where y is the rapidity is p minus over p plus and if you look at the scaling of that that's scaling like either lambda minus 2 lambda 0 or lambda squared for the different cases for cn s and cn bar. So it's this variable that's really distinguishing the different modes. Okay. Okay. And that's the the these lines, these orange lines are just putting dividing lines between these in rapidity. Right. Okay. So there's a complication that dimensional regularization doesn't suffice. So you could think of it as regulating P uklitian squared once you do the wick rotation for example. So it regulates it separates hyperolas but it does not separate modes along a hyperola. It's a way of regulating singularities between hyperolas but not along a So that's one complication. And we'll need an additional regulator. And we'll see that that regulator will eventually lead to a new type of reormalization group flow which is flow along a hyperola. It's not a flow in invariant mass but a flow in rapidity. Okay. So let's explore what can happen in an example where there are these divergences uh in sort of a the simplest possible example. So there's enough going on that we don't we want to make our lives as simple as possible. So what I'll talk about something called the massive sudacov form factor. So you should think of it setup is like as follows. We're going to consider a form factor and it's going to be a space-like form factor. So it's a space-like quark quark form factor Q of the photon here spaceike and we're going to think about rather than having photons or gluons we're going to think about massive gauge bzons. So this is going to be some kind of Z if you like. Could be a Z bzon and I'll just call the mass m. Okay. So the thing that I'm going to want to iterate is like the mass rather than doing QCD I'm doing electroe corrections electroe corrections from a mass of gauge bzon. So, so this is relevant if we have electroeak corrections in a situation where Q ^2 is much greater than an M^2 and we're not going to be having gluons. Instead, we'll be talking about these massive gauge Bzons, multiple Z bzons if you like. Could also put the W's in, but let's make it simple and just talk about Z's. Okay, so let's do this example. So in the full theory you would start with a vector current say and you'd want to match that onto SCT. Before we do that let's just let me just write down a kind of full theory object using Loren variance. So you could think about the quark form factor and for massive gauge bzons this is just some form factor that you can calculate that's a function of Q ^2 and M^2 and then there's some spinners and so really kind of the dependence is encoded in this F which is a function of Q ^2 and M^2 m squ is acting kind of like an infrared regulator right so this Z bzon there's not a soft singularity associated to it. And so what you'd like to do in this process is factoriize q ^2 and m^2 i.e. expand this thing in q ^2 and m^2 and maybe sum some logs of q ^2 and m^2. So we want to factoriize some logs. I don't know. Okay. So, what are the type of degrees of freedom that we could have here? So, lambda is going to be m over q mass of the z bzon over the energy scale of the collision of the the gamma star. And if you just look at the z bzon then it could be colinear or it could be soft. So it could be actually three different possibilities and I could think about doing this effectively in a bright frame just like we did earlier. And then if what you would have is that the cleaner guy is like the quark and then the antiar guy is like the outgoing quark q of p bar. So you'd be making a transition in this diagram from n linear objects to n bar linear objects. And you could likewise have a z boson which could be linear or you could have a z boson that's soft and you have a soft rather than ultra soft because of the mass. Right? If Q * lambda is M and so if we want a propagator that's like P ^2 minus M^ 2 P ^2 better be of order M squ that happens for softs not for ultra softs so that's why we have softs and the same thing for colineers P squ of order M^ squ for these colineers so it's really an SCT2 type situation where the hyperola is just set by P^ square of order M^ squ we have our mode sitting on that hyperola okay so it's exactly of this type over there. And the thing that's new in this example is that we're going to encounter these rapidity divergences. You imagine there's the only quantum particle in your theory is the Z. Yeah. Make things as simple as possible. So you could talk about mixed sort of electric and QCD, but yeah, we don't. Let's make it in some sense that's kind of just like mixing a problem that we already would know how to deal with with this one. So let's just deal with this one. All right. So in terms of the external quark momenta we can therefore kind of treat them as follows. Let's just let them be have a large component. They're massless particles. So this is P. This is P bar and these guys are massless. Should have said that. And if you go through the kinematics Q ^2 which is minus P minus P prime squ if you square that you just find it's P minus P plus. And we're just effectively if we pick the bright frame, which is what we're going to do, each one of those is separately, keep calling it prime, call it bar. Each one of those is separately Q. Okay, the large these guys are just fixed to both be Q. All right, so we could factoriize this current with these degrees of freedom. The quarks are colinear. So at lowest order they just become a CN and a CN bar. And then we have to address that with pulson lines and we know how to do that. So let me just write down the answer. We could again follow our procedure of going through sket one but it's now so familiar we just know what to write down. Okay. So the current would look like that. And I'm not going to worry too much about the direct structure. So I won't won't worry for example about gamma fives and we could put that in it's easy. So that's the leading order current and then we'd have leading order lrangeians and we just start calculating and if we calculate what you would expect from a matrix from that is you'd expect that f of q ^2 and m^2 is going to split up given the degrees of freedom we have into some kind of hard function and then some kind of amplitude for the linear parts and then some kind of amplitude for the soft part. Okay, so you'd expect some hard times colinear factorization of the form factor and this is what we'll be after. So it's always good to sort of have an idea where you're go where you're going and that's where we're going. So let's consider just one loop diagrams and it suffices in order to make the point just to consider the most singular one. So I'm going to consider So there's various loop integrals that you could have to do when you're doing the diagrams if they're firmians. Let's just take the simplest which is a scalar loop integral. And I'm going to contrast how that scaler loop integral would look if you were doing the full theory calculation with how it would look in the effective theory. And then we'll see where the divergences come from. So you can think about this as the kind of the the piece where the numerator is independent of the loop momenta. So the numerator just factors out. Okay, so if I took our vertex triangle diagram over there, then a piece of it where the numerator is trivial and factors out would look like this integral. So let's just study this guy. If we did this integral in the full theory, this would be both UV and I are finite. So this is just giving us some result that involves logs of q ^2 over m squ. So it does it does have double logs of ^2 over m^2 and single logs of q ^2 m^2 but it's perfectly there's no one over epsilons. So now let's see what let's think about what would happen in the effective theory. So we have a kind of analogous loop integral for colinear where the gauge bzon is colinear. There's some numerator but again I'm not going to worry about you if this numerator is constant it doesn't it's effectively the same constant in the case of the if you take the leading order numerator in the full theory it'll be the leading order numerator in the effective theory as well but the denominators do change and so if we took the n colinear then yeah so this guy doesn't change because that's just like saying p minus minus and k or p minus and k minus are of the same size but this guy does change. Okay, so this guy would be k minus p bar plus because k minus is big and b+ is big. Both of these are big. So both of those are big in this in this diagram. And so that's effectively the Wilson line diagram. Okay, where the propagator here was off shell got integrated out and just became iconal and the k squ is smaller so we don't keep it in the leading order term. Analogously for bar it's the other way. So both of these are big then this one remains and then then they're soft and in the soft case what happens is that both of the propagators end up being iconal. So, and in our SAT operator, that's a diagram where we have our linear lines and then we have kind of a self-contraction of the S, but we're taking an SN with an SN. We have a contraction that's like this, right? two of the Wilson lines, soft Wilson lines that are sitting in that operator. That's a non-zero contraction that would lead to a diagram that would lead to this amplitude. All right, I'm going to leave a little space here because I'm going to add something in a minute. All right, so how do we see that there's a a problem with these integrals that they're not regulated by dimg? Well, you could look at the soft integral and you could just do the per. The per is only showing up in this k^ squus m^ 2. So you get something by doing that. And so if we do the per with dim rag in is we would end up proportional to something that's dk plus dk minus k + k - m^ 2 to the some power of epsilon divided still by the factors of k plus and k minus. So you see that the the invariant mass is being regulated. We just did the perp is gone. Plus time minus is being regulated because plus times minus if plus times minus grows large or goes small regulated by this epsilon. But either one plus going large or minus going large or plus going small minus going small with plus and times minus fixed is not regulated. And that's the rapidity divergence. If the invariant mass is fixed and k plus over k minus goes large or small. So let me write it as k minus over k plus going to zero or going to infinity. Let me say with K plus time K minus fixed it diverges as these things happen. And if you think about what's happening in our picture uh over there with in these limits it's exactly a situation where this X here would be sliding up or sliding down. So in one of these limits, this one's going towards CN bar and this one would be going towards CN. So it's exactly a region where you would be overlapping sliding down the hyperola and the integral has log singularities. So this is exactly a situation where we can't ignore the overlaps and we have to worry about them. Okay, so we need another regulator, right? A dim rag is not enough. We have to do something else. So what could we do? So there's lots of different things that you could do. One thing is you could just sort of put it in some plus something in these denominators. That's called the delta regulator. K+ plus delta. It's one choice. Uh we'll do something a little bit more dimrag like okay which makes it sort of easier to think about the reormalization group. So one choice for an additional regulator is the following. So if you think about where these divergences come came from, they came from the Wilson lines. So what you really need to do is regulate the Wilson lines and you can do that as follows. Let me write out the Wilson lines in our kind of momentum space notation. we have some N.P type momentum for the soft Wilson line and an N. as field and really it's this one over this icon denominator that's giving rise to these denominators here that are giving rise to the singularity. So if we want to regulate that singularity we need to add something and we could do that as follows. So this is the regulator we'll pick and I'll just write everything as kind of a a momentum operator. So I've just plucked the Z momentum in and raised it to some power. So PZ is the difference between P minus and P+. And that seems kind of arbitrary, but that'll do the job for us. You can motivate why you want to do PZ. So this is 2PZ. Actually, you can motivate why you want to do PZ rather than something else in the following way. And it, you know, it's a true fact that once you have enough experience, you you realize it's good to use PZ because PZ doesn't involve P 0. And the softs don't really make a distinction between any of the different components. And if you put in P 0, something that involves P 0, that would be dangerous. Uh, so this is nice because there's no P 0. So it's the combination of P plus and P minus that you can form that doesn't have the P 0, which is energy. And remember that the poles in P 0 are related to things like quarks and anti-quarks. they're related to unitarity. So not messing up the structure in P 0 means that you'll be fine with unitarity, fine with causality, you're not messing up a lot of nice things about the theory. So if you do put P 0 in, then you have to be careful about those things. So if you just arbitrarily put in some power of P 0, then you'd have more trouble. And so that's kind of why we're avoiding it and just putting in PZ. For the Clineers, we can do something similar. But for the linears, we also have a power counting between the minus and the plus. So for the linear, we can still make the power counting. Okay. by thinking about putting in PZ but then just expanding it to be a P minus. And that's true up to power corrections. And we don't really need to worry about power corrections when we're regulating these divergences. So it's just putting in the large momentum. And so W written in a similar notation. So I'll explain what the other things in this formula are in a minute. But the important thing for regulating is that we have some factor. In this this case it would be a factor of n bar.par. Sorry, not a bar. No, it's supposed to be an N. Looks like an ADA. Too many variables. There's the ADA. So there's some factor raising of the again the econal propagator sort of m mixing up with the iconal propagator. In this case, it's even more obvious that it's just regulating that iconal propagator. Okay. So if we were to do that and go back over here and put the regulators into these integrals, what would happen? So here we get an extra factor K minus to the ADA. And so that would regulate this K minus. And this these integrals will also have poles and from the one over K minus. You could think about okay if we did those integrals we'd also have repeated divergences that are kind of the analog ones and the linear sectors to the soft ones. Here we have two propagators and so if I I have two soft Wilson lines and so I get two factors but I've conveniently chose it to be the square root so it comes out kind of looking the same here. So one thing that you know is just a part of this regulator which actually I don't know a good argument for is kind of a priority from the symmetries of the theory. You might like to argue that that should be ADA over two and this should be ADA. But it's really just part of it's just a choice convention that we've made as far as I know. There probably is some nice deep argument for it but I don't know it. So what are these other factors? So new is like going to play the role of like mu, right? We've changed the dimension of the operator. We compensate it back with new just like we were doing with mu. We're going to get one over a divergences which are like our one over epsilon divergences. And we're going to get logs of mu which are the analoges of logs of mu. And that's the sense in which there's kind of an analog of this setup with our usual dimreg setup. In order to have a full analog, we should think about having a coupling. And so that's what this w factor is. You can think about it like there was some bare pseudo coupling which is really just one. that just imagine that you're switching from bear to renormalized in order to set up a renormalization group equation. And then this guy here which is in ADA dimensions if you'd like um would have a normalization group which would say new d by d new of this wet new is minus a / 2. Sorry, this is 8 / two. So that's the analog of saying mu by d mu of alpha is minus 2 epsilon alpha. It's the analog analog statement. I think this is okay. So this guy here is like a dummy coupling and the boundary condition for it after you've carried out these this this is just to set it back to one. So it's identically one. It's really just a bookkeeping device. They're just it's a dummy coupling once you go to the ADA dimensions, but you just set it always the reormalized coupling is just identically set to one. And identically setting it to one is what you need to sort of keep gauge and variance in the in these Wilson lines. It turns out actually that this regulator here is gauge invariant, though it doesn't doesn't look like it, right? we've modified the structure of the Wilson line in some kind of way that looks like it might be uh that it might be drastic but actually these factors here are gauging still leave a gauge invariant objects so um position space not that I know of maybe you can yeah but it's not since it's not yeah I don't know how to I don't know what it would look like you could for transport explain that prop that power and it was Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure you could probably just transform that. I'm just not sure if it would look nice. Yeah. Might not look too bad. And it might actually be a nice way of saying what I'm about to say in a less nice way which is if you look at the gauge symmetry why is it why is this not messing it up? So one way of thinking about that is just look at general coariant gauge. So, so note the one over eight and a zero terms are gauge invariant and you can think about that by just going to a general coariant gauge and seeing the parameter dependence drop out. So for example at one loop you would take gu in the contractions and replace it in general coariant gauge by some gauge parameter general coariant gauge ku k new over k^ 2 and you'd like to see it independent of this but this this aa to the zero piece is kind of independent of that for the usual reasons and the one over a dep term is independent of that because this guy actually doesn't induce any rapidity singularities. What happens is that if you have an N.K, then you have a corresponding n mu in the numerator. And so basically what happens is you get an extra n.k in the numerator. So anytime you have a 1 over nk, you would get for this piece multiplied by an n.k upstairs. And so this is cancelling and you you don't have a rapidity divergence in this in the C dependent part. So that's why this is invariant under the gauge symmetry. And then because of this boundary condition the kind of cancellation of the C dependence in the order A to the zero pieces kind of works out in the standard way. Okay. So it gives you an idea of why it's gauge invariant without giving you a kind of full proof or anything. So we have both one over epsilon poles and one of our ada poles in general and we have to understand what to do with them. So here's what we're going to do. For any fixed invariant mass it turns out that we can have these one over eight poles. And the right procedure for dealing with them is as follows. First you take ada goes to zero and deal with these new poles that you have introduced in your amplitude. In order to deal with them because you can have them for any invariant mass you actually have to add counter terms that can be a whole function of epsilon where you haven't expanded in epsilon and then divided by ada. So let me abbreviate counter term as ct dot. Then after you've done that, you take epsilon goes to zero and you find your one over epsilon counter terms. Okay. And this is the correct way of doing it. And we'll see how that works in practice in a minute. So let's go back to our integrals that I've now erased and just write out the answers for doing those integrals with this regulator. And I'll also make them firmian. So I'm putting in the numerators. We wrote them down for scalers. The scalers were the most divergent integrals. Actually, I can include the numerators. That doesn't really change the story. And I can include the prefactors as well. And I'll kind of write things in a QCD type notation. Even we can imagine that it's a nonabelian group just so CF is the whatever group it is it's the casmir the fundamental whatever group our gauge bzon's in. So here's the ADA pole uh it has a whole function of epsilon in in the numerator and it's even divergent. So this is 2 ADA and then the rest of it I can expand. So there's going to be a 1 / epsilon times the log. When the log replaces that one over epsilon, then I can start to expand and I get another one over when the log when the log new replaces the one over ada. I can expand this gamma. That gives me one over epsilon. And there's also some other pieces. One over two epsilon. There's a log over. There's a constant. And I'm never going to write the constants. So let me write all the results and then we'll talk about them. So IC and bar is the same. The only difference between this is that P minus goes to P bar plus. was really symmetric and then is different. So the one over epsilon one over a pole comes with the opposite sign and it also comes with a factor of two different and in this case there's actually one over two epsilon squar term. So there's also a double log of mu m and then there's plus constant. Okay. And so you could think about adding them up. And what happens when you add them up is you have 1 over 2 ADA 1 over 2 ADA minus one over ADA. And so the 1 over ADA poles cancel. And that's exactly what you'd expect because in the full theory the ADA was something we introduced in order to distinguish these effective theory modes. It wasn't something that was there needed for the full theory integral. and say you don't really you'd expect that it's sort of that there's a corresponding regulator between the two sectors so that when you add them together that the dependence on that parameter is cancelceing away because it's just an artificial separation if you like or separation that we're doing. So if I add them up, one over eight is cancel and so do all the logs of new alpha. I'm left with a log of mu over q one reps pole double log some types of single logs there's another type of double log. So it would look like that all the new dependencies cancelelling away. So sort of various things which we'll start talking about now and we'll continue talking about next time. So the rapidity 1 / aa divergence which we can call a rapidity divergence cancels in sum and of course so does the log news and that's as expected. And if you add an overall counter term for the entire thing, it just involves the hard scale log mu over q. So if you were to think about there being some Wilson coefficient which is sort of c bear is zc minus one. C bear is ZC C were normalized. Then ZC and the C were normalized only involve logs of mu over Q which is the hard scale. Okay. And that means that our hard function which is the Wilson coefficient squared if you just the Wilson coefficient in this case is only a function of Q and mu. Okay. Okay, so integrating out the hard scale physics didn't know about the separation. The separation was really something that we needed to do in the effect of theory to distinguish the CN and S modes. And you can see why we needed to do it if you look at these answers because if you look at the the types of logs that are showing up here, in this case we have a new over P minus and in this case we have a is it new over mu? Make sure I got that right. I guess it is. In this case, we have a new over m. Okay, we also have a mu over new. And so the sort of right scale to in order to minimize the logarithms here, we're going to have to again as usual take different values of mu and and new. Well, it's the same value of mu. All of them are M but it's a different value of new because it's the new that would need to be of order Q here. P minus is Q and the new would be need to be of order M here. Okay. So it's the new that distinguishes the modes. So the logs in CN are minimized for mu of order M which says being on the hyperola. But then new should be of order p minus which is q and that's precisely actually where we put the x in our picture if you think about okay so that's saying that we have a large p minus momentum and we have and we're on this hyperola where p square is order m^2. And it's likewise for the other pieces. So for the soft piece. So for the say for the anti for the other collar piece we need the same thing. And then for the soft. We need a different value for this new parameter. So having this regulator is behaving like dim rag where we needed different views when we had different hyperolas. Now we have different places on the hyperola and we're tracking that with the new parameter and that's showing up in the logarithms. And if you think about what the logarithms are doing, you can see that when you combine when you combine terms, see if you look at the one over epsilon and the news are canceling out, you're getting a mu over q. That's not maybe not the best example. Look over here. You have this log of m over q, right? in this kind of complete decomposition. The way that that logarithm here gets made up is by having m over new and mu over q. All right. So in order to get this log that doesn't have any muses in it. Mu is not telling you that there's that large log, but there is a large log. So there's large logs associated to these rapidity divergences. And what we'll talk about next time is how you do the reormalization group with the diagrams like this. how you write down anomalous dimension equations. There'll be anomalous dimension equations in both mu and new space. So we'll have to move around in that space and see how it works to sum the large logarithms. But I'll postpone that to next time. So any questions? Okay, so the general idea is really as usual. It's just that now we're dealing with a situation where there's two regulators and they're actually independent regulators. One's if you like is regulating invariant mass and the other is regulating these extra divergences. And so we'll be able to move around in the space without any worrying about path dependence for example. We'll talk a little bit about that next time in this two-dimensional space of mu and new. But you can see just from looking at the logs as usual, you can see where you need to be. And you can see that you need to be in different places for the different modes in order to minimize the logs in these amplitudes. And if you do that, then there should be some normalization group that would connect these guys. So there should be some RG that goes between these guys and it'll be an RG in this new parameter.