The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer highquality educational resources for free. To make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. This is We've got three lectures left today, Thursday, and next Tuesday. So today we're going to talk about a little bit more about modal analysis and we did initial conditions last time. This time we'll do harmonic excitation mostly a little review there. Thursday. Let me re say this slightly differently. Um modal analysis looks at the vibration of a system with many degrees of freedom and looks at it one mode at a time. But you can also just solve the whole thing at once. You don't have to break it down into individual modes. So you can come up with a if you have a harmonic excitation on a continu on a system with many degrees of freedom. If you put in a harmonic force, the whole thing's going to shake and you can solve it in one go. And that's essentially using a transfer function approach. So this is breaking it down one mode at a time. Here we're going to do this concept of transfer functions for hij. So response at location I due to an excitation at J. In a multiple degree of freedom system, you get many different combinations. So this is steady state response but done all at once and Tuesday and also this has an application to something I called dynamic absorbers. I'll just be able to scratch the surface of that, but the Hancock building across the way, I told you a couple lectures back about it in the 1970s is brand new and the windows are falling out and there was lots of windows falling out at the bottom and none at the top and the thing was bending back and forth like a just a canal lever reading the wind. And one of the fixes for it is they put a thing called the dynamic absorber on the 58th floor. There are two 300 ton blocks of lead on a pressurized oil film so they can slide back and forth on the 58th floor of that building. They're called dynamic absorbers and at the expense of letting these big blocks of lead slide back and forth, it keeps the building from vibrating and keeps the windows from falling out. So, we'll I hope to get to talking a little bit about dynamic absorbers. one other way of stopping problem vibration. And on Tuesday, we'll talk about strings and beams. Just a brief introduction to continuous systems. And that'll be our last lecture and probably give you a very quick review then of what's going to be covered on the final. But mostly the final will be um covering this last third of the course on vibration. So let's turn to modal analysis. And posted on stellar is a little two-page handout that gives you a just step-by-step cookbook approach to conducting a modal analysis. We're going to hit the highlights of that this morning as a way of reviewing what we learned last time and moving on to calculating the response to harmonic forces. So, we begin with some n degree of freedom system linearized. We're only dealing with linear equations of motion now. And our first step is we need equations of motion. So you'd write them m in general you'd write out of your equations of motion for the system. And these x's here are just my generalized coordinates. They could be rotations, deflections, whatever makes sense in the problem. That's the first step. You need your equations of motion. Second step, find undamped natural frequencies. The omega eyes, I'll just call it omega eyes and mode shapes. And the mode shapes we put into a matrix that we call a mode shape matrix. I write it as U. So that's the next step in the problem. The third is basically to apply or invoke the modal expansion theorem. This is the key to the whole thing. And that is to say that you can write the generalized motions of the system, the responses of the system as a weighted sum of the individual modes of the system. So the Q's are the modal amplitudes. The 's are the mode shape are the each mode like the first mode has some amplitude and time dependence and its motion is distributed to the whole system according to its mode shape and that's what that statement is and another way of writing it which is more intuitive is this is a summation then of i = 1 over the degrees of freedom of the system of the mode shape shapes times Q I of T. The modal amplitudes are the response of that single degree of freedom system that describes each of the modes. Now I should the qis are the solution to n equations of the form m i qi d dot plus c i qi dot plus k i q i equals the excitation for that single degree of freedom system. So the modal expansion theorem says we're going to take each mode of the system treat it like a single degree of freedom problem. And so for the first mode I would be one. You'd have a ma modal mass damping stiffness and a force for that mode. And you know how to solve for the response of a single degree of freedom system to initial conditions or the steady state response to some harmonic input. And you would do that for each of the modes. And to get back to the final answer, you sum them back up again this way. So I've put up here on the board where that the description of that demo and we went through all this information last time. So you have it in your notes for last time. If you missed last time, I've put it up again. So here's the demo on the table. This is what it's uh my diagram of it. Mass one, mass two, spring lowercase K1, lowercase K2. So the lower cases I'm going to use to describe system parameters. Uppercase K's and that sort of thing will be my modal parameters. So this has masses, stiffnesses, and damping. And this damper is connected to this the uh non-moving frame. And so is this one to model the damping sliding up and down on that shaft. So the equations of motion of this system are here in your generalized coordinates and I've included a possibility that I can have a force on the first mass f1 a force in the second mass. So this is a completely general setup for this problem. Then to you need to find the natural frequencies and mode shapes. So you assume a solution of the form e to the i omega t plug in and you get this algebraic equation minus omega^ 2 m n + k times some vector which will turn out to be the mode shapes and either this is zero which is trivial or the determinant of this is zero and this gives you the roots of this determinant give you the natural frequencies of the system. If it's a fourderee of freedom problem you get four roots. So we found for this particular problem that the natural frequencies are 5.65 and 17.69 and the mass matrix if you weren't here last time in kilogram 3.193.630 630 and the stiffness matrix in Newtons per meter for that system is this. Notice stiffness matrices are always symmetric and this one minus 36us 36. Okay. And many of you have been taking 211. Have you run in did anybody invoke something called Maxwell's reciprocal theorem? Have you run into that? Okay. Well, this comes from structural analysis this notion of the symmetry of the K matrix. The mass matrix is also going to be symmetric. So we need to find by no to do modal analysis you make this uh calculation uranspose mu. This is the transpose of the modal mode shape matrix mu. And if you do that calculation with these numbers and those mode shapes, you get a new mass. You get the modal mass matrix which is guaranteed to be diagonal even if it wasn't to begin with. This is the numbers you get. The stiffness matrix certainly wasn't diagonal to begin with. It looked like that. and we multiply uranspose * k * u and we get a diagonal matrix. This element here we'd call capital k1. It's the modal stiffness for mode one. This is the modal mass for mode one. And they represent a a they're numbers we need to write a single degree of freedom equation of motion of the kind at the bottom of that board up there. So we want to write M1 Q1 dot plus some C1 Q1 dot plus K1 Q1 equals in general A this is a one some excitation but it's a single degree freedom system. If it's a single degree freedom system, what's its natural frequency using the parameters in this equation? Right? So you omega 1 had better be the square root of K1 over M1 and that's the square root of K1 is 90 one. Nope, that's the that's the real stiffness matrix. I need my uranspose k here 113.71 and the modal mass for for system one is 3.556. So that's three or so into 10 and something that's neighborhood of 35 36 square of 36 is about six. So it needs it needs to give you back exactly the correct natural frequency which you found in the beginning when you solve for the natural frequencies and mode shapes of the system. So I already repeated myself here but and and if you write the same thing omega 2 it better be equal to k2 over m2. So these are just ways of verifying that you've done your arithmetic correctly. Okay. And I haven't done the damping matrix yet because the damping matrices are uh have to be done treated rather carefully. They don't uh automatically uncouple. And so we'll we'll address it in just a second. The damping matrix however would be written U T C U will give me what I hope is a diagonalized modal damping matrix. Try to make these look like caps or something to make them look a little different from the C's of the dash pots themselves. We hope to find a diagonalized damping matrix but we have to do some make some effort to make that happen. Finally, one thing we haven't dealt with before in order to when we derive the single degree of freedom modal systems, we had to multiply through by this uranspose the original equations of of motion. And so what I we haven't worked with yet is how do you get the um modal forces in the system and they come from the calculation u transpose times the generalized forces in the system. So that's a vector times a matrix gives you a new vector which are the generalized forces. And we're going to do that example in more detail in a few minutes. So last time we did the initial conditions problem and we need the results of that to do um we need the damping that we learned from that to do the forced vibration problem. So let's go back and review a little bit about what we did. So let's uh let for a moment the generalized forces be zero. So no excitation and this so we're only doing an initial conditions problem. And let's assume that we have some set of initial conditions on the generalized displacements at time zero. to those initial conditions on displacements, they'll look, you know, something like x1 kn down to x n. And we just have a two degree of freedom system in our example. And also you could have an x dot at t equals z. And that would be some vector of v1 zeros down to vn zeros. And for today, we're going to let those be zeros. So we're just going to have an initial just an initial deflection in the system and see what happens. And we learned last time that since the modal expansion theorem is what makes this whole thing work, the idea that X can be written as U time Q, then we ought to be able to say the same thing for if these are initial conditions, then we should be able to get the initial conditions in modal coordinates. So x at zero here was also u at the q's at zero. But we we normally would specify these. We need to know those. Well, to to get these, I just multiply through by U inverse. So that the Q the vector of the initial displacements in modal coordinates is just equal to U inverse times the initial conditions, the initial deflections in the generalized coordinates. and Q dots at zero. If you had nonzero initial velocities would be U inverse time X dot at time Z. So, let me tell you where we're going. I'm not going to I'm not uh going to go back all the way through the initial conditions problem. That was last lecture. I'm going to review the results of it because what I want to get to is how do you compute the response by modal analysis the response to a harmonic force. But if you for example if you get close to resonance for a single degree of freedom system what controls that height of that peak? If you drive a single degree of freedom system at resonance, what's the most important parameter? Damping. So we really need to know damping. And the way we get damping is one of the ways is to measure it. So I want to measure the right damping so that I can do what I'm trying to get to is to do the force vibration problem. But I need to get some estimates of damping to do it. Now I said damping can sometimes be a problem. So I'm going to show you I alluded to this damp last time but we didn't I wasn't able to kind of really clearly go through it. So I'm going to make a damping model my damping matrix for my system such that it is proportional to the original mass and stiffness matrix of the system. So alpha is just a parameter that I get to choose. Beta is another one that I get to choose. And this is m and k the original mass and stiffness matrices of this problem or you know any n degree of freedom problem. We're doing these two degree freedom examples because we can they're tractable on the board. So if I make my damping matrix look like that, it is guaranteed to work when I do uranspose times that times U because we know the mass and stiffness matrices give me diagonals. So I'm just essentially doing it again. So this is guaranteed to give me a diagonal matrix. It's what I want. Yes. So are those the original mass? Yes, these are the original ones. Usually, if I'm really trying to write the modal ones, I'll draw them with a diagonal through them or something just to So, these are M and K just like up here. Right there. They're right from the original system. They're the ones on the top of this board. There's the mass matrix, damping matrix, stiffness matrix for the original equations of motion. So I'm saying that my my unspecified damping matrix which is written as C1 C2 there I'm going to represent it this way. So that uranspose cu which is the calculation I need to be able to do. What that gives me is an alpha and here's my mo modal mass diagonalized modal mass matrix that results plus a beta times my diagonalized stiffness matrices. So Christina these guys are the modal ones after doing uranspose mu uranspose ku. Okay. So we have a two degree of freedom system and when I do this calculation I'll get modal mass m1 m2 k1 k2. So I'll get the the final diagonalized stiffness matrix will end up looking like some capital c1 0 capital2 here. That's my diagonalized damping matrix. It'll come from these and I'll just write them out. So this C1 will be an alpha m1 plus beta k1 and c2 be alpha m2 plus beta k2. Okay. So I have two free parameters with which I can fit. I can fit those parameters to give me the damping that I want and I'm going to measure the damping in the system and then I'm going to find the two parameters that make that work. That's that's why I'm going through this. All right, running out of room. So zeta 1 the damping ratio for mode one normal if it's a single degree of freedom system you say oh well that's the damping constant over 2 omega 1 m1 that's how you that's how we define damping ratio for a single degree of freedom system but we know what these quantities are this then is an alpha m1 over 2 omega 1 m1 plus a beta k1 over 2 omega1 m1 k1 over m1's omega 1 squared right so put omega 1^ squar up here cancel with that these two gives you this gives you alpha over 2 omega plus beta omega 1 / 2 and I can do the same thing for zeta 2 be my c2 over 2 omega 2 m2 and that'll give me an alpha over 2 omega 2 plus beta omega 2 / 2. So if I can measure a zeta a value for this damping and a value for that damping I have these are known then I have two equations in two unknowns alpha and beta just al algebraic equations that I can solve. So now I need to conduct my experiment. I have this system without external excitations just the free vibration system. Equations of um typical equations of motion like the first mode would look like Q1 M1 Q1 dot plus C1 Q1 dot plus K1 Q1 equals zero. I'm looking for solutions to that. And there's a similar one for the second mode. And what I want to do is excite one only one of these modes at a time. Now, you've seen this demo done before, but a certain combination of deflections, it'll respond only in mode one, and a different one will respond only in mode two. And it's guaranteed that if you deflect a system in the shape of one of its modes and let it go, it'll only vibrate in that mode. But let's prove to ourselves that that actually is going to work. So I'm going to let for example initial conditions x10 x20 be in the shape of mode one. Well mode one is one 2.2667. 2667 is the mode shape of mode one. All right, I'm just going to let that be the I'm going to deflect it in the shape of mode one. And I'm going to let uh x10 dot and x20 dot those are zero. And I want to show I want I need to know well if I do that what is what are the resulting initial conditions in modal coordinates. Well, we know that Q 1 0 and Q2 0. I can obtain them by doing U inverse times this. So this will be U inverse. And last time I'm going to write this. Last time I made a mistake. So u inverse I left out a zero 0.0 9102416US 4016. So that's u inverse and I'm going to multiply it by one of the shapes 1 and 2.2667. So I'm saying that my initial conditions are going to look exactly like one mode shape. To compute the equivalent modal initial conditions, I multiply the generalized for generalized equ uh the coordinate initial conditions by u inverse. Here's U inverse times that. And if I do that calculation, I get exactly 1 Z. And if instead of the first mode shape, I put in the second mode shape, the one and minus 2236. If I did that, I would get exactly 01. Okay. So I just I wanted to go through that just so you'd see it that if you the the math bears it out. If you put in a deflection that's exactly the shape of a mode then you will get back an equivalent uh initial condition in the modal coordinates for only that mode and everything else will be zero. So that's Q. This is Q 1 0 is that guy and this Q20 in this case is zero. Okay. So now we're ready to do the experiment. So if I deflect it in the shape of mode one back here and now' be a good time to lower the lights a little bit. And unfortunately we have that chalk white chalk in the background to distract us. But it's now deflected only in the shape of mode one. And now and it's going to behave like a single degree freedom system. All right. So, how do how would you estimate the do a quick estimate of the damping of mode one? I gave you a little quick easy ex rule you could use a few times back. What was it? Do the 50% thing she suggests. Now, can you be a little more specific? Pardon? Yeah. The h how many what am I looking for? How many cycles it takes for the thing to decay 50%. So, the reference line is here. I've deflected it that far and it'll start vibrating. And when the top of this on vibration gets to the halfway point between here and the reference, reference is where it starts, that'll be my 50%. So, one, two, three, four. Got about four cycles when it only went down halfway. Okay. Now, when I did it in my office the other day, only got two and a half cycles. So, we're going to use two and a half cycles because I ran the numbers for that. It depensive to if it's inclined a little bit because that changes the friction on the shaft. So in my office the other day it was a lot more damping. So anyway, pretend it's two and a half. Okay. Now while we're at it, let's do the other let's do the other case. So the other case we want to deflect it in the shape of mode two. So I go down say a unit amount. It's now deflected downwards some amount and upwards such that the ratio is in the mode shape of mode two. So every unit I went down I go up minus 22% of that. So that's what's been done here. So when I release this one now the reference line for the second one is up here down to here. So when this upper one decays to halfway about here, that'll be the number of cycles. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. Anyway, in my office, I got about 10. Okay, we're going to use my numbers. But that one actually is clearly a lot less damped, right? That thing just went on and on and on. All right, so in our experiment then, So we conducted our experiment. Zeta 1 is approximately equal to.11 over the number of cycles to decay 50%. And when I did the experiment in my office that was.11 over two and a half so I mean it was really decaying fast and so when you only have two or three cycles even it helps to use even fractional cycles and it's okay to use fractional cycles. This is just an estimate that's going to give us a number. Zeta 2 is approximately 0.11 over the number of cycles to decay 50%. And in this case, that's going to be 10. And so that gives me 0.011 or what's known as 1.1% damping. Okay. Okay. And the other one.11 over 2 and a half gives me 0.044 or 4.4% damping. Percent of what? Anybody remember what the percent what's the what happens when you're at one have a damping ratio of 1.0? That's critical damping. That's a crossover point. If you have one or greater, you get no oscillation. It just goes and stops. Less than one, it will actually cross zero and oscillate a little bit. Okay. Well, so now I have values for 0.044 and 0011 that I can plug in to these two equations. And I now have two equations in two unknowns, alpha and beta, because I know omega 1 and omega 2. So solve for alpha. And for alpha, I'm not going to do that on the board. So kind of a waste of good lecture time 71 and beta minus 033. So they can be positive or negative to make these work out. But those are the two values you need. And that says that we're going to model the stamping matrix of the system as 10.71 m plus minus 0.033 K and we'll compute the diagonalized damping matrix which is comes from UT CU and did I write that down? I didn't, but I don't need it because I know the damping that I'm after 044 and 011 because in order to complete this problem, if I wanted to go to completion and have the transient decay of the system, I would have it in for the each of the two pro two uh in two modal systems. Q of T for the first mode would be some E to the E to the minus zeta 1 omega 1T cosine omega 1 oops I need to left out my Q10 Q10 cosine omega 1 D * T. That's the initial most of the initial displacement part plus dot plus zeta omega zeta 1 omega 1 Q10. All of that over omega1 d all of this time s omega 1d * time. So that's you know this is just the response to initial conditions for a single degree of freedom system and you'd have a similar one for q2 of t except now all the ones would be replaced by two. So you'd have an e to the minus zeta 2 omega 2t * and those are your two that would that would be in general the response to initial conditions in modal terms and if you want to get back to the final response of in your generalized coordinates and it's just summation i = 1 to 2 in this case of U mode shape for mode one Q 1 plus mode shape for mode 2 Q2 of T. So these two added together would give you total response. So that's the response kind of a quick review of what we learned before response to initial conditions. But now along the way we've learned how to experimentally fix soling matrix so it'll work and actually get us to give us exact accurate results if we want to do a response to any initial conditions problem. But now we also have damping ratios for this system and we can now go on to do the force vibration problem and the force vibration problem will be pretty easy at this point. So that's was a quick review of response to initial conditions by modal analysis. How to find a damping matrix that works. We've also proven that if you deflect a system in the shape of a mode, it responds only in that mode. That's all pretty use. And that's generally true now of vibration systems. So we know, like I banged on this before, we know these things like to shake a little. They're flexible. And this one has a mode shape. It's kind of a can lever. Its first mode, it bends like that a little bit. And this thing has to bend with it. But if I were able to just give this thing an initial deflection just in the shape of that mode and let it go, it will vibrate in just that mode. And if I do it in some other contorted way that it is that its initial shape isn't just one mode, let it go. It'll vibrate in a couple different modes. Um, is there a way to visualize the um the mobile coordinates? Like would they be kind of the center of mass of certain things or would they be the center of masses of the springs or something? Yeah, there I I I taught a vibration course for many many years and I scratched my head long and hard to try to come up with an example where you could do exactly what you ask. I know of one example that works. In general, it the modal coordinates are it's a coordinate transformation into some system that it's very hard to place yourself physically so you can see what's going on. But to answer your question, I'll I'll show you one and still have enough time to get through the other part. Imagine this eraser. It's a car car automobile suspension system. So here's a car sits on springs, the tires and its suspension system. It's got a center of mass say here somewhere and I'm only going to consider vertical motion of this thing. Now you can imagine that it could go up and down but you can imagine it can also pitch back and forth, right? So I'm going to give it have two um generalized coordinates. One is the vertical deflection of its center of mass and the other is the angular rotation with of the center of mass with respect to my initial horizontal. Now so this you get equations of motion of this one you'll get a an mx dot kind of equation by summing the forces on this and you have forces from the springs and of course you'll have dampers and those kind of things. So you'll have an one force equation by summing the forces on it. You'll have another equation that's sum of torqus and it's AI theta dot kind of equation. So you'll get this. It'll be a two degree of freedom system. You'll get two natural frequencies and two mode shapes. And the two natural frequencies look approximate. The two mode shapes look here's the original undelected system. One mode shape the system moves up and rotates up. has both positive rotation and some positive deflection. And I need to draw this over here a little further. So here's the original system. It moves up in its mode shape like that. And when it goes down to its max negative, it's like that, right? So it goes through a motion. And if you think about it, if you extend these lines out here, you come to a point that this intersects. And so in fact in the first mode of vibration of this thing, if you went and sat right here, you would just see this thing go through an angle. And that in fact is the modal coordinate for mode one. And the mode the second mode I've kind of forgotten. Uh it it goes it has a sign change. And so when you're going deflecting upwards, it goes positive flexion upwards, it tips downwards. And when it goes the other way, it goes like that. So the other mode, so this one, it goes up and rotates up. And the second mode, when it goes up, it rotates down. And out here is a point at which you could go sit there and you would just see this thing rotate up, rotate down if you went and sat there. So you're having to put you move you move yourself to a place where you can see with a single coordinate with only the angle measured about this point you can completely describe that modal motion and with only the angle measured around this point you can describe the modal motion. But in general you can't do it. So, if I'm out here, if I'm at my eyes at this point, I'll see this thing go like that. Okay, that help. So, one of the hardest things for me, you know, as a lecturer is since I really like vibration and I've taught it for 35 years or so, is to try to cram everything I know about vibration into the one-third of this course. So, I obviously don't do that. So I'm trying to give you my goal then becomes is give you some basic insight of vibr about vibration so that when you do get out there in the real real world and you need to know something need to solve a vibration problem you'll know the fundamentals and you know where to go look it up and and if you want to take another course or something in vibration you can do that. All right. Now, we've got to do in relatively short order response of our initial system over here to some harmonic excitation. And the one I've chosen to do, let's imagine that I just I'm just going to put a force a harmonic force on this mass. And I want the steady state response. And you can imagine if I do it close to the natural frequency of one of the modes, you're going to get a lot of that. But if I do it to close to the natural frequency of the other mode, I'll get I can do it too. So let's do the steady state harmonic excitation problem. So we're going to do this problem. F2 of T. So my modal my generalized forces are zero some magnitude FT E to the I omega T and the modal modal forces are U transpose F and that would be the calculation one and 2.2667 2667 and one and minus.2 236 my two mode shapes transposed multiplied by zero and f_sub_2. So that says that Q1 is F 2.2667 2667 F_sub_2 E to the I omega T and Q 2 the modal force for mode 2 is this times that is minus 0.22 36 F_sub_2 E to the I omega T. So I've put on just a force on one mass but it gets distributed in a way that it'll excite both modes and it'll excite mode one in an amount 2.2 * f2 and it'll excite mode 2 in an amount minus.22. So mode one's going to get more exitation in this particular case because of the shape of the modes. The bigger the modal deflection is at the point of application of the force, the more that mode's going to get. Well, now these give you just two equations of motion. M1 Q1 double dot plus C1 Q1 dot K1 Q1 equals in the case of mode one 2.2 F2 E to the I omega t and that's a single degree freedom system excited by harmonic force. We've done we worked that problem. We know what the answer looks like. So for example, the magnitude of the response Q1 is given by the magnitude of the force Q2 times the magnitude of a transfer function which is the response Q1 per unit input Q force Q1 evaluated at whatever frequency I evaluated at. So the magnitude of the response, magnitude of the modal force times the transfer function. And this transfer function is this is the exactly the same form as the when we did just a single liberary freedom system as X over F. It's what I called the response X over input force F. Same thing. We're just now the response is Q and the input force is capital Q. Therefore, that looks like magnitude of Q and I made a mistake here. Q1 magnitude of force Q1 which is this. Okay. Times 1 over K1. This should look familiar. 1 - omega^ 2 over omega 1^ 2 squared + 2 zeta 1 omega over omega 1 quantity^ squared square root. So there's that transfer function expression at resonance for example all this goes to zero omega over omega 1 goes to one this whole denominator turns into one over two times the damping ratio for example okay and Q1 over K1 is the static deflection of the system under the load under a static load of that large. So I'll do the problem. If the excitation frequency happens to be right on the natural frequency for mode one, then I can evaluate this at when omega over omega 1 is one. And I've worked that out. That says that magnitude of Q1 here 2.2667 F2 over K1* 1 / 2 zeta 1. That's what all this condenses to. We know what K1 is. We know what zeta 1 is. F2 is the thing we're specifying. And so zeta 1, for example, is what? It was point it was 0.044. So you plug in your 0044 here. And this whole thing works out to be I write I'll write down the numbers here. 2.2667 F2 over K1 is and whoops not 109 that's K23.71 times 11.36 which is 1 over 2 * zeta 0 1 over 0088 8 is 11.36 this all the final analysis Q1 is F2 okay so it's just a single degree of freedom system excited by harmonic force and you can figure out how big its response is I can do the same thing for mode two is mode two resin No. So this is instructive. The magnitude of the response of Q2 is the magnitude of the force times the magnitude of the H Q2 per unit input to Q. 2 cubed. It looks like that. But this time this is minus.2236 F2 over 109.84 which is K2. And then all of the denominator involving 1us and this will now be omega over omega 2^ squared squared + 2 zeta 2 omega over omega 2 squared square root. or this number here is K2. The reason I'm I'm going to this is this is not this one's not resonant and in fact um what's omega ah well in fact what is the excite I started this problem I said let the excitation frequency be what natural frequency mode one right so omega in this case equals omega 1 therefore for this problem omega over omega 2 is omega 1 over omega 2 and That's 5.65 something over 17 something. It's about 1/3. So we are exciting the second mode at about 1/3 its natural frequency. Right? And so this is 1 minus a3 quantity squared and so forth. And if I run the numbers, I just want you to see what happens with the numbers. This turns out to be 0 806 and this turns out to be was remember this is 0.01 something here. Uh this number turns out to be 5 * 10 the minus 5th. It's a really small number and this whole square root of this stuff turns out to be 8.98 and in the end Q2 works out the magnitude of Q2 works out to be 0 23 F2. Okay, I kind of went I did this on purpose. If when you're at resonance, meaning the excitation frequency is close to the natural frequency for any linear vibration system, then this term is important and it'll be the most important term in the denominator because this term goes to zero. It's the only term in the denominator and it's likely to be quite small. That's what gives you one over that a big response. But when you're not when this denominator if you're not at resonance this term almost always is negligible and it's this term that governs it. So here you are 08 versus 10us 5th. So away from resonance this term is important and on resonance that one's important. And now how would you get back to we've now got the uh two responses. How do we compute the total system response? How would you do it? The modal expansion theorem. Hm. put it back. Yeah. So, x equ= u q, right? That's where we started. And q1 since this is a harmonic excitation problem. If the input had been e to the i omega t, then the output is some e to the i omega t minus a phase angle. So this is going to look like some Q1 amplitude say cosine omega1t minus v1 but at resonance we know the phase angle is pi / 2 and q2 of t is going to be the amplitude q2 * some cosine omega 1 t because that's the excitation frequency minus v2 and Remember the each of these systems, these transfer functions H Q over Q for whichever one it happens to be looks like this. Different amounts of damping give you different heights of the peak at resonance. And this is omega over omega i. So when you're at resonance, you're at one. So what we've done is we've have a twoderee freedom system. We're exciting it at the natural frequency of mode one. So it means for mode one, we're right here. Let's say that's where our damping is. So that's going to be our transfer function for that mode. But drawn on the same figure, where are we for mode two? We're at omega 1 over omega 2 which is you know somewhere in the neighborhood of.3. So we are in here. So this is omega over omega 2. This is omega over omega 1. So down here we're at about 3. Here we're at 1.0. So we're at resonance for one of the modes and we're here in what's called the stiffness controlled region for the other mode. This mode, mode two basically acts like a spring. Okay, the dynamic amplification is about one. It just gives you the static response for mode two and the resonant response for mode one. So I know what I was going to draw to remind you. This figure has a phase diagram that goes with it. And it for lightly damp systems, it goes from zero to pi. And at resonance, all of them cross pi / 2. When it's a response to a force, simple force at resonance angle phase angle is pi /2. So the response lags the input by 90°. When you're down here in this region, the response moves with the input. There's phase angle is basically zero. And up in here, the phase angle is 180°. Acts like a driving a mass. So our two responses look like that. And to back get back into modal coordinates, x1 x2 is going to look like u1 q1 of t plus u q2 of t and the q and these it's harmonic steady state response. You know the amplitudes q1 and q2. We figured them out. One of them is two Q1 turned out to be 2227 F2 and Q2 is 0.0023 F2 and this one point cosine cosine. So if we do that, if you put your excitation only on here, it's trying to tell you that mostly you get mode one and not much mode two. But that's primarily caused because you chose to put the excitation frequency at where the natural frequency of mode one right so your resonant but what if I could have so if I had made my excitation here same place but made the frequency close to the natural frequency of mode two which of the two modes would have dominated mode two right okay So I've got another little demo doing well. So we've talked out of necessity to do it on the blackboard and in relatively short time we've only talked about a two degree of freedom two rigid body system. And this is a continuous system. It's a taut string. It's your violin string. And I've uh put some white lab tags on it so that you can see it against black backgrounds. Everything that we've learned about the behavior of this twoderee freedom system will apply to a three or four or five degree freedom system. But actually the basic lessons apply to continuous systems too. So the lesson we just learned is if you excite a system this has many natural frequencies and in fact the if the first one's at one hertz which this is about is maybe a little more than that first mode is like that maybe two hertz the second mode's twice that third mode's three times that happens to be really simple okay but so if I put a force the only force in this problem I'm going to do the analogous problem here a harmonic excitation. I'm going to do it in one little place right here. And if I drive this system at the natural frequency of mode one, what do you see? What mode is dominating response? Mode one. Very very small responses of other modes. Okay. So now get the system to stop shaking. If I drive it at exactly the same place at a different natural frequency, I see three half sine waves there. Right? So, I was driving it at the natural frequency of mode three. And there's no mode one, no mode two. Okay. Now, I need a helper. Somebody come hang on to this for me. So you got to keep the tension on it. So now I'm going to teach you a really important lesson about systems. Exciting systems. The second mode. Uh I might have a hard time driving it here. Let me see if I can get the second mode going. There's second mode has a node right here. There's a point right here of no motion. Right? If I sit here now, I'm gonna let the system stop. If I drive this system at the second mode, natural frequency right here, what will happen? Pardon? Maybe some mode one. But how much mode two will I get? So another lesson here is that if you draw continuous systems have nodes points of no motion and the second mode happens to have a node right here. This point doesn't move when it's vibrating in the second mode. And the modal force looks something like the generalized force times the mode shape uranspose F. That's how we got the you have to multiply the generalized external force times the mode shape to get the modal force. Well, here's my mo my generalized force. What's the amplitude of the mode shape here? Zero. F time zero is zero. I cannot there is just no way I can get this thing to vibrate in the second mode by driving it at a node. And that's just that's just just generally true. You know, take it to the bank and remember that. Okay. Thank you. All right. Something else I wanted to Ah, I need you back. So when you give a system a deflection, an initial deflection because we want when we went to get initial conditions, we said that the equivalent modal initial conditions were U inverse times the U inverse times the initial conditions in generalized coordinates. Right? So for a continuous system, this thing has mode shapes that look like sin n pix / l. Those are the mode shapes. And if I take this thing and grab it about in the middle, wherever that node was. And given an initial deflection, the shape of that initial deflection is kind of a triangle, right? You've all had 4A series. Could you, this is a triangular shape. Could you express this shape as a fora s? Sure. And it just happens that sine waves are the mode shapes. So you would be coming up the the forier coefficients are the modal amplitudes of in initial conditions. And so whatever the forier coefficients for this are are the modal amplitudes for each of the modes. So which mode you think is going which fora sign component is going to be largest in this one? Mode one. By the way, all even numbered modes will be zero because they're asymmetric. This is a symmetrically shaped pulse. All no the the modal initial conditions for 2 4 6 8 10 are zero. You will get 4A nonzero forier coefficients for 1357. The biggest one is mode one. So what do you expect to see if I let go of this vibration primarily at right and a little bit of some others. Now let's say they all had about the same damping. Let's say they all had 5% 10 10% damping. No, excuse me. All had 1% damping. That means they go through about 10 cycles to decay to halfway. Right? So if they all have the same damping, even if there's several other modes present, which one's going to last longer in time? Mode one, because it takes just longer in time to get to 10 cycles. The other modes get there quicker. And so this, if you ever whack, if you take a guitar string and plunk it or a violin or a piano, you'll hear the basic tone. And what makes it sound nice, you have all those nice overtones. But if you listen carefully, the overtones die out usually and you're left with the fundamental at the end. You smack a piano key hard, you'll get you'll get an interesting sound at the beginning and then it'll mellow out and you hear just a pure tone at the end. And that's because the damp the higher frequencies damp out quicker because they get in more cycles per unit time. Okay, that's the other kind of quick lesson. And I want I have one thing I want to explain to you which will help maybe a little conceptual understanding about this came up in a homework discussion and that is just a note about stiffness matrices. is a really fast easy way to assemble stiffness matrices. So, here's a threemass system and a spring spring. And I'm going to put a spring here and one here. K1. K2, K3, K4, K5, and K6. And I want to get my stiffness matrix. The stiffness matrix, this is a three°ree freedom system. It'll be a 3x3. And it'll have elements up here which I'll call K one one K12 K 1 3 K 2 1 K2 3 K3 1 K2 2 and so forth. Okay. So what's the meaning of K I J? So K I so K11 I is one J is one and the interpret if you can understand the interpretation of what a stiffness matrix is it'll help you make it much easier for you to find them. So, KIG is the force required at I due to a unit deflection at J. due to sounds kind of like cause a causal thing. I don't quite mean that. But so let's think about this. What's K11? So K11 is the force required at one per unit deflection at one. So if I take this system and I make it move over one unit and the other this is now X1 here by the way X1 X2 X3. So x2 and x3 are zero. I do this one at a time. I move this over one unit. How much force does it take to make that happen? The real system, you're grabbing it. You're pulling it over one unit. You're making some springs move. How much force does it take to move that one one unit holding these still? Well, you're going to one force on a spring is kx. If x is one, the force required to stretch this spring is k1 * 1. Right? The force required to push on that spring is k5 * 5 k2 * k5 * 1 k2 * 1. The first the k11 this first element is the sum of all of the stiff springs connected to it. K1 + K2 plus K5. So how about K12? K12 is the is the um force required at one. Actually let me do K21 make a little more sense. Is the force required at two because I've moved number moved the system one unit at one. That's what the problem. That's just thing I've done. I've moved this one unit. In order to keep this one from moving, do I have to apply a force to it? How big? K2 or minus K2? This thing is pushing going over one unit. It compresses that spring. It's pushing on this thing. I say it cannot move. What do I have to do? Push back. Minus K2. And you can go through. And then how about number three? What's the force required at at three? Because I've moved the one at one by one unit. Move this over. Are there any springs connected to mass three that are affected by that motion? K5. And it pushes on it through that spring. So I have to resist by. So k 31 = minus k5 and you can then so now then you go on to if you want to get the next ones okay you go to the next system this is now can't move this can't move you let this be unit deflection so unit deflection at two add up the springs k2 plus k3 plus k6 and that's all there is k22 k2 2 + k3 + k6 and then you go through all the ones that it affects and you'll get minus this and that. So that's the meaning that's the each of the elements of that stiffness matrix have that meaning to it. And to um give this closure we have an we have equation of motion but we can als the stiffness matrices also applies to the statics problem. So you have m x dot + c x dot + kx= f. What if I only want to do a statics problem? I'm going to put a static force on here and I want to know the deflections or I'm going to cause deflections and I I want to know what force it takes to do it. Well, the static problem is let this be zero. This be zero and it says k x= f. So in this three degree of freedom system, what forces are required to cause the deflection? Um 0 01. I want to deflect it one unit on the third mass only. What forces do I apply to the system to make it happen? Well, you just multiply it out. This is f_sub_1, f_sub_2, f_sub_3. So it'll only be this one, this times this, this, and this. Only ones that matter are these three here. And this will end up being k 31 * 1. This would be K. I guess I got it wrong. 1 three. Then we get 2 1 22 23 K 33. Those are the three forces required. You put on the force those forces forces equal to these amounts. You will get that deflection. So that's just a little hope that gives you a little insight as to what stiffness matrices mean. Okay. So there's you can do them by inspection. Once you understand that you can actually just fill them in by inspection just by doing unit displacements at each place and adding up the forces. Okay. See you on Thursday.