Okay, so um let's get going. Today we're going to talk about how do you actually train a neural network, right? Because that is sort of the heart of the game here. Um, so just to recap, we looked last class at what it takes to design a neural network. And we made this very important distinction between the things that you're handed by your problem and the things that you have agency over that you have control over. And we noticed that, you know, the input layer for your problem, the input is the input. Uh, the output is the output. You got to do something with the output, something that's expected. But everything that happens in the middle is actually in your hands. And in particular, we noticed that we have to decide how many hidden layers we want. We have to decide in each layer how many neurons to have. And then we had to decide what uh activation to use. Even though I'm kind of cheating when I say that because I told you very clearly on Monday that for the hidden layer activations just go with the ReLU activation function. You don't have to think deep thoughts about this. Okay. But the other things are all choices you have to make. And we will talk a bit later about how do you actually make those choices. Okay. Now the rule of thumb right the rule of thumb always is to start with the simplest network you can think of and if it's if it gets the job done working on it. If it's not good enough make it slightly more complicated. Okay. So that's sort of the you know like the meta thing you have to remember always when you're designing these things. Okay. So that's sort of you know what it takes to design a a deep neural network. So what we will do in this class is we'll actually take a real example with real data and then we will we'll think through how we will design a network to solve this problem and while doing so we will cover a whole bunch of conceptual foundations such as optimization loss functions gradient descent and all that good stuff. >> Okay. >> All right. So the the case study or the scenario here is we have a data set of patients uh made available by the Cleveland Clinic and essentially we have a bunch of patients and for all these patients the setting is that they have come into the Cleveland Clinic and they have not come in with a heart problem. They have come in for something else. Maybe they just came in for a physical and we measured a whole bunch of things about them. Okay. And the kinds of things we measured are, you know, demographic information like what's their age, uh, gender, whether they have any chest pain at all when they came in, blood pressure, cholesterol, sugar, so on and so forth. Right? You get the idea. Demographic information and a bunch of biomarker information. And then what the Cleveland Clinic uh did was they actually tracked these people and figured out in the next year, did they get diagnosed with heart disease or not? Okay, in the next year which means that maybe you can build a model when someone comes in even though they didn't come in for a chest problem maybe you can predict that something's going to happen to them in the next year right it's a nice sort of classic machine learning setup all right so this is the thing so what we want to do is we can totally solve this problem using decision trees neural I mean sorry random forest and gradient boosting and all that good stuff you folks may have already learned from machine learning but we will try to solve it using neural networks. Okay. Um this is an example of course of what's called structured data because this is all data sitting in the columns of a spreadsheet, right? Uh so working with structured data is the way we warm up our knowledge of neural networks and then we will do things like working with unstructured data starting next week with images and then later on with text and so on and so forth. Okay, any questions on this? >> Okay. uh yes >> uh >> just connected even to last time's class where we took uh the same example and first it was a logistic and then we did a neural network so the probability in case of one was 085 then was 22 and here as well how do you know when to uh use what usually in textbooks you know when to use logistic or when to use uh uh something else but in this case uh when do I complicate it to neural networks visav in this case maybe just doing a random >> it's a great question uh when do you use what? So I think there are two broad dimensions that you have to think about. One broad dimension is uh how important is it that you need to explain or interpret what's going on inside the model to perhaps a non-technical consumer. The other dimension is how important is sheer predictive accuracy. In some situations predictive accuracy trumps everything else in which case just go with it. In other cases explanability becomes a big deal because if they can't understand it they won't use it. And in those cases, it's probably better to go with simpler models such as decision trees and neural I mean not neural decision trees, maybe even random forests, certainly logistic regression, those are all a little more amenable. But that said, um even complex blackbox methods like neural networks, there is a whole field called mechanistic interpretability which seeks to try to get insight into what's going on inside these big black boxes. So the story isn't over, right? But that's just the first cut way you sort of analyze the problem. Okay. So um let's get going. So if you want to design a network. All right. So we designed the network. Uh so we have to choose the number of hidden layers and the number of neurons in each layer. Then we have to pick the right output layer. So here what I did is the simplest thing you can do is of course is to have no hidden layer. So if you have no hidden layers, what is that model called? logistic regression. >> Yes, logistic regression. Okay, so of course we want to do a neural network. So I'm going to have one hidden layer because that's the simplest thing I can do. And then I'll confess I tried a few different numbers of neurons in this thing and when I had 16 neurons, it actually did pretty well. Okay, so there was some trial and error that went on before I landed on the number 16, right? And for some reason people always use powers of two. So may as well do that. So I tried like 4 8 16 and 16 was really good. And as it turns out when I went above 16 uh it sort of started to do badly and it started to do badly because something called overfitting which we're going to talk about later. Okay. So yeah 16 um and then by default I use rel okay so 16 re neurons and then here the output is a categorical output right disease yes or no one or zero classification problem which means that we want to emit a probability at the very end. Therefore, we'll use a sigmoid. Okay. So, so far so good, right? Any questions? All right. So, we're going to lay out this network visually. Okay. So, we have an input and so I just have have an input and as you will see here x1 through x29 that's our input layer. And you may be wondering 29 where did he get that from? Because that doesn't seem to be like 29 rows here of independent variables. So it turns out there are only 13 input variables here but some of them are categorical. So what I ended up doing is to take each categorical variable and one hot encode it. Okay. And when you do that you get to 39 I'm sorry 29. All right. And when we actually do the collab later on I'll show you exactly how I one encod encoded it. But that's what I'm doing here. That's why you have 29 not 13. Okay. Now obviously we have decided on these hidden units 16 units with nice rel here okay and then we have an output layer with a little sigmoid and I got bored of trying to draw all these arrows so I just gave up and said assume there are arrows okay between all these things good >> yeah I'm sorry I think you already mentioned this but why 16 units >> why 16 uh I tried a bunch of different numbers of units uh uh at 16 the resulting model did well. So I just went with that >> and the logic of why is a ReLU. >> Oh why a ReLU? Yeah. So there's a there is just a mountain of empirical evidence that suggests that uh ReLU is a really good default option for using activations and hidden layers. There is also a really great set of theoretical results and I'll allude to some of them when we actually talk about gradient descent. >> Yeah. >> Sorry. Good question. you mentioned um in the input layer how how did you get to 29 again when you had like 13 variables. >> So some of those 13 variables are categorical variables like cholesterol low medium high right and so I took them and one hot encoded them. So if it had like five levels, I would get five columns now. Uh yeah, and by the way folks, um just like uh is it can yeah just like please use your microphone so that people on the live stream can hear your question. Yeah, go ahead. >> Uh sorry, just one question. So the vectors since we didn't represent them, are we assuming like every x is connected to all the units? >> Correct. And this is also a parameter that we have to decide or >> that ends up being the default and we will see deviations from that assumption when we go to image processing and language processing and so on. But when you're working with structured data like we are doing now that's the default. Okay. So let's keep going. So this is what we have. So what remember what I told you in the last class whenever you're working with these networks right get into the habit of very quickly calculating the number of parameters. Right? Just do it a few times, the first few times, so that you really know code exactly what's going on. Okay, so yeah, how many parameters do we have here? How many weights and biases? You can work through it. Okay, you can you can you don't have to tell me the final number. You can say X * Y + Z, stuff like that. >> Yeah, >> 65. You have 48 weights and 17 biases. >> Okay. And how did you come up with that? >> So for the weights you have like for the first layer, it's 2 * 16. Then for the second connection it's one time 16 and then the Y sees the 16 hidden plus the outputs. >> Okay. Um any other views on this? >> I think it's 29 into 16 >> 29. Okay. 29 into 16 >> and then 16 into plus [snorts] I mean 16 there. >> Yeah. >> And then biases 16 biases and one bias. >> Right. So the way it's going to work is we have 29 things here. 16 in the middle. So 29 into 16 arrows. And then for each of these fellows there is a bias coming in. So that's another 16 plus you have 16 * 1 which is here. Plus there is one bias for this one. So the total is 497. So you can see here there is something very interesting going on which is that when you go from one layer to another layer the number of weights is roughly on the order of a * b the number of units and so that's a dramatic explosion the number of parameters right and that's something we have to watch for later on to prevent overfitting okay that's where the explosion of parameters comes from the fact that each layer is fully connected to the next layer okay but we'll revisit this later on. Okay. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to actually translate this network right the one that we have laid out graphically into keras code to demonstrate how easy it is. Okay. So I will give a fuller intro to keras and tensorflow later on but for now just suspend your disbelief. We will just try to do in kas as if we know kas. Okay. So let's try that. Later on we'll get into all the gory details and train it in collab and so on and so forth. Okay. All right. So, so the f so the way we typically do it is that once we have a network like this we typically start from the left and start defining each layer in keras one after the other. So we flow left to right. Okay. So let's take the input layer. The way you define an input layer in keras is really easy. You literally say keras.input. Okay. And then you tell Keras how many nodes you have in the input coming in. In this case it happens to be 29. So you tell it the shape. Shape equals 29. And the reason why we say shape as opposed to length is because as you will see later on we don't have to just send vectors in. We can send complicated things in to KAS. And those complicated objects could be matrices it could be 3D cubes. It could be 4D tensors and so on and so forth. So it's expecting a shape right? What is the shape of this thing you're going to send me? In this particular case, it happens to be a nice list or a vector. So, it's 29. Okay, that's it. So, we we write this down. This creates the input layer, right? And we give it a name, right? And the name here means this layer. Whatever comes out of this layer has a name input. Okay, good. Next, we specify the shape of the input as I mentioned right there. Then, we go to the next one. And here and we will unpack this. The way you define a layer is typically a hidden layer. KAS.layers.dense and all this stuff. Okay. So what this is is it first of all it says I want a dense layer. By dense layer I mean a layer that's going to fully connect to the prior and the later layers. Fully connect. That's what the word dense means. Okay. Number two. I want 16 nodes here in this layer. Okay. Finally I want to use a relu. See how compact and parsimmonious it is right and that is the appeal of keras. It's very easy to get going. So the moment you do that you have actually defined this layer. But what you have not done is you have not told this layer what input it's going to get because as far as this layer is concerned it doesn't know that this other layer exists. So you need to connect them. Yes. Um, do we need to define for the ReLU where the the bends are like where you take the max? No, >> the ReLU the bend is always at zero. >> Okay, thank you. >> Okay. >> All right. So, that's what we have here. And then what we do is we have to tell it I you want to feed this layer the output of the previous layer. So you feed it by taking whatever is coming out of this thing which is called input and you basically stick it in here. So the moment you do that boom it's going to receive the input from the previous layer. And because this one's output needs to go to the final layer you need to give a name to that output. So you give it a name. I'm just calling it H for because it's coming out of the hidden layer. It's just a variable. You can call it anything you want. Now what we do, we go to the final output layer and this is what we use. The output layer is just another dense layer. That's why we use the word dense. But we say, hey, give me just one thing because I just literally just need one unit here because I need to emit just one probability. And the activation I want to use is a sigmoid. Done. Okay. And once you do that, you have to feed it the input from the second layer. So you stick an edge here. Now you have connected the third and the second layers. And after you do that, you give a name to the output coming out of that. We'll just call it output. You can call it Y, you can call it output, you can call it whatever you want. Okay. So at this point, what we have done is we have mapped that picture into those three lines. That's it. Okay. But we aren't quite done yet. There's one little thing we have to do. So what we have to do is we have to formally define a model so that Keras can just work with this model object. It can train it. It can evaluate it. It can use it for prediction and so on and so forth. So we tell KAS, hey uh create a model for me. Kasmodel and basically where the input is this thing here and the output is that thing there and then the whole thing we'll just call it model. Okay. So that's it. We are done. That is the whole model. That is It sounds really fancy, right? A neural model for heart disease prediction. Yeah, it's pretty cool. Four lines. And we will show how to train this model with real data and so on and so forth and use it for prediction after we switch gears and really get into some conceptual building blocks. We had a question. Can you define a custom activation function that is not in the list of carax library? >> Yes. Yeah, you can define the question was can you define a custom activation function? You totally can. Uh and in fact I mean the the kind of flexibility you have here is incredible and this these innocent four lines unfortunately sort of hide the the potential that's possible here. But I guarantee you in two to three weeks you folks will be thinking in building blocks like Legos. So you'll be, you know, I I I I'm so happy when it happens. Students will come to my office hours and say, you know, I want to create a network where I have a little network going up on top, a one going in the bottom, then they meet in the middle, then they fork again, they split. I'm like, unbelievable. It's fantastic. And you're going to be doing this in two weeks. I guarantee you. >> Yeah. In the case of a multiclass classification problem, are the output nodes equal to the number of classes? >> Correct. So we will come to so this is binary classification and the question is for multiclass classification let's say you're trying to uh classify some input into one of 10 possibilities we will have 10 outputs but the way we define it is going to be using something called a softmax function which we're going to cover on Monday so for now we just live with binary classification u >> is there a default activation method in keras or you have to put something >> ah that's a good question. I believe the default might be ReLUS for hidden layers but I'm not 100% sure. Just double check that. Yeah. Uh >> uh just to get a clearer understanding when you said that beyond 16 when you tried working on those neurons the performance uh worsened. So that is where you were playing around with initially two and then maybe four and six and eight. >> Exactly. Right. >> Could use the micro. Yeah. Do we need to define each of the hidden layer when the model gets more complex when we have more than one layer like >> if you have like 25 layers >> consolidates? Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. So what we typically Good question. If you have let's say 100 layers, right? Uh do you actually write have to type in each by hand and cut and paste? No. You can actually write a little loop which just automatically create them for you. And so basically what's going on is that this little output thing you see here, this variable, this output could be the result of a thousand layer network with all sorts of complicated transformations going on. And then finally it pops up as this little thing called the output. And what KAS will do is it'll be like okay this model has this input and has this output but boy this output came from incredible transformations applied to the input. And KAS will process all that very easily for you. You don't have to worry about it. Right? It's really a beautiful example of the power of abstraction and you will you will see that as we go along. Okay. So now let's switch gears and say once you have written a model like that in Keras how do you actually train it? Okay. Now, training is something you've been doing a lot, right? So, for example, when you have something like linear regression, right, where you have all these coefficients you need to estimate, you have this model, then you have a bunch of data, then you run it through something like LM if you use R, and what it gives you is actual values for those coefficients, right? 2.8 and so on and so forth. So, the the role of the data is to give you the coefficients, right? Or you can think of the coefficients as really a compressed version of the data. Okay? Similarly, if you do logistic regression, you have a model like that. You add some data, you run it through some estimation routine like GLM or scikitlearn or stats models, pick your favorite tool, then you'll come up with something like that. So basically what's going on here is training simply means find the values of the coefficients that so that the model's predictions are as close to the actual values as possible. That's it. Okay. And so and to find the one that is as close to the actual value as possible, a whole bunch of optimization is wolved. You don't have to worry about the optimization when you did a regression linear or logistic because it's all done under the hood for you. But for neural networks, we actually get to know how it's done. >> Okay, because it's important. >> Okay, so training a neural network, a deep neural network, even GPT4, it's basically the same process as what you do for regression, right? You basically it's just a very complicated function with lots of parameters, but ultimately you have a network with all these question marks. You add some data, you do some training, and boom, you get some numbers. [clears throat] >> You may get into this, but are we determining the architecture of the network before we train it? >> Okay. >> Yes. Because if you don't define the architecture, Keras doesn't know how to actually calculate the output. given an input and unless it knows input output pairs it can't do anything more with it. Okay. So um so the essence of training is to find the best values for the weights and biases and the way we think of the best values is that we basically set up a little function and this function measures the discrepancy between the actual and the predicted values. Okay. And I use the word discrepancy because the way you define the discrepancy, there's incredible amounts of creativity in the field. In fact, a lot of breakthroughs in deep learning come because people define a very clever measure of discrepancy and then it turns out it actually gives you all sorts of interesting behavior. Okay, that's why I use the word discrepancy as opposed to the word error because when I say error, you might be just thinking of something like predicted minus actual. That's too limiting. Okay, >> prediction minus actual is too limiting. That's why I use the word discrepancy. So, so we we basically define a function that captures the discrepancy between these the actual and the predicted values and these functions are called loss functions in the deep learning world and every paper that you read you will find interesting loss functions. There are hundreds of loss functions. Enormous research creativity goes into defining these loss functions. Okay. All right. So, these are loss functions. And so, a loss function is a function that quantifies this discrepancy. So let's say the predictions are really close to the actual values. The loss would be what? >> Zero. >> Close to zero, >> right? Very small. And if if you have a perfect model, perfect crystal ball, what would the loss be? Exactly zero, right? Exactly zero. So in linear regression, we the loss function we use is called sum of squared errors. We didn't call it loss function because we were not doing deep learning, just linear regression. But that's basically the loss function, right? So the loss function we use must be very matched very properly with the kind of output we have. Right? So if your output is a number like 23, right? You're trying to predict demand like a product demand for next week for a particular product and the predicted value is 23, the actual value is 21. It's okay to do 23 - 21 as a discrepancy, right? The error. Okay? But for other kinds of outputs, it's not so obvious what the correct loss function is, what the correct measure of discrepancy is. And so here, but the simple case is regression, right? Um the yi, the i here, by the way, is a superscript which stands for the e data point. The i data point. So what I'm saying is that okay, for the i data point, this is the actual value y and this is what the model predicted. Okay, I take the difference square it and once I square it for each point I just average all these numbers to get an average squared error i.e mean squared error MSE. So this is sort of like the easiest loss function. Okay, now let's crank it up a notch. In the heart disease example, the heart disease the neural prediction model, the prediction is a number between zero and one, right? It's because it's coming out of the sigmoid. It's a fraction. The actual output is a a zero or one. One of the two, right? It's binary. So, how would we compare the discrepancy? How would we measure the discrepancy between a fraction and the numbers 0 and one, right? What is a good loss function in the situation, right? Is the key question. So, let's build some intuition around this. And let's see if my uh little daisy chain iPad thing works. I'm doing it on the iPad so the people on the live stream can see it. Otherwise the blackboard is a little tough for them. Okay. So let's have a situation here. Okay. So let's say let's say that you have a patient who comes in and let's say they have heart disease. Okay. So for that patient y equals 1, right? The true value is one for that patient. And now you have this model. Okay. And this is the predicted probability from this model. Can people see my handwriting? Okay, good. I could have never been a doctor, right? So, so zero. Okay, one. It's going to be between 0 and one because of probability. And then this is the loss we want to sort of have, right? This is the loss. So, for this this patient actually had heart disease. Y equals 1. So, let's say that the predicted probability is pretty close to one. Okay. What do you think the loss should be? >> Small. So, small Sorry. >> Close to zero. Exactly. So here if the prediction comes here, you want the loss to be you want the loss to be somewhere here. But if the predicted probability is pretty close to zero, even though the patient actually has heart disease, what do you want the loss to be? Really high because it's screwing up badly, right? So you want the loss to be somewhere here. So basically, you want a function that's kind of like that, right? You want the loss function shape to be like that. High values of probability should have low losses. Low values of probability should have high losses. Yeah, >> I understand like why it has to be increasing or decreasing. But can you explain why it has to be? >> Yeah. Yeah. So it can be linear. It can certainly be linear but basically what you want to do is the more it makes a mistake the more harshly you want to penalize it. Right? So basically what you're what what you really want is something where if it basically says this person's probability is say uh the probability the predicted probability say one over a million basically zero you want the loss to be like super high so that the model is like it's like a huge wrap on the knuckles for the model. Don't do that. That's basically what we are doing and I'm sort of demonstrating that dynamic by using a very curved and steep loss function. But you can absolutely use a linear function. It's totally fine. it won't be as effective for gradient descent later on for bunch of technical details. Are we good with this? All right. So now let's look at the case where a patient does not have heart disease. Y equals 0. Same setup. Okay. Predicted probability 0 1 loss. So for this patient they don't have um whatever they're not they don't have heart disease. If the probability is close to zero what should the loss be close to zero? It should be somewhere here right? And the more and more the probability gets closer and closer to one you want to penalize it very heavily which means you want the loss to be somewhere here. So you basically want a loss ideally that's kind of going up like that and climbing higher and higher. Are we good? Okay. Perfect. because we have a perfect loss function for that. So just to recap right this is what we want people with for points with y equals 1 lower prediction predictions should have higher loss you want something like that and then turns out there's a very little simple loss function which just literally just uses the logarithm which will get the job done. So what you do is you literally do minus log of that predicted probability. That's it. And that thing has exactly that shape. Okay? And in fact you can see it numerically. So if the loss is one, it's zero. If it's half, it's 1.0. And if it's like one over th,000, it's almost 10. If it's one over 10,000, it's going to be like much higher, right? Very high losses. Okay? So minus log probability. Boom. Done. Similarly, this is what we want for patients for whom y equals 0. And turns out if you do minus log 1 minus predicted probability, it does the same thing. Okay. Mathematicians once again saved with the logarithm. So see in summary, this is what we have right for data points with y equals 1, we have this data points with y equals 0, we have this. But it feels a little inelegant to say, well, if it's y equals 1, I want to use this. If y equals 0, I want to use that. Right? There's there's like an if then thing going on here. And I don't know about you folks, but if then really irks me mathematically because you can't do derivatives and so on very easily. Okay? But no worries, this is MIT, you know, we have our bag of math tricks. So what we do is we can actually combine them both into a single expression. Okay? Like this. Okay. And here the yi again is the e data point. Remember yi is either one or zero always. And this model of x i is the predicted probability. Okay. So and I've just taken the minus log the minus and I've just moved it here. Okay. And I've taken the the minus that was here and just moved it here. Okay? That's why you see it like this. So this one is basically you can convince yourself what's happens. This single expression will get the job done. So let's say there is a patient for whom y equals 1. What's going to happen is that when you plug in y= 1, this becomes zero. The whole thing will collapse to zero. While here y= 1 just means it becomes minus log probability which is what we want. Conversely if y equals 0 this whole thing is going to disappear and this thing becomes 1 - 0 which is just one and so it becomes minus log 1 - probability which is again what we want. Simple and neat, right? So in one expression we have defined the perfect clause. No if then, none of that crap. Good. So now what we do is that was true for every data point, but we obviously have lots of data points. So we just add them all up and take the average. That's it. We average across all the data points we have so that we get an average loss. Okay. This is the binary cross entropy loss function. >> Is there a way you can um edit the loss function so that you penalize like false negatives more strongly than false positives? >> You can do all of them. Great question. Uh I'm just looking at the basic case where we did symmetric. >> Um you can actually penalize overestimates much more than underestimates and things like that. Um, and if you're curious, you can just Google something called the pinball laws. Okay, any other questions on this? So, when you see this massive deep neural network built by Google for doing something or the other, if it's a binary classification problem, chances are they're using this thing. Okay? All right. So, now let's figure out how to minimize these loss functions because the name of the game is to find a way to minimize these loss functions. So now loss functions are just a particular kind of function. So we'll first consider the general problem of minimizing some arbitrary function. Okay. And once we develop a little bit of intuition about that, we'll return to the specific task of minimizing loss functions. Okay. How is everyone doing? Yes. No. Good. Bad. You have a bit of a like a tough to interpret headshake. It's more like um I kind of lost you where you said that the loss function and the predicted probability uh how were they inversely because the understanding was that the loss function is supposed to be the sum of errors. We're averaging the errors and when you said that >> no no sorry let me let me just stop there for a second for each point you define the loss that's the whole point of the game and once you define it you calculate for every point and average it right so just focus on a single data point and so now continue >> so now when the heart patient has there is more probability that they no so when there is a person who has the heart uh disease you said that you want the loss function to be high >> I think I'm going to the graph. >> You want the loss function to be high. If I'm predicting that they basically don't have heart disease. If the prediction is close to zero, the predicted probability is close to zero, then I'm badly wrong because in reality they do have heart disease and that's why I want the loss to be really high. >> Okay. So effectively loss is my way of finding out how good my model is. Correct. Instead of saying okay >> or rather how bad your model is. >> Yeah. >> Right. How bad is it? That's really what the loss function is. >> Got it. >> And you want to minimize badness. That's the whole point of optimization. >> Okay. >> Um I guess I don't have a fully like similar to the point raised before, I don't have a fully clear intuition of why exactly a log function rather than something that's say flatter for small and then really steep later. >> Those are all fantastic things. You can totally do it. uh the reason we pick the loss the this function because a it's easy to work with it has good gradients it's well behaved mathematically but there are many alternatives to it I don't want you to think that this is like the only game in town or it's the only choice for us we have many choices this really this happens to be a very easy choice which also happens to be empirically very effective and I'm happy to give you pointers to other crazy loss functions right which can actually do all these things Okay. All right. So, uh minimizing a single variable function. We will warm up by looking at this little function here. Okay. Which is a what do you call a fourth power? >> Quartic, right? Yeah, thank you. Quartic. So, yeah, it's a quatic function. Um, right. And this is how it looks like. But you can see there is like a minimum somewhere here, right? between like 1 min -1 and minus2 maybe minus 1.5 okay so we want to minimize this function it's obviously a tie function a little function with one variable but the intuition we use here is going to be exactly what we use for GBD4 so pay attention so how can we go about minimizing this function what will we do >> take the derivative and set it equal to zero >> you take the derivative exactly so you take the derivative right Um so when you so let's look at what the derivative does for us but then the second part of what said yeah second part of what said was set it to zero setting it to zero becomes problematic when you have very complicated functions it's not clear at all what's going to make them zero right unfortunately but the idea of taking the derative is in fact the right idea so we can go about this we can calculate the derivative and that actually happens to be the derivative you can convince yourself and if you plot the derivative it looks like And as you would hope wherever the minimum is in fact the derivative is crossing right derivative is zero here it's crossing the x axis right in this case you can actually do that so let's say you have the derivative how can you use it like what is the value of a derivative what does it tell you yeah >> do you use a gradient descent algorithm >> you are 10 steps ahead of me my friend I just want a basic answer like what what what what good is a derivative what like What does it tell you when you calculate the derivative of something at a particular point? >> It tells you the rate of change of the function at the place you are. >> Correct. Exactly. Right. So here what the derivative tells us is that the slope tells us a change in the function for a very small increase in w. Right. And this is just high school calculus. I'm just doing a quick refresher. So what that means is that if the derivative is positive, what that means is that increasing w slightly will increase the function. So if you're here, you calcative the slope is positive. It means that if you go slightly in this direction, the function is going to get higher. Right? Similarly, if it's negative, let's say here you calculate dative is the slope is like this, it's negative. Which means that if you increase W, if you go in this direction, it's going to decrease the function. Okay. All right. And if it's kind of close to zero, it means that changing W slightly won't change anything. So if you're here, changing it slightly won't change anything. All right, that's it. So, so what we do is this immediately suggests an algorithm for minimizing GW which is let's start with some random point W and then let's calculate the derivative at that point and once we do that there are three possibilities. It could be positive, negative or kind of close to zero and if it's positive we know that increasing W will increase the function but we want to decrease the function. We want to minimize it. Which means that we should not be increasing W. We should be doing what here? >> Yes. And similarly, if it's negative, what should we do here? >> Exactly. So in the first case, you reduce W slightly. In the second case, you increase W slightly. And if the thing is close to zero, you just stop because there's nothing else you can do. Okay, this is the basic intuition behind how GPT4 was built, which is kind of shocking if you think about it, right? Which means that all the the heavy duty optimization stuff that people have figured out over the decades is kind of not used, right? This algorithm is what's being used with some, you know, flavors on top of it. So, yeah. So back to this uh and you you do that and then if you've sort of run out of time or compute or right if you run out of time and so on just stop otherwise just go back to step two and try again. Of course if it's close to zero you got to stop anyway. Yeah. >> Is there the um concern of a potentially local minimum there? >> It's coming. Okay. So that's the function. It's going to give it's going to find you some point where the d is kind of close to zero. Okay, so this is called gradient descent, right? This is gradient descent. this little algorithm and this this this very powerpointy MBA table can be collapsed into this little expression which basically says calculate the derivative multiplied by a small number which we'll get to in a second and then change the old w to the new w is the old w minus a little number times the gradient. So this little oneline formula is basically gradient descent. Okay. And what you should do just to build your intuition is to make sure that these three possibilities here map nicely to this like this thing will actually captures these three possibilities. >> This is when gradient descent was invented. You need to have some historical fun. Right. >> The 19th century. >> 19th century. Yeah. Okay. Good. Very good. Excellent guess. 1847. It was invented uh in 1847 by Kawoshi, the great mathematician. And in fact, if you're curious, you can check out the paper I have. I gave you give you the paper here for handy reference. >> So 1847. So GPT4 is built using an algorithm invented in 1847 which I find like astonishing frankly that this little thing is so capable. Okay, so that's gradient descent and this little number alpha is called the learning rate and it's our way of sort of essentially quantifying the idea of let's not increase or decrease W massively. Let's do it slightly because a gradient is only valid for small movements around your point. If you take a big step, all bets are off. So this alpha tells you how small a step should you take. Okay? And in typically it's set to very small values like you know 0.1.01 and so on and so forth. And in fact if you read any deep learning academic papers where they have trained like a big model to do something right a lot of researchers will very quickly go to the appendix where they have described exactly what learning rates were used because sort of the learning rate is like part of the IP for how it's built. It's a lot of trial and error that goes into these learning rates. Okay. So that is gradient descent. Um so if we apply this algorithm to GW our original function right we just keep on doing this thing a few times right what you will find is that if let's say we start with 2 point the the point we randomly pick is at 2.5 we set the alpha to one we run this algorithm it starts here then it goes there it goes thereoop b and then finally ends up here in like four or five iterations it finds some minimum this obviously a very simple well behaved nice little function so you can easily the optimizer. Okay, if you want you can just go to this uh thing. There's a nice animation of this thing as well. Okay, so now all right, before we actually go to the multivariable function, I want to go to the question that you post about local minima. Um actually, you know what I think I may have some slides on it. So sorry, I'll come back to this. So let's actually see what we looked at a toy example where there's only one variable. What if you have uh what if it was GPD3? GPD3 has 175 billion parameters 175 billion and GPD4 they haven't published it so we don't know it's supposed to be eight times as much okay so I mean the number of parameters is massive so basically our loss function has billions of variables billions of W's that we need to optimize over minimize over so we need to use this notion of a partial derivative so let's take baby steps and say okay what if you have a two variable function Right? Something like this. Very simple. So what we can do is we can calculate the partial derivative of G with respect to each of these W's. And the partial derivative just to quickly refresh your memories is you take a function. You pretend that everything other than W is a constant. Then the function becomes a a function of just one variable W w1. And then you just differentiate it like you do everything else. And you you get you get something. and that is this thing here. And then you do the same thing for W2. You get this thing here. And then you just stack them up in a nice list. Okay, this is the vector of partial derivatives. So how should we interpret this? The same way as before. Basically for a small change in W1, keeping W2 and everything else fixed, how does the function change if we change just W1 slightly? And similarly for W2 and all the way to W75 billion, it's the same thing. Okay. So um now when you have these functions with many variables, many W's, uh since we have a gradient for each one of those W's, we stack them up into a nice vector of derivatives. And this vector is called the gradient. And it's denoted using this uh anyone know what the symbol is called? Yeah, >> maybe maybe that's a synonym, but the one I'm familiar with is Nabla. >> Delta is the one that's upside down triangle, but I think the upside down triangle is called Naba if I if I recall. Am I right? Thank you. He's my go-to. So, yeah. So, the gradient um we just call it the gradient and it's written as this. All right. So what we do is we simply do gradient descent on every one of the W's using its partial derivative. Okay. So in a in a gradient step, we update W1 using this formula. W2 using this formula. Finished. We have just generalized gradient descent to an arbitrary number of variables. So and of course as before this can be summarized compactly as this vector formula I just do this. So what's going on here is that have W1 W1 minus alpha times the function G of W1 then W2 W2 - alpha G by W2 and then all we're doing is we're just stacking them up into a vector like that. minus alpha and this vector So this can be written as just this vector w the new vector old vector minus alpha and the gradient finished. And you can see if it's, you know, GBD3, this vector is going to be 175 billion long. Okay. But whether it's two or 175 billion, who cares? It's the same thing, right? Okay. So, yeah. So, that's what we have here. I'm really thrilled by the way this whole iPad business is working out. So, I'm a little worried about it. Okay. Um so if you look at two dimensions this function and if you actually look at if you plot the function this is w the first w the second w and then you act this is actually the loss function that's that function gw and so you want to find the minimum here and so this how gradient descent will it'll progress if starting from this point or you can also sort of look at it from up top down into the function and that's what this picture is and it shows gradient descent starting from there and working its way down um from here all the way to the Okay. So, all right. Local minimum. So, now gradient descent will just stop near hopefully a minimum, right? But the problem is it may not be a global minimum. It may it may not even be a minimum. So, um so let's see what what I'm talking about here. Here are some possibilities. So, let's take a simple function. Okay, let's take this is GW. This is W. And turns out this function is actually looks like this. Okay. So you can see here well um this point this point here is a local minimum. This is a local minimum. It's a local minimum. These are all lots of local minima here. Okay. And yeah, there's a lot of local minima here too. So these are all places in which the the derivative is going to be zero. So if you run gradient descent and it stops because the gradient is reached zero, you could be in any of these places, right? So there is no guarantee. So this in this picture happens to be maybe the global minimum because it's the lowest of the lot, right? But there's no guarantee you're actually going to get there. Okay? There's not even a guarantee you're going to be in any of these places because you could literally be in this thing here where it's sort of taking a break and then contining on down. That by the way is called a, you know, a saddle point. I drew it badly, but the source of coming in sort of taking a break and going down again is called a saddle point. So gradient descent can stop at a saddle point. It can stop at some minima. There's no guarantee it's going to be global. Okay. But it turns out it has not mattered. So it has not mattered. And there are a whole bunch of reasons why it has not mattered. Because when you have these very complicated neural networks, they're very complex functions. Even finding a decent solution right to these complicated networks is actually really good for solving the problem. You don't have to go to the best best possible solution and in fact if you go to the best possible solution you actually run the risk of overfitting. So that's one reason. The other interesting reason and by the way this is a very hot area of research to figure out exactly so sort of like this empirically what we have seen is that not worrying about local minima global minimum all that stuff has not hurt us because these things are amazing GPD GPD4 probably they just stopped somewhere they probably wasn't even on local minima they're like oh god it's been running for six days we spent $2 million let's stop right because these are very expensive so but that's still so magical you don't need to get anywhere close to local minimum. But there's another interesting point which which I read about people basically hypothesize that for you to be at a local minimum. Just think about what it means. It means that you're standing at a particular point in every direction that you look things are just sloping upward, right? Everything is sloping upward. Only if everything is sloping upward all around you could you be at a local minimum by definition. But if you have a billion dimensions, what are the odds that you're going to be standing at a point where every one of those billion dimensions going upward? The ch the odds are really low. Chances are some of them are going to go going up, some of them are going down, others are sort of coming down and going another way. It's going to be crazy. So in some sense, the best you can hope for in these very high dimensional situations is probably a saddle point. And it turns out it's good enough. So for those reasons, we are content with just running gradient descent with some tweaks which I'll get to in a second. U and it just performs really admirably. >> Yeah. >> Um how does alpha depend on like how much compute you have? Like would you set the learning rate based on that or not really? >> No, the the learning rate is really is a measure of it's sort of like this. when you're at a point where you think that the gradient is looking nice and right if you take a step in the direction it's going to go down and if you further believe that it's going to keep going down in the direction for a while then you're very confident about taking a big step but if you're like I don't know because the maybe I take a little step maybe I have to go this way I can't go straight anymore then you don't want to take a big step because then you have to backtrack so those kinds of considerations go into the learning rate um and so that's sort of the rough answer to your question. It's not so much determined by compute and bandwidth and things like that. But again, it's very it's a sort of a complicated thing because sometimes with a given amount of commu compute, if you have a particular kind of data, you can have very aggressive learning rates. So, it tends to be a bit sort of, you know, jumbled up, complicated. So, but that's sort of the the quick surface level idea of what's going on. Uh, okay. 9:31. By the way, folks, this lecture is like probably one of the driest in the lect semester because of like I have to go through all the concepts. Uh once we start doing collabs, you know, things get a lot more lively. Okay. Um all right. So now let's talk about minimizing a loss function gradient descent. So here's our little binary cross entropy loss function that we saw from before, right? This is what we want to minimize. So if you look at this thing, where are the variables we need to change to minimize this function? Folks, don't look at your phones with laptop and iPad use. Don't look at your phones. >> Sorry, we've kind of abstracted um the variables W, but just to bring it back, those are actually the weights in the neural network, right? >> Yeah, the weights and the biases. I'm just calling them as weights. >> So the output of these U minimization functions are going to be the actual weights in a model. >> Right. Exactly. Exactly. Right. >> The whole name of the game is to find the weights. >> And so for example, when you see in the press that uh meta has essentially made the weights of Llama 2 or something available. That's basically what they have done. Basically published the weights. The >> reason that's so valuable is microphone please come. >> If you have a billion parameters, the compute time on that is horrendous. and expensive. That's why those weights are so valuable, >> right? The weights are the crown jewel because they are the result of a lot of money and time and smartness being spent. There's a separate question of why are they making it open source which >> I'm happy to chat about offline. All right, cool. So, what are the variables we need to chain to minimize? It's basically the parameters and they're hiding inside the model term, right? Because what is the model? The model is some function like that, right? If you look at the simple GPA and experience thing we looked at in on Monday, we finally figured out that the actual thing that comes out here is going to be this complicated function of all the X's and the W's and so on and so forth, right? And that complicated thing is showing up inside this thing. So you know and the W's here are the variables we can we need to change to minimize the loss function. And it's important for you to to note and understand that the values of X and Y and so on are just data. You're not optimizing anything there. It's just data. What you're optimizing is the W's, the weights. Okay. Okay. So, so imagine replacing the model here with the mathematical expression above whenever this appears in the loss function. And once you do that, your loss function is just a good old function of the W's. The fact that it's a loss function is kind of irrelevant. It's just a function. And since it's just a good old function of the W's, you can apply gradient descent to it as we normally would. It's no big deal. Which brings us to something called back propagation. Um um if you remember nothing else about back propagation, just remember this. Never use the word back propagation again. Only use the word back prop up your hip and cold to the deep learning community. Back prop. Okay. All right. So what is backrop? Backrop is a very efficient way to compute the gradient of the loss function. So when you have this loss function and let's say you have a billion W's and you have 10 million data points. So the little n we saw is 10 million. That is a lot of computation and that is just for one step of gradient descent. Right? So back prop is a way is a very efficient and clever way to compute the gradient of the loss function which takes advantage of the fact that what we have here is not some arbitrary model. It's a model that came from a particular kind of neural network which has layers one after the other and then there was an output at the very end. So what backrop does is it organizes the computation in the form of something called a computational graph and the book has a good discussion about it. And so what we do is we start at the very end we calculate the gradient of the loss with respect to the output. Then we move left. We calculate the gradient of that output with respect to the output of the just the prior hidden layer. Step to the left calculate the gradient of the current thing with respect to the previous layer. You get the idea, right? It's iterative and it moves backwards and by doing so you never repeat the same computation twice wastefully. That's the big advantage. You calculate once and reuse it many many many many times. The second advantage is that if you organize it this way it just becomes a sequence of matrix multiplications. Okay. And become a sequence of matrix multiplications and eliminates return calculations. And best of all, there are these things called GPUs, graphics processing units originally invented to accelerate video game rendering. U and as it turns out to accelerate video game rendering, the core math operation you do is basically matrix multiplication, right? Some linear algebra uh sort of operations. And so someone really at some point had the bright idea for deep learning calculating gradients and so on, we need to do matrix multiplications. and here is some specialized hardware that does really that does a fast job of matrix multiplications. Can't we can we use this for that? And they did it and all hell broke loose. That's literally what happened. And that's why Nvidia is valued at what 1.5 trillion or something. So yeah, so they are really good and so backrop the way you do back prop plus using it on GPUs leads to fast calculation of loss function gradients. If this thing were not true, this class would not exist because there won't be any deep learning revolution. This is a fundamental seminal reason. All right. So the book has a bunch of detail. Um and I actually did like AI work I hand worked out an example of calculating a gradient like the oldfashioned way and calculating it using backrop. So take a look at it. I'll post it on Canvas and you'll understand exactly where the savings come from, where the efficiency gains come from. Okay. I'm not going to get into it now. All right. Any questions so far? Yep. >> Sorry. I followed up to and so we've done gradient descent which is different than calculation of the gradient of the loss function. What what is the purpose of the calculation of the gradient of the loss function? You calculate the gradient because the fundamental operation of gradient descent is to take your current value of W and modify it slightly. And the modification is old value minus learning rate times gradient. >> It would be cool right if I say go more go back five slides to this thing and it just goes back product idea anyone startups. So, so this one, so this is the fundamental step of gradient descent. So, this is the current value at W. You calculate the gradient at that current value, multiply it by alpha, do this thing, and you get the new value. And you keep repeating, >> right? But GW, that's not that's not the loss function. >> It is a loss function. >> That is the loss function. I here I'm just using G as an arbitrary function just to demonstrate the point. But when you're optimizing when you're training a neural network, what you're actually doing is minimizing a loss function, >> right? >> Loss of W. >> Sorry, I got things mixed up. Thank you. >> Yeah. >> Uh how do we define the initial weights for the neural network? So yeah the initial weights um so there's a there are many ways to so first of all they initialize randomly uh but randomly doesn't mean you can just pick any random weight there are actually some good ways to randomly pick the weights those are called initialization schemes um and there are a bunch of very effective initialization schemes people have figured out over the years and those things are baked into keras is the default so the keras I believe uses something called uh uh he initialization, H initialization or the Zavia Gloro initialization, I wouldn't worry about it. Just go with the default initialization. >> And the reason why they have to be very careful about how these weights are initialized is because if you have a very big network and if you initialize badly then the gradient will just explode as you calculate it the earlier layers the weights will have massive gradients or the gradients will vanish. So therefore called the exploding gradient problem or the vanishing gradient problem. To avoid all those things, research has figured out some clever way to initialize so that it's well behaved throughout. >> Yeah. >> If using um back props and GPUs was so critical, I'm just curious like who first did it and when? Was this like a couple years ago? Was it a company? Was it >> Well, GPUs have been used for deep learning. I want to say um I think the first uh case may have been in the mid 2005 2006 sort of thing but I would say that it sort of burst out onto the world stage and made everyone take notice when uh a deep learning model called Alexnet in 2012 won a very famous computer vision competition uh and it beat the and it set a world record for how good it was uh and that's when everybody like hey what is this And that's really when it burst onto the world stage. I'll talk a bit more about it when I get into the computer vision segment of the class. But you can Google Alex net and you'll find a whole bunch of history around it. >> Hypothetically then is it true that if we could get to a global minima that would mean there would be no hallucinations. >> Good question. So if it is perfect, if you get to a global minima, first of all, global minima doesn't mean the model is perfect, right? It may still have some loss. Um but global minima is going to be on the training data. You can imagine that the test data future data has its own loss function. Right? So what is minimum here may not be minimum there. That's the problem. >> Is there a comment? >> Just saying that uh that would mean that also you can be overfitting for the >> Exactly. So if you overdo, if you find the best thing in the training function, chances are it doesn't match the best thing of the test data. So on the test data, you're actually doing badly. Okay, so uh come back to this. Okay, now uh the final uh twist to the tail here. Uh we're going to go from something gradient descent to something called stochastic gradient descent. And stochastic gradient descent or SGD is the workhorse for all deep learning. Okay. And funnily enough, SGD is simpler than GD. Okay, just when you thought it couldn't get simpler, right? Okay. So, so for large data sets, computing the gradient of the loss function can be very expensive, right? Needless to say, because it has to be done at every step and the cardinality of the data set is really big, right? And you may have, I don't know, billions of parameters. it's just very very tough to compute it even with back problem. So the solution is at each iteration when I say iteration I'm talking about this step of gradient descent instead of using all the data instead of calculating the loss function by averaging the loss across all n data points and then calculating the gradient of that thing. What you do is you just choose a small sample randomly. You choose just a few of the n observations and we call it a mini batch. So for example the number of data points you may you may have 10 billion data points but in every iteration you may literally grab just like 32 or 64 something really small like absurdly small okay and then you pretend that okay that's all the data I have you calculate the loss find the gradient and just use that here instead okay so this is called stochastic gradient descent just strictly speaking theoretically SGD D uses just one data point but in practice we use what's called a mini batch 32 64 whatever u and so mini batch gradient descent is just loosely called stoastic gradient descent SGD so an SGD as it turns out you can see it's clearly very efficient right because it's just processing a few at a time uh and in fact if you have a lot of data and you calculate the full gradient of the loss function it may not even fit into memory, right? It's really problematic. But the SGD, it says, "I don't care whether you have a billion data points or a trillion data points. Just give me 32 at a time. Okay? And you just keep on doing it." And turns out because not all the points are used in the calculation, this only approximates the true gradient, right? It's only an approximation. It's not the real thing. It's only an approximation, but it works extremely well in practice. Extremely well in practice. And there's a whole bunch of research that goes into why is it so effective and you know people are discovering interesting things about SGD but we don't have like a definitive theory as to why it's so good yet we have some interesting you know uh research threads that have happened and very tantalizingly very tantalizingly because it's only an approximation of the true gradient SGD can actually escape local minimum so in the in the true loss function you are at a local minimum But in SGD's loss function, when you're doing SGD, you're reaching the the minimum of the SGD loss function, which actually may not be the actual loss function. So as you're moving around, you're actually jumping from local minima to local minima of the actual loss function. I know that's a mouthful. I'm happy to tell you more. It's just a side thing that I just want you to be aware of. Okay. One of the reasons why SGD is actually affected. >> It's almost like you work less and you do better. How many times does it happen in life? This is one of them. Okay. Now, SGD comes in many flavors. Uh many siblings. It's got a lot of siblings and variations. It's a big family. Uh and we're going to use a particular flavor called Adam as a default in this course. And I'll get back to it when we get into the collabs and things like that. All right. Um, by the way, you know how in all these pictures I've been showing you a nice little function like that, a little bowl and so on. This is a visualization of an actual neural network loss function. You can see like the hills and valleys and the cracks and so on and so forth. Okay. And you can check out the paper to get more insight into how they actually, you know, came up with this visualization. It's crazy. It's complicated. Yeah. >> So for for SGD, do you perform the iterations until you minimize the loss function for each mini batch and then move to another mini badge? >> Yeah. So what you do is you take each mini batch and then uh you calculate the loss for that mini batch. You find the gradient and use the gradient and update the W. Then you pick up the next mini batch. >> So you don't you don't pick a mini batch and try to perform the iterations on that mini [clears throat] batch until you >> each mini batch one iteration. each mini batch one iteration because if you do a lot of iterations on one mini batch um first of all you'll never be sure that you're going to find any optimal solution because you're not guaranteed of any global minima and secondly it's much better for you to get new information constantly because what you can do is you can revisit that mini batch later on right and that gets us into these things called epochs and bat size and so on which will get into a lot of gory detail when you do the collab so let's revisit that question it's a good question Yeah. >> When you do the backrop process, it sounded backation. Nice. >> I made sure. >> It's it sounded like you started from the layers that were closest to the output and you went backward. Okay. And my question is, are you doing that once or is it looping multiple times and then just once? >> Yeah. So, >> so for each gradient calculation, you do it once. >> Why does why does it want to start from the layer that's closest or why do you want to start it from the layer that's closest to the output? >> Yeah. So basically what happens is let's say that just for argument that you go go in the reverse direction you will discover that a lot of paths to go from the left to the right will end up calculating certain intermediate quantities including the very final gradient sort of item again and again and again the same thing is going to get calculated again and again and again so by starting from the end and working backwards you just reuse stuff you've already calculated so that is sort of the rough idea but if you see my PDF I've actually worked out the example and you I'll demonstrate what I'm talking about. By the way, this grade the back prop is just a sort of a like in calculus we have something called the chain rule to calculate the derivative of a complicated function. You calculate the derivative of like the outer function then the inner function and so on and so forth. The backdrop is essentially a way to organize the chain rule to work with the neural network layer by layer architecture. That's all. Sorry. Is it is it fair to say that once we are finding like the local minimum, we are not optimizing to all the GWS because like this local minimum is coming like from different curves from different lines. So is that fair to say >> when we using stoastic gradient descent? Yes. So in stocastic gradient descent when you take say 32 data points from a million and you're calculating the loss for that 32 data points you're basically trying to do a gradient step right the w= w minus alpha gradient thing you're doing it for that that 32 points loss function right which is not the 1 million points loss function that's why it's approximate but the approximation instead of hurting you actually helps you because it helps you escape the local minima of the global loss function. So it's it's a sort of an interesting and somewhat technically subtle point which is why I'm not getting into it too much but I'm happy to give pointers if people are interested. Yeah. >> Uh when you say you initialize the weights you initialize for the whole network or just the end layer and then go backwards like you said >> youize everything in one shot >> because if you don't initialize everything in one shot what's going to happen is that you can't do like the forward computation to find the prediction. uh and so they are done independently and the initialization schemes will take into account okay I am initializing the weights between a layer which has 10 nodes and on one side and 32 on the other side and the 10 and the 32 actually play a role in how you initialize okay so um so the summary of the overall training flow is that you know you have an input it goes through a bunch of layers you come up with a prediction you compare it to the true values and these two things go into the loss function calculation you get a loss number, right? And you do it for say 10 points or 32 points or a million points. And this loss thing goes into the optimizer which calculates the gradient. And once it calculates the gradient, it updates the weights of every layer using the W= W minus alpha* gradient formula. Gradient descent formula and then you keep doing this again and again. This is overall flow. This how our little network is going to get built for hard disease prediction. This how GB4 was built. And this how Alpha Fold was built and Alpha Go was built. You get the idea. >> I mean it's astonishing frankly. If you're not getting goosebumps at the thought that this simple thing can do all these complicated things. Do we really need to talk offline? >> Um there was a hand raised here. >> Yeah. >> Sorry just quickly that this is for each miniot right? So my question is if you came with different weight for each mini batch, how do you add it at the like okay this wave has a perfect combination for this mini batch but you have way different uh weight for another mini batch. How do you combine those two? No, at each point what you do is you you find the you find you you you start with a weight you run it through for a mini batch you come up with a loss function you calculate the gradient and now using the gradient you've updated the weight now you have a new set of weights right which is the updated weights call it W2 instead of W1 now W2 is using your network and when you take the next many batch it's going to use W2 to calculate the prediction and this this whole flow will become a lot clearer when we do the collapse. Okay, so we have three minutes. I don't want to go into regularization overfitting in three minutes. So let's have some more questions. >> Can you use any activation function as long as it gives like positive values for like x squ or mod x or something? >> Um you can use a variety of activation functions. Um there is uh but yeah there's a whole literature on you know the pros and cons of various activation functions that you could use but in general you have to make sure of a couple of things. One is that when you do back prop the gradient is going to flow through the activation function in the reverse direction and the activation function should actually sort of make sure the gradient doesn't get squished. It shouldn't get squished it should get exploded. So those are some considerations that these are technical considerations but those all those considerations have to be taken into account. If you can take those into account then you're okay. That's sort of the key thing to keep in mind. That's in fact why the relu is actually very popular because as long as the value is positive the gradient of the relu is just one right because so if you look at something oops it's frozen I jinxed it so sorry live stream so if you have something like this relu is like that So the gradient here is always going to be one which means that as long as the value is positive whatever gradient comes in like this it just like gets multiplied by one and gets pushed out the other side. So it doesn't get doesn't get harmed or squished or anything like that. Um so that's one reason why the ReLU is very popular because it preserves the gradient while injecting almost like the minimum amount of nonlinearity to do interesting things. Um yeah, >> if you have a high number of dimensions, can you do mini batching on like features dimensions instead of just observations? Keep the same number of observations but just take a small sample of the number of features that you're actually using. >> Oh, I see. I see. So you're saying let's say you have 10 features uh instead of taking all data points of 10 features what if you have choose five features and just use them and do this thing as long as you can actually compute the prediction. Compute the prediction you may need all 10 features right or you need to have some defaults for those features and by if you define defaults for those other five features you basically using all all features. So that's the key thing. Can you actually calculate the prediction by manipulating? And typically you can't. All right. Okay, folks. 9:55. I'm done. Have a great rest of your week. I'll see you on Monday.