The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, let's get started. I'm Eric Demain. You can call me Eric. And today we're going to do another divide and conquer algorithm called the fastforier transform. It's probably the most taught algorithm at MIT. It's used in all sorts of contexts uh especially digital signal processing like MP3 compression all sorts of things. Uh but we're going to think about it today in the context of divide and conquer and polomials. So let me remind you I mean this class is all about polinomial time but usually with polinomial time we only care about the lead term. Today and today only pretty much we're going to be thinking about all the terms in a polomial. So my I'll talk about polomials mostly a and b. You have a constant term and then a linear term and a quadratic term and so on. uh up to I will say that there are n terms which means the last one is a n minus one. So normally the degree of the polinomial here is n minus one. Uh I wish the degree was defined to be n here but whatever that's I I can't change the definitions in algebra. So uh this is the traditional algebraic way of thinking about a polomial. Uh, of course you can write it with summation notation. Uh, a kx to the k= 0 to n minus one. We'll jump back and forth between them. I'm also going to introduce a vector notation for polomials. Uh, because uh so the ais are real numbers typically uh we might change that at some point. Um but usually a a common reason maybe you don't care much about polinomials but you definitely care about vectors any kind of one-dimensional data set is a string of real numbers like uh if you're sampling audio like right now we're recording this uh microphone you're seeing lots of different uh the movement of the membrane in this microphone over time you're sampling whatever uh 40,000 times a second each one you're measuring real number about where that thing is that is a sequence of real numbers. Now you can convert it into a polomial if you want. They're the same thing. X is not necessarily meaningful here. We really care about are the coefficients. Okay. Now given such a polomial there are three typical things we want to do. So these are the operations on polomials. I'll say why we want to do them in a second. So the obvious one if you do care about X is some kind of evaluation. So maybe I give you a polomial a of X and I give you a number let's call it X0 and I want to compute what is A of X0. So if I plug in X here is a general variable but if I give you an actual real number say for the X's what does that add up to? Okay. Uh so how how would you solve evaluation before we go to the other operations? I mean there's an obvious way uh we you know you compute all the terms and add them up. But uh if you do that naively computing uh x to the k well it's in this form maybe computing x to the k maybe takes k multiplications and so the total running time will be quadratic but we can do better than that. I know it's 11 o'clock too early in the morning to think, but yeah, when you've already calculated x to the i, you can calculate x i + 1 by multiplying. Good. Once you've computed x to the k, you can comput x the k + one in with one multiplication. And so you can uh compute all x to the n's in linear time and then do the all the then you're basically doing a dotproduct between the x to the k's and the a vector. Cool. My first frisbee. Uh so that's one way to do it. Uh there's a slightly slicker way to write it called her rule, but it's doing exactly the same thing that you said. Uh it's a this is just a nice algebraic way of writing it. A of x is the same as a 0 + x * a1 + x * a2 + and so on. Uh x * a n minus one and then lots of closed parenthesis. Um so this is of course equivalent to that expression by the law of distribution and uh this is essentially doing the x's x products one at a time. So this is clearly order n additions and multiplication. So we get order n time in this lecture time is the number of arithmetic operations. It's our model assume it takes constant time to multiply or add uh two real numbers. Okay. Um, cool. So, evaluation that's easy. Linear time for today is good. Quadratic is bad. We want to be quadratic. Okay. Second thing you might want to do with polinomials is add them. The third thing is multiply them. So, we're given two polinomials a of x and b of x. and we want to compute a new polomial C of X that is the summation. Now how do you define the summation? Well, you would like C of X to equal A of X plus B of X for all X. That's the definition. Uh, of course, we can do it algebraically as well because uh these are numbers in the end for any x this evaluates to a number. Uh so if we add two polinomials of this form, one with a eyes, one with the bis, all we're doing is adding corresponding AI's and b i. So this is easy. Uh we just need ck to equal a k plus bk for all k. So again, linear time, no problem. Okay, third operation is the exciting one, the hard one to get good. Otherwise, this lecture would be over in a couple more minutes. So, multiplication, same deal. We're given a of x and b of x and we want to convert that into some c of x uh that for all x evaluates to the product of those two polinomials. Okay, how do we do this? Uh, we can't just multiply corresponding AKs and bks. Uh, in fact, if you take a big thing like this, you multiply it by corresponding big thing. Uh, let's do it. This doesn't look like fun. Uh we get let's see so the constant term is just the product that's easy of the constant terms. Uh but then if I take this product or this product I get linear terms. So that's going to be a1 b uh + a 0 b1 * x and then there's a quadratic term which I get from switch colors. Uh this and this and this. So there's three things times x^2. And that's where I get tired. I'm going to switch to the summation notation. you uh I didn't go to high school, but I assume in high school algebra you learned this. Uh CK is the sum of J= 0 to K A J B K minus J. That's the general form because uh AJ came from an X to the J term. BK minus J came from an X to the K minus J term. When you multiply those together, you get X to the K. So this is the coefficient of x to the k. Cool. So that's what we'd like to compute given a and b. We want to compute this polinomial c. How long does it take? We have to do this for all k. So to compute the kith term takes order k time. So total time is n^ squ. So that's not good for this lecture. Uh we want to do better. Uh in fact today we will achieve uh n login that's our goal polomial multiplication in n login. Why do we care about polomial multiplication? uh because it's equivalent to another operation which we use all the time in digital signal processing, image editing, all sorts of different things which is convolution. Uh convolution is usually thought of as an operation on vectors. Uh so remember this vector notation where we're just thinking about the coefficients. X's are kind of irrelevant. Just thinking about a sequence of real numbers. Uh so maybe that sequence of real numbers for a represents some I don't know waveform. Maybe this is the audio I'm speaking now. And then I take some other waveform here. I have uh Gaussian function eus x^2. And I want to take uh for all possible shifts of this Gaussian, I want to compute the dotproduct between the blackboard and the piece of paper. Okay, that's some kind of smoothing function. If I wanted to clean up noise or something like that, you can do the same thing on a two-dimensional image. It's a little harder to think about, but you can map a two dimensional image to a one-dimensional vector and you have a two-dimensional Gaussian. If you ever do Gaussian blur in Photoshop, uh this is what you're doing, a convolution. uh and it's used to like as if you're pretend that your lens was out of focus when you do that. Uh it's done in in audio processing and all sorts of things. Uh so formally you're given two vectors and you want to take all possible shifts of one vector and take the dotproduct with the other one. I have that written down. uh just uh dotproduct same thing as inner product which just means multiply corresponding uh positions and add them up. And if you ignore this minus sign that's exactly what this is doing. This is taking a j versus b k pretend it's plus j. So that's the BJ vector but with all possible shifts K. We compute this for all K. That's really cool. We're going to compute it in n login time. All different n shifts of b will take the dotproduct with a. It's kind of magical because it looks like you're doing n squ work but we will do it in n login time. Uh the only issue is we have to reverse b. Uh then the minus signs turn into plus signs. Okay. And there's some boundary conditions, but it's basically the same. If we can solve polomial multiplication, we can solve convolution. Cool. So that's why we care about multiplication. Uh so how are we going to solve this? What I'd like to do is talk about alternate representations of polomials. That's next thing here. We just did operations. Let's talk about different representations. So we talked about this one representation. It's one way to represent a polomial but it's not the only one. You probably know others. So on the one hand we have uh representation a is a coefficient vector. So we can write down the ais. That was just one way to represent uh a polomial. Can anyone give me another way to represent polinomial? I have two ways in mind. So yeah, generating function. Generating function. Isn't that the same? Oh, I guess uh in principle you could imagine like writing a recurrence on the generating function or something. It's plausible. In general, generating functions are polinomials. If you know what that if they are, cool. Um so it doesn't quite answer the question yet. Sure. Representation. Sorry. point point representation. Yeah, I call them samples. Uh I'm going to put that under C. A bunch of samples, a bunch of points on the polomial. Uh so like X K uh Y K for how many do we need? I think N minus one should do it. Double check. Yep. Uh and if we are told that a of x k equals y k and we're told that all the x ks are distinct, then this uniquely determines the polomial. If you have a degree n minus one polinomial and you have n samples, there's only one polinomial that passes through all those points. That's uh it's a consequence of the fundamental theorem of of algebra that gives you uniqueness. Existence I think was proved by Lejandra in 17 1800s long time ago. This is good. This is what we're going to use. There's another answer. I should give you a frisbee first. You're so excited. Just wait till I hit you and then be less excited. Okay. So, samples, coefficients, anything else? Yeah, roots. Yeah, roots is the other answer I was looking for, but it's not going to be so good algorithmically as we'll see. Sorry. Um, so I could give you a sequence of roots. This is the fundamental theorem of algebra that every polinomial is uniquely determined by its set of roots. If you allow roots with multiplicity uh then every polinomial of degree n has exactly n roots. So this would be some sequence of r1 up to r n -1 um and the polomial would be given as you actually need a constant multiplier but x - r0 x - r1 that would be polomial. The trouble with roots is that if I give you a coefficient vector and I want to compute the roots, not only is it hard to do, it's impossible to do in our model if you're only allowed to add, subtract, multiply, divide, take square roots, take kith roots. Uh there is no way to solve a polomial of degree five or larger. You know, there's quadratic formula, cubic formula, cortic formula. There is no quintic formula. It's an old result 1800s. So uh going from coefficient vector to roots takes infinite time. It's not so good. Uh and in particular if we think about our operations uh addition becomes really difficult. Uh multiplication is easy. If I have two uh polomials represented as a sequence of roots I want to multiply them. That's just concatenating the vectors uh taking the union of the vectors of the of the root lists. So that's cool. multiplying the C's I guess but addition is really hard because addition is sort of fundamentally about coefficient vectors uh and then once you go there you can go from roots to coefficient vectors and add them up but then there's no relation between the roots of the sum of the polinomials versus the roots of the original so uh I don't know for sure that that's impossible it's definitely very very hard probably impossible so Uh let me draw a little table. Each of these representations has some advantages and a disadvantage in terms of these three operations. So on the one hand we have uh the sort of algorithms we care about uh evaluation addition and multiplication. And on the other axis we have our representations which are coefficient vectors roots and samples. You'll see why I chose this order in a moment. It makes for a nice pretty matrix. Uh so we've talked about almost every cell in this matrix. Uh but let me just summarize. So we started out just thinking about uh coefficient vector and evaluation was linear time, addition was linear time, multiplication so far is quadratic. Although our goal is to make n login n for roots I just said multiplication is easy. That's linear time. addition is really hard like infinite time and evaluation I guess that's linear time in fact the way it's written you only have a linear number of subtractions and multiplications so it's really easy to evaluate uh and then sample vectors we haven't talked much about that um so the idea is suppose you're given two polomials with the same x K's. We're going to fix X K's. All we need is that they're distinct. So X K could equal K, for example, just a bunch of integers. And then we are told what polinomial A evaluates to at every X K. And we're told what polinomial B evaluates to at every X K. So we're given some YKS and some ZK's. And then we want to compute say the the sum or the product of those two vectors. What do we do? just add or multiply the corresponding uh yk and z case, right? Because if we're told we want uh c of x to equal a of x * b of x or c of x to equal a of x plus b of x for all x, well, now we know what x's we care about. We just do it at the x ks. That's what we're told for a and for b. And so to compute c of x k, it's just the sum or the product of yk and zk. Okay, so multiplication is really easy in the sample view and this is why we are going to use this view. We're also going to use this view because as we'll see there's a problem. Uh addition is easy, multiplication is easy, evaluation is annoying. uh I can evaluate a of x k at or a of x at x k for any k but I can't evaluate it at some at some arbitrary value of x okay that's annoying I'm told at these finite sample points but now I have to somehow interpolate this is called polinomial interpolation well studied in numerical analysis and so on you can do it but uh it takes quadratic time in general best known algorithms are quadratic So this is bad, this is bad, and this is bad. So no representation is perfect. Life sucks. Uh what we'd like is to get the best. Now this one is really hard to work with because converting into roots is sort of impossible is impossible in our in an arithmetic model. So we're going to focus on column A and column C. We kind of like to take the min of those two columns. We won't quite get that. What we will get is an algorithm for converting between these two representations in n login time. So not quite linear but close. And once we can do that if we want to multiply two things in the coefficient land we can convert to sample land do it in linear time and then convert back. So uh that's the magical transformation we're going to cover and it is called the fastforier transform. Fastfor transform is the algorithm discrete 4A transform is that transformation uh mathematically. Cool. So the whole name of the game is converting uh from coefficient representation to samples or vice versa. Turns out they're almost the same though that won't be obvious for a long time till the end of the class. Any questions before we proceed? Yeah. Why don't we evaluate a bip? Ah uh so okay the question is uh if I want to we'll get there in a second but if I want to multiply uh and it's so easy to do in sample land why don't I just sample A and B and then multiply them that's right uh but in fact sampling is not so easy it takes quadratic time let's go there now because we have n samples to do each one will cost linear time. Uh remember to evaluate a polinomial takes linear time. If you want to think of it in a matrix that's entered the matrix uh then we get a big matrix. So we're given the x i's and we just want to evaluate a given polomial uh whose coefficients are given by a 0 a1 a2 n minus one. Our goal is to compute the y i's y 0 y1 y 2 to yn minus one. Uh and so you can if you know a matrix vector product you take this row with that column you take the dotproduct that multiplies corresponding entries you get y0 that is the definition of the polinomial evaluation I'm just going to write a bunch of these rows you get the pattern pretty simple Okay, this is called the Vandermond matrix. I'll call it V. And in general, uh I have room for it. So then we go In general, if we look at uh VIG, it's just um sorry there you may notice I'm not using the letter I. We will get to why in a moment. VJ K uh row J column K. That's going to be x subj to the power k. That's the vendor matrix. Um, we can compute it in quadratic time. It has quadratic entries. We can use the trick suggested earlier. Compute each term from the previous one uh by multiplying by xj. Uh, and then we want to compute this matrix vector product. And you can clearly do it in quadratic time uh just computing each thing correspondingly. And that's sort of the best you can do without any further assumptions. So this takes uh so if I I want to compute this product that's the uh coefficients to samples problem. Uh this is the same thing as computing v times the a vector. So this is a matrix vector multiplication which takes uh n^2 time. Okay. On the other hand, so that's a problem because we're trying to beat quadratic multiplication. So if we spend quadratic time to convert over here, it doesn't matter if this is linear time. There are two problems. One is that conversion costs too much. The other is we don't yet know how to convert backwards. Uh but this matrix view gives us also the reverse transformation. If we want to convert samples to coefficients, uh this is uh the best notation I know is from mat lab. How many people know mat lab? A bunch. So for you it's v back slash a but uh usually in linear algebra like 1806 you see you have you have uh some matrix v times some unknown vector. Usually it's called x. Here it's called a. And you know the right hand side and you want to solve for this. How do you do it? Sorry. Multiply by the inverse. Yeah. How do you do it in computer science? Elimination. Gaussian elimination. Turns out inverse is the right answer here. But uh Gaussian elimination would be the standard way to solve a linear system like that. trouble with galsian elimination is it takes cubic time and it's in its normal form. Uh in this case it's a little bit special because this matrix is essentially fixed. The x i's don't need to change. It could be x i is just i or something. Uh so we can in this case it's a little better to compute the inverse first. Uh so we could also just do V inverse times A. Uh from a numerical analysis standpoint this is very bad but don't worry about it for now. We're going to get a better algorithm today anyway. It doesn't involve matrices at all. But the nice thing is if uh computing V inverse that takes n cubed time but you only have to do it once. So if you have to do this many times uh you can do this product in n squ time. You just have to maintain that v inverse for once and for all. Okay. Uh, great. So, we got quadratic algorithms to go back and forth between these representations. That at least tells us it's doable. But, uh, we we of course need better than quadratic to improve on the naive uh, multiplication algorithm. So, that's what we're going to do. Uh, in general, we can't do any better. But we have one freedom which is we have said nothing about the x case. We can choose them to be whatever they we want them to be. I keep saying x k equals k. That seems fine. It's actually a really bad choice for a reason we will get to. Uh but there is a choice where magically this transformation becomes easy and you can do it in n login time. Before we get there uh I want to give you some motivation for how how this could possibly work. And as you might expect even just from the n login running time we're going to be using divide and conquer. So let's just think about how divide and conquer could work. Uh and I'm going to show you an idea and then we'll figure out how that idea could possibly work. At the mo it doesn't work at the moment but we we'll be able to choose the x case so that it works. So let's say uh the goal I mean what we want to do is compute this uh v * AI'm going to convert think of that back into mat into polomial uh land. So our goal is to compute a of x uh for all x in some set x. Okay, this is uh taking a bunch of samples. Those uh the set X is just a set of the XKS, but I'm going to change that set in a moment uh using recursion. So I want to think so the input to this algorithm is a polinomial A of X and it's a set capital X of positions that I'd like to evaluate that polomial at. This is clearly more general than the problem we're trying to solve and I'm going to solve it with divide and conquer. So in divide and conquer there are three steps. Divide, conquer, and combine. Right? So uh let's start with divide here's the big idea. Uh I would say there are two natural ways to divide a vector. One is in the middle. That's what we've always seen with merge sort and divide and conquer uh and u convex hull from last time. But there's another way which will work better here which is the even entries and the odd entries. So I'm going to divide into even and odd coefficients. So let me write that down. Uh one of them is called a sub even of x. That's a polomial. It's going to have half the degree. So it's going to be sum from k= 0 to I wrote n here but I think I want something like n / 2 -1 n - 1 /2 one of those things uh of a 2k x to the k. So really really what I want which is easier to write in the vector notation. I want all the even entries. Okay, I won't try to figure out what the last one is but it's roughly n /2ish. I'll just write that. Uh you could go a little bit extra. That's fine. Uh if you define a subn to be zero and a sub n plus one to be zero and all those to be zero those terms will disappear. So uh the key thing here is I'm taking the even entries but I'm I'm I'm not I don't have 2k up here right? So this is the x to the zero term. This is the x to the one term. This is the x to the 2 term. So there's a difference between x to the k's and the the a uh sub 2k. But I mean just think about it in vector form. Don't worry about the algebra for now. We're going to have to worry about it in a second. But intuitively what I want to do is extract from the vector of all the ais uh these two vectors the odd coefficients in order and the even coefficients in order. But I'm going to need the algebraic form in a moment for the combined step. So this should be 2k + 1 x to the k Okay, that's step one. Easy to do. Linear time, of course. Um, let's jump ahead to step three, combine. In order to compute a of x from what I'd like to do is recursively compute a even of x and a odd of x for some values x. It's not going to be x and x. It's going to be some other set. And let's think about how I could compute a of x given some solutions to a even of x and a odd of x. So this is step three combine. So, uh, I would like a of x over here and I want a even of something and a odd of something and something in here. Uh, anyone see the algebra? Maybe start with this. I hear a mumble. Yeah. X. X squ. Exactly. Time for a purple one. Getting better. Uh why X squ? Because we have this mismatch here. We have a sub 2K. We want x to the 2k. How could we do that? Well, we could put x^2 to the 2k. uh and you know x^2 oh sorry x^2 to the k is the same thing as x^ the 2k okay and so magically this transforms into the even entries of a of x that's half of them we do the same thing for the odd ones and we're almost there now we have a sub 2k + 1 * x to the 2k no + one so how can I turn it add a plus one multiply by x out here take the whole thing multiply by x then I get all of the odd terms of a of x I add these together I get a of x okay it's uh I mean you could prove this more carefully but uh sort of that's just algebra to see that this is correct once you have this it tells you what I need to do is compute a even of x^2 for all x and x. So this is uh for x and x. There's a for loop for you. So that's going to take linear time. If I already know this value and I already know this value, I do one multiplication, one addition, and boom, I get a of x. So in the conquer step, I want to uh recursively compute uh I'll call it a even of y and a odd of y for y in x squared. x^2 is the set of squares of all numbers in x. Okay, so I'm changing my set x. I started with a polinomial A and a set X. Recursively I'm doing a different polomial of half the degree, half the number of terms uh but with a different set of the same size. Okay, I started with X. X squar has the same size as X, right? So let's try to figure out how fast or slow this algorithm is. But that is a divide and conquer. That is going to be our golden ticket. It's pretty simple. Uh but we're going to need another trick. So um I'm going to write a recurrence. Now this this recurrence depends kind of on two things. One is how many terms are there in a that we've been calling n. And the other is how many numbers are there in x? How many different places do I have to evaluate my polomial? So we've got t of n and I'll just call it size of x. Okay. Uh so divide and conquer goes handinhand with recurrences. Generally you've got the recursive part. So that's just how big are the sub problems? How many are there? There are two subpros. They have half the size in terms of n but they have the same size in terms of x. So, all right. 2 * because there's two subpros each of size n /2 uh and size x. Okay. Plus what goes here is however much it costs to do the divide step plus however much it costs to do the combined step. All the non-recursive parts. Well, this is just partitioning the vectors. Linear scan linear time. uh this is we we talked about it's a constant number of arithmetic operations for each x. So this costs order x time this cost order n time right? So in general we get n + x. Now this is not again not a recurrent solvable by the master method because it has two variables and uh so probably the usually when you're faced with this sort of thing you want to do kind of back of the envelope picture uh draw a recursion tree good way to go. So at the root now I know that initially x equals n right when I start out I have n coefficients I have n different positions I want to evaluate at them at because that's what I want to do to do this conversion from coefficients to samples. So at the root of the recursion tree, I'm just going to write n order n work to get started and to the do the recursions. There are two recursive calls. One has both have size n /2 in terms of a and they have size the same x which is also known as n in those two recursions. So in fact the linear work here will be n and n and then we'll get n and n. x never goes down. So x always remains n the original value of n. This is a bad recurrence. Uh there are n sorry there are login levels. That's the good news. Once we get down to constant size we can kind of stop when there's only one coefficient. I know how to evaluate the polinomial with with just a zero. That's easy. Uh so down at the bottom here at the last level so this is height log n. The last level is just it's again going to be a whole bunch of n's all the same n here. n is the original value of x because we haven't changed that. How many n's are there down here? H two to the log n also known as n. Yeah, good. So we had uh because we had login levels we had binary branching so it's two to the number of levels which is just n. So this is n^2. All this work still n^2. Clearly what we need is for x to get smaller too. Right? If x if in this recursion let me uh in red draw the recursion I would like to have. If x became x over two here, that's the only change we'd need. Then n and x change in exactly the same way. And so then we can just forget about x. It's going to be the same as n. Then we get 2 * n /2 plus order n. Look familiar? It is our breadand butter recurrence. Merge sort recurrence. That's n login. That's what we need to do. Somehow when we convert our set x to x^2 I want x to get smaller. Is that at all plausible? Let's think about it. What's the base case? Um keep things simple. Let's say the base case when uh x= 1 I'll just let x be let's say I want to compute uh my a at one keep it simple. Okay. What if I what if I want two values in x? I'd like to have the feature that when I square all the values in x, so I want two values, but when I square them, I only have one value. Solve for x. Yeah. One and one. Negative one and one. Not bad. Good catch. Negative 1 and one. That could work, right? What are negative 1 and one? They are the square roots of one, right? - 1^2 is 1. 1^2 is 1. There's two square roots for every number. Two square roots for every number. Interesting. So that means if I just keep taking square roots, when I square them, it collapses by a factor of two. Uh let me let me go to another board and define something. you're all anticipating what's going to happen, but I'm going to say a collapsing set x uh or a set is collapsing if either um the size of x² is the size of x / 2 uh and recursively x^2 is collapsing. because I need this to work all the way down the recursion or I need a base case which is just x= 1. There's a single item in x. So I happen to start with x equals the item one. It didn't have to be one. Could have been seven. It couldn't be zero cuz zero uh you won't get two numbers. There's only one square root of zero. Okay, so I lied a little bit. Other than zero, every number has exactly two square roots. So what's the square root of negative one? I I so complex numbers. So if I take square roots of these guys, I get I and negative I and again I get minus1 and 1. Okay, that's when x= 4. Turns out this is only going to work for powers of two. But hey, if n isn't a power of two, just round up to the next power of two. That only hurts me by a factor of two. Okay, complex numbers. Okay, every time I said real number in the past, pretend I said complex number. Everything I said is still true. Actually, the root thing is only true when you allow complex numbers. Some polinomials have complex roots. Okay, so pretend I said complex. We're going to need complex numbers. This is why because when we start taking square roots we immediately get uh complex numbers. Okay. Next would be x= 8 ah yeah square of i. Square of i. Let's see if I can do it. Should be 2 / 2 * 1 + i. And then this one is just the square of i is going to be 2 over two * 1 minus i. And then we have all our old guys. Uh oh. And then I can write plus or minus in front of each of these. It's like there weren't enough terms there. Okay. Now I've got eight. Sorry, I've got four numbers here and I've got four numbers there. How in the world could I remember this? Maybe I memorized it. No, I didn't memorize it. It's actually really easy to figure this out if you know geometry. Geometry. Let's do geometry over here. It's convenient. I'm actually a geometer. Uh so you know complex numbers have two parts right the real part and the complex part. I'm going to draw that in what's called the complex plane where we draw the real part here and I guess it's usually called the imaginary part on the y- ais. Every point in this plane is a complex number and vice versa. They're the same thing. Okay. So what did we start with? We started with the number one. number one uh would be here. It has no imaginary part. So it's on the x- axis. That's this is the real line down here. And it's at position one, which I'm going to just define to be right there. Okay. Then we got negative 1. That's over here. Then we got i. That's here. 1 * i. Then we got negative i. That's here. H. Then we got 2 over 2 * i + 1. That's here 2 over2 by2 over2 what is the property of 2 over2 comma roo2 over2 it has distance exactly one to the origin right if I draw this triangle 2 / 2 2 /2 uh I square this I get a half I square this I get a half I add them together I get one take the square root I still get one so this distance is H interesting. Uh and then I got the negative of that which is over here and negative of that. And then this is the with a negative I get it wrong. Yep. Sorry. Doesn't matter. But I'll think of it as I minus killer shock. I minus one. It's the same cuz I had the plus and minus, but I like the geometry. So this point is uh 2 /2 by 2 over2 and then there's a negative over here. What properties do these points have? I heard a word. Circle. Unit circle. Good. Who said unit circle? Nice. It's a unit circle, right? Clearly that deserves a frisbee end. Okay. Unit circle. H circle. It seems good. Uh what's going on here is I took this number. I claimed it was the square root of I because it turns out if you take points on the unit circle in the complex plane when you square a number it's like doubling the angle relative to the x ais. This is angle 0. This is angle what do you call it? 45°. Uh this is angle 90°. So when I square this number I get 90°. That's why this number is a square sorry is a square root of I. I probably should have labeled some of these. This is I. This is minus I. This is minus one. And this is one. In general, we get something called uh yeah. So let's these are called the nth roots of unity. Unity is just a fancy word for one. uh one is here and first we computed the square roots of one they were minus one and one then we compute computed the fourth roots of one all of these numbers if you take the fourth roots or sorry if you take the fourth power you get one then we computed the eighth roots of one all of these numbers if you take the eth power you get one again so in general nth roots of unity we're going to assume n is a power of two but this notion actually makes sense for any n and they're just uniformly spaced around the circle. And if you know some geometry and how it relates to trig, you know that a general point on the circle is cos theta comma sin theta. x coordinate is cos theta, y coordinate is sin theta. This is also a funny notation for complex numbers. Not so funny. This is the geometric interpretation of uh cos theta uh plus i sin theta. Okay. Okay. And if I want them uniformly spaced around the circle and I want to include this point also known as theta= 0 because when theta equals 0 cos theta is 1 sin theta is 0 right uh then so I want to say for theta = to 0 and then uh here I'm going to get fancy tow over n 2 to n up to uh n -1 / n * t to what's tow 2 pi. Thank you. This is modern notation just over the last couple years. I believe in tao so much I got it tattooed on my arm. Okay, towel is is the fundamental constant. Screw pi. Uh none of that three and change. Six and change is where it's at. Uh so toao clearly this is much nicer tao over n not 2 pi / n. Tao is a whole circle. Okay this is 1 nth of a circle 2 of a circle n minus one over n of a circle. I didn't do n of a circle because that's also the same as zero. Okay. Now why uh why did I introduce this notation? Because there's this other great thing called Orther's formula uh which is that this this equals e to the i uh theta right double check it's so rare that I get to do real uh calculus this is oiler's formula e e for oiler another number two and change uh e to the i this is funny because it's complex time theta is equal to cos theta plus i sin theta this is the relation between exponentials and trigonometry that's big thing oiler did cool uh so what because this lets us understand how squares work not squares the shape but squares the operation when I take squares uh so if I take e to the i theta this is uh one of my roots of unity let me let me expand out what theta is so theta is some k * n let's do it this way first so in reality we have uh k power / n. When I square it, that's the same thing as putting the two right here. This is the same thing as e to the i * 2 thet. Bingo. I get what I was claiming that if I start at some angle theta relative to the xaxis, when I square the number, I just double the angle. This is why. Okay, this is obvious. uh and just from regular algebra and then this thing oilers's formula tells me that corresponds to doubling the angle on a circle. So only works for points in a circle but uh so when I go here I get you know e to the i k uh I guess 2 k * n twice as far around the circle. All right. Uh fine. What happens if I take this number and I square it? So this has a really big angle. This is uh it's 1/2 + 1/8 whatever that is 5/8 * when I double that angle I go to here. Right? Now, this you might call it 10/8 or you might also call it one quarter. So, there's a because when you go around the circle, you stay on the circle. So, there's another thing going on which is really um this is e to the i * 2 theta mod to usually we think of mods relative to integers. But, uh the what I mean is every time I add a multiple of town, nothing changes. If I go around the circle five times and then do something, it's the same as just doing the something. Okay, so I kind of need that. Um, and this is true because uh e to the i tow= 1. You may know it as e to the i pi = 1, but clearly this is the superior formula. So superior I got it tattooed on my other arm. Uh, it's amazing what you can do with a laser printer and a temporary tattoo kit. Sadly, these won't last, but definitely try it at home. Um, cool. So, e to the i to equals 1. So, going around the circle, same thing is not. All right. So, uh you can draw on this picture for every number what is its square. Um, and in general, if you look at these four guys, their squares are just going to be these two guys. If you look at these four guys, their squares are going to be among these four guys. So, I started with eight guys. I square them, I get four. I square them, I get two. I square them, I get one. That's how we constructed it. Uh, but you can see it works not only for this eight point set that we constructed sort of by hand. Uh, but it works for the nth roots of unity. As long as n is a power of two, this set of points will be collapsing. Okay. So, uh if n is a power of two for some integer k, then uh nth roots of unity are collapsing. according to this definition and that's what we want. Then this divide and conquer algorithm runs in n log n time because every time we square the set x we reduce its size by a factor of two. So we get t of n= 2 * t of n /2 + n plus order n and that's order n log n. And so this whole thing we compute in other words we set x k to be um e to the i k to / n. Now guess I should say how to compute that but let's just say that's given to you for free. It takes constant time to compute each root of unity. In fact we again we only need to do this once and for all uh for each value of n. So you can think of it as just being part of the algorithm. These are the xks we use. I said x k could be anything we want as long as they're all different. So I'm going to choose them to be n uniformly spaced points around the complex unit circle. And then magically this algorithm runs in n log n time. It's pretty cool. Uh intuitively you think of real numbers x squ of course it has the same size as x. But once you go to complex numbers, there's this nifty trick where you start with one nth of the circle and uniformly spaced points after the first level of recursion, you'll only have to be dealing with n over two of those points, namely the even ones, also known as the n /2 roots of unity. And after the next level of recursion, it's the n over fourth roots of unity, and so on. So this recursion is well defined. When you have a vector of size n, you just have to deal with the nth roots of unity, and you're happy. That is fast for a transform. That algorithm with these xis is fft. So let me write this somewhere. It kind of snuck up on us. This is the algorithm we were aiming to to find fast fora transform uh is that divide and conquer algorithm on the right. I'll write it abstractly. uh for something called the DFT. It's the discrete 4A transform is the corresponding mathematical transformation. Fast is about an algorithm. Discreet is about discrete math. Uh so DFT is uh this thing that we wanted to compute which was basically the product V * A Remember V was the Vanderbond matrix. Uh but and it was a it depended on all these X Ks. Uh and we're going to set X K to be this E to the I K to / N. So uh if you remember the uh v k vj k here was uh xj to the kth power. So this just becomes uh e to the i j k to over n. Uh it's a little funny these are all consecutive because this is totally different. But uh that's the matrix. If you take that matrix times a vector that is called the discrete 4a transform of that vector and fft is a way to comput it in n log n time you just run this algorithm and for those x ks it'll just work in n login time. Cool. But if you remember way back to the beginning what we needed is a way this converts a coefficient vector into a sample vector. Then we can multiply the matrices. But we then need to trans sorry multiply the polomials. Then we need to transform the sample vector that results back into a coefficient vector. So we're only half done. I only have 15 minutes. Luckily the other half is almost identical to this half. So let's do that next. Uh maybe over here. So we've got our great divide and conquer algorithm. What we need now, let me give you the polomial multiplication algorithm. All right, let's call this more exotic fast polomial multiplication. Fast meaning n login. Let's say that we're given two uh polomials a and b represented in coefficient form. What we need uh is I'll call a star which is the result of running fft on a or it's the it's the discrete 4a transform of a b star uh do the same thing. So we know what this means is convert A from a coefficient vector into a sample vector. Convert B from a coefficient vector into a sample vector. Now I have the samples of A star at the nth roots of unity, these guys. And I have the the samples of B at the exact same points, the nth roots of unity. So I can compute C star the the transformed version the the DFT of C is just the uh I mean C star K equals A* K time B star K this is the multiplication algorithm uh for sample vectors right we started with that that has that's linear time and then the missing piece is I need to recmp compute C which is the inverse first fast forier transform of C star. So this is the missing link so to speak. We need to be able to go backwards in this transformation. Good news is the algorithm is not going to change. What we're computing isn't going to change. uh all that's going to change are the x ks. Why? Because uh remember uh from the top what right now we know how to compute v * a. What we now need to compute is v inverse time a. So the only question is what is v inverse? This matrix has a super special structure. It's symmetric looks lots of crazy lots of points on a circle. Maybe V inverse has a nice structure and it does. The claim is V inverse is V complex conjugate divided by N. Uh what's complex conjugate? Uh for a geometer it's reflection through the X-axis. for an algebraic person a + i. The complex conjugate is a minus i. Okay, so just apply that to every entry in the matrix and then divide all the entries by n, you get the inverse. Cool. Very cool. because uh what this tells us is we run exactly the same algorithm and do exactly the same transformation. If we want to do V inverse, we can actually just use V but with a different choice of X K. Namely, um for the inverse, call it XK inverse. uh we just take the complex conjugate of this thing which turns out to be um e to the minus i j k to / n and then divide the whole thing by n. Okay, I'm using a fact here which is that the complex conjugate of this number is actually just you put a minus sign here. Why does that hold? Because geometry, right? If you uh theta is usually measuring the counterclockwise angle from the x-axis. If you take the complex conjugate, you go from up here to down here, the reflection through the x-axis. That's the same thing as if you measure theta as a clockwise angle from the x-axis. So that's the same thing as negating the angle. Okay, so that's just a little geometry. You can prove it algebraically, although I don't know how uh off hand. It's not not hard. Uh so if I want to take some angle and then flip it through the x-axis, it's the same as the negative of the angle. So complex conjugate of this number is same thing with a minus sign. And then we have to divide by n. If I just uh did I lie? uh I can't divide by n. Sorry, it's in the wrong spot. I use these x ks and then uh I apply the transform. I take this uh thing. I get not quite v inverse, but I end up getting nv inverse. I multiply that by my aar. That's going to give me n * a. Okay. Uh so uh then I just take that vector I divide by n boom I've got the inverse transform. So this is how you do uh inverse fast forier transform. You just flip the sign in the exponent in the x ks. Then you do the same uh matrix vector product and then you divide by n and then you've done the inverse. So that's how you do uh if you believe this claim that's how you do this last step. Question. What's the J and the X K? Oops. No J. Sorry. Uh, I was imagining the these guys. Yeah, it's just K. Thank you. Other questions? Okay. So, what remains is to prove this claim. Okay. Are you happy if I uh I should probably have better Well, anyway, it's not the best. I'm going to call this uh VK prime X K prime. Then when I do that, when I plug that in, I get a different matrix V prime. And what I'm claiming, what this claim says is that V prime is equal to N * V inverse. Okay, so I apply the same f of t algorithm but with v prime instead of v. Then I get not quite the product I want but just n times the product I want. Divide every term by n and we get the inverse. This cool thing about complex numbers here we get another cool thing. All right. Uh but we have to prove this claim. So let's do a little bit of algebra. No pain no gain, right? Uh good. So, uh, let's look at VJ K prime. So, oh, sorry. So, let's uh fine. Let's look at P the product of V and V complex conjugate. Okay, what I was calling V prime up there. Uh, I claim that this thing is N times the identity matrix with ones down the diagonal and zeros everywhere else. Okay, so let's look at this product in general. Let's look at the uh say the j kith item in the product that's going to come from row j of v uh dotproduct with column k of the complex conjugate. Now the matrices here are symmetric so actually rows and columns are the same but that's the general definition of the cell in the product of two matrices. Uh so let's write it out as a summation. We have from m equals z. It's so hard not to use i for my summations. It's the only class I have to do it because I is already taken but I guess I still use capital i. But uh we'll use m i is complex number today. Uh so we have um e to the i t to j m / n time e to the minus i to m k / n. I don't know why I changed the order. I put the towel here instead of there, but same thing. Okay, this is just the for every uh position m in the cell and corresponding position m in sorry m in the row corresponding position m in the column I have j m and I have m k again the order doesn't matter it's symmetric but I'm getting it right here this is we're using this formula okay I put a minus sign here because this is the comp the complex conjugate okay so now I just do some algebra these share a lot they share I they share M and they share the divided by N. Okay so this is sum M = 0 N -1 E to the I oh they also share tow uh to M / N times J minus K. Please correct me if I make any mistakes. Uh, cool. So, it depends how J and K relate, of course. Um, if J equals K, that's also that's also known as something on the diagonal. I want this I want the matrix N 0 0, right? So, J equals K. That's the diagonal. That's where I want to get N. And indeed, if J equals K, this becomes zero. So, all this becomes zero. E to the 0 is 1. And so I'm summing up one n times I get n. Okay, cool. It's one case. This is n if j equals k. And somehow I claim that everywhere else I get zeros. So let's prove that. So if J does not equal K, I'm going to rewrite this a little bit. J and K are fixed. Okay, m is changing in the sum. So I want to write this as sum m = 0 to n minus one e to the i to uh j minus k over n * m. Okay, in other words, this thing raised to the m power. What is this series? one word. Geometric. Thank you. This is a geometric series and uh I guess I should have waited uh to give you the Frisbee until you tell me how do you solve a geometric series of with a finite term. So think of this as Z to the M. Do you know the formula? the i, just zus one. Z to the n minus one almost zus one over z minus one. Yep. That's if you have sum of z to the k k= 0 to n minus one. That's that. It's in the appendix of your textbook. So we just plug that in uh and we get uh oh boy e to the better chalk e to the i tow j minus k over n to the n power minus one over e to the i. Actually the denominator doesn't really matter because this is supposed to be zero. So it's all about the numerator. Uh, so but it's the same thing. Minus one. Okay. Where's my red? Red. The n cancels with the n. This is an integer not equal to zero. So we have e to the i tow to an integer power. What's e to the i towel? One. Okay. convenient that I had that there. 1 - 1 is zero. So we get zero. Ah satisfying. Okay. So that proves this claim. We prove that on the diagonal we get n because we had n copies of one. Off the diagonal we get zero like this. Therefore v complement or sorry v complex conjugate time n is v inverse. Therefore this algorithm actually computes the inverse fastfora transform. So that's it for algorithms today. Um but let me quickly tell you about some applications. Uh you've probably taken other classes that use applications of fast for transform. So I will just summarize. Uh if you've ever edited audio, you probably did it in uh unless you're just like pasting audio clips together. Uh you probably did it in what's called frequency space. So you know that as I talked about in the beginning when we're measuring where the membrane on this microphone goes over time that is in in the time domain for every time we sample where physically this thing is if you apply I think the way I define it here it's the inverse fastfora transform usually it's called fora transform uh to that uh time domain vector you get a new vector now it's a complex vector so you start with real numbers you get complex numbers so uh For every uh position in the vector, what it corresponds to the the x-axis is no longer time. Now it's frequency. For every frequency, you're measuring uh essentially you're viewing this this vector the waveform as a bunch of trigonometric functions. Say s of something time theta. If you look at one of the entries in the vector and it's a complex number, if you compute the magnitude of the complex number, the length of the vector uh of the length of that two coordinate vector that is how much uh stuff of that frequency you have and then the angle of the vector in 2D is uh how that uh trigonometric function shifted in time. So if you take a pure note like if I was uh playing a bell and it's exactly C major you uh you know it looks it looks really wavy. It's actually a nice perfect uh sign curve with some offset depending on when I hit it. Um and then if you apply the for transform what you get is zeros everywhere except for the one frequency that's appearing and there you get one and everywhere else you get zero. Well, one possibly rotate it depending on the phase. And you can take any audio stream, convert it via 4A transform, do manipulations there. For example, you've probably heard of highp pass filters that removes all the high frequencies or low pass filters remove all the low frequencies. You just convert to the space, you zero out the parts you want, and then you convert back with inverse foraier transform. Uh if you've used Adobe Audition or Audacity, they can all do these things. Uh and there are tons of contexts where converting to for space makes life easy. And in general, if you have any timebased signal, you should always think about what do you get with FFT when you transform to uh frequency based signal. And you can do lots of cool things you couldn't do otherwise. And it only takes an log and time plus people do it in hardware. There's a fast implementation called FFTW, the fastest 4A transform in the west, which was made here at MIT a bunch of years ago and is still the best uh software implementation of FFT. So people use it everywhere. Uh, your head your noise cancelling headsets probably use it. MP3 uses it. It's a cool algorithm.