The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So welcome to the third class of the uh health information systems to improve quality of care in resource poor uh settings. Uh two weeks ago you heard Dr. Joya Mukerji set the stage and described the backdrop into which we would like to introduce this information systems and she pointed out nicely that we can't do this without tying it to development programs. We can't do this without somehow um transforming the infrastructure to maximize the benefit of these systems. And then last week we heard Dr. Dr. Hish Frasier uh convincing us that it is possible to um provide care to complex medical conditions such as multi-drugresistant tuberculosis as well as HIV. But this also required some information system to uh facilitate the healthcare delivery. We're going to change shifts uh ger uh for for uh a little bit and focus now on quality improvement. And uh I'm going to start off by uh re relating a personal story. So this was back in 2002. July 31st was the date. Um I was mountain biking and sustained a uh lower leg fra fracture. Um I went to the hospital and the orthopedic surgeon, the bone doctor assured me that this is a simple procedure. I will be back running marathons again before I know it. So the sk the the surgery was scheduled on a Friday afternoon in July and as you know July is when the house staff turns over. There are new interns, new residents. And then I didn't know too that that night that I had my surgery all the nurses working on the orthopedic floor were all agency nurses. So they don't usually work there. So as you could see those are all the um Swiss cheese holes lining up for a major catastrophe. So, at I finished the surgery at about 5:00 and then at 1:00 a.m. I I was awakened by this pain over my leg. So, I called the nurse and uh they thought that it was just uh pain uh over the incision site. They they gave me some morphine. An hour later, the pain was actually getting worse and I had requested them to call the uh the the orthopedic resident, the the junior doctor in orthopedics uh who happened to be in surgery per uh involved with another operation. Uh so he ordered the nurse to just to give me more morphine and that happened every hour and the pain wasn't going away. So, at about 7:00 in the morning, I was getting so frustrated, I actually called my boss who was the uh head of the ICU at John's Hopkins. I begged him to get me transferred to another hospital. He made some phone calls and within 15 minutes, the uh consultant, the attending who was taking care of me was there. He was actually scolding me, why didn't you call me directly? And I didn't want any special uh privileges like I wanted to go through the right channels like just because I'm a doctor I don't expect some entitlements. But anyway uh it turned out that I had what we call uh compartment syndrome. It's when the uh swelling after surgery got so severe that it cut off the blood supply uh to the leg and that is one of the feared complications after a bone operation. uh they should have been on top of this complication, but it took about five six hours before they picked it up. By the time I went to surgery, I've lost the muscle in the lateral compartment of my leg. So, they had to remove all the dead muscle. There was still too much swelling, so they couldn't close it. It took another five surgeries to be able to fix my leg. Originally, the plan was one surgery. I picked up an infection in the hospital. I developed a bone infection from shudamonus, one of the nastiest organisms, and was on antibiotics for four months. And I'll I'll show you my so so there's my uh leg. And that's pretty much my my story. Um the caveat is that my caregivers were actually good people. I met the the resident finally who showed up at the end of the day after my emergency fasiottomy and he was the nicest guy. The nurses who took care of me were al also hardworking nurses. They had no intentions to give me a compartment syndrome or surgical sight infection. But the system was designed to give me these complications. So this past week I've been on service in the intensive care unit. Every single day, one of my patients died in intensive care unit. And they were in their 80s to 90 year year old. And if you've been in the ICU, it's not the best place to die. And the reason that that happened is that no one had talked to them about advanced directives when they were still healthy. Again, this to me, this is a failure of the health system. And I read all your homework. I'm going to discuss some of the stories that you've shared uh with me. Thank you very much. So these are some of the uh assignments that were submitted. So a student at MIT developed a wrist fracture which was not followed up properly and led to reconstructive surgery due to missed non-healing. There was a catastrophic infection of the hip um that was missed on a 15-year-old boy leading to a delay in treatment. There was an arrogant pediatrician at Children's Hospital who dismissed the parents concern about food allergy and he had to be convinced to run some tests. And of course, the parents were right. A blood thinner was not started on a nursing home in Seattle because the facility forgot to get it approved by the primary caregiver, which was protocol in that hospital. A baby sister's brain injury was missed in Trinidad and Tobago. A patient died at MGH because a critical laboratory result was missed and this incident is still haunting the doctor who was involved in the care. During surgery in Uganda, a sulfa antibiotic was given to a patient who was allergic to it causing anaphilaxis. So anaphylaxis is a severe um allergic reaction that could kill someone. Worse, the patient was charged extra for the additional hospital stay as a result of the complication when in fact they should have known that this patient was allergic to that antibiotic. An elderly patient aspirated so food went into the lungs during anesthesia in Cameroon because she did not understand the instructions not to eat before surgery. There was a grandfather who picked up a stafylocal infection in a US hospital and died. A baby was given an adult dose of a malaria medication in Uganda and she developed liver complications from the overdose and died. A mother-in-law in Mexico had advanced breast cancer missed and even when it was discovered the patient in the family were not informed of the diagnosis. A young healthy woman in Colombia developed a hospitalacquired infection and died. So as you can see this is not limited to one part of the world. uh medical errors abound everywhere and I would like to quote Don Burwick the the director of Medicare Medicaid and he says every system is perfectly designed to achieve the results that it gets. So how do we define quality of care in medicine? So according to the Institute of Medicine, quality of care is a degree to which health services for individuals and populations increase the likelihood of desired health outcomes and are consistent with current professional knowledge. There are six components of quality of care. Can anyone give me some of those six components? Any takers? What what are the main requirements for care to be of decent quality? David, efficiency. So efficiency is one. Five more. Okay. These are the six worthy aims of health care. It has to be safe. It has to be effective. There has to be evidence with what you do. It has to be patient centered. There has to be respect for the individual's values and choices. It has to be timely. There should be less waiting for both the patient as well as those who provide the care. And as David pointed out, it has to be efficient. There should not be a lot of waste uh involved with health care healthcare delivery. And lastly, and probably most importantly, it has to be equitable. There has to be no disparities in the provision of care, whether it's racial or urban, rural. In layman's terms, it means there should be no needless debts, no needless pain or suffering, no unwanted weights, no helplessness and no waste. This is some of the studies that have been done mostly in the developed world. Unfortunately, we don't have numbers from the developing countries. Um and the numbers in terms of the extent of medical injury per 100 hospital admissions range between 10 to 15%. And these are from chart reviews. Other people are saying that if you actually do observational studies the numbers are going to be higher. In the United States um we have about 1.7 million hospitalacquired infections a year and hospitalacquired infections in addition to adverse drug events are the two main compon um components of uh medical injury and the institute of medicine as you know had estimated anywhere between 48,000 to 99,000 preventable deaths as a result of being admitted to the hospital here in the United States. So this is the big paradox of healthcare. You have very well-trained doctors, nurses, pharmacists, physical therapists and we know that they have altruistic motivations. And then we have all these advances in science and technology. But somehow we see all these shortfalls in quality. And some of you have seen this in the past comparing health care with other um dangerous industries such as the nuclear power plant, aviation industry and as you could see in this graph, healthc care is on the left side together with mountain climbing in terms of how dangerous it is. So when you get admitted the your chance of getting some injury is similar to mountain climbing. On the other side of the graph would be the ultraafe industries and you find their aviation industry which has always been compared to healthcare and the nuclear power plant industry. But people are always saying patients are not airplanes. Health care is much more complex than the aviation industry. For example, in healthcare anesthesia is the safest of all the different specialties. We've reduced death to one per 200,000 cases at least in the developed world. But even with those numbers, that is still 25 more times more dangerous than flying. People say again, healthc care is complex. You have more than 155,000 possible diagnosis. You have more than 7,800 possible interventions. So, it's difficult to do the right thing. But I could argue that industries of high intrinsic hazards such as nuclear power plant, aviation industry, they're also very complicated and yet they manage to be very safe. The main difference between healthcare and those other industries are in the organization and design of service. In health care, the delivery of services is organized around guilds. There are the doctors, the nurses, the pharmacies and the different specialties. You have internal medicine, surgery, you have radiology and design that we see now is a result of historical, political and economic forces, not the analytical analytical consideration of how to achieve the best results. On the other hand, other high-risisk industries, they hire people who are focused on integrating new discoveries and disciplines into well-harmonized systems. They have distinct roles and uh for who for those whose responsibility is ensuring that pieces come together well. The same people would be rigorous in identifying when the design is inadequate. They're constantly looking out for unanticipated outcomes. They actually are excited when they see errors because errors is an is an opportunity to improve the design. So they detect errors and they convert them into expertise and uh these are crucial to safe operations. In healthcare quality when it occurs is due to the acts of near heroism of doctors and nurses. Uh we are expected to constantly make do and work around to get the job done. We fight the same battles every day, the same inefficiency and achieve little headway in making things better. And to quote Albert Einstein, and I saw this as one of the status updates of one of the students, the definition of insanity is continuing to do the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. So somehow we're miraculously expecting for things to get better without us doing much. So as I mentioned earlier, there are two major components of adverse events in healthcare. Medication errors and hospitalacquired infections. So as regards hospitalacquired infections, 5 to 10% of patients would develop them when they get admitted. So they come in without those infections. They pick it up from from the uh either the their carers or from the environment in the hospital. And we know too that the risks have steadily increased over the recent decades. And we also know that a significant fraction of these hospitalacquired infections occur in clusters or outbreaks. meaning there is definitely a link with people uh passing it on from one patient to another. Hospitalacquired infections are not unfortunate inevitable consequences of medical procedures. Yes, David. So those are for the United States. Yes, those are for the United States. Unfortunately, as I said, no one has even started. There's a group in Latin America who started doing this and we're hoping to bring them here in April to talk about adverse events in Latin America. And to quote myself, our processes are designed to infect the patients who develop hospital-acquired infections. How about adverse drug events? So adverse drug events are unanticipated injury resulting from medication intervention. A study that was performed here in Boston at the top Harvard hospitals found that there are 6.5 adverse drug events per 100 admissions. 30% of these are serious. 12% are life-threatening, 1% is fatal, and the the biggest news is that almost half of them are actually preventable. How about in clinics in ambulatory care? The numbers are roughly the same. 27 events per 100 patients seen in clinic. 13% of these adverse drug events are serious. And close to half of the serious adverse drug events were preventable. We knew them. We knew about the drug drug interactions. We knew they were allergic to the medications and still those medications were given to the patient. In the United States, there are about 8 million adverse drug events per year and that's about 38 adverse drug events per provider per year on average. There are 3 million preventable adverse drug events and half a million of those are life-threatening. In the last hour alone, there were 1,000 adverse drug events here in the United States and 92 were hospitalized as a result of these adverse drug events. This is just showing you that money and resources are not the answer in terms of improving quality of health care. The United States actually leads the pack of developed countries in terms of preventable debts in health care at the top of the list there. Even though we spend the most money uh for healthcare, 16 to 17% of our GDP would go to healthcare. And people say that if the airline industry tolerated the error rate that we see in the healthcare industry, there would be three jumbo jet crashes every two days. But what I'm describing to you now is the tip of the iceberg. Most errors actually do no harm. They are never recorded. They are never documented. Most of them are intercepted. And also you should consider the amazing ability of the body to heal and absorb the error. So for the most part, no one had no one talks about the error. You don't disclose it to the patient. No one else hears about it. And we hope that it's forgotten over time. So why is preventable debt so rampant in healthcare? These are some of the reasons why. One, there is a lack of awareness of the magnitude of the problem. But it doesn't seem so like as I said almost every one of you were able to submit to me a uh a personal experience or someone that they know who had a medical error. This preventable deaths are perceived as unusual events or outliers and most of the time and I have been guilty of this in the past poor outcomes from error have been blamed on complication of disease or inherent risk of the procedure and a good example is hospitalacquired infection. We never tell the patient, I'm sorry, we gave you some infection from a resistant bacteria. We always say, oh, you're you were very sick. You had this procedure. That's why you picked up this infection. And that's of course a lie. Other things that contribute to uh this particular problem is that the healthc care culture is not particularly conducive for error detection. In the health care field, mistakes are unacceptable. When a mistake happens, we think it's a failure of character. That doctor or that nurse wasn't careful enough or that doctor or that nurse didn't try hard enough. We rely on individuals not to commit errors rather than assume that they will. We think that if we train them properly and if we motivate them, they will have no mistakes. And this need for infallibility creates a strong pressure to cover up mistakes. One other thing which was mentioned by one of you in the assignment. There is no support at all in clinicians in place for clinicians who have committed errors. We sometimes hear about this in what we call mortality and morbidity meetings where we talk about some adverse events. Uh and there is some learning that occurs there but that learning is limited to that room. It's limited to the individuals who were involved in that mistake. They're not shared to future doctors or nurses so that they don't repeat those mistakes. And even those individuals tend to repeat the mistakes 10 years down the line. So unless you have a system uh that would learn from these mistakes, we won't be able to prevent them from happening again. So these errors are repeated in other locations or later in time unless you capture it in a in a learning system. But as I have said earlier, medical errors are committed by competent caring people doing what other competent caring people would do. Quality problems occur not because of a failure of goodwill, knowledge, effort or resources devoted to healthcare but because of fund fundamental shortcomings in the ways care is organized. What has what have how how have we approached um quality of care in the last century? So last century as doctors we did whatever we wanted to do in medicine. Um everything most of the time your practice is based on anecdotal experience and as a result there is substantial variations in the way we deliver care. If you have some urinary tract infection before you go to five different doctors they will give you five different opinions or five different antibiotics. The other thing too is one learns of new findings through conferences. There is no systematic way of translating what we call evidence-based medicine into practice. There were few guidelines and protocols in the 20th century. There's no routine measurement of processes and outcomes and there's no individual feedback for the performance. Worse, there is no benefit for better performance and sometimes we even incentivize poor performance. So if you remember one of the stories where that patient got a an antibiotic that he was allergic to, he ended up staying longer in the hospital and he was charged more for staying in the in the hospital longer because of a mistake that was done. And the same is true in uh in healthcare last in in a in a system where you have fee for service where you could charge for every diagnostic test, for every procedure. If you develop a complication, they would have to do more tests. they would have to do more procedure and they charged the patient those uh those procedures and tests even though the mistake was um committed by the people who were caring for that patient and there's also little information available to the public of which hospital had the best quality. These are some of the barriers to quality improvement. Um and we see this not just in developed countries but this is also common in the developing world. You see old style control oriented management. The management team is focused more on finance and revenue rather than on improving operational processes. There is a strong sense of professional hierarchy and entitlement. And there's also a lack of integration of the health care system with what is available in the community. Over the this semester, you're going to hear different quality improvement approaches. You're going to hear about checklist. You're going to hear about the lean or the Toyota production system as applied to health care. You will hear about positive devian. You will hear about six sigma. And you will hear about the plan do study act cycle from the institute for healthcare improvement. But for today's purpose, I'm just going to show you three slides on checklist which I find is the probably the simplest and the cheapest uh quality improvement approach. And let me direct you to this book by Atul Gawande. two of his team members are going to be here in April to talk about their projects of how to use checklist to improve health care in Africa. So checklist as you know uh reduce the variability and standardize the work process. Uh it democratizes knowledge. So now the same knowledge is available not just to the doctors but also to the nurses and other members of the team. The best thing about checklists is that they actually summarize evidence into explicit behaviors. Most of you have heard about this landmark study by Miller in 1956 where he showed that humans can only retrieve seven plus or minus two pieces of information from memory with relative accuracy. So we can't really expect doctors and nurses to be multitasking and being involved with very complex task tasks all at once after a 16-hour shift or after a 30-hour shift. So the memory we know increasingly becomes unreliable with complex procedures, stress and fatigue. And it also significantly decreases in accuracy and speed when you're managing three or more tasks simultaneously which is not uncommon among nurses and doctors and pharmacies and other um people who work in the healthcare industry. So one of the checklist um example or project that I would like to discuss briefly is a um project to reduce what we call central line associated bloodstream infection. So central line is a tubing that is inserted into a large catheter so that if a patient needs a very uh critical medication, you're assured that it's going to go directly into the vessel and it won't be um displaced from a small vessel. So we do a lot of this especially in the intensive care unit and in the 20th century we see a lot of infected uh central lines leading to bloodstream infection and of all the different hospitalacquired infections this is the deadliest. This is the one that kills the most patients. What they found is that few things could actually completely eliminate central line infection. So this was study that this was a study that was started by Peter Pronovos at John's Hopkins um hospital and he came up with a protocol where he asked people who were going to place the central lines to wash your hands. Again very simple but not very well done in the hospital. Sterilize the procedure. Put drapes over the patient before you put it. Use a cap mask and sterile gown when you're going to insert one. use sterile gloves and put a sterile dressing over the the central line. And what they did to for this project is that they had a massive educational campaign. Um they put together a cart where it has all the things that you need before you insert the central line. So the the cap and the mask and the gowns are there. So you can't say that, oh, I forgot to to put them on because I didn't know where they were. They put a checklist in the cart. These are the things that you need to do. Make sure that you have this before you insert the central line. And every day the nurses were empowered to ask, can we pull out the central line? And the nurses too during the procedure could say, "Stop. I saw you. You this this is not a sterile procedure anymore. We have to abandon this because there's a good chance that if if you continue, the patient is going to develop a central line infection." And what they found was after they implemented the checklist, the central line infection uh was radically reduced to zero at John's Hopkins Hospital. So their next step was can we do this at scale? Can we do this in a whole state? So they tried to introduce this to the whole state of Michigan in 2004 and recruited 68 hospitals to participate in this very simple uh quality improvement project. And what they found is that during the last 6 months of the study, there was not a single central line infection in the 68 hospitals who participated in the project. They had more than 1,500 patients uh death deaths that were prevented. They averted more than 81,000 hospital stays with a cost reduction of $165 million. So the big question is is quality improvement feasible in resource poor settings. What are some of the problems that we see in the developing world? We we know about lack of sufficient staff, absence of continuing education for the doctors, the nurses and other ancillary staff. You have poor physical facilities. you have long distances between health centers and there is also top-down management systems not just in the developed world but also in the developing country and some of you would argue that it's even more common there like I I practice medicine in in the Philippines and we have this legacies of colonialism you cannot argue with the attending doctor the the consultant doctor is God you don't say no to that you can never question him and the nurses are all fearful of the do doctors they cannot point without any mistakes. And I'm pretty sure that that's not a rare experience for the Philippines. I'm pretty sure that that's true. That's that's also uh common in New Zealand and we used to see it here a lot too in the United States. I would argue to you that quality improvement is even more relevant in the developing world because with quality improvement, you could optimize resource allocation and use. You could also provide donors the confidence in the ways in which their money is being sent spent and you could argue that resources without improvement is only buying the same failed processes. There have been some examples of quality improvement in resource poor settings that have been published. They have varying degrees of failures and success. I'm hoping that we would see more and more of these publications. um there's not a whole lot out there and hopefully you guys are going to be involved with some of these. For example, in Zambia, they tried to um enforce a hospital accreditation council uh that would look at the quality of care in the different hospitals and would certify them as good enough to to remain open. Which reminds me of a story in the Philippines. So, um, that's I'm getting sidetracked, but I have a friend who is a surgeon, and he saw this patient coming in with pain over the right upper quadrant of his abdomen. Um, and she was a middle-aged woman, uh, kind of fat. And the examination was very suggestive of infection of the gallbladder. And they told her that we think that this is a gallbladder infection. But the woman said, "I had my gallbladder removed a couple of years ago, and she showed the scar." Uh, and there's like a big scar there, which is typical of a gallbladder infection. And my my friend wasn't convinced. So, they sent her for an ultrasound. And the gallbladder was there. And upon investigation, it turned out that all they did in the other hospital was just to open her up and close her again and told her that her gallbladder has been removed and charge her for a gallbladder surgery. Again, that is an extreme case, but I could tell you those are not completely rare. Like I've heard horror stories in in in New Zealand where it has something to do with accreditation of the providers. one person post as an ENT surgeon when in fact he was a technician from the hospital he came from and he was performing surgeries and at one point he started suctioning the brain and the patient died in in in the operating room. So you need this accredititation boards to see what type of care is being provided, what type of people are being hired in these hospitals and they tried this in in in Zambia from 1997 to 2000 and it wasn't a full success. What they found was the accredititation council was tyied by the lack of legal st standing. The government was kind of indecisive on incentives and feedback. Uh there was also lack of sufficient funds to continue this accredititation council. The people who work there had a huge workload and there was a difficulty in retaining the surveyors who were performing this accreditation. Moving on, there was a study in Ecuador measuring compliance with maternal and child care quality standards. And what they did uh in for this particular quality improvement intervention is to uh introduce this intervention where they would do some educational campaign and then measure compliance with clinical standards and they were also going to survey patients as regards their satisfaction and looked at overall research utilization. What they found was even when there was improved compliance with CL clinical standards, there was no difference between uh the control and intervention group when it uh comes to client satisfaction as uh as well as resource utilization. So they were a bit frustrated with the result of this particular intervention. This study was done in Zimbabwe and they tried to measure the interaction the uh relationship between the supervisors and the providers. So supervisors were district and municipal nursing officers who are responsible for guiding, assisting and uh motivating the healthcare providers and there were people who were observing these interactions. And what they found was that a lot of the supervisors were deficient in seeking input, problem solving and building on previous visits. But there were some success stories. For example, they tried to introduce the uh WH guidelines in in uh managing uh childhood illnesses, IMCI guidelines in Niger and they introduce a quality management to promote these guidelines and also they measured some health program indicators and what they found was the program was successful in Niger and it was still successful two two years down the line. there was continued practice of quality management by the healthcare providers and one of the bigger um success stories would be the Chilean quality assurance program uh the ministry of health there launched a nationwide quality assurance program uh 20 years ago and in 1999 a team of international consultants in quality improvement went there looked at six areas and seven services and what they found was uh they they had good quality assurance uh program that was going on even 8 years later. So the program was successful in achieving sustainability and institutionalization. So one of the questions I gave to you for your homework is how do you decide how much resources to allocate the quality improvement in resource poor settings? And the answer as you all expected is going to be very complicated. But there are some guidelines and one of the approaches that have been proposed by uh an ethsist named Norm Daniels is accountability of reasonleness. So these are these are not algorithms. These are not actual methods but there are some rules in terms of how do you approach these questions. So accountability of reasonleness requires transparency in all the discussions. So everyone should know what's going on and how you allocate resources. All the stakeholders should be there. It shouldn't be just a few people deciding how much money should go into which projects. And it has to employ evidence-based approach to weighing the alternatives. It also mandates continuous monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess progress towards the set set targets. And you're allowed to revise or stop an intervention if the expected gains are not realized. Your decision should be revisable in light of better evidence and argument. Obviously, um there will be losers in rationing decisions. There will be people who will not get what they need, who will not get what they want. But what matters in accountability for reasonleness would be the grounds for establishing the priority and the methodologies used. Some of the methods that have been proposed include public hearings, testimonies from groups and individuals who are uh involved or who are going to be affected by those interventions as well as formation of focus groups and other investigative approaches. So obviously I don't have the entire hour to talk about this but I would like to like to direct you to this book just health by Norman Daniels who talk about uh accountability for reasonleness. Is there a role that information systems can play in quality improvement? The main objective of why we need information system in quality improvement there are actually several. The first is to link patient care with research and education. Medical literature doubles every 19 years. And to be able to practice medicine, you need to know at least 2 million facts. So it's really uh tough to expect your doctor to know all the all the new things, all the new evidence that comes up in the literature. providers uh on average have a one question for every one to two patients and the average delay between evidence after it was published in a journal to practice changes about 5 years. So there's a big lag time even after we've proven that one intervention is not effective and one intervention is actually beneficial to a certain disease. Information systems also pro provide the interface between different providers who are caring for the same patient. So it facilitates coordination of care which is very important especially when you're managing chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes or HIV. Most importantly, information systems could standardize processes and could track uh clinical outcomes. There have been studies showing that uh information systems do um benefit quality improvement and one of the original papers was published by Chudri who showed nicely that increase with information systems there was an increased adherence to guideline based care enhanced surveillance and monitoring as well as decreased medication errors. We also have a huge number of studies looking at the VA system. So the VA system is in charge of providing care to veterans here in the United States and they were one of the uh front runners in terms of using uh electronic information systems and very good evidence in terms of improving process and outcome uh metrics in the care of the patients in in diabetes in preventive medicine in hypertension. In chronic disease management, you could use information systems to support patient education to improve management of results, especially the the critically uh abnormal results and it could facilitate population analysis and queries. This is a study that was published four years ago in JAMAMA looking at the role of quality improvement including information systems in the care of diabetes. And although most of the projects did have some positive impact, the impact was very small. They're they're very modest as compared to the amount of resources that were put into those quality improvement projects. So the take-home point from that that paper in JAMA is that most quality improvement strategies including those invol involving information systems produce small to modest improvements in glycemic control of patients with diabetes. And the main reason for that is you have to accompany information systems with infrastructural change with cultural transformation. The the facility the groups of people who work in that facility should be working together and always thinking of continuous quality improvement. So there's a lot of organizational uh factors that affect the implementation of information systems and this will be discussed by the speakers over the next two months. I would like to direct you to this book by Lorenzi and Riley managing technological change organizational aspects of health informatics if you're serious about uh going into this field. So let me summarize now. The challenges in quality improvement, the gains are slow, small, and usually not widespread. Sustaining systems redesign is always elusive. It's it's a tough, very challenging objective. System changes really need to be aligned across disciplines and multiple levels. You can't you can't go to the department of medicine and say that you're going to have a quality improvement there. You can't go to the nurses and say that we're going to involve it in quality improvement because the projects will need to involve different specialties and different disciplines to be working together to have the ma the the maximum impact of your project. You need to integrate redesign efforts with other system features. And this is where information technology can play a huge role. And most importantly, you have to align the incentives too. If you're not aligning incentives, if there is no incentive to improve care, then you're you're not going to achieve the objectives that you started. And it's working with people. You have to work with people well. You have to prepare and manage healthcare providers for change. You have to address issues on the confusion about role expectations. You have to address their discomfort with performance of new roles. You have to clarify the communication about who is accountable for the success of this particular project. And the the main problem too is that most of the time you impose additional burden on staff who already have heavy workloads. So unless you completely redesign their workflow, it's not going to happen. Unless you make them more efficient, adding new tasks to them, it's not going to work. You're adding layers of complexity and that's a recipe for even more uh errors. sustaining and spreading redesign efforts are difficult to sustain. Um you have to really support this change and you have to warn them ahead of time that there would be failures. You may not achieve your objectives right away. You have to anticipate disappointments and have a plan B. You need to engage the staff all the time especially after the initial sub excitement has subsided and most in importantly you don't incentivize doctors alone you don't incentivize nurses you incentivize whole teams so that the entire team will have a shared goal of improving the quality of the care they're delivering. So let's go back to that project that was started at John's Hopkins and then went on to involve the entire state of uh Michigan. So the dep department of health and human services here in the United States uh went forward and said that we are calling for A-50% national reduction in central line infection over the next three years and recruited all the more than 3,000 hospitals here in the United States. But up to this point less than 20% of the hospitals have volunteered to participate in this project of the department of health and human services. And up to this point most of those participating hospitals have not reduced their infection rate. So, Peter Pronovos went back to the CEOs of those hospitals who were uh participating and they said that we didn't see your good result because our patients are sicker than your patients at John's Hopkins which is quite hard to uh to imagine and that the infections that we see in our hospitals are inevitable unlike your infections at John's Hopkins and we have competing priorities here. We have other things that we need resources for. So Peter Pronovas in his uh editorial uh said that if these lethal, expensive and preventable infections are not a priority, what is? This is just a survey of how well hospitals here in the United States are um implementing evidence-based medicine. So these are different projects. We have evidence how to reduce pneumonia that's acquired in the hospital. We have evidence on how to reduce surgical sight infection or SSI which is what I had. We had evidence on um influenza vaccination and how that decreases um outbreaks in the hospitals. And of course we have lots and lots and lots of evidence with hand hygiene having the providers wash their hands before they uh see the patient. And this is where we stand. uh they surveyed more than 1,200 hospitals and the rate of implementation is anywhere between 30 to 35%. Yes. hospitals. It it's not completely true that it's it's cost beneficial. So the way we have it here is that you get paid according to DRG for your hospital stay. But the doctors are not part of that. The doctor's fees are different from the hospital fee. The doctors can charge every day that they see a patient. So there is someone who would benefit if you don't reduce the hospitalacquired infections. And a lot of them are just not aware that this central line infections are completely preventable. Um so there's no huge benefit. It's not like we're saying that if you participate in this program we will give you a million dollars. Um clearly we need to improve the uh incentive uh the the system for reimbursement for example. So there there have been changes. Don Burwick is completely overhaul hauling Medicare as we speak. Uh now you can't charge for a central line infection anymore here in the United States. Um if they stay longer the Medicare will not pay you more. Um you can't charge for additional consultation. Now uh you get paid again as I said according to DRG which is the the condition that you got admitted for. So there are there are things that you can do to actually push for quality of care and unfortunately that has not been the case in a fee for service system and I know that in a lot of developing world most of the care that's being given is still fee for service. So there is some incentive to order tests to consult other specialties for a patient coming up with a simple problem because you know that you could charge these patients more money. You're not paying for the outcome. You're not paying more money if you had a good outcome and less money if the patient dies. You you pay every time a diagnostic test or an intervention is provided to the patient which is a complete mistake. Uh so Michael Porter is a big proponent of valuebased health care system where you pay according to the VA according to the quality of care that you that you get. So it's not really about reporting protocols, checklists and safe practices. It's about working together in a team and the team has to be multiddisciplinary and there has to be mut mutual respect between the different groups. So the lessons learned from the leafrog survey, the lessons learned by predonovas in trying to scale this quality improvement project. Old habits die hard. Doctors and managers are still the problem. And safety and quality are less about practices than about relationships. There are four essential elements of quality improvement. First, policy. It must explicitly recognize the importance of quality as system goal and remove any disincentive to quality leadership. The management team should provide a vision and strategy to transition from the way we are working now to the way we want to work in the future. Number three, you have to have the core values emphasizing teamwork and continuous quality improvement. And finally, there has to be resources allocated. There has to be delineation of responsibilities and accountability for oversight, coordination, implementation and evaluation. And that involves two things. The first is capacity building. You have to train your staff with the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out their quality improvement responsibilities and you need a good information system to measure processes and outcomes. So these are the revised rules for health care. Whereas before doctor autonomy drives care variability in the 21st century care should be customized according to patient and his or her preferences. Whereas before do no harm is an individual uh responsibility in the 21st century safety should be a system property. Whereas before the system reacts to errors in this century error should be anticipated. Whereas before cost reduction is the goal in the 21st century waste should be continuously sought and eliminated. And finally where whereas before professional roles are emphasized in this century the focus should be working as a team. In simple language set improvement goals. Study the work process. Design and test promising changes. Measure. continuously build skills in system-mindedness and finally involve everyone. And to quote Lucian Lee, one of the grandfathers of quality improvement, teamwork is a secret of every industry that has succeeded in becoming safe. And finally, Moren Bisano, who is the CEO of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement. Quality and safety are a multi multid-disciplinary sport. And with that, I would entertain any questions.