The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. So, good afternoon. Let's have an ontime departure. Uh last week we talked about quantum states of light. So we're talking about the photon, the quantum description of the electromagnetic field. And I introduced for you the most classical quantum state of the electromagnetic field, namely the coherent state. I don't go want to go through the formalism again but the coherent state is has a simple definition simple but subtle it's an igen state of the nihilation operator and it has a complex value alpha and from that you can pretty much derive everything you want to know about coherent states colin what was the purpose of whoever discovered coherent states what was the purpose of trying to find the value of the structure yeah isn't subtle. Isn't that weird? How does somebody want to find the iggon functions of an annihilation operator? Because the annihilation operator is nonhemian. And why the annihilation operator? Why not the creation operator? Well, if you try to find the states of the creation operator, you run into problems. The states are non-normalizable. It doesn't make any sense. So here creation and annihilation are not symmetric. You have to pick the annihilation operator. calling my gut feeling is that somebody found it in a different way. I mean the person who popularized those states was Roy Glower and he got amply rewarded for that. Uh and I think you define coherent state as some form of superposition state. Maybe people figured out if you take a superposition state of number states that this has special properties that this is a minimum uncertainty state uh which is as close as we can go in quantum physics to obtain a classical electric field. So I think maybe people found it like that and then they say hey but there is another operator definition state of the annihilation operator. I'm 99% certain but maybe you can ask Roy Glower when he comes to a COA seminar if he discovered coherent state as states of the annihilation operator. I don't think so. Other questions so what I want to what sort of the theme of the end of last lecture and today is that the coherent state is a complex number. uh the coherent state has a time evolution. The coherent the it moves in a circle and this is like and this is really uh the phaser of the electric field associated with it. So coherent state the alpha value is directly related to to an electric field. That's why we can why this state is closely related to uh the classical limit of uh the electromagnetic field. Um so we discussed some uh we discussed some properties of the coherent state. We looked at the fluctuations and showed that it's a personian it's a prosonian statistic. Um and then we use now well once you define something you can use it as a tool. We are now using the coherent states to look at any other quantum state of the electromagnetic field, any statistical operator which describes photons by forming the diagonal matrix element of the statistical operator with alpha. If you just want to sort of think about it intuitively, alpha is like the best description of an electromagnetic field. So if you write down this we ask what is the probability for an arbitrary quantum state described by an arbitrary statistical operator. What is the probability that the electric field is alpha in the complex description? So that's what those quasi probabilities are Q of alpha and we immediately looked at some examples of co probabilities. We showed that the vacuum state is sort of an area a g it's a gausian and the area is uh it's an area I I don't know forgot the preactor it's on the order of one or half we realize that thermal states are also a gausian centered at the origin but uh it is a much wider distribution. So thermal states have sort of much more uncertainty in the electric field than the vacuum state. And then we looked at the coherent state. And now of course when we looked at the coherent state, we realized that coherent states have are maybe not as wonderful as I try to make you believe. They have some nasty properties. And that is when you ask what is the probability the cos probability of the coherent state to be beta na even you would expect a delta function because when you ask what is the probability of a momentum state to be p if you have a momentum state p it has a delta function at p but here it's not a delta function it's a gausian uh of uh standard deviation I think the standard deviation here is it what is it square root 1 over 2 because The gausian is usually 2 * sigma squar and since this the denominator is unity so the standard deviation of 1 / 2 and that showed us that the uh coherent states are not orthogonal you have to be a little bit careful it's not your standard basis set it's an overcomplete basis so therefore the coherent state is not a delta function in the quasi probability it's a little bit blurred circle with an area on the order of unity and you have some homework assignment to look at it. So in some way how you should look at it is is that uh if you see some quasi probability distribution uh the distance from the origin this is the absolute value of the electric field the phase here is almost 45° but if you look at this uncertainty you would also say well the phase is uncertain to within this angle. So you can pretty much read the uncertainty in uh the total electric field, the uncertainty in the phase, you can read pretty much everything you want from that diagram. Now when we look at a number state, well you often know in quantum mechanics number and phase are complimementaryary. If the number of photons is fixed, you know nothing about the phase. And indeed the crosser probability of a number state is a ring. It has no phase. It has completely random phase over the two pi circle. The energy is sharp of a number state. Since the energy is e squared, you may you may have expected sort of a delta function in the radial coordinate. But what you get is also something blurred on the order of unity here. And I want to say something about that in a second. Finally, we discussed the time dependence and the time dependence is very easy. After all, we're dealing with a harmonic oscillator. And in a harmonic oscillator, if you have a plane of x and p, a symmetric and anti-ymmetric combination of a and a dga, in this plane, in a harmonic oscillator, the quantum state is just rotating circular rotation with omega. And indeed we showed that when we apply the time evolution operator and some of you were right of course with a minus sign it moves with e to the minus i omega t and therefore everything rotates in uh in a clockwise way. Now we discussed uh the operator of the electric field and uh in in this quasi probability sorry we discussed the operator of the electric field and I hope you remember that in the analogy with the harmonic oscillator the electric field was a minus a dagger and this is the momentum operator uh in those quasi probabilities and we will see more about it uh something which is sharp in momentum is a sliver parallel to the x-axis. So therefore I can you can regard the vertical axis which is the imaginary part of alpha as the momentum axis and you can regard this as the horizontal axis as the x-axis. So therefore since momentum is electric field you always get the electric field by projecting onto the vertical axis. And if you project this fuzzy ball you get a value zero with some uncertainty. And if this coair probability starts to rotate due to the time evolution we get an oscillating electromagnetic field almost classical except for that fuzziness. So that's where we want to continue. Uh any questions about that? Yes. Why is there no face fuzziness in the ET? No face fuzziness. There is a face fuzziness. For instance, if you would say uh the phase is determined by the zero crossing, you don't know exactly when the zero crossing happened and that corresponds to an uncertainty in the phase. Trust me, everything is in this diagram. Uh now there are two things I want to we want to continue. One is I want to show you that uh the coherent state is a minimum uncertainty state. The product of delta x delta p delta p is just uh is it h bar h bar over two one of the two. Uh so it's a minimum uncertainty state and therefore you can never have a quantum state which is less fuzzy than the coherent state. So this fuzziness here is the intrinsic uncertainty of quantum physics. So that's what we want to discuss today. But then we will immediately start with non-class states and that is well if this area is determined by Heisenberg's uncertainty relation what can we maybe deform the circle into an ellipse and these are squeeze states of light so that's an outlook that's what we want to do in the second half of the class But before I do that, I want to be a little bit more accurate about quasi probabilities. And this is almost like a disclaimer now. Just to give you the bigger picture, uh what we want to achieve with those quite probabilities, we want to do what phase base density is in classical physics. We have a coordinate which is X, a coordinate which is P. And you can often describe a classical system if you know the phase space distribution. If you know the probability that a particle has position x and momentum p. So all this is about uh phase space densities uh in a way let me just kind of probability of x and p. Of course, writing it down, you immediately see the problem. In quantum mechanics, you cannot measure X and P simultaneously. These are non-commuting variables. So therefore, what happens is if you now define a phase base function which is done in quendom mechanics textbooks, you can actually do it in three different ways. And the three different ways are Q, P and W. Uh the definition I don't want to go through the mathematical subtleties. The definition of those functions involves the operator definition a and a dagger or which is equivalent the x and p operator. uh if you define something in units of x and p or a and a dga you can have a product which is fully symmetric in the ordering of xp uh which is anti-normal or normal. So in other word the order matters and you have three choices in an operator product. You can have symmetric ordering which means not XP but XP plus PX then it's over two that's symmetric. You can have an ordering which is called normal and one which is called anti-normal. Ordering of operators in the in the operator base definition. Of course, if we have three choices, you would say which one is the best, which one is the winner? But the fact is all three have their advantages and disadvantages. So, so they all have pluses and minuses. The reason why I picked for the cause Q of alpha is that it's a real probability. It's always positive. It is a diagonal matrix element of a statistical operator and this has to be positive. So it's a real probability. The other guys P of alpha can be positive or negative and also W of alpha can be positive and negative. Uh so if you use a P alpha distribution, statistical operator can be written like this. And as a result uh the coherent state is now not this gausian doesn't have this gausian distribution as a cosai probability. It's what you want what maybe some of you wanted to see right away. It's a delta function. The probability of the coherent state alpha has a delta function peak at alpha which is sort of nice. And uh the number state is not sort of a ring of a finite radius. I just mentioned to you the number state. You would naively expect the energy is sharp. The square root of the energy is the electric field. Shouldn't it be char sharp? And indeed it is sharp. It's actually worse than a delta function. It's a derivative of a delta function. But at least here in the probability P which is also called the Cla Sudashan P representation you get sort of the delta function which may make which may which may be very natural for certain purposes since the parent states are all complete and you can express one in front of the other is that it is unique by by some symmetry choice here. Yeah, it's so that's the advantage of it that uh by uh I'm not going to get into the mathematics. I'm not giving you the definition but the way how it's defined it is unique. It can be written in such a way and the way how the quasi probabilities P uh the P representation is defined you get a delta function at the coherent state. Uh and finally W stands for vagna distribution and the vagna distribution is something you actually find in most quantum mechanics textbooks. The Q and P distribution are more common in quantum optics. But the weak distribution has the advantage that the projection on the x and y axis are indeed c of x² c of p square. So you get actually the xwave function and the pwave function. So now as a full disclaimer, if you want the electric field, which is the momentum of the harmonic oscillator, which is the electromagnetic field, uh what you really want to project is the W function because for the W function, the VNA function, the projection is exactly the momentum distribution in the electric field. So the vagna distribution is closest to the classical facebased distribution as close as you come uh without violating commutators. uh but of course it has the disadvantage that it has negative values and try to explain to your next neighbor what is a negative probability. Some people actually say uh negative probabilities bring out the non-class character. And I know in our field in amo physics a few years ago during my lifetime there were really attempts to use quantum state tomography and measure for the first time a negative weakner distribution and show that to the world. So that meant something to a lot of people. Anyway, uh you can read about it in in quandom physics textbooks. All I want you to know is to know about it. But then also just relax the in the bigger picture all the three distributions are the same. It's more sort of on the level of whether something is a delta function or has width unity. So sort of on that small scale it matters. But if you map out something on a bigger scale, they are all related to each other. And for the rest of today and the next class when I show you those phase space distribution when I say I project uh onto the vertical axis to get the electric field I'm not completely rigorous which of the three functions I really chosen. Any questions? Okay. Uh so I promised you and this is what we want to do now is we want to understand in more debts the fluctuations And in particular, I want to show you that coherent states are minimum uncertainty states. So by identifying the vertical axis with P, the horizontal axis with X, we immediately expect that we find a result related to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle which says that the widths in P and the widths in Q has to be larger than H bar over two. And uh we are mainly talking with light about the photon creation and annihilation operator. But just as a reminder, the momentum and position operator uh are symmetric and anti-ymmetric combinations. So let me just call those pre factors Q not and this one P not. Um well um we can then immediately by just using elementary commutator calculate what are the expectation values in a coherent state for p² q and q². Uh for P it is uh the P operator is AGA minus A. If we act with A on alpha we get alpha because alpha the coherent state is an igen state of alpha. with a dagger. Well, with a dagger, we act on the left hand side and we got we get alpha star. Uh well, with p square and q you have to use one or two more steps to get rid of the products, but ultimately you can express all that just in powers of alpha, alpha square, al alpha star and such. So uh what we want is we want to find out what are the fluctuations delta Q delta P. Just as a reminder, delta Q² is of course Q² average minus Q average squared and Q square average and Q ^2 is what we have just calculated. So uh actually let me leave it in as a reminder for you. Q square minus Q average square the square root of it and what we find is uh is that it's square h bar over 2 omega and for delta p it is square h bar over omega 2 and what we here what what we verify that indeed for a coherent state the product of the two is heisenberg uncertainty limit So therefore, coherent states are minimum uncertainty states. And maybe Colin to address your question, I could imagine that coherent states were maybe invented by simply saying we have an harmonic oscillator. We want to find the minimum uncertainty states. the minimum uncertainty states for which uh the uncertainty in X and P when expressed in natural units is the same. In other words, the coherent state is the solution to the following question. If you plot the quasi probability distribution, you give yourself an uncertain and you give yourself an uncertainty area one. The horizontal uncertainty is delta Q. The vertical uncertainty is delta P. And uh the minimum uncertainty state means that the area of the two uncertainties the area of the shaded region uh delta p * delta q is h bar / 2 or if I want to rewrite that uh in yes in uh the real part of alpha times the uncertainty in the imaginary part of alpha for the quasi probabilities then this is 14th Okay. So what we have learned is that uh just one sec we have learned about one way to characterize uncertainties the quantumness of the electromagnetic field by uh looking at the uncertainties in the x and p variable and that led us to minimum uncertainty states. Now I want to now introduce to you two other ways of characterizing uh the uncertainty of quantum states of light. One is we can ask uh what are the fluctuations in the photon number. Right now we have asked what are the fluctuations in the electric field. But the next question is what are the fluctuation in the photon number or we can ask what are fluctuations in the intensity when we measure the intensity of the electromagnetic field. So let's do that. Uh the fluctuations seems I've lost my lines. Okay. Okay, so the fluctuations of the intensity are usually expressed by the second order temporal coherence function and that's what we want to introduce now. Yes, this is the second order temporal correlation or coherence function. What I'm always encountering in this course is I would just like to immediately tell you how it is defined in terms of a and a daggers. It's simple. It's quantum mechanical. It's exact. But I always feel that if you want to really appreciate the quantum character, you have to know the classical description first. So I want to first tell you what is the second order uh coherence function for classical light which has a classical description and then you see what is the difference uh for quantum states of light. So the classical description is you measure the intensity of light. Well you're just sitting here you receive light from a light bulb. You measure the intensity at time t. You measure the intensity time towel later and then you form the product and you normalize it by the average intensity squared. So if toao equals zero, it's nothing else than the intensity squared average divided by the average of the intensity squared. So this is the classical definition g2 of toao and uh I've left the proof to the homework to show that uh the classical g2 of toao is always larger than one. Well, it's pretty much what you show is for TOAO equals zero, it means you know I square average is larger than I average square, which is of course always the case. But you can show that this is also the case for finite. So quantum mechanically we will see that the G2 function is not necessarily larger than one. It can be smaller than one. And that's actually an interesting you can say litmus test for the quantumness. If you if you generate states of the electromagnetic field fox state photo number states we see that in a moment and they have a G2 of TOAO which is smaller than one. You know it is not possible in any way to associate an intensity an intensity of the electromagnetic field uh with that photon state because whenever you can associate a classical intensity with that and and use a classical intensity to calculate the second order correlation function you get something which is larger than one. So often therefore again when people want to show we really have now non-class photon states they show that G2 of TOAO is smaller than one. This is similar to what I said before when you want to show that uh you have non-class light you do quantum state tomography measure the weakener distribution and show that the weakener distribution has negative crossair probabilities. That's again something which is classically not possible. It's only possible if you have a true if you have a truly non-class state. Yeah. So in the definition of G2 classical the expectation values you mean averaging over time not over like ensembles of IoT. Uh okay that's yeah you can average over ensembles. So you can have you know 1,000 light bulbs switch them all on and then measure at a certain time that. But what we assume here is that it's the light bulb is on continuously. So things don't really depend on T. So you can set so so I mean I've implicitly taken care of it by defining the G2 function only of TOAO and not of T and TOAO. You assume any time is the same because it's it's a distribution. It's ensemble in steady state. But I mean it's a sort of the same story again and again in classical physics. You can determine an ensemble average by taking an agotic system and observing it at many many times. And then the idea is that one system as time goes by will sample all possible states or you can prepare many many identical systems and do more what is an ensemble average. So in other words, you would actually think if you switch on a light bulb with a stable power supply that the light emitted by the light bulb will go through all possible quantum states as time evolves and therefore the temporal average is equal to the ensemble average. Okay. So now uh so how do we generalize that to quentum mechanics? Well, one possibility would be that okay, first of all, for quantum mechanics, we have to use operators. And uh you know one choice would be that well you say the intensity of the electromagnetic wave is proportional to the electric field squared and you want to use the operator for the electric field squared. Now there is a little bit of a problem because what we really mean quantum mechanically by G2 of TOAO is we measure the intensity now and a little bit later. But measuring the intensity really means absorbing photons because the only way how you can measure the intensity of light is with a photo multiplier. It makes click. The photon is absorbed. And this is not fully described by the electric field. Just assume you have no photon. You are in the zero point state of your harmonic oscillator and your E square is has zero point fluctuations. So what is more closely related to an experiment, how you measure the correlation function is uh you want to look at at something else namely at the probability of uh absorb ing two photons. So you start with an initial state, you annihilate two photons and then you have a final state. But if you are only interested in what is the probability you want to characterize your initial state, you may want to sum over all final state and this is your total probability that you can absorb two photons out of an initial state. But since you in sum now over all final state uh this turns into you know now I could put for you in as in you know the fi the final state as a complete basis but I can also take it out. So this is what we get. So this suggests that experiments where we look at two subsequent clicks of a photo multiplier where we determine the photon correlation that this is measuring a correlation function which for quantum states of light should be defined as the expectation value of a da aga E and now we have to normalize by uh the probability squared of absorbing one photon which is a dga a expectation value squared. I just try to be little bit sort of too motivated. In many many textbooks the discussion would start with this expression. and you ask where does it come from and you realize yes for some uh measurement with photo multipliers that's what you measure but I wanted to sort of show you how it is related uh to the uh intensity correlation function defined classically Cody but this looks like it's constant in tal um which doesn't really make sense intuitively to me because at least classically it shouldn't be constant in Okay, that's the next thing I wanted to say is I've swept here. I mean, I just wanted to give you the the structure of the operators and not get sort of distracted by discussing time. I've dropped the time argument here. But the fact is uh that as long as we limit ourselves to a single mode of the electromagnetic field, a single harmonic oscillator, things are independent of TOAO. In other words, uh G2 of TOAO equals G2 of zero. As long as we're dealing with single mode light, you can actually say and that sort of tells you where the fluctuations come. Uh if G2 of tow changes, it comes because you have several modes of the electromagnetic field which as a function of time constructively and destructively interfere. But if you have a single mode in a single mode, I mean what is a single mode? It's just a sine wave and nothing happens as a function of time. It's constant. So those modes go inside you know I'm squeezing a textbook of quantum optics into two classes and I want to give you sort of the ideas and the concepts. What I've what I've sort of mixed up here deliberately is I've given you the classical definition of an intensity correlation function which is you know the famous Henry Brown twist experiment and and and you have correlations as a function of time then I've motivated how this should be defined for quantum states of light but when I transitions to quantum states of light I decided to deal with only one mode of the Right? We should now sum over diff I should put you know double or triple indices on all the alphas for polarization for spatial modes for different frequencies and we sum over all of them. But instead what I did is I wanted to just show you the simple case and I think you will be thankful for that in your homework that you only have to deal with the simple case that you only have to look at a and a daggers and the operator algebra for single mode for single harmonic oscillator but what we lose so to speak here is there is nothing interesting going on in time I've already told you that for a single mode all these quarter probabilities they just rotate in a circle circle. So the time evolution of the system we are describing right now is completely boring. It's really a rotation and if you would rotate your head at omega, nothing will happen. And this is exactly what you see here. So you find everything you want for for co coherence time. Coherence time is the time for two modes to get out of phase. But if you have one mode, there is no coherence time. And when you find for classical light that the that G2 function has a peak which decays with a time, it is the time for for modes to get out of phase. But in a single mode picture, this is absent. Anyway, what is important now for the discussion of quantum character of light is really we find that in a single mode picture. So I want to show you now uh or at least give you the summary of the results which can be very easily derived because the math is very simple of those operator that we are now with that definition we have G2 functions which are no longer following the classical constraint that G2 has to be larger than one. We find now G2 functions which are smaller than one. And this sort of tells us now where do we find the most non-classical behavior namely when G G2 of TOAO is as small as possible. Okay. uh in your homework you will show immediately that the G2 function is related to number fluctuations and to it's related to uh n and n square average let me just write that down it's indep dependent of toao and the reason is we have now limited ourselves to just one mode of the electromagnetic field factor Just give me one. Yeah. Okay. So we are back to we started with intensity fluctuations but for a single mode of the electromagnetic field we are back to photon numbers. So what we are now expressing with a G2 function are uh in other words just fluctuations of photo numbers. So before I want to now I want to in a minute draw you a little bit a table what are the fluctuations in the photo number for the states we have encountered the number state the fox state the coherent state and the thermal state and we want to characterize those quantum states of light by the G2 function and actually I can drop the time argument or set it to zero But let me first make a reference that G2 can now be smaller than one. So G2 for a single mode light is nothing else than you know function when you know what is N average and N square you know your G2 function. There is another quantity which we often use to characterize the fluctuations uh in the photo number and this is called the faro factor. The faro factor is uh wants to compare the fluctuations n² average minus n average squared. These are the fluctuations. The classical fluctuation well I say classical in the simplest case are psonian fluctuations. So maybe we want to normalize the fluctuations by ponian fluctuation. So for psonian statistics what I just wrote down would be one And well if we now subtract one we have the situation that a faro factor which is positive is super porsonian more fluctuation than psonian and a negative faro factor is sub porsonian. So with those definitions uh we can now compare the different states of light we have introduced. We started out with black body radiation thermal radiation. We defined coherent states and the harmonic oscillator description naturally gave us hemonic oscillator states, the number states or fox states. So there are three ways to characterize it. They are all useful. One is we can look at n square. We can calculate the faro factor or we can calculate G2 of zero for the coherent state. Remember the coherent state is as close as we can come quto mechanically to the ideal of a pure electromagnetic wave. It has a faro factor of zero. This means it's psonian the G2 the G2 function is simply one which is the lowest classical limit. Uh so those two tell you that a coherent state is sometimes what you think what comes out of a laser is an ideal electromagnetic wave which has no temporal fluctuations in the intensity. Therefore, G2 is one and the photo number is proonian distributed and that means that uh n² is n average * 1 + n average. We actually discussed that earlier. The thermal state is quite different if you use kind of plug together the results we have obtained. It has a faro factor of nb bar. So this is super poorian. If the occupation number n is large, you have fluctuations which are much much larger than ponian fluctuation. The G2 function is two. It's sometimes called thermal light. Chaotic light has a G2 function of two. laser light or coherent state has a G2 function of 1 and uh n square average is nar 1 + 2 n bar. Okay. But now finally maybe the most interesting state from the perspective of non-class light of quantum light is the photon number state. Well for for the photon number state the number of photons is an iggon value. Therefore n square average is n average squared. The faro factor is minus one sub psonian distribution and the G2 function which classically cannot go below one is now n minus one / n. It is smaller than one. And you see immediately that the biggest violation for G2 is to go to minus one for the case of a single photon state. Any questions? the G2 function. No, if you if you put in Wait. Yes. Gosh. I I double check. I'm a little bit confused, but yeah, I at least it's consistent now. I'm not sure if it's right, but it's consistent. And uh by the way if there is a question I sometimes make a question mark in my notes and when I post the notes or when I when I post maybe not when I post the notes on the next day but a few days later the question marks are eliminated. Just as an example, last class there was some uh uh there was some uh relation for which I didn't remember how the derivation was done. Uh when I post those notes today, the derivation is now in the notes. So if you want to I'm not announcing it separately, but whenever I have a question mark in class and I don't think it's worth an extra announcement, it is fixed in the post-it notes and you find the information there. Okay. Uh so this is now drawing our attention to the single photon and this is our next subsection. I mean this shouldn't come unexpected. If you want to you know emphasize if you want to uh you know uh if you want to emphasize the difference between quantum light and classical light. Where does it come from? Well it comes from the quantization of light. It comes from the photon character. It comes from the fact that light is not a continuous stream of energy. it comes quantized in photons. So the granularity of light due to the photon character is of course most pronounced for single photon. For instance, when we define the G2 function as a correlation of detecting a photon and detecting another photon. Well, if you have only one photon, you find one photon and the next photon there is no photon to be detected. So the probability of detecting two photons is zero. And that only happens when you go down to single photons. So this is when uh certain fluctuations are most pronounced because the energy sort of is dependent on a single photon. Um let me first address one misconception. You can say well let's just use a coherent state and uh we talk about uh the attenuator the quantum attenuator with all its operator beauty probably not today but in the next lecture but uh let me already sort of prepare you for that. When you have a coherent state, when you have a laser beam, you can put in attenuator and your laser beam gets weaker and weaker and weaker, but it stays a coherent state. And I will prove that to you very soon. So you can now say that you take your coherent state and you attenuate it down that there is only one photon left. Is that a single photon state? The answer is no. It is an attenuated coherent state. Coherent states as I've just shown you are very classical. They have always proonia distribution. They have always a G2 function of one and attenuation is not changing it. Attenuation is preserving that. So now I want to show you explicitly why an attenuated coherent state may have an average photo number of one but it shares nothing else with a quantum state of one photon of n equals 1 a fox state. So a coherent state with an expectation value of one photon is not a single photon. And this can be for instance expressed by looking what is actually the probability if you have such a coherent state to find one two or three photons. Well, the probability to find zero photons, no photon at all, is actually a third. So the probability to find one photon or to find zero photons is the same. The probability to find two photons is8. So here you have a probability of finding a photon and correlating it with the next photon click. And you have even on first sight a surprisingly large probability to uh find three and four photons. So in 2% of the cases you will find four photons. Whereas in contrast, the fox state with quantum number n equal n equals 1 is an igen state of the number operator with value n equals 1. So that tells you that if you want to get an n equals 1, if you want to get a single photon state, you cannot just use a strong laser beam or a strong light source and attenuate it. You have to work with something which genuinely creates only one photon without any ambiguity, without any fluctuations, without any possibility of creating two photons. And I would actually say over the last 10 or 15 years uh the creation of single photons has been sort of an small cottage industry because single photons uh are often needed for protocols in quantum computation for uh yeah experiments which really require accurate quantum state preparation of light and in particular non-class light. But of course there are ways how you can get single photons and this is well you start with single atoms. If you have a single atom in the excited state it can emit only one photon. So in other words, you cannot we often don't or usually we don't have the tools to prepare a single photon to take a single photon out of you know many many photons and store it separately. But what we can control is uh single atoms. we can prepare single atoms and and then we can make sure that single atoms create single photons. It's a little bit a way that you know we cannot control the bullets which are fired but we can control the guns and we make sure that each gun can emit exactly one bullet. So that's the way how we can create non-class states of light. Uh yes. So let's now look for those single photons at the quasi probability distribution. So we obtain the quasi probability distribution by taking the single photon state and projecting it on a coherent state. you remember it's higher up in the notes what the coherent state alpha is in a fox state basis in a number basis and so we're just picking out n equals 1 and this was nothing else than alpha squar * e to the minus alpha 2. So therefore in these diagrams with the real part and imaginary part imaginary part if I plot the co probability distribution we get a ring. The ring immediately tells us that there is no phase defined. All phases are equally probable. And that also means if you don't have a phase the the average value of the electric field is zero. uh since the creation of single photons is essential for studying non-class light but also since uh it's a very active frontier of our field actually one of the leaders of this field is professor Vladen Wulich at MIT. Let me at least give you a taste how to create simil photons. I already gave you the major ingredient namely it's about uh it involves single atoms but it's a little bit more demanding like that. So you want to take one atom or one ion. But the problem is if the atom or ion emits the light, it can emit the light into all directions. And therefore you have a single photon afterwards, but you have many many different spatial modes and in any given mode you do not have a single photon. So therefore uh what you have to add to the single atom or single ion is you have to put it in a cavity and uh uh and then in the limit of a very very high finess cavity the probability uh will be very very high that your photon is emitted into the mode of the cavity and it is not emitted perpendicular into other modes. But that itself is not yet sufficient because you have a single photon but you also want to know when does the single photon arrive. You want to do experiments. You want single photons on demand. Uh and uh so one option is that you take you you prepare your atoms in the ground state. You take a pi pulse which with 100% probability excites the atom to the excited state. And then within a natural lifetime or maybe even in resonator enhanced uh natural inverse natural line widths uh the single photon is emitted. So therefore you pump the system and then you know within the next few nanoconds your cavity mode will have a single photon. Um the problem here is that uh you're dealing uh you have to prepare single atoms which is uh difficult. you have to couple them to a high fine cavity. There is technically another approach where you use many atoms. So if you have many atoms, you no longer have you know a single gun. So therefore you can get several photons but the singleness in photons comes because the photons are now heralded. They are announced and the idea is the following. If you start with a state one and you have an excited state and you have a pump pulse, you are now if you have many atoms, you have a much higher efficiency of pumping atoms to the excited state because if you have any atoms, it's n times more efficient. But now you take the following situation. You wait until there is a ramen transition until you detect a photon for ramen transition where the excited state decays to the state two. At this moment you know I have now one atom in state two. So in other words, you're not starting with single atoms, which is sometimes more demanding. How can you prep to prepare the system? It has other disadvantages that n atoms have I'm not sure if I should mention it, but with n atoms they have a super radiant factor n with n atoms you can get an n times enhancement of emission into a single mode. So there are real massive advantages in working with many atoms. But now you know that one atom is in state two when you detect the first photon. And then you have the same situation uh which we had above. You can now take your system. Let me just redraw the level diagram. Excited state one state two. You know now that you have one single atom here and by using a laser pulse you can excited to the excited state and then you observe the single photon 2. So in other words, your the observation of the first photon tells you that your system is prepared with one atom in state two and then you can get a single photon out of it which is the photon for the inverse ramen transition when you pump the system back to state one. Doesn't this rely on you being able to reliably compare a single atom in another state? Won't there always be some uncertainty as to how many atoms? There are some uncertainties and what you are saying is is correct. We don't have perfect single photon sources and people characterize uh the fidelity of the single photon source. For instance, if uh if you detect if you detect the single photon, you would say now my system is ready to emit a single photon triggered by this pump pulse. And if you can get now a single photon in 90% of the cases, uh you publish a wonderful paper because you've set a new record for the fidelity of a single photon source. So people are really struggling with some of those uncertainties. But uh to involve for instance three levels is sort of an advantage because you're not limited by the preparation of a single atom for instance. You can have many atoms. the atoms are always there and the moment one atom is prepared in state two this atom announces itself with a photon so it's sort of you know it takes a lot of uncertainty out that the system says with the first photon I'm ready now I can emit a single photon and then you get your single photon then you can gate your whole experiment to a time following the detection of the first photon and for your gate for your gated time afterwards you're very very high probability of finding this photon. Or if you want, you can now do experiments with two photons. If you keep this laser on and pump the atom immediately back, you have actually a single photon here followed by a single photon here. It's sort of click clack and now you can do correlations between two different single photon states and such. It's a very rich frontier of our field. You had another question. Yeah. Um is this also within a cavity now like the single photon detection in the first step? Yes, actually all that I mean these photons the the wavy lines are emitted spontaneously spontaneous emission pretty much by definition goes into all possible spatial modes and the only way to control the spatial mode is with a cavity. What I'm not what I'm not what I don't want to go into details but those who have an understanding of that is the following. If you have n atoms and you prepare one atom here in state two you do not know which of your n atoms is prepared. So you have n indistinguishable possibilities and if you have n indistinguishable probabilities which atom you have prepared h the emission of the photon back is n times enhanced. So therefore you have actually a system which has an n times stronger coupling to the cavity. So having n atoms makes it much much easier to construct a high finesse cavity. You get sort of this super radiance increase of the strong coupling for free. And this is why there is uh there are many reasons why you do not want to work with a single ion or a single atom. It's possible for very fundamental experiments. People have shown that it can be done, but technologically it's much easier and much more robust to work with many atoms. But then you need sort of the many atoms have to tell you when one atom is prepared to emit now a single photon. If you're interested in this subject, talk to the students in Wullet group. They're really the world experts in that. Okay, finally we're not really getting to squeeze light. We start with squeezing the light tomorrow. Uh the last thing in this major section is the famous Henbury Brown twist experiment. This was a landmark experiment done in the 1950s and it was the first experiment which really looked at G2 functions correlations which one could say was the beginning of quantum optics and uh you know modern experiments with light. Probably until then light was just an electromagnetic wave. people regarded as boring but by measuring now correlations people realized that it's an interesting object to study. I want to just go over the basic uh scheme. Uh you will look at it a little bit more closely in your homework assignment. So the idea behind an Henry Brown twist experiment is that you have a light source and you want to characterize it. Um so the light source emits light. And now this is important. Uh whenever you want to detect two photons, you want to figure out is one photon followed by another photon. Technically, you cannot do it with a photo multiplier because when a photo multiplier clicks, it needs uh many many nanoseconds for the photo multiplier to read out the signal and recover to recharge up its electrodes and be ready to detect the next photon. So therefore when you want to find click click double clicks in the stream of light uh you have to involve a beam splitter and involve two photo detectors. Sure, you now need an adequate description, but in principle, you can now find two photons which are only a few picos seconds apart because the first photon is observed by the first detector and the second photon is detected by the second detector. Sure, you would say what happens if in the beam splitter both photons go detector one. Well, that's tough luck. That's one you take one chance in two that the photons the two photonss go to the two different detectors but the beam splitter has to be part of your experiment has to become part of your description and this is what you do in homework number one so uh what we are asking here when we measure the g2 function let's assume at toao equals zero we are reading out a signal and what we are using is a coincidence detector. We are looking that in a very small temporal window two photons are detected simultaneously. Well, this is the quantum version. The classical version is the G2 function is the product of the intensity at times t times the product of the intensity at time t plus toao. So what you would do here in this circuit, you would take the signal from this detector, the signal from Z and multiply the two. This is how you determine I of T * I of T plus tow. So whether you do it in the classical domain or whether you do it in the quantum domain, uh this is the way how you experimentally measure the second order uh correlation function in in the classical limit. You don't have to worry about it. The classical limit is always the limit of high intensity. So at any given time you have a ton of photons and then at beam splitter half of the photons go left half of the photonss go right. You have an equal splitting. You have exactly half the intensity in the left arm and the right arm of after the beam splitter. So there is no problem at all with the quantization because this is the classical limit. So classically you can say I should actually I shouldn't say photon I should actually say intensity the intensity splits equally and if you do the measurement with a coincidence detector you find the difference between the G2 function which I discussed earlier that the G2 function is one for coherent light or laser light and the TTG2 function is two for thermal light. That's actually the only way how you can distinguish a light bulb from a laser beam. If you put a light bulb into a cavity or couple the light from a light bulb into a fiber, the light becomes spatially a single mode. If you put a very narrow spectral filter or fabric perero cavity, the light becomes single mode in frequency domain. So when you take a light bulb and spatially and spectrally filter it that it is single mode in terms of the mode, it is single mode as a single mode laser. But it is a correlation experiment which shows you that you started with a thermal source. It has a G2 function of two and you can never get rid of it. whereas the laser beam has a G2 function of one. Okay, so this is a classical version. In the quantum version, especially when we have a single photon, the photon can go to only one detector. And that means for this extreme case of a single photon the G2 function is zero. Anyway, you will look at those situation in more detail in your homework assignment. Yes. Uh so if you looked at different time around zero then even a single mode in a b state would have a finite energ because there would be some probability on at one at a later time or at the other seen No, we have to be now a little bit careful. If we have a single mode fox state, uh there's only one photon and once this photon is detected, we have vacuum. We have no photon left. So what you know what may be confusing here is on first site is that the way how the experiment is done and has been historically done it's not done with fox states it's done with a light source and the continuous stream of photons. So Henry found experiment he looked at uh you know light bulb or he looked at starlight and such and determined the intensity correlation. he couldn't do the experiment with lasers but now we do it with a laser beam and we find the G2 is one but in those situations we actually do not have the way we have actually we have a beam which is a stream of photons uh and it is requires a little bit different description in other words uh when I have a coherent state uh a laser beam is always replenishing the coherent state the laser beam preserves the electric field. Whereas strictly speaking, the way how I described it for pedagogical reasons is you have a cavity which is filled with a coherent state alpha and then you start analyzing that. But in other words, what we have focused in the simple description is that we have a quantum state which is prepared. It's a closed system and now we do our detection. The experiment how it is done is often done as in an open system where you couple the system to a light source which is com which is always replenishing your experiment. So you have to be careful especially with a single photon. I think in in in essence the experiment would be done with a single photon light source but the single photon light source has a high repetition rate. It's sort of I showed you how to can generate single photons. you have sort of an heralded single photon. You know the single photon comes now you do the experiment and then you repeat it again and and and and what you have is you only look at one for at one single photon bunch at a time and then you find indeed that during that temporal window you will never find a second photon. So this may happen in a few nanoconds then you wait a microscond and the next photon arrives and it doesn't of course if you would now uh describe the your light source what is the G2 of TOAO and TOAO is a microscond and a microscond is the time between the first single photon burst and the next single photon burst. Now you will find that your G2 function is not zero. But this is then related to the repetition rate of a signal photon and not to the signal photon itself. I think you got the taste. Your homework is really simple. You just deal with a closed system. You look at a quantum state at a time. But if you map it onto a beam experiment, you have to think about it. What does it mean to have a replenishment of the quantum state? Any other question? We have I know I have to stop but um we just uh in the beam splitter uh the other port of the beam splitter is should do some stuff right? Yes. Actually, this will keep us busy for a while that even if we do not put in any light, we put in the vacuum state. And you will find that the description of the beam splitter in the quantum picture is incomplete unless you specify that your beam splitter is coupling in from a different mode the vacuum state. Yes, this will be very important and we'll cover that in its full glory. keyboard. I just had a quick question. The way you can distinguish from a thermal uh state and a coherent state is through the G2. So from an experimental perspective, could we do most of our experiments if we just had like thermal sources that were very single mode, so to speak? Oh yes. I mean, all the laser cooling, all the molasses, all the absorption imaging, all that would work if you had a single mode thermal source. Let's face it, we say we use lasers for everything we are doing. But the only property which distinguishes a laser from a thermal light source, we're not taking advantage of it. Of course, practically you if you take a thermal source and filter it down to a single mode, you will be left with only a few photons. You cannot create an intense enough single mode light source unless you use stimulated emission into a single mode. And that's a laser. Colleen the um correlation function for for example an LED light that's not really a thermal source that's not described by max distribution that be closer to something for like a laser even though there is well led in some limit are quantum objects so uh actually do Do you know what the G2 function of LED is? Does it become laser-like or does it become even anti-bunched? Because if it's a relaxation mechanism. So anyway, what Colleen says is there are actually more than you know more different light sources than just the laser and the thermal light source. Uh there are LEDs or semiconductor devices which provide uh photons with interesting statistical properties. I don't know exactly what I've heard about it that LED lights sources have some special properties but I don't remember which is the one. Okay, we have to stop. I see you on Wednesday.